 Much of the plot of Clueless revolves around Cher's efforts to help a girl new to her school adjust and become popular. Have a generous spirit, and when you notice someone struggling socially, help them out. Invite people who don't have very many friends to your parties and introduce them to people, offer to show them around town, and help them find the cool places to hang out.
 Although Cher started off doing good deeds for her own benefit, she eventually learned that doing nice things for people and donating her time to worthy charitable causes was a reward in and of itself. Live your life in a way that tries to give back to causes that need your help. You can donate your time, old items you never use, or money to make a real difference in someone's life.


Blood banks are always looking for more donors; donate blood or platelets if you're of the right age. You could save somebody's life!
Homeless shelters and charities like Salvation Army will take old but in good condition clothing (especially winter goods like jackets, heavy coats, and gloves), furniture, appliances, and even cars.
Many animal shelters and animal adoption agencies can always use people who will come in and feed the animals, walk the dogs, and help give them some human companionship in the time it takes to find them their forever homes.
Consider volunteering to help with a crisis hotline for suicides, runaways, or mental health.
 Cher started off as a person who was very shallow and materialistic, and it nearly hurt her friendship with Dionne and Tai as well as her potential relationship with Josh. After she starts investing time and energy into understanding the people around her and showing them the love and loyalty they deserve, she benefits a great deal. Show appreciation for your friends, family, and significant others by becoming invested in the things they care about and trying to accept the decisions they make.


Your best friend is dating a guy that you don't care for as much. However, there's nothing actually wrong with him as a person, you just don't share the same interests. Be happy for her, show interest in their relationship by asking about how they're doing, and try to be supportive of them as a couple.
Your brother is thinking about moving out of state for college. Although you might be concerned that he won't make new friends or will miss you and your family, help him get enthusiastic about the next stage of his life by looking up different clubs or organizations he can join. Promise that if he wants to call home to talk with you all that you won't tease him.
One of your coworkers is talking about buying a dress that you're not sure is going to look good on her. Offer to go with her to look at a bunch of clothing. Let her try things on in front of you and help her pick an outfit in a cut and color that flatters her body. If she really insists on wearing something you wouldn't be caught dead in, try to say something nice about it anyway, and realize that confidence is the biggest enhancement to beauty a woman can experience.
 Cher cares quite a bit about who she wants to date. Whether it's right or it's wrong, there are a lot of people that she deems unacceptable to be seen with. However, it turns out that the person she thought she wanted to date just because of his looks wasn't a good match for her either. Find and be with someone who, like Josh, is as great on the inside as they are on the outside.


Look for someone who treats others well--maybe they hold the door open for others, or always have a friendly attitude with everyone (even people that are considered "nerds" or teachers), and treat waiters and retail employees well.
Look for someone who is generous and kind--maybe they're in a big brother program or they do fundraisers to help homeless kids, but a person with a generous heart is never a bad bet.
Avoid people who are crude, rude, overly angry, or arrogant, especially if they behave badly on a first date. Your date should always be trying to impress you the first couple of times they take you out, so if they're already ill-tempered or unpleasant that's a bad sign.

