 Quickly make note of the things you missed or how you could have scored more marks.;
, Write down as many notes as you can fit. Listen to questions from the students and write the teacher's answers.
 Usually, it will be some combination of multiple choice, short answer, and essay questions.
 The types of questions will usually remain the same. A good recommendation is to rewrite your previous exams or quizzes and do them all over.
 Think about the information your teacher might put on a test. It's most likely harder to have a specific guide if your teacher leaves out things on a test.
, Take special care to note what mistakes you've made in the past so you won't make them again.
 Learn any specialist language that has been used with the topic that you are currently studying.
 Try to answer these and look at which ones you think are hard. Then, when you are finished with those, knock out the ones that are easy.
 Incorporate information from the textbook, class notes, and past homework and quizzes that pertain to the topic of the test. Ask a friend if you can share notes to obtain information that you might have missed during class.
 Do this by typing or rewriting your review sheet, reading notes or textbook pages, summarizing in your head what happened, and doing extra questions in the textbook.
 Ask a friend or family member to quiz you on the topic that you will be tested on.
, Remain confident and optimistic. People who stay positive during and before tests usually perform better.
 Bring a pen and a pencil if there will be an essay question, multiple choice question, or short answer question. Also, bring an eraser. The bigger, the better. If the teacher allows it, bring a bottle of water and drink it throughout the test to refresh your mouth and mind.
 Instead of focusing your energy into worrying, focus it into relaxing and preparing yourself for the exam. Tell yourself that you will do well. Repeat these to yourself: "I got this! I can do this! This is easy! I know this!" It will subconsciously raise your self-esteem. It does make a difference.
 Know that whatever grade you get, you'll deserve it after trying so hard.
 Start your test or exam with a great smile, remembering your inspiration first. This makes you more confident and sure. You may use a positive superstition like your lucky pen, your lucky card, or maybe your lucky shots.

