 Once you bring a cat home and name it, you should get it some identification. This can be in the form of a tag on its collar, but you can also get it microchipped at its veterinary office. Even if you plan on raising the cat to live indoors, having identification is important -- remember, if it gets out, it will have no experience finding its way home.Your cat's collar tag should include its name and your phone number. Keep this phone number up to date, so that someone who finds your cat can contact you easily.
 When raising a cat, you will need to teach it to use a litter box. For most cats, this is a relatively easy process. Once you bring a cat home, keep it contained in a small space with food, water, a bed, and its litter box. The cat may naturally head towards the litter box to go to the bathroom, as they are naturally clean animals that like to pick specific bathroom areas.As your cat adjusts to its new home and you let it roam the whole house, you should keep the litter box in an area that is easily accessible and close to your cat's daily activity. This will help ensure that the cat actually uses it instead of a handy corner.
 If the cat doesn't use the litter box automatically, move any feces or urine into the litter box and clean the areas where the cat went to the bathroom outside of the box. If the cat smells feces and urine in the litter box, it will know that is where it should go.
 To ensure that your cat uses its litter box, you should make sure to keep it clean and tidy. Remember to remove solids daily. You should also empty it completely, clean the box, and put totally new litter in weekly.If you do not clean your cat's litter box regularly, it is likely to find somewhere else to go to the bathroom.
 When raising a cat you should make sure to give it a cozy place all its own, where it can take a nap or just get some alone time. Typically, this is done by giving it a bed all its own and placing that bed in a quiet and warm corner. This can be difficult to achieve if you live in a hectic or crowded home, but your cat may even pick the spot itself and all you have to do is provide the cushioning.


Many cats love a spot that gets sun from the outside. The sunshine and the view to the outside will likely be very appealing to your cat. Even on a day that is cold outside or when your home is a little chilly, a sunny spot will suit a cat's needs very well., All cats need to scratch once in awhile in order to keep their claws healthy and agile. In order to allow them to do this without destroying your furniture, you should get them a scratching post or scratching pad. If your cat likes to scratch a lot, you may even need to buy or make one for every room.Once you give them this item to scratch, you will need to teach them to use it. To begin with, you can place the scratching post in front of a piece of furniture that the cat has been scratching. You can also show it how to use it by placing your cat's claws on the post. If all else fails, try making the scratching post or pad attractive to the cat by rubbing catnip on it.
 Try to raise a cat to stay indoors, especially if you live in a city. Living indoors greatly increases their lifespan due to lower risks for disease, injury or abuse. It also helps keep wildlife in your area , such as birds, safe and healthy. For entertainment for an indoor cat, provide boxes, cat toys, and sunny window perches for it to lounge in. You may also want to consider having at least two cats, so they can keep each other occupied when you are away.


Make sure that all doors are kept closed and that all windows and window screens are secure if you are trying to keep your cat indoors., If you really want your cat to experience the sights and smells of the outdoors, consider building it a "catio," which is a cat patio. This is an enclosed outdoor area that is typically attached to your home, and which allows your cat to get some outdoor time without letting it roam freely.A catio allows your cat the stimulation of being outside but limits its ability to get lost or kill wildlife in your area.
 Depending on the breed, you may need to brush your kitty more often, but all breeds need to be brushed at least weekly. For example, Persian cats need brushing 3 to 4 times a week but American shorthair cats only need to be brushed once a week. Weekly brushing eliminates tangles and reduces spare hair that would rub off on furniture or floors, or form hairballs in your cat.


Cats do not need bathing unless they get into something really foul and cannot satisfactorily clean themselves off. The exception to this is Sphinx cats, which are bald and need bathing once a week to keep skin oils under control.
 When your cat is young, you should begin clipping its claws every week. This will get it used to the process and will make it less resistant to it when it becomes an adult. Trimming a cat's nails is particularly important if the cat does not regularly go outside, where it might wear down the nails with vigorous activity.


To trim the nails, use nail clippers made for cats, which come in a guillotine type or a scissors type, or human nail clippers. Put the clippers perpendicular to the claws. Trim only the tip of the nail. The quick of the nail, which is the back part of the nail with a blood vessel in it, should not be cut.