 Water is a major resource that we often take for granted. The water that comes through your faucets has to be pumped from a water source to a treatment plant, filtered and treated with chemicals, then pumped to your neighborhood. That process requires a lot of energy. When you conserve water, you do your part to put less strain on your local water sources. This is especially important if you live in an area that's prone to drought. To save water,Don't keep water running while you do the dishes. Use a low-water dishwashing method.
Take short showers instead of baths, which require much more water.
Fix leaky pipes so you aren't wasting water.
Don't water your lawn with fresh water. Either let the rain do the work, or save grey water (like used bathwater) to use.
 Cleaning chemicals are often made with toxic ingredients that wash into the water supply and taint it. This harms humans, wildlife and the environment. Use earth-friendly substances around your home. You can also try making your own.Instead of using a commercial all-purpose cleaner, try a solution of white vinegar and water. It works just as well and isn't toxic.
Baking soda does wonders on stains of all kinds.
Use natural versions of shampoos, conditioners and other body products.
Use natural methods for getting rid of bugs and rodents in your home, rather than using poison.
 Even worse is pouring them onto your lawn, where they'll eventually seep into the groundwater. Paint, motor oil, bleach, ammonia, and other strong solutions should be disposed of properly according to the guidelines of your local sanitation department. Most communities have toxic waste sites for proper disposal., Every community is dependent on a natural source of water to survive. Whether it's a river, a lake, groundwater, or another source, it's essential to protect the water that literally brings your community life. Find local groups working to protect your water and join up so you can help. Here are a few ideas:


Participate in local waterways cleanups to get rid of trash polluting your local streams, rivers and beaches.
Speak out against local water polluters. Loose governmental regulations mean that many water sources are polluted with industrial waste. See if there's a local group working to make things right and keep the water clean where you live.