 Many cities and countries require tour guides to pass exams before they can lead groups. Some sightseeing companies may require you to pass this exam before you even apply for positions. Search online to see if your area requires you to take a licensing examination, and then pay necessary fees to register for the test.You can also look online to find details about the test, study guides, and registration information. Enter something like “Professional licensing examination for sightseeing guides in New York City” to find everything you need to prepare for and take the test.
Take the exam seriously. If you fail, you’ll need to pay the fee again!

, Professional tour guide associations and groups like the International Guide Academy in Denver, Colorado offer classes to professionalize guides. These classes teach public speaking, tourism and travel industry terminology, leadership and teamwork, and other skills valuable to tour guides. They’ll give you a certification when you complete their programs.Be sure to register for courses meant for tour guides rather than tour directors. Tour directors are responsible for logistics and management, while guides lead groups and provide narration about places the group visits.
These programs are great for meeting people in the field. Your teachers, in particular, could connect you with people they know are looking for guides.
 If you live near a local university or community college, check out the course listings. If there are offerings in linguistics, leadership, hospitality, and/or tourism, register. These courses will improve your resume and up your chances of getting a job as a guide.Be sure you have the time and money to dedicate to the classes. If you’re currently working a full-time job, look into taking night classes.
 While a degree like this won’t guarantee you a job as a guide, it’ll show your potential employers that you’ve got some basic skills in the field. If you’re currently a college or university student and you know you want to be a guide, this could be a great degree option for you., Once you’ve chosen a few different companies that you’d like to work for, fill out their applications by going online or picking up a paper application from the company. You’ll need to provide your contact information, employment history, a few good references, and a resume.


Most reputable companies will run a background check before hiring you.
If they like your application, most companies will contact you for one to two follow-up interviews before hiring you.
 Tour guiding companies will want your application to show that you’re ready to be a tour guide. Their questions may be designed to see how you’ll handle crises, to check if your personality is right for guiding, and to make sure you’re excited to be a tour guide.

These questions could be things like, “What would you do if the bus broke down?” or “What makes you excited to be a tour guide with us?”

, If you’re lucky enough to receive multiple offers, make a pros and cons list. Consider the locations, work hours, and salaries. Decide which job provides the best balance of fun and financially practical, and go for it!