 Before you start this process, it's best to give yourself some time to figure out the look you want to create. Look online for inspiration, and read reviews for different types of lightening and coloring products. Depending on the route you choose to go, your results may be permanent, so it's important to plan carefully!


You might choose to match your eyes or use another color that flatters your skin.
Alternatively, if there's a color you've always loved but that doesn't really flatter you, a dip-dye can be a great way to enjoy it without using it to frame your face. Just make sure you don't dip too deeply--keep it at the tips of your hair.;
, If you have dark hair and want to achieve light-colored tips, this is a necessary step. You will need to bleach the dark color from your hair so the colored dye will take later in the process. If you already have very light hair, or if you don't mind layering a color over your natural color, you can skip this step.Colored hair dyes sit on top of your natural hair color. For example, if you apply a pastel pink hair dye to very light blonde hair, it will show up pastel pink. However, it will be much more subtle and dark when layered on top of dark hair. , You can find all sorts of funky colors online, and you can find most “normal” colors at your local pharmacy or beauty supply store.You can even look at reviews online to see what other people have to say about the product, and how it looks on different colors and textures of hair.


Buy more hair dye than you think you will need. You do not want to run out with half of your hair left to dye.
Purchase some gloves as well. Hair dye will stain your fingers, so it’s best to keep them covered during this process.
 It's easiest to keep your hair down while dip dying it, so you can see exactly where the color is going. This means that the dye will certainly get on whatever shirt you’re wearing, so make sure you wear an old one that you don’t care about. If you have a hairdressing gown or poncho of some sort, that will work as well. Wrap your neck with an old hand towel so you avoid staining your neck as much as possible.
 It’s easiest to dip dye your hair in your bathroom, because it has everything you need: a counter, water, and a mirror. You may want to cover up your counter, especially if it is a light color, to avoid any staining from the hair dye.
 You can dip dye only the very ends of your hair, or you can bring the dye three-quarters of the way up the shaft. It is completely up to you how much you want to color – just make sure you have enough dye! You can tie up any strands that you don’t want to dye in order to make the process easier.


Make sure you comb your hair thoroughly before starting.
Make sure that your hair is parted where it normally will be. The most foolproof way to dip dye your hair is to work with dry hair that is styled how it typically will be styled in your day-to-day.
 If you want your final color to be lighter than your natural color, you will need to bleach first. Bleaching your hair removes your natural pigment, so it will also create a more vibrant, bold finished color. Follow the instructions on your particular product you've purchased. Apply it only to the sections that you want to color.


For more thorough step-by-step instructions regarding the bleaching process, click here.
Bleaching your hair will dry it out. After you're finished bleaching it, deep condition it to replenish some of the lost moisture., Some hair dyes, like Manic Panic, can be applied to the hair directly out of the package.Other dyes may need to be mixed. If you have a bold color and want to make it lighter, you can always add a conditioner to dilute the color.If you want a color that you can’t find, you can always create it by mixing two different colored dyes.
 You can use a brush to paint it on the section, or you can “dip” it into the dye, spreading it along the section of hair with your gloved hand. Concentrate the majority of the dye on the ends of your hair, making sure the tips are fully saturated. As you bring the dye upwards, use less dye so that it gradually fades into your natural color.Do this all over your head, being careful to dye the same length of sections. You want the color to be even around your entire head.


Blending the color into your natural hair is important. Apply the dye thickly to the ends of your hair to create a bold, solid color. When you're nearing the area of hair where the dyed hair will blend into your natural hair, use your finger tips to softly pull some of the dye up the strand, without saturating the hair. This will help the color slowly lighten, and it will help you avoid a stark line between the colored hair and your natural hair.
 This will heat up your hair and speed up the dying process. It will also prevent you from making a mess as the dye sits on your hair. However, this step is completely optional., Check the color periodically to see if it is bright enough. With many colored dyes, the longer you let it sit, the brighter it will be. Just make sure to check the packaging for directions for your specific product. Remember, some dyes will fade gradually with washes, so if you don’t let it sit very long, you will get a paler color that washes out faster., Once you’ve let the dye sit for the required amount of time, you can rinse it out. Use cold water to remove all traces of the dye, and apply a conditioner to give your hair some moisture and shine. Don’t wash with shampoo, because it will be more likely to strip some of the dye out of your hair and lighten it. The less you wash your hair, the longer your dip dye will last!, Like shampoos, heat products can cause the color to fade more quickly. When possible, avoid using blow dryers, flat irons, and curling irons. If you do use them, make sure to use a heat protectant. Have fun styling your new dyed hair, experimenting with fun new styles to show it off.

