 Having a healthy meal or snack available is a great way to decrease the amount of fast food you consume. Instead of going out to eat, you already have your healthy meal prepared and ready-to-go.


Purchase a small lunch box or cooler if necessary. This is a great way to avoid a stop at a fast food place. Keeping it stocked with healthy options like yogurt, fresh fruits or carrots and hummus can help you stick to your planned meal or to control your hunger until you are able to get home for your meal.
Keep healthy, convenient snacks such as portioned nuts or fruit in your purse, briefcase or car.
Make sure to eat throughout the day. Don't skip meals. Grab a healthy snack if you're feeling hungry. When you are very hungry, you're more likely to make bad food choices.
 For many individuals, this may prove to be the biggest challenge. Try to avoid all sodas. Even diet sodas should be minimized in your diet. Diet sodas may confuse your body into feeling hungry even when you don't need to eat.Aim for 64 oz of clear, sugar-free liquids daily. You can try water, water flavored with herbs and fruit, unsweetened iced tea or unsweetened decaf coffee.
If this step proves to be difficult, start off slowly. Begin decreasing the amount of soda you consume by replacing a few drinks here and there with a healthier option (like water or unsweetened tea). Continue substituting other drinks for your soda until you are able to eliminate soda entirely.
 Sometimes just driving past (or knowing you'll pass) your favorite fast food place is enough to make you pull over. Driving a different route to work or on your way home may help get you out of the routine of stopping for fast food.


Check out an online map. Many programs allow you to put in your starting and ending location and give you a variety of route options.
If you can't bypass a fast food place, try putting up a note in your car with an optimistic sentence. "You can do it!" or "Focus on your goal!" are great phrases that can keep you driving right on by.
 Giving up fast food might not be easy. However, having a list of positive thoughts to review when a strong craving hits, can be a helpful resource to help you overcome the drive through lane.


Take an hour (this could be part of your exercises in a journal) and write out a list of all the advantages of giving up fast food. Positive thoughts could include weight loss, saving money, increased energy or better health.
Keep a copy of your positive thoughts in your purse or wallet, car or at work. Refer to it whenever you have a desire for a fast food meal.
As you continue to stay away from fast food, write about your progress and add the positive events you've noticed about your lifestyle, health and diet. This will help expand that list.
 Going out for lunch is a common workplace activity. You can take a break and enjoy 30 to 60 minutes away from your desk. If you and your coworkers typically stop by a fast food restaurant, suggest something healthier.


Research restaurants that are close to your workplace. Check out their menus and see if these would be a better option for you and your colleagues.
Let your coworkers know you're trying to drop your fast food habit. You never know, they may want to join you! Letting people around you know about your goals allows them to support you, rather than be a bad influence.
Agree to a lunch out just one time a week. If friends are unwilling to budge on lunch time options, only go out once a week. This can help minimize your temptations.

