 Psychic mediums perceive spirits in other dimensions using one or more of the following abilities:


Clairvoyance. Clairvoyant mediums can see spirits, auras, objects and places that are not perceptible to others. People who have passed away may appear to them in visions, or they may be able to vividly sense a place to which they have never been. Psychic mediums see these visions with their third eye, located between the two physical eyes. Everyone has a third eye, but the average person's is closed or too weak to use.
Clairaudience. Clairaudient mediums can hear messages from the "other side," either physically or psychically. They can communicate with spirits that are thousands of miles away, or in another dimension altogether.
Clairsentience . Clairsentient mediums experience psychic communication through pure knowing. They get surges of knowledge given from the spirits, that they then interpret.;
, Everyone has some level of psychic abilities, which help us intuit other people's feelings and connect with our spiritual side. Consider the following questions to help you determine your level of psychic ability:


Are you a natural psychic medium? Some people begin seeing visions, hearing messages, or strongly feeling the presence of spirits from a very young age. They don't necessarily know what they are experiencing until they get older. The natural psychic mediumship is exceedingly rare.
Are you clairvoyant, clairaudient, or clairsentient? Perhaps you feel on the cusp of developing abilities in one of these areas. You're sensitive and receptive to feelings, emotions, and communications from others, and you've had experiences that you consider to be paranormal.
Are you interested in becoming a psychic medium, but have never had a paranormal experience? It's possible to work on particular skills and open up the possibility of flexing your psychic muscles. With some practice, you may be able to open and strengthen your third eye.
 One of the best ways to figure out whether you have the capacity to become a psychic medium is to read accounts written by other mediums. Decide whether you recognize yourself in their stories and experiences. Learn as much as you can about the history and practice of psychic medium ship.


Read books by psychic mediums, and watch shows that feature them, to get a sense of the paths psychic mediums have taken.
Talk to a psychic medium about his or her experiences. Psychic fairs are good places to meet mediums.
Beware people purporting to be psychic mediums who may not be the real deal.

