 The more popular the medium, the better. Facebook and Twitter have a large number of users and therefore are currently the best options, although you'll learn about some broader possibilities below.


Read How to How to make a new Facebook account, How to How to create a Facebook page for a business, How to How to make a Twitter account for more information.
It's preferable that you interact with people as an individual. While companies, organizations, and their ilk are flocking to social media, their aim is to sell and promote their goods and services, which is not quite the same personal connection that you'll have as an individual. Even if you're part of an activist organization, it's still recommended you maintain a unique, accessible individual profile.
 Your profile matters a great deal to people making a decision as to whether to follow you or not. If you have a cause, be loud and proud about it and use the linking sections to send people to a relevant website or blog of yours that contains information about what you're doing in terms of the cause or protest. While you don't need to be an expert with a degree as such, you do need to demonstrate that you have knowledge, experience, and a passion for whatever it is you're campaigning about.
 The greater the number of friends you have in your social media networks, the more influence you will exert in the social media community as a whole. There is power in numbers and the more people who follow your updates, the more likely that your information is being passed on the people well beyond your direct sphere of influence.
 Influential individuals are those with a large number of contacts or those in positions of authority. They are also people who have prominent roles, websites, positions, etc., that are relevant to the cause or protest that you're campaigning for. Befriending and sharing the information from these influential people will greatly magnify your sphere of influence.


Be aware that social media influential status is not necessary one of fame in other walks of life. You need to look for people who are influential within the social network itself, and within the cause or protest you're concerned about. The person may well have been an unknown before they took up the social media medium and started being effective within it. What matters is that they're known for being influential and they've got a lot of followers who regularly share their information around. One very good source of finding out who is influential is Klout.

