 All of the facials below are suitable for dry or sensitive skin; the two usually go hand-in-hand. Do not use all of the masks all in one day, however; they will be too much for your skin. Instead, choose a mask that you like the most.
 Using a fork, mash together 1 banana and 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of honey. Spread the mask over a clean face, and wait 10 to 15 minutes. Wash the mask off with warm water., Using a fork, mash together ½ of an avocado and 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of honey. Spread the mask over a clean face, and wait 20 minutes. Wash the mask off with warm after when you are done.For a deluxe version of the mask, add 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of plain yogurt and ½ tablespoon of olive oil. The yogurt will help exfoliate and brighten your skin, while the oil will help moisturize it further., In a small bowl, combine 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of yogurt, 1 teaspoon of honey, and 1 teaspoon of cocoa powder. Spread the mask over your face.Yogurt is naturally cooling, so it will feel gentle against your skin.
Honey is moisturizing, so it will help add moisture back into your skin.
Cocoa powder helps calm irritations, making it perfect for sensitive skin., In a small bowl, combine 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of oatmeal with 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of honey. Spread the mixture over your face using circular motions. Wait 30 minutes, then wash the mask with warm water.Oatmeal is naturally soothing. It is also gently exfoliating, making it suitable for dry, sensitive skin.
Honey is a humectant, so it helps draw moisture back into your skin.
You can also use this mask as a scrub instead. Simply massage it onto your face for a few minutes, then rinse it off., In a small bowl, combine ⅓ cup (60 grams) of baking soda with 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of coconut oil. If the scrub is still too thin, add a little bit more baking soda. Next, gently massage about 1 to 2 teaspoons of the scrub onto your face, taking care to avoid the area around the eyes. Rinse the scrub off with warm water, then splash your face afterwards with cool water. Pat your face dry with a clean towel, and store any leftover scrub in a glass jar.For fragrance, add 5 to 10 drops of your favorite essential oil; make sure that it is skin-safe first, however!
If you tend to get breakouts, add 5 drops of tea tree oil. It is a natural astringent.
This scrub is also suitable for dry skin due to the coconut oil.

