 If you’re planning on drastically changing how you eat, talk to your doctor about it first. Schedule a visit for a physical exam, and tell them you want to eat fewer carbohydrates in your diet. They will ask you about your family history, any medical problems you have, and what medications you take.


Ask if there’s anything you need to avoid in order to stay safe. Say something like, “Is there anything I should know about my diet, exercise, or medicine while I make this change?”

, Ask your doctor if you should see a dietician – if so, they can refer you to one. A dietitian can help you make meal plans, wean of off carbs slowly, and ensure that you get enough nutrients from the other foods that you eat. They may also tell you if giving up carbs is a bad idea for you based on your medical history.


Work with a licensed professional.
 Get into the habit of reading the nutritional information labels before you buy foods. This will tell you how many carbs are in the food and you can use this information to help you decide whether or not it is something you want to eat., A low-carb diet is appropriate for some, but no one should attempt a no-carb diet – your body needs some carbohydrates to function properly. Eat at least 20 grams of carbs every day so that your body doesn’t go into ketosis – a process that can cause nausea, headache, bad breath, and worse., Giving up all carbohydrates at once would be a big shock to your body and may cause some unpleasant side effects. Eliminate carbs slowly, starting with simple sugars. Then decrease the amounts of added sugars and processed starches you eat. This will also give you time to learn how to prepare low-carb meals.


Eliminating carbs too quickly can cause side effects like headache, bad breath, fatigue, weakness, diarrhea, or constipation., Dairy contains a lot of calcium that your body needs. Eat enough calcium in your diet with non-dairy alternatives like sesame seeds, chia seeds, sardines, canned salmon, beans, lentils, almonds, spinach, kale, rhubarb, and tofu., Fiber helps you feel full and not overeat. Avoid overeating when you decrease your fiber intake by controlling the size of your portions. Try keeping a food journal. Write down everything that you eat so you’re aware of your portions.
 You may have strong cravings for carbs, especially sugar. These will go away over time. Handle cravings by keeping non-carb snacks around such as nuts and seeds. It may help to gradually reduce your sugar intake – for instance, replace chocolate with bananas as a treat, then eventually stop eating bananas.

