 In B:BC2 there are 4 classes: Assault, Recon, Medic and Engineer. Decide which one is the best for you.

Assault are equipped with powerful weapons, grenade launchers and can give ammo to their team mates.
Recon is an effective class if you wish to snipe. They can hide in scenery unnoticed, plant C4s on enemy Tanks and have one shot kill snipers at their disposal.
Medics can revive fallen team mates, heal themselves and their team.
Engineer can repair vehicles and they have a RPG.


Pick a suitable for you class and stick with it.;
, A smart solider would not act alone, unlike other shooters like Call of Duty or kill zone. Battlefield is much more realistic and is all about teamwork. Use your classes special abilities to assist each other and try to assist in kills. You'll get points for just shooting the enemy once before your teammate kills them., Vehicles are not found in Squad deathmatch (only 1 tank per squad deathmatch map). Otherwise, vehicles can be found easily and used effectively. In one team versus one team battles, you will find vehicles docked at your base, or if you are an engineer, you can repair broken vehicles. With vehicles you can use them in first person or you can adjust it to third person, multiple people can use a vehicle, and the additional players control a turret on the vehicle (if there is one) or they need to get transported quickly.

Whilst using a tank, try to keep your reflexes high as when fired from behind you get damaged more, try destroying enemies cover and using Destruction 2.0. sea vehicles are uncommon and should be used as defensive and not offensive.
Use air vehicles to bomb the enemy and destroy their air vehicles.
Light vehicles like motorcycles can be used to quickly carry you and your team mates somewhere.
 In squad deathmatch you and your squad will often camp in a building. However don't stay there too long as DICE programmed something called Destruction 2.0 allowing almost everything to be destroyed., If your playing squad deathmatch its 4 vs 4 vs 4 vs 4 players (16 in total) The objective here is to be the first squad to reach the kill limit. In conquest its 12 vs 12, you need to capture the control points and hold them as long as you can. In rush its 4 vs 4 players in battle for exploding devices, you need to detonate them before they explode or set them up. One team will be on offensive and the other on defensive. Squad rush is 12 vs 12 players in a tighter version of Rush. All modes can be played in a hardcore mode which is very hard., You can get XP in a lot of ways, collecting enemy dog tags, getting kills, giving ammo or Medical kits, reviving, fixing vehicles, getting control points, destroying enemy vehicles, detonating bombs, etc. The more XP you get the closer you are to the next rank, even if you lose you still get XP. But if you win you get more XP. You can also get medals per match which increase XP, Medals such as Knife efficiency (Getting 7 kills with the combat knife) or capturing a certain amount of control points., Follow these steps again and again to level up, who knows you might end up at Rank 50.,,,,,, Instead, take the long way around and base camp and wait for the enemy to respawn.
, You have two options. Go into the artillery, or the heli. 'Now, just wreak havoc, but remember to destroy the AA gun ASAP!!

,, Choose either Recon or Demolitions from the kit menu.
 Or you could go to the enemy base and base camp. If at the enemy base camp, crouch and cut some trees down for cover. It is a good idea to kill the artillery guy and blow up the tanks with the laser designator.
 Now wait behind the rocks with your RPG!

