 For those new to Reiki, a circle, or share, is a group of Reiki practitioners simultaneously practicing Reiki on a recipient for a set amount of time, usually fifteen to twenty minutes. The recipient then exchanges places with a practitioner until all in the group have received their treatment.


Strangers bond and healing is facilitated. It literally is magic in action. I also feel it’s one of the best ways to help facilitate world peace by breaking down boundaries in a safe manner and allowing individuals to help each other.;
, Everyone has a unique style. A favorite is where some sort of refreshment is offered, like tea and/or light snacks. The music sets the tone. Depending on the space, you might have candles or ambient lighting.


Above all, you create a safe space for the group healing exploration. Living rooms, furnished basements, community centers, and practitioners’ treatment spaces have all become circles. Years back we even had a rotating Reiki circle in each other’s living rooms. It’s a wonderful way of bringing extra light and healing into a space.
Experiment with live music (which is simply wonderful!), healing lights, healing pets (for those attending who don’t have allergies), incorporating other healing traditions like Shamanism, crystals, and aromatherapy.
 Clearing the space in between sessions is an important part of keeping the energy flowing and the space a sanctuary. Have both rose water and sage to smudge. Rose water is usually not as offensive an aroma as sage and can quickly be sprayed in and around the group.


Chimes, bells and ting-shaws (Tibetan cymbals used to mark the beginning/ending of a ritual) are sound instruments that also can be used at the end of each session, to mark the closing as well as to gently cleanse the space.
 Setting healthy boundaries for the circle creates optimum healing space.


The original author used to facilitate a sound healing Reiki circle, called Reiki Soundscape, with live musicians and instruments available for participants to use. At one circle, a practitioner came in and started banging mercilessly on the drum, shaking all of us up. Another practitioner began to do shamanic psychic surgery with loud cries that also disrupted the flow. Both instances encouraged the author to create a flyer with guidelines for practitioners in coming to an open circle. Loud, excessive noise was not a part of the circle, so it was stated in the guidelines and briefly gone over in the introduction each time.



Make little flyers and put them at the corner metaphysical bookstore.
Send a press release to the local paper and explain your healing intentions.
Multitudes of Reiki networking Web sites abound, and even craigslist allows you to post events for free.
The old paper flyer still has a place in letting others know about your circle, giving people something they can hold on to. Use both methods. Experiment, explore. Ask how your attendees found out about your circle. See what works for you.
 A simple mailing list is adequate for newcomers, but you will need to build a way to organize the information you receive. It is recommended that you use both an email and “snail mail” list so that, as your practice grows, you can send out messages of upcoming classes, circles, and other events you are offering. Some people prefer email, others a postcard. For those tech savvy, you might think about Facebook or Twitter contacts as well.


You never know what will come from inviting the general public to your circles, who you will meet, what networks you will create. From the two veterans who attended my circle years ago, our Reiki for Veterans program got its jump-start.
Encourage participants to bring their friends and family as well, an impromptu Reiki education for those who are curious. They might not participate in the circle, but they can certainly receive a session and sit off to the side and watch. During breaks, they will often ask questions or simply bask in the energy that is generated.
 Facilitating a Reiki circle is an excellent way for you, as a budding practitioner, to build your public relations skills as well. You must organize the event, market it, and then facilitate with grace and ease. Welcome to the world of self-promotion as a Reiki professional.


Each circle gets easier and easier, but in the beginning, you might feel overwhelmed. Shadow another facilitator for a while. Ask to co-facilitate and get a feel for the flow and for what details they have to keep track of. Take notes!
Reiki circles are grass-roots community organizing. But it’s important to keep a regular and posted schedule for your circles. People appreciate consistency and will more easily remember the dates of your sessions. Your reliability provides a foundation for you to present yourself as a professional business as well as to assist in the building of community. When you pull people together from such different spheres, you are building a healing community that can have a voice to share with the world.
For some circles, having practitioners pre-register and limiting the number might be a solution to holding a circle in a small space. For others, having them drop in is more appropriate and lends itself to a more casual and formal affair.
In holding a Reiki circle, you are building a tribe, so to speak. Become creative with ways in which you can reach out to this group and keep them informed of your offerings.
In the summer, you can have circles outdoors as well, and holding such a circle is a very magical and powerful experience. Not only are you channeling the healing vibration of Reiki, but you are also tapping into the soothing and grounding energy of the land upon which you are standing.
 Hold monthly circles for global healing. Instead of having clients lie on tables, take world events and places and peoples that were in crisis and put them in the center of your circle where you are seated and send healing energy from a distance. The impressions of each “send” were often quite profound. For every hour of news that you watch or read you should balance with sending healing.


A group out of Seattle, Global Earthsend, apparently has over fifty thousand Reiki practitioners connected worldwide via the Internet who send healing energy to a particular part of the world each Friday night. Again, powerful community involvement is working for world healing.
Before beginning your larger circle within the greater community, allow room for dialogue. Get to meet the other participants. What brings them to your space? Get to know the amazing people who share the same passion for healing that you do. We started the Reiki Fellowship that way, building upon many shared experiences in Reiki circles.
 Circles cost considerably less to the individual than private sessions. But the depth and breadth of where a client can go in an individual treatment certainly exceeds that of a fifteen-minute Reiki circle treatment. Yet, if you consider that most circles are donation based, and if one was to attend an event each week, the monthly cost would be ten times less than paying for private health insurance. Circles are not a substitute for traditional health care, but they certainly serve as a supplement for many.


The perception of “stranger” dies in such an environment. People come together to send healing energy to each other, to the world. Their individual differences are blurred into the healing collective. No one ego stands out. No one is greater than the other. Each person may have certain skills that differ, but together they form a healing unit that amplifies all those individual abilities and makes the unit function as a whole.
Circles are places of deep healing and self-discovery. They provide a safe environment of support and embrace and love reminiscent of being held by a universal mother. The circle becomes the receptacle for a recipient’s self-discovery and healing: “How do I feel about being held by those I had perceived as strangers? These people are now coming together to help me on my path. They have never met me, and yet they hold me.” Each one in turn receives from the group in an equal balance of giving and receiving. There are no expectations.
There are circles being held all over the world, in many different environments. As time goes on, we will see more of them in traditional arenas like hospitals, corporate spaces, and educational institutions because circles do offer an immediate experience of stress-reduction and relaxation.
 Keep doing your work. Hold a circle. Build your practice. Reiki circles as social healing phenomena are beginning to reach their potential. Continue to watch the world transform through the building of healing community and the sharing of Universal Energy.

