 Staying busy with activities that are meaningful to you, however, can be energizing. Focus on devoting more time to doing the things that really matter to you. Get inspired and busy yourself with activities that will move you closer to some of your life goals.


Make a list of your life goals. Include the loftier ones that feel more like dreams than goals, too!
The list is your road map. Plot out what steps need to be taken to reach each goal and then get started.;
, You probably have at least one hobby in your life that you really enjoy, if not more. Concentrate on one or two of them. Become an expert! If your hobby is an artistic or creative pursuit, put some time and energy into becoming more skillful at it. Even hobbies that don’t seem action-oriented on the surface can be explored deeply.


For example, if your hobby is reading, you can start in on that stack of novels you’ve been meaning to read.
But don’t stop there. Research new authors and explore new genres. Start a blog and write reviews of the books you read. Join a book club.No matter what your hobby is, there is always a way to take it to the next level.
 Or you could get busy with a project at home, like replacing all of the curtains, building a piece of furniture, or painting the walls a new color.


If you are coordinating an event soon, you can focus on that as a project.
For example, you could finally rebuild that classic car you’ve had stored in the garage for months.
 For instance, maybe you want to improve your writing or Photoshop skills. If you enjoy cooking, try taking a cooking class. Love yoga? Sign up for a program at your local gym. Technical school classes and on-the-job training are great ways to develop and increase your skills, as well.


Taking a formal class isn’t the only way to approach this. Be your own instructor and educate yourself!
For example, perhaps you have some specialized knowledge on a topic that you can develop further by doing internet research, checking out local libraries, visiting museums, etc.

