 If you believe that your horse has aural plaque, contact your veterinarian. An examination will confirm that the whitish, flaky sections are in fact ear plaque and not another more serious condition. Your vet will also suggest a course of treatment.Your vet may suggest that you do nothing to treat the plaque. They may also suggest a cream or ask you to bring the horse in so the plaque can be gently shaved off under sedation.
Make sure to never remove a plaque or apply a cream to the horse’s ears without consulting the vet first.;
, Many veterinarians suggest no treatment for aural plaque in horses. Ear plaques do not bother all horses, so for many horses it is just a cosmetic issue that bothers the owner. Touching or handling the ears may cause more problems for the horse than leaving it alone.Too much handling of the horse’s ears when they have ear plaque may cause them to be head shy or sensitive to people being around their ears or face.
 To help your horse from getting infected or reinfected, find ways to get rid of flies around the horse. You may use a fly repellent spray to keep the flies away. You can try a fly mask with ears.You may also consider placing the horse in a stable during the times when flies are active, which is dawn and dusk.This can also reduce your horse’s discomfort because when flies bite the sensitive, infected ears, it can irritate the existing ear plaque that may not hurt or bother the horse otherwise., If the ear plaque isn’t bothering your horse, you shouldn’t worry about trying to remove the patches of plaque. This can cause more pain for the horse, and increase their ear and head sensitivity. If your horse is in pain, you can discuss with your vet about removing the plaque.If you want to remove the plaque, try softening the scaly patches with baby oil first. Baby wipes are also good for cleaning the ears and removing the flaky debris of aural plaques. Remove the plaque as gently as possible.
You can treat the red, pink areas left by the ear plaque with healing ointments. Talk to your vet about a proper ointment to help heal the affected areas.

