 A ribbon board is a photo board that secures photos and materials with ribbons instead of tacks or adhesives. You’ll need a bulletin board that has a cork base to make it easier to pin photos into. Go to a crafts store to get a roll of low loft batting which will give padding to the front of the board. You’ll also need the following:


Fabric of your choice
At least 10 yards of ribbon
Scissors
Stapler
Pins, Unwrap the batting from the roll and place it over the bulletin board. Leave about an inch or two of excess batting overlapping the board. Cut the batting with scissors. If the batting isn’t wide enough to cover the full board, cut out additional strips to fully cover the board.
 Use your stapler to secure the batting to the board. Fold the overlapping batting over the board and make all staples from the backside of the board. Stretch out the batting slightly to avoid an uneven distribution.


Use your scissors to trim off excess batting. Only trim batting that is loose from being stapled to the board.
The front of the photo board is the side with the batting exposed.
 In a similar fashion to the batting, drape the fabric you choose over the board. It is important that the fabric covers the entire board. If your fabric isn’t big enough, consider using a larger fabric. Leave about an inch or two of fabric overlapping the edge of the board.


Make the necessary cuts with your scissors to create an even sheet of fabric.
It might be easier to use fabric scissors for this job., Spend time folding the fabric over the board. Ensure there aren’t any visible folds on the front of the board. Use your stapler to secure the fabric to the board. Again, only staple to the back of the board. This creates a clean appearance on the front of the board.


Trim off any excess fabric using your scissors.
 Cut your ribbons to measure the length of one corner of the board to the opposite corner. You can now arrange the ribbons in whichever fashion you prefer. One of the most popular patterns is the criss cross pattern.


You can make this pattern by spreading out your ribbons evenly at an angle. Then place your remaining ribbons at the opposite angle on top of those ribbons.
A successful criss cross pattern looks like a series of diamonds.
Use anywhere from 8 to 16 strips to create a criss cross pattern.
 Keep your ribbons secure while you are arranging them by using pins. Place a pin at each end of the ribbon. Once you’re satisfied by your arrangement, staple the ribbons down in the same way you did for the batting and fabric.

