 Lists will help you identify, organize, and set about approaching the things you need to accomplish in order to make things happen. Reassess the importance of everything on your list constantly. Your responsibilities, as well as the priority level of certain responsibilities in your life, are constantly changing. Keep your lists ordered according to both the time each task needs to be accomplished, as well as the level of priority each task holds.Give your lists clear titles. For instance, you may have a list of the things you need to accomplish today, and another list of tasks regarding everything needs to be done regarding a certain project you’re working on.

Use Google Spreadsheets or another online application to keep track of any lists you keep, as you’ll then be able to check and edit these lists from any device connected to the world wide web.
See the wikiHow article on how to make lists for more specific guidance regarding using lists to increase your productivity.;
, While you likely need to spend time answering emails every day, it’s also quite likely that you’re spending more time in your inbox than is necessary, let alone productive. Each day, set aside a block to time to answer emails, and try not to do so outside of that block of time.For instance, spend the first 30 minutes of the day answering emails. Then spend the last 15 minutes of the workday doing the same.


Consider setting up “push” notifications on your phone that will notify you each time you receive an email and show you only the subject line. This way, you can catch important emails quickly, while putting off a response to less important emails until a designated time. Turn these notifications off, however, if you find that they distract you.
 Pretty much everyone who works on a computer wastes time on social media websites – be it Facebook, YouTube, Tumblr, Reddit, and/or Google Chat. Similarly, it’s very easily to get distracted by a Wikipedia article full or interesting links, your preferred entertainment news source, or a tweet from your favorite athlete. If any of these ring a bell, considering uninstalling the apps for the most prevalent culprits from your phone. Definitely delete any bookmarks off of your work computer that lead to wasted time.Cut back on screen entertainment at home too. Not only does watching TV keep you from doing something more productive, is decreases the amount of activity you would get otherwise. Instead of plopping down on the couch when you get home from work, see if any of your friends want to hang at a park or hit the gym.
 Just as your priorities and responsibilities will shift, so too will your ideas and plans regarding how to approach the specific tasks you need to complete. In order to keep track of the thoughts and ideas you have regarding projects or tasks you’re working one, record anything that comes to mind immediately.Make a voice recording, write a note, or send an email sent to yourself; the important thing is to train yourself not to rely on your memory alone, especially while balancing multiple responsibilities!

, Trying to do too much can actually reduce your ability to make things happen. One way to do this is by simply declining to take on additional work when asked to perform a task you know you do not have time for. While it may feel as though you’re doing something wrong by saying no, it actually indicates maturity and responsibility when you can comfortably and accurately assess what’s appropriate for you to take on or turn down.Additionally, multi-tasking also cuts down on productivity. Taking time for each ensures it's getting the full attention it needs.

