 Some natural remedies are quick and easy to make using ingredients you probably have in your pantry. Others, while easy, may either require ingredients only available at specialty food stores or may take time to prepare.


Try various home remedies until you find the ones that work for you.
Be aware of any food allergies or other sensitivities you may have before trying any home remedies. You may also wish to run it by your doctor before you try a home remedy.;
, This method is the fastest way to pain relief, although the relief may be temporary. Allowing ice chips to slowly dissolve over the sores will temporarily numb the area and may reduce the inflammation.
 Osmosis occurs when the inside of a cell has a lower salt content than the outside. Water, or excess fluid, is drawn out of the cell and swelling goes down, easing discomfort.Salt is an antiseptic, so it will help to keep the area free of bacteria to promote healing.
Try a baking soda rinse instead, using 1 teaspoon of baking soda dissolved in 1/2 cup warm water., Sage has long been used in ancient cultures for cleansing and healing of mouth ailments. Mix 2 teaspoons dried sage with 4–8 ounces of fresh water and boil for 10 minutes. Let it cool, then swish the rinse in your mouth for one minute. Spit it out and rinse your mouth with cold water.Alternatively,combine a handful of fresh sage with 4–8 ounces of water. Store in an airtight glass jar in a cool dark place for 24 hours. Remove the sage and swish only the infused water in your mouth for one minute., Aloe’s sunburn-soothing properties are well known, but this plant can also ease the pain of a canker sore. Mix 1 teaspoon of natural aloe vera gel with 1 tablespoon of water and swish it in your mouth three times a day.


Be sure to use natural aloe vera gel.
Try using aloe vera juice as a rinse., Coconut oil is an anti-inflammatory, which not only helps with healing, but may reduce pain. Use a cotton swab or clean hands to apply a liberal amount of coconut oil directly onto the mouth ulcer to ease pain and encourage healing.


If the oil melts too quickly and slides off, you may not be using enough.
If you’re still having trouble keeping the oil on the sore, add ½ teaspoon of beeswax to thicken to a paste.Chew on fresh or dried coconut to achieve a similar pain-reducing effect.,
Cayenne pepper also promotes saliva production, which can promote oral health and aid in healing the sore., Research has shown that chewing basil leaves is an effective anti-inflammatory, which may mean that it can reduce swelling and pain of mouth ulcers.To ease pain, chew four to five basil leaves four times a day.


Chewing clove buds and swishing the juice around the ulcer may help, too., Clove oil has been shown to numb tissue as well as benzocaine, the topical anesthetic that most dentists use for minor dental procedures.Soak a cotton ball in a mixture of 1/2 teaspoon of olive oil and four to five drops of clove essential oil and apply directly to the sore for five to eight minutes for pain relief.Rinse your mouth out with warm water before and after this treatment so that oil can be fully effective.
Clove oil has a strong taste that some users find unpleasant, and accidental ingestion of too much oil can have side effects., Chamomile tea contains bisabolol, or levomenol, a naturally-occurring chemical compound which can reduce inflammation and, thus, pain.Soak one bag of chamomile tea in warm water for one minute, then place it directly against the sore for five to 10 minutes twice a day.Chamomile has been found to soothe the digestive tract and ease gastrointestinal issues, which may be an underlying cause of mouth ulcers.You can also try a compress of fresh sage. Combine a handful of fresh sage with 4–8 ounces of water. Store in an airtight glass jar in a cool dark place overnight. Remove the sage and use a mortar and pestle to mash the leaves to a pulp. Apply this mash directly over the sore for five minutes.Always rinse your mouth with plain cold water after applying compresses or herbs.
 Many essential oils have anti-inflammatory properties, and peppermint and eucalyptus may also work as antimicrobial agents to reduce your chances of infection. Additionally, they may reduce swelling due to the astringent nature of these oils, which tightens the surrounding tissues. You might also experience a slight numbing effect due to their cooling properties.Combine 2 tablespoons of olive or grapeseed oil, 10 drops of peppermint essential oil, eight drops of eucalyptus essential oil in a mister bottle. Cap and shake well before use.
Spray the mist, as needed, directly onto the canker sore for pain relief.