 Do a little research to find out who’s in charge of making hiring decisions for the company you wish to work for. For small private businesses this may be the owner themselves, or it may be a human resources officer or staffing director at a big corporation. Going through the appropriate channels is the first step toward gaining an audience.With most retail and service jobs, you can simply walk in and request to speak to a manager.
If you have a friend or acquaintance that works for the company, see if they could give you some advice or help set up a meeting between you and one of the higher ups.;
, Once you get a chance to speak to someone with some influence, let them know up front that you’re interested in working for them. Show them that you’re eager, enthusiastic and ready to work hard. Chances are, they’ll be impressed by your initiative.The key is to be assertive, but not too forceful. Never make demands of an employer or come in with a sense of entitlement.
Open with a statement like "I think I would be a very good fit for your company" or "I believe my ideas and ambition could be of real service to your operations.", Be sure to attach your resume, an original cover letter explaining why you're interested in the job and a link to the open position, if it was posted online. These days, most established companies screen potential employees electronically, so this will be your first opportunity to make contact with the people you could be working for in the future. Emailing an employer directly is much more personable than mass-posting your resume to various job search websites.Be explicit about the purpose of the email with a subject line like "Senior Editor Position."
Always be cordial, professional and prompt in your email correspondence. Hiring supervisors pay close attention to the way prospective employees communicate., In some instances, the person offering a job might be a family friend, acquaintance or former business associate. If this is the case, it will usually be okay to meet with them casually to discuss the details of the job. Find a time that fits the employer's schedule and be prepared to tell them a little about yourself and what you're looking for.Set up a meeting by calling or speaking to the employer in person ahead of time.
Even if it's not a formal interview, you should plan on showing up early and looking respectable.Don't assume that you'll be guaranteed a job just because you know someone. You should treat the sit down with the same respect and consideration you would any other professional situation.

