 Some people start drinking to get away from their problems, some drink because they have poor impulse control, and others get hooked simply because they never learned healthy ways to relax. Identifying the reason your spouse drinks will help you know how to support them in their recovery., You might feel confused or angry that your spouse would try to solve their problems by doing something as destructive and illogical as drinking excessively. Understand that addiction is usually a reaction to emotional problems and is not based on reason.As addiction takes hold, it hijacks a person’s brain, giving them a warped sense of priorities. These warped priorities cloud an addict’s judgment in a way that non-addicted people often can’t understand. To an alcohol addict, obtaining and drinking booze is the most important thing in life, whether they admit it to themselves and others or not.
 Think about how you may have unwittingly played a role in your spouse’s addiction. Before you realized your spouse had a drinking problem, did you ever lie for them when they were drunk or take care of them when they were hungover? Actions like this enable alcohol abusers to persist in their unhealthy habits.If you drink with your spouse, it may exacerbate the problem. If you often drink with your spouse, make a commitment to ending this behavior so that it does not look like you are endorsing their drinking behavior.
If you think your spouse has a drinking problem, it’s best to stop protecting them from the consequences of their own actions.
 Alcohol abuse almost always gets worse if it’s left untreated, and it can have devastating consequences on the addict as well as the people close to them. Alcoholism routinely destroys marriages, families, and relationships. It can also lead to serious health problems and an early death.People who drink excessively are more likely to become abusive towards their spouse or children.
Alcoholism is linked to alcohol poisoning, liver disease, cancer, and heart disease. It’s also a major contributor to fatal car accidents.
 It’s important to talk to your spouse right away when you discover their drinking problem. The consequences of alcohol abuse can be serious, and the problem will not go away on its own. Ignoring it now will only make it harder to deal with in the future.Some people say that an alcoholic has to hit rock bottom before they decide to get better. However, many people can and do stop drinking before they get to this point. Alcoholism is a progressive disease, and the earlier your spouse gets help, the easier it will be for them to quit.
 If you try to have a conversation with your spouse while they are drunk, you probably won’t get far. Both of you need to be clear-minded and fully present to have a productive talk.Try talking to your spouse when they are hungover and regretful. They may be more willing to listen to you when they are feeling the negative consequences of their drinking.
 Start the conversation by telling your spouse how their behavior makes you feel. Avoid lashing out at them or blaming them for making bad choices. It’s natural to feel upset or hurt after you find out your spouse has been hiding an addiction from you, but speaking in anger can make them shut down and refuse to cooperate with you.For instance, you might say, “It really bothers me how you stay out late at bars so often. I worry about where you are and whether you’re okay. Even if you text me, it hurts me to know you’d rather get drunk than be at home with me.”

, Talk to your spouse as if the two of you are a team and alcohol abuse is your mutual enemy. You might not feel united with your spouse right now, but if you make them feel defensive, they may shut you out and start drinking even more. If they feel like you are on their side, they may feel guiltier about hurting you and be more motivated to recover.Make your point by saying something like, “I hate what your drinking is doing to our relationship. It’s driving us apart, and that hurts both of us.”

, The goal of this conversation should be to bring your spouse’s drinking problem out into the open. Both of you will probably experience intense emotions during and after the talk. Give yourself and your spouse time to cool down and think the situation through before either of you decides what to do next.You might close the conversation by saying something like, “This is hard to talk about, and it’s going to take some time to come to terms with it. I think we should both let our emotions settle and do some research before we decide what to do next.”

, Maintaining strong personal boundaries is the best way to prevent an addict from manipulating or walking on you. Decide what behaviors you can tolerate and which ones you’re not okay with. Let your spouse know about your new expectations in the relationship.For instance, you might tell your spouse, “If you shout at me again when you are drunk, I am going to take the kids and leave the house.” Another example might be, “I am not going to call in sick for you anymore if you are too hungover to go to work.”

, People recover from addiction more easily if they feel like their spouse is on their side. Talk to your spouse about what they need from you. Do your best to be patient and compassionate with them as they start down the road to recovery.You can’t make someone recover from addiction if they don’t want to. Consider what you will do if your spouse refuses to seek treatment. Some spouses of addicts consider this as grounds for divorce.
 Nagging your spouse to go to AA meetings or trying to watch their behavior all the time won’t do any good in the end. Getting better is something only your spouse can do. Your support can make a difference, but in the end, recovery has to be their decision.Instead of trying to control your spouse’s behavior, focus on what actions you will take if your spouse doesn’t try to get better.
 Living with and supporting a recovering alcoholic can be exhausting. You may find that you need to distance yourself a little for the sake of your own emotional health. Focus on eating right, getting enough sleep, taking time to relax, and finding social support.Consider attending a support group like Alcoholics Anonymous, where you can meet other people who understand what you are going through.
 If your spouse yells at you, threatens you, or hits you when they are drunk, get out as soon as you can, especially if you have children. Arrange to stay with a family member for a while, or find a shelter in your area. You never need to feel guilty about putting your own safety first.