 Go to the script frenzy website (www.scriptfrenzy.org) and select the red 'sign up!' button near the top of the page. It is best to sign up before April. Fill in the necessary details to create your account.


If you are under 13, you can still take part, but instead of signing up under the Script Frenzy program, you sign up under the Young Writers Program (www.ywp.scriptfrenzy.org). This is a version of script frenzy designed especially for younger people
If you took part in Nanowrimo, then your user name is automatically registered on Script Frenzy. All you need to do is to go straight to the log in screen, log in with your Nano details and then accept the terms and conditions.;
, Click on 'My Script Frenzy' once you are logged on to access your profile. Use the buttons on the left hand side to edit various aspects of your profile such as a picture, interests, where you live. Share as much or as little as you want.
 If you haven't done something like this before, then reading through the Writer's Resources articles will give you a good starting point for creating a script.
 What will you be writing? A TV show, a graphic novel, a musical - there are many areas to chose from. Also, Script Frenzy allows you to work together with another person on your script. There are both advantages and disadvantages to this so you need to think about it (Even if two people are writing, you still only need to write 100 pages)

, How much you do is up to you. Some people plan each scene in detail, some only a brief idea of beginning, middle and end. You probably need some general idea as to where your script needs to go otherwise it will get confusing. Remember that you can only actually begin to write once April has started.
 These run before and after April as well as during and it is a great way to talk to fellow writers as well as to get inspiration and motivation.
 30 days to do 100 pages works out at 3.33 pages a day - a completely manageable amount. Some days you may write more, others not so much but if it averages out to around 3.33 a day then you are probably going to make it.


Motivation is a key part of Script Frenzy. You need to make yourself write the pages even when the words don't seem to make sense. Remember - this is a first draft so quantity not quality.
 If you have made 100 pages then save it as a PDF, go to 'edit my profile' and upload the file. If it says you have won, you will receive a certificate which you can print out and proudly display.
 Edit out the rough bits (trust me, there will be some rough bits - it is only a first draft after all!) and then do what you wish! Film it with friends, send it off or just keep it to yourself. It's up to you.

