 This may seem obvious, but depending on what your band was doing before the parade, a refresher course in marching 8/5 in a block may be in order. You may also have to perform basic moves that aren't used much in shows, which some members (especially the rookies) might not remember.;
, Be sure to know what you're supposed to wear, especially if your band has multiple uniforms (for instance, a casual summer uniform and a full uniform). If you have to wash anything, make sure you do so well in advance. Girls may need to braid or otherwise style their hair. Your band director may ask you to not wear any jewelry if the parade is on the somber side. If it's a themed or holiday parade (like a holiday parade), you might be asked to wear a Santa hat or something else for the occasion. If you like this idea and nobody's said anything, suggest it yourself!

, Wear thick socks that will cushion your feet. Pick comfortable clothes to wear under your uniform pants (if applicable). If you're allowed to, you may wish to wear sunglasses. In an extremely casual parade (meaning no uniform to speak of), wear loose-fitting, light colored clothing, the sturdiest shoes you own, and you might even be able to pull off a water backpack.
 Drink lots of water the day before and the morning of the parade. Drink water as much as possible right up until the moment you step off. If possible, keep a bottle of it somewhere in your uniform, or wear a water backpack if it is allowed. Avoid dairy products right before the parade, because they'll make you sick if you're out in the sun for a long period of time.
 Getting lost or playing the wrong song during a parade can be very confusing and embarrassing. If possible and necessary, try to write it on whichever hand you'll have the best view of. If you'll be marching with a flipbook, put your music in order before the day of the parade.
 If you step off at the right time and keep the beat under your feet, this shouldn't be a problem. However, you might want to look down at the person's feet in front of you or at the drum major (if yours is marching backwards and conducting) every once in a while. Remember, odd numbered beats are "left", evens are "right" (in key signatures based on multiples of four... this doesn't work in 3/4). If you realize you're out of step, try to do a subtle skip or change your step size for a moment to fix it.
 You will most likely be marching in a large block. The whole time you're moving, you'll have to frequently check to make sure you're still in line with the people in front of you and on either size of you, you're still in your diagonal, and the intervals between people are still correct. Your peripheral vision will also allow you to see any incoming clowns or others who are trying to be funny by messing with your instrument (glare at them, and if that doesn't work, get rid of them as discreetly as possible).
 Congratulations, it's over!

