 If you are already somewhat comfortable talking to your crush, it will be easiest just to ask them where they live. Keep it light, and ask them in a way that isn’t too obvious.Try framing the question around yourself. Say something like, “Oh, I live on First Street! What area of the city do you live in?”
If you know they grew up in your city, you can ask, “What area of town did you grow up in?” Then follow up with, “Do you still live in the same place?”
Fit it into conversation. Before you ask your crush where they live, start a fun conversation.Use it to flirt and ask them other questions, too, like what kind of food and music they like. This will make asking for where they live just another fun question.
It might help to talk to your crush over online chat or through text message. If you do this, you’ll be less nervous about starting a conversation.Plus, if they tell you their address, you’ll have it in writing with no risk of forgetting.;
, If any of your friends know your crush, first see if they know where your crush lives.


See if you know anyone that’s attended a birthday party at your crush’s house or studied with them.
If none of your friends have been to your crush’s house, see if they have any friends that know your crush. If they do, they can ask their friends for you. That way, your crush won’t know that you’re trying to find out where they live.
 If none of your friends really know your crush, you might consider asking some of your crush’s friends.


First, pick one of their friends who seems like a nice and trustworthy person. It helps if this is at least an acquaintance of yours. Don’t pick their best friend, as this person is most likely to tell your crush that you asked where they lived.
Send them a quick text or message. Say something like, “Hey! I really like Jessica, but I’m too nervous to tell her yet. I was just wanted to ask you where they lived! Thanks!” If you can, include your reason for wanting to know. For example, “I’d really like to be able to mail her a card!”
Ask the person not to tell your crush that you asked.

