 Kidney stones usually cause severe pain that is “colicky” – crampy pain that comes and goes. If your doctor diagnoses you with kidney stones, you’ll likely spend a few days waiting to see if you can pass them on your own. This can be painful! Try pain relief at home, or ask your doctor for stronger pain medication. If you need medical assistance passing the stones, there are a number of treatments you can get in the hospital.Stay well-hydrated to help prevent kidney stones from recurring.
 If you recently had a UTI and now you’re having kidney pain, the infection from your bladder may have travelled up into your kidney. This type of kidney infection, called pyelonephritis, has to be treated quickly to prevent kidney damage. Try to see your doctor right away, and if you can’t get a same-day appointment, go to the hospital – they will give you antibiotics to treat the infection. For severe infections, you might have to stay in the hospital and have antibiotics through an IV (intravenously, or through a needle into your vein).Salpingitis, an infection of the fallopian tubes in women is sometimes called pelvic inflammatory disease, can also cause kidney-like pain. Salpingitis also requires antibiotics.Always take antibiotics exactly as your doctor prescribes.
 Sometimes, kidney pain is caused by a structural problem. Usually this requires having surgery to fix whatever problem is causing your pain. Surgery might also be necessary to remove a kidney, like if your pain is caused by a tumor. Having all or part of your kidney removed can help to manage your pain and prevent cancer from spreading.Most structural problems are diagnosed in children. ”Horseshoe kidney,” when the kidneys fuse together, is a common cause of kidney pain.If you can’t have surgery for some reason, your cancer team can treat your kidney tumor with chemotherapy and/or radiation. When the tumor shrinks, your pain may improve.
 Arteriosclerosis and atherosclerosis, when your arteries harden or get clogged with plaque, can occur in any artery in your body – this is what leads to heart attacks and strokes. When this occurs in the blood vessels to your kidneys, you can get high blood pressure, kidney failure, and kidney pain. Talk to your doctor about your cholesterol level and whether you should take medication for it. Controlling chronic medical diseases, such as high blood pressure and diabetes, is also important for kidney health. You can also improve the quality of your blood vessels by making healthy lifestyle choices:Eat a low-fat and low-cholesterol diet

Exercise regularly, at least 5 days a week for 30 minutes
Don’t smoke

Maintain a healthy weight


