 Though you may struggle with your weight, you can build your self-esteem by taking the time to focus on getting better at a skill or a hobby that you are good at and enjoy doing. This could be a love for drawing or painting, gardening, crocheting or knitting, dancing, or learning how to do woodworking. Working on getting better at a hobby or skill will help you to gain more confidence and feel good about yourself.Talk to your parents or guardians about taking a class in a certain skill or getting supplies and materials to work on a certain hobby. Look to them for support and guidance as you try to improve your self-esteem.
See if any of your friends share an interest in your hobby. If so, it might be fun to work on the hobby as a group.;
, It can also be motivating to set personal goals for yourself, where you list five to ten specific goals that you will achieve within a set period of time. These goals can be small, such as going for a walk every day for 30 minutes. You can write goals that focus on fitness, socializing, getting better at a hobby or skill, or doing better academically at school.Make sure you create goals that are specific but also realistic. You should also set a due date for each goal so you have a set time frame to check the goal off your list. This will help to motivate you to achieve the goal and feel a sense of accomplishment when you finally do check it off the list.
 Work on your self-esteem by being more social with others and getting more comfortable being around new people. Look for a club or a group in your area where you can meet other pre-teens who are also into a certain card game or a specific skill and join this club or group. A weekly club meeting will allow you to socialize with others who have common interests with you on a regular basis.Building relationships with close friends can also help you to feel more self assured and self aware.
 Rather than avoid school activities or events, focus on getting involved and connecting with your peers at school. This may mean joining the yearbook committee or participating in after school activities with other students.Focus on getting involved with people who are good for you.


Spending time with people who say and do negative things to you will not make you happy and healthy. Seek out those that are helpful and kind to you.
 Giving back to others can also be another way to build your self-esteem and allow you to connect with others in a generous and open way. Volunteer your time at a soup kitchen with your parents or invite friends to volunteer with you at the children’s hospital in your area.For example, if you like to knit or crochet, consider joining a group that makes blankets and hats for newborn babies.

