 Hydrating your body keeps your skin cells looking fresh and renewed, which can reduce the appearance of cellulite. Drink at least 8 glasses of water a day to make sure your system is getting all the water it needs.


Start drinking a glass of water first thing in the morning, before you have your morning coffee or tea.
Carry a bottle of water with you as you go about your day. Remember to refill it often.;
, A diet filled with healthy fruits and vegetables will help you keep your weight down, reducing the appearance of cellulite. Fruits and vegetables also have a high water content, so they help keep you hydrated, too.


Have a spinach smoothie for breakfast. Blend a cup of almond milk, a cup of spinach, half a banana and a kiwi or handful of strawberries. This high-powered breakfast will keep your energy level high, and it's a great way to get a serving of vegetables at breakfast.
Eat plenty of raw vegetables. Raw salad greens, broccoli, carrots and other vegetables are packed with nutrients, antioxidants and water. If you make them the mainstay of your diet you'll see a difference in the amount of cellulite you have.
 Cellulite is caused by the fat just under the skin, but if your skin is toned and healthy, the cellulite won't be as noticeable. Foods like olives, nuts, avocados, fish and olive oil contain omega-3 fatty acids, which are essential for healthy skin.


Consume Omega-3 fatty acid. Since we eat fatty foods or at least foods filled with all kinds of fats all the time, therefore, consuming the proper fatty acids and neglecting the ones that are harmful to us are vital for a complete recovery from cellulite. Pasture-raised meats, dairy products enriched with Omega-3, Edamame, wild rice, canola oil, or walnuts are only a few of the many foods that are rich in this fatty acid and should be consumed in large quantities for a complete removal of cellulite.
 Foods that cause you to gain weight and retain water increase the amount of cellulite you have. Avoid the following foods to prevent more cellulite from appearing:


Fried foods like french fries, fried chicken, and onion rings.
Packaged snacks like corn chips, potato chips, cheese puffs, and pretzels.
Foods high in salt, like canned soup or dips and dressings, cause you to retain water.
Foods high in sugar, like candy, baked goods, and soda, cause you to gain weight.
Alcohol, especially when it's paired with a sugary mixer like soda or cranberry juice, can cause you to gain weight and retain water.

