 Once you know what has caused it, then you are good to go on to the next step.


Are you feeling as if all the zing has gone from your romance?
Are you failing to talk intimately anymore?
Has the intimacy as a whole dropped?
Do you feel as if you've grown apart from one another?;
, This is tricky, because sometimes meeting people comes with promises and excitement, so make sure you are in the relationship for the right reasons. Here, try to think of the things for which you are grateful.


Things you might be grateful for: Conversation, intimacy, sex, sharing, coziness, building a future together, being given space, similar goals, willingness to keep trying, personal traits, and so forth.
 Realize that this may not work out but it is important to try and to remain focused on the things that matter rather than focusing on what you feel is letting you down about the relationship. The idea is to amplify the reasons for being together and see whether these outweigh the reasons for ending the relationship.
 If you like knitting, and he likes sports and you spend your afternoons apart either knitting or watching TV, then you are bound to lose interest or forget why you are together in the first place. Doing things together will not only spice up your romance, it gives you the time to "remind" yourself why you are with the person. Of course, a lot of things about your partner might irritate you, but keep trying to look on the positive side of this relationship.
 It is said to be a medicine, so do it regularly, make it a habit.
 Be grateful for their interests as much as for your own. Buy your partner a comedy show ticket and take her out. Surprise your partner to something you know they'll like, such as a football ticket (go along with your partner), a book (if they like reading) or a Grand Prix ticket. Stimulate the things that they care about, in order to better understand these interests.


If you're worried you'll get bored, realize that it will only take a couple of hours, then you are good to go!

, Communication is key, Talk more and try to help your partner find the reasons to be grateful for the relationship through introducing the ideas into what you talk about. If the relationship is nearing an end, inject the reasons for sparking it back to life through your discussions.


Remind your partner why you both came together and what inspired you about each other.
Remind your partner of his or her appeal and why you love them.
Ask your partner to tell you what they're grateful for within the relationship.
 If you are both feeling that the relationship has become flat, dull and near its end, it is definitely time to talk. If your other half is not giving you enough attention, then you both need to sit down as adults, and discuss what works and what doesn't. This is important because you're probably both tiptoeing around the disintegration of the relationship, letting it eke out without addressing the causes of its breakdown.


Never make promises you never keep: This screams disaster! The last thing you want is pressure. And if you put yourself under a lot of it, you might tend to fail at your own game. Not cool. instead of making promises, make surprises. when they least expect it.
 If you always find yourself complaining, stop, it's a bad habit. Instead take advice and feedback, look on the positive side of life and make something good out of it. Inject the gratitude in place of the whining. Remember that moaning, whingeing, whining are all irritable behaviour that people really find hard to cope with and are usually an outward sign of inability to deal with inward issues. Try to lighten up, be funny, show your fun side and don't take all things personally.
 Maybe it's a gratitude jar filled with good memories, a shared journal or a weekly or daily round up of what you care about in each other. Whatever ritual you choose, make it a part of your rebuilding the relationship and stick to it regularly. It will help to remind both of you why the relationship matters and needs working on.
 If you've tried hard and things haven't changed, it may be time to end the relationship. You can't make another person change if they don't want to. Be reassured by the effort you've put in to try and salvage the relationship this far. It's far better than not having tried at all.
 There is a saying that it is better to have loved and lost than to never have loved at all. You will have learned much from this relationship and that is something to be grateful for. Whether it's what to avoid doing, the type of person to avoid being with or the good things that happened during the relationship, there is learning to take away from it. Give yourself time to grieve and recover but also give yourself the chance to take away the good lessons for your future.

