 If you feel threatened by a suspicious person or are approached by a would-be attacker, the best way to avoid getting hurt is to run away from this person and towards a well-populated public area. Escaping is the quickest way to end an attack.


Don’t rely on adrenaline to give you super speed. Engage in regular exercise so that you are physically strong enough to run quickly and far enough to get away.
Wear reasonable shoes anytime you are walking around by yourself. Unless you wear your heels to the gym, you won’t be able to run well in them. Save fashion footwear for nights out with a group of friends, or keep a pair of flats with you for walking.
 Plan a safe hiding location inside your home, preferably with 2 nearby exits. If a serial killer comes in one exit, you should be able to get out of the second one.


Make sure the put your phone on silent and hold so that it doesn’t vibrate., Keep your voice confident and authoritative and yell as loudly as possible. If anyone is within hearing distance, you might attract their attention. Even if no one hears you, you have shown your attacker that you are not an easy target and are not worth the risk.This is better than yelling “help!” Sometimes people will avoid getting involved if they sense they may also get hurt or have to deal with police after an attack is reported.
“Back off” sounds like you are capable of fighting back. Serial killers are typically methodical in making sure there is little risk of getting caught before approaching a potential victim.
 Pepper spray, extract from hot peppers, can be effective at inhibiting an attacker if used correctly. Find a class teaching proper administration and storage before buying or carrying this device.


Many users accidentally spray themselves when the canister gets lost in their bag or purse. Consider it like any other weapon you would need to learn to use correctly to avoid self-injury., There is a lot of advice on the internet for protecting yourself in a fight, but reading it is not the same as learning it. Self-defense classes like Krav Maga teach specific responses for common attacks, and attending classes provides a chance for you to practice real world advice.


Make sure to attend classes with a certified instructor to supervise you and make sure you will not injure yourself through inexperience.
Check your local government and non-profit websites. Many cities offer self-defense classes for free or on a sliding scale based on income.
 Your strongest parts are your elbows, head, and knees. Which one you use depends on your own position relative to that of your attacker.Use your elbows, hands, or head for attacking the upper body.
Use your knees or feet to attack their lower body.
Do not step in closer to use your arms or hands if you can use your legs or knees instead!

, Vulnerable places on your attacker include the eyes, neck, groin, and knee.Use your fingers or thumbs to poke or gouge your attacker’s eyes. This will cause a lot of pain and disrupt vision, giving you time to run away.Thrust your elbow into your side of your attacker’s neck, using your body weight. If you can’t use your elbow, hold your fingers straight, with your thumb tucked underneath, and hit the side of their neck like a knife strike as hard as you can.
If your attacker attempts to grab you from the front by your arms or shoulders, knee or kick them in the groin.Kick the side of your attacker’s knee to through him/her off balance and cause injury., Carry your keys sticking out between your fingers of a closed fist when walking alone at night or in scary areas. If attacked outside, throw dirt in your attacker’s eyes. Use a pen or pencil as a stabbing tool.If attacked, keys and writing utensils can be used to stab your attacker’s eyes or throat.
Don’t falter and use full force if you really feel you are in danger. A half-hearted attempt to hurt someone will fail.
Once you commit to an action, follow through with fullest intention.
 If someone tries to pull you by your wrists, lower your center of gravity, lean towards your attacker, and bend your elbow upwards towards his/her arm to get free. If someone grabs you from behind, sit down on the ground as quickly and with as much force as possible.If you cannot sit, lower your center of gravity and thrust your elbow backwards into their neck or head.