 You should ask your doctor before starting an exercise regimen if you have severe symptoms, or before taking any medications for persistent back pain. However, spine medicine is a distinct field, and primary care physicians don’t often have much in-depth, relevant training. They can, however, refer you to a specialist who can offer a more accurate diagnosis and treatment plan., A chiropractic adjustment can realign your spine and relieve the muscle and connective tissue damage that misaligned vertebrae can cause. A chiropractor can also give you more information about your specific issues, and can "read" your spine to suggest ways to make your daily routines easier on your back. Chiropractic care can also be helpful for head and neck pain, and is the most common non-surgical alternative for both chronic and acute back pain in the United States., A full clinical diagnosis is preferable to relying on imaging techniques, like MRI or CT. A scan can show a healthy spine despite severe pain reported by a patient, or it can reveal a herniated disc despite the patient having no pain. Specialists have also reported that pressure from patients is a common reason they perform imaging tests in the first place: if a medical professional doesn’t suggest an MRI or other scan, don’t try to convince them otherwise., Since there is such a range of factors that contribute to chronic back pain, be sure to clearly indicate your symptoms, whether you’re on any medications, and other key details. Medical history is often the most important tool in diagnosing back pain.Make sure you understand your diagnosis and treatment plan, since back pain is deeply connected to your daily lifestyle.
 Don’t jump to surgery too quickly. Many people view spine surgery as a “quick fix,” but it’s typically recommended to stick to the non-surgical treatment for at least 4 to 6 weeks before considering surgery.Also, remember that exercise and physical therapy are essential components of surgical recovery anyway.

