 A stock dividend is another type of dividend that doesn't involve the distribution of any cash to shareholders. Rather, a stock dividend distributes additional shares of the company to shareholders, perhaps at a percentage rate to shares that they already hold.


Though this will increase the total number of shares outstanding, it does not transfer more money to shareholders or away from the company. Instead, it simply dilutes the value of shares and transfers money between retained earnings and shareholder equity., Just like a cash dividend, a stock dividend will be declared on a specific date and will offer a specific number of shares to be distributed. Generally, a stock dividend will be made for an increase of no more than 20-25% of current total shares outstanding. This is because anything more would be categorized differently, as a a stock split (a dilution of shares to manipulate market price).


For example, your company may declare on February 1 to issue a 20% stock dividend on your 10,000 outstanding shares on March 1, the date of payment. February 1 would mark the first recording of this transaction.
 Multiply the number of shares to be distributed by the market value of each share. This amount is one of the values that you will record in the following steps and represents the total book value of the stock dividend distribution.The number of shares distributed will simply be the chosen percentage stock dividend (20% in our example) multiplied by the number of shares outstanding. In the example, this would be 10,000 x 20%, or 2,000 shares.
The market value of each share used should be the value that a share of the company trades for on the declaration date., The retained earnings account should be debited (decreased) by the amount found in the last step (the market value of shares x the number of new shares). This entry should be posted on the declaration day.To continue our example, imagine that the market value of a share of your company is trading for $50 on the declaration date. Then, the amount debited from retained earnings would be $50 x 2,000, or $100,000.
 This account will be credited by an amount defined by the number of shares distributed times the par value of the stock. The par value here is the book value of the stock and should already be recorded in any company's books. This entry should be posted on the declaration day.Imagine that for our example the par value is $1 per share. Thus, the amount credit to the common stock dividend distributable account would be $1 x 2,000 shares, or $2,000.
 This account will be credited by an amount defined by the difference between the amount debited from retained earnings and the amount credited to common stock dividends distributable. This account represent the amount of money distributed above and beyond the par value of the stock. This entry should be posted on the declaration day.In our example, this amount would be $100,000 (the amount debited to retained earnings) minus $2,000 (the amount credited to common stock dividends distributable), or $98,000.
 On the date of payment (when the shares are distributed to shareholders), another accounting entry must be made. This is done by debiting the common stock dividends distributable account and crediting the common stock account by the same amount. This amount will be the amount previously credited to the common stock dividends distributable account.In the example, your debit and the credit amounts for this entry would be $2,000.

