 Lay out a sticky trap in any area you suspect wolf spiders to be lurking in, paying close attention to dark, hidden corners.


These traps consist of little more than heavy cardboard with extremely sticky glue pasted on them. Wolf spiders and other pests get stuck on the glue as they step onto the trap. They become unable to move and die of starvation.
Place glue traps in the corners of basements and garages. The traps should also be placed beneath and behind furniture, as well as on both sides of any door that leads to the outside.
Keep these traps out of reach of small children and pets. Kids and pets could get stuck in these traps, and removing these traps can be a difficult process.
 Plant-based pesticides made with hexa-hydroxyl are generally effective against wolf spiders.These insecticides come as a dust or powder that can be sprinkled beneath furniture, in dark basement corners, and other dimly-lit areas.
Hexa-hydroxyl is also pet-safe and people-safe.



You can also track the spiders down outside by shining a flashlight into overgrowth, patches of woods, and dense shrubs.
Wolf spiders have discs located in the back of their eyes. These discs are reflective, enabling them to see at night. It will also reflect the light from your flashlight, making these spiders easy to track in the dark.
 When spotted, place a plastic container or cup over the spider and slide a heavy, firm piece of board beneath the cup, moving carefully to prevent the spider from being able to crawl out.


Release the spider outside as soon as possible. Make sure that you release it far away from the perimeter of your home so that it does not crawl back inside as soon as it is free.
Use a glove when trapping and picking up wolf spiders to reduce the risk of being bitten. While wolf spider venom is not usually toxic to humans, getting bitten can still sting considerably. It is also possible to have an allergic reaction to the venom, and wearing gloves will prevent a possible reaction from occurring.
 When you see a wolf spider, strike it with a standard broom to kill it.


You can also use a shoe or other solid object to squish the spider. Similarly, you can use a vacuum cleaner to suck the wolf spider up.
Since wolf spiders are rather large, you can usually kill the adults with a broom. Smaller spiders are more likely to slip through the bristles of the broom, making brooms less effective as a weapon.



Water will not kill a wolf spider, but a strong blast of it will be enough to scare it away and may deter the spider from coming back.
In addition to blasting any wolf spider you see with water, you should also spray beneath roof eaves, window ledges, patio and porch roofs, and decks.

