 Letting your students argue in person – in the form of a debate – will demonstrate to them that they already know how to make a persuasive argument. This is a good strategy for teaching persuasive writing to students who learn best by doing something, rather than by watching or listening.


You can use an informal or formal debate, or both on successive days. The informal debate should be organized immediately after you tell your students what you'll be doing in class. The formal debate should take place after they've had some time to prepare., Ask your students to pick a side in response to your prompt. Then ask them to move to opposite sides of the room, depending on which side they agree with.


For example, read a statement like “Men and women have equal opportunities in life.” Then ask your students who agree with the statement to line up on one side of the room and those who disagree to line up on another side., Once your students have taken sides, ask them to – respectfully – explain why they support their position. They can also choose to respond to what classmates on the opposite side of the issue argue.If you're using a more formal debate set up, at this point you can pass out supporting material to each side of the debate and either ask them to read it then or be prepared to use it the next day. You can ask them to collect their own supporting material for a future debate., Once the debate is over, ask your students who they think won the debate, and then follow up by making them tell you why they think that side won. Once your students have assessed the debate on its surface, draw parallels between the debate and writing a persuasive argument.


For example, you could point out that when they made a statement of fact and then gave a reason for it - for example, if they said older students need more sleep because they are generally involved in more after school activities - they set up what could be the first paragraph of their essay. They made a statement, then backed it up with evidence.
 Once your students have finished discussing the debate, ask them to write down a summary of one argument they made during the debate and three pieces of evidence they used to support their position. This will help them to see how debating with evidence is similar to write a persuasive essay.