 There are two styles of gameplay for Nightblades. The first is a more combat-based style, where your Nightblade will be getting all up in the action and dealing damage to your enemies.


If you want to do this style of gameplay, you'll want to focus on the skills in the Assassination tree (and to a lesser extent, the Siphoning tree).






Leaning towards dual-wield is also a good idea, as that does more damage than a bow and is intended for more face-to-face combat.






If taking this route, it might be a good idea to distribute some points to health, though the majority should still go towards magicka and stamina.
 The other style of gameplay is more stealth-based, where your Nightblade will avoid the bulk of the action in favor of distanced attacks and staying out of sight.


If you want to do this style of gameplay, you'll want to focus on the skills in the Shadow tree (and to a lesser extent, the Siphoning tree).






Leaning towards bow use is also a good idea, since you'll want to be attacking from a distance and not up close.






If taking this route, it might be a good idea to distribute more points towards stamina than magicka, as magicka points do not regenerate while using your class abilities (which are mainly related to turning invisible, if you took our suggestion of the Shadow skill tree).
 Even if you're playing a melee-based Nightblade, you should still take advantage of your sneak skills when you can. You aren't a tank, so avoid conflict if possible, especially if you're by yourself. Don't neglect your dodge-roll, a helpful way of getting past traps and out of an enemy's line of fire.
 The medium armor skill trees include several bonuses that are useful for Nightblades, including increase chance to critical strike and dodge. The more medium armor you wear, the faster you will level this skill and the more bonuses you will have available to you.
 Overall, a healthy magicka level or cache of potions is a good idea for Nightblades. They are heavily reliant on their class abilities, all of which use magicka. There is also an emphasis on stamina, since your Nightblade will use weapons, but to what degree is somewhat dependent on your play style.

