 In order to do this wrap you’ll need lotion, clear plastic wrap and an elastic reusable bandage (like the kind you’d use on a sprained wrist). Once you’ve obtained the necessary items, perform the following instructions right before you go to bed:Apply the lotion to your stomach and waist area in a thick layer. Don’t massage the lotion too much into your skin.
Wrap the clear plastic wrap around your waist, on top of where you put the lotion. You may need to wrap the plastic two to three times around your waist. The plastic wrap should not be loose, but should be tight enough that it doesn’t fall off.
Wrap the elastic bandage around your waist on top of the plastic wrap. Secure the bandage to your body by tucking the end into the portion already wrapped around.
Sleep with the wrap on all night and remove it in the morning. You’ll likely notice a small difference in your waist size, but note it’s only temporary.;
, Corsets come in many different types, depending on what you’re trying to accomplish. ‘Real’ corsets designed to trim your waistline have steel boning and multiple layers of non-stretchy fabrics. You can buy a ready-made corset at a lingerie store, or you can have one custom made for you.Corsets can help your waist look 2 – 4” smaller just by wearing them.
Corsets, because they’re tight, can also help you eat less as you’ll feel full faster.
Alternatively, you can also try wearing shapewear, which can help make you look thinner as well, but uses a different material than corsets. Plus you can buy shapewear that’s also underwear, camisoles, etc., The key to dressing so you look thinner is to avoid items like capris, pleated pants, long baggy shorts or shapeless skirts that only go down to your calf. Ensure the clothes you wear fit you properly, and choose items like the following:Dark-coloured jeans or pants that go down to your ankle or 1-2” below your ankle; long shirts, blazers, or non-baggy sweaters; knee-length pencil skirts; or fitted A-line skirts.
Maxi skirts. These are another great option to make you look thinner because they give you a longer vertical line and make your legs look longer. Solid colours work best. Avoid skirts with pleats, big pockets, layers and thick elastic waistbands. Pair a maxi skirt with a fitted top and heels.
Jeans that have a higher-rise or waist. Lower-rise jeans, while stylish, unfortunately can create the muffin top look around your waist, which does not look at all flattering. As with many other clothing pieces, higher-rise jeans make your legs look longer, which in turn makes you look thinner. Tuck your shirt into your jeans as well.
Skinny belts to cinch shirts, dresses and even coats. This helps to define your natural waistline and shows off your curves.
Try wearing heels. To help make your legs look slimmer and elongate your whole body, wear heels that are at least 2.5” or taller. It also helps to wear heels with a somewhat pointed toe, as opposed to a square toe.Just don't wear them all the time — wearing high heels repeatedly for prolonged periods can cause serious harm to your body and your posture.
 There are several colours and patterns you can choose for your clothing that will help make you look thinner, especially in the waist area.Black is a classic colour that can go with just about everything. But in addition to being a good colour choice for coordination purposes, it’s also a great colour choice for making yourself look thinner. Black (and dark blue, green and red) can create an illusion of a long vertical line which thins the body.
Vertical stripes create a similar illusion that the colour black does, and can be helpful when you’re trying to make your middle look smaller. If you wear vertical stripes on pants or skirts, it helps make your legs look longer and thinner, which thins out your middle and upper body too.
 If you have a particular part of your body that you don’t like and would like to keep somewhat hidden, wear dark colours in that area. On the other hand, if you have an area you’d like to show off, use a bright colour., Unfortunately most women end up wearing bras that are the wrong size for them. When a bra is the wrong size, it can give you curves in all the wrong places. Your breasts should be a proper height above your waist, which helps to make you look leaner.Before selecting any new bras, get measured properly by a professional in the lingerie department of a department store. They should also be able to point out other tricks you can look for in a bra.
 Good posture can make you look thinner, but it can also make you feel better. Standing and sitting with good posture helps relieve tense muscles in your body and can make you feel more relaxed.Evaluate your posture by standing with your back against a wall without any shoes on. Make sure you push your body such that your heels and bum are pressed against the wall behind you. Place one of your hands between the wall and your lower back, around your waist area. If the space is larger than the width of your hand, you need to work on your posture.
Good posture when you’re standing includes: keeping your shoulders back and in a relaxed position; pulling in your abdomen; keeping your feet hip-width apart; standing such that you are balanced equally on both feet; not locking your knees.Good posture when you’re sitting includes: choosing a chair where both of your feet can rest comfortably on the ground; choosing a chair that allows you to sit with your back against the back of the chair — place a pillow behind your lower back if necessary to feel comfortable; holding your head straight up with your chin tucked in a little bit; keeping your back and neck straight, but comfortable; keeping your shoulders relaxed and comfortable.

