 If your parents still won’t let you play the sport, don’t act out. If you act out or shut out your parents, they will never want to revisit the idea of letting you play the sport. It may be infuriating, but try not to be to act angry or resentful., If your parents still refuse to let you play by the end of your conversation, don’t give up. You don’t want to pester them about it, but you do want to make sure that they know that you are still interested. Keep practicing the sport in your spare time. Also keep watching or reading about the sport.
 If your parents are worried that you won’t be able to handle school and sports, put some extra effort into your schoolwork. When they see you succeed, they may feel differently about a sport being too much to handle. This might help them to change their mind., If it doesn’t make you too sad, try going to games or matches. It could help you to feel involved in the sport, even if you aren’t playing. Studies show that belonging to a sports community, even as a fan, gives you a sense of belonging and makes you happier.It also shows your parents your determination to be a part of the sport and the community.
 Don’t do this until at least a few weeks, if not months, after your first discussion. Calmly tell your parents that you want to talk again about playing the sport. By this time, your parents should see you dedication and your determination. Your parents may have been looking for a sign that you are really serious about the sport. The fact that you are still clearly interested and want to revisit the subject may have changed their mind.
 If your parents flat-out refuse and do not seem like they will change their minds, try to compromise. Depending on their objections to the sport, try to find a solution that will satisfy everyone. It may not be exactly what you want, but it can be better than nothing.


For instance, if your parents don’t want you playing tackle football, suggest that you could play flag football to reduce the risk of injury.
If they are worried about the sport interfering with schoolwork, suggest that you could play the sport a couple times a week as opposed to every day.
If they are worried about cost, find a league you can join and play for free as opposed to taking lessons.

