 Portfolios are large, extensive collections showcasing your ability to perform a certain type of work. Including a table of contents makes it easier for prospective employers, administrators, or clients to navigate through your work and immediately access the information they need.


Create you table of contents after you finish your portfolio but include the list at the front of your other material.
You do not need to list page numbers if you do not include them in your portfolio, but if you do decide to number the pages in your portfolio, list those numbers in your table of contents.;
, It's always wise to have a traditional résumé on hand in case someone requests it instead of your portfolio. Within the portfolio itself, a standard one to two page résumé can act as a quick summary or abstract of what lies ahead.


Include your contact information, including e-mail address, phone number, and mailing address at the top of the page.
List your basic career or academic goal.
List your academic credentials, including any degrees or certificates.
Describe your work experience.
 On a separate page, write a paragraph detailing your short-term and long-term goals.


For short-term goals, describe where you see yourself within one to two years.
For long-term goals, explain what you want to be doing five to ten years from now.
Your personal statement should also include information about what you stand for in terms of work ethic, creative philosophy, management philosophy, and so on.
 Consider the required skills that are likely to be requested. List these skills as large headings and provide examples of how you can meet these requirements.


List any jobs that required you to use the skill mentioned. Explain, briefly, which on-the-job tasks developed or made use of that skill.
List any personality traits that exemplify that skill and provide specific examples.
Also list anything you learned, officially or unofficially, that indicates the use or existence of the skill in question.
 Note that the types of samples you include will vary based on the nature of your portfolio and field of interest.


For graphic arts and related fields, you will need to include visual photographs of your work.
For writing and related fields, you will need to include text samples.
You can include print samples, DVDs, videos, and other multimedia examples when appropriate.
 Include photocopies of any positive remarks or recommendations received from past sources related to your field.


You can include recommendations from customers, clients, employers, co-workers, professors, or reviewers.
Employer evaluations can also be included, especially if they are notably favorable.
 Include a list of any awards, honors, or scholarships you received within your field.


If you received certificates for any such awards, include photocopies in your portfolio as proof.
If you do not have certificates for your awards, simply list the name of the award, when you won it, and why you won it or what the award was issued for.
 If you took part in any conferences or workshops within the field, list them on a separate page. Include when the conference took place, where, and the organization that sponsored it.


Make special note of any conferences or conventions you presented at.
Also list any that you merely attended.
 Your academic credentials usually expand upon the knowledge gained during your highest level of education.


List any degrees, licenses, and certifications.
Also provide an official transcript, if possible, or a list of relevant courses.
 If any articles have been written about your accomplishments, include copies of those clippings in your portfolio.


National journals and large newspapers are the most impressive sources, but you should still include articles written by local news sources, academic institutes, and Internet sources.
 If you were in the military, provide a record of your service.


Include information about any awards, badges, or ranks you earned during your time in the military.
 List professional and academic sources who would be willing to promote your work and skills if asked.


Choose wisely and ask permission from each source before listing him or her as a reference.
Include full names, job positions, e-mail addresses, mailing addresses, and phone numbers. Also briefly state how that reference is connected to you.
Limit your references to a single page and list between three to five people.
 Instead of overwhelming the portfolio by including a full listing of your past work, only include 15 to 20 samples of your highest quality pieces.


Begin with any samples required by the organization you are sending your portfolio to. For instance, if a potential client wants to see work samples of advertisements geared for the music industry, include any examples you have of that before including additional examples.
Also include a few samples loosely related to the field that you are most proud of, even if they do not match the exact requirements requested.
Vary your sample types as appropriate. If you are submitting a writing portfolio, you only need to include writing samples. Those samples can include a range of genres, though, from journalism articles to blog posts or short stories.
 Your original works are too valuable to risk losing as your portfolio gets passed around. Take photographs of three-dimensional works and two-dimensional works and photocopy any writing samples.


Use 35-mm film or high-quality digital prints.
Show your work in the best lighting and from multiple angles.
If including an article published in a magazine, newspaper, or journal, photocopy the volume's front cover and table of contents as well as your article.



For print copies of your portfolio, you should slide the DVD samples into a CD pocket and attach the pocket to your portfolio binder.
 One way to make your portfolio stand out is to have an appropriate design.Keep things professional. Avoid “cute” or “cool” clip art and other unnecessary add-ons. These will only distract others viewing your portfolio.
A good design does not need to be flashy. On the contrary, it should be fairly simple and straightforward. Include headings on each page and maintain the same text font, sizing, and coloring throughout. The keys to a good design are accessibility and consistency.
 A good portfolio must be easy to navigate. An easy-to-navigate portfolio will encourage the observer to continue reading through it, but a disorganized portfolio will discourage anyone from giving it the time to sort through.


For print copies, organize your portfolio in a three-ring binder and place labeled dividers in between each different section.
For digital slideshow copies, include a title on each slide to indicate which section the information belongs to.
For websites and blogs, separate each section by giving it its own separate webpage.
 Before you send your portfolio out, ask a professional to review it for you and offer any guidelines about areas that need improvement.


You can ask academic advisers, trusted employers, or acquaintances in the same field.
Alternatively, you can also try to locate career centers and workshops in your community for help. Check with your local library, town hall, or local churches for free or cheap career services.
 A print copy of your portfolio is essential, but digital copies can be helpful, too.


Digital copies in the form of websites and blogs are especially helpful. You can send prospective employers, clients, or customers a link to your online portfolio along with your initial cover letter.
Additionally, having your portfolio in a fixed location online will allow potential employers and clients to find you even without you seeking them out first.
 While there are many different types of careers and specific portfolio elements that go along with each field, in general, a career portfolio should be based around a showcase of work within your field of choice.
 When building a portfolio as an artist, you need to determine which pieces of artwork best show your range of skills.



Build a graphic design portfolio. When creating a portfolio with graphic design in mind, only include samples of graphic design work.

Construct a photography portfolio. Search through your collection of photographs to build a portfolio of photographs illustrating meaningful content and ideal aesthetics.

Gear your portfolio toward art school. If you decide to put together an art portfolio for the purpose of getting into art school, you will need to put together a range of work that demonstrates the skills the art school will want to see.
 In your culinary portfolio, include pictures of yourself at work, photos of your food, copies of menus you designed, and copies of recipes you created.
 A modeling portfolio should contain various headshots of you looking your best.



Build a male model portfolio by studying poses used by other male models.

Do a baby model portfolio by taking professional photos in a variety of poses and outfits. Continually update the portfolio as your baby ages.
 This portfolio should include headshots as well as a detailed listing of your acting credentials and experience, along with a list of works you performed in and reviews you received.
 A fashion portfolio should include photos and sketches of your work as well as swatches from fabrics you've used.
 A writing portfolio should include samples of your writing that demonstrate both your range as a writer as well as any fields of writing you specialize in.
 As with fashion portfolios, a jewelry portfolio should include detailed photos and sketches of your creations.
 A teaching portfolio should include a list of your teaching credential as well as student work that resulted from effective teaching methods you implemented.
 When seeking out work as an interior designer, include detailed photographs of interior design projects you worked on in the past.
 Build this sort of portfolio by including samples of past advertising campaigns you worked on.
 Online portfolios are easiest to create when using a blog platform, especially if you have limited web design experience.
 Financial portfolios are much different than portfolios demonstrating creative or professional abilities.



Build a stock portfolio or make a mutual funds portfolio by diversifying and investing wisely.

Construct a property portfolio. Research various properties to determine which can produce positive cash flow.

Create a gold-based wealth portfolio by learning about the best ways to invest in gold and precious metals.

