 In the original 3 maps (Verruckt, Shi No Numa, and Der Riese) there are 4 machines spread out on any Nazi Zombie map and they each have their own specific power-up.
Juggernog: This is probably the most important perk you can buy in the game. It is pricey (2500 points) but it is well worth your money if you want to survive in the game. The Juggernog makes your resistance to zombies better. What I mean by that is Zombies without the Juggernog can kill you in 2 hits. With the Juggernog, it will take 5-6 hits before you go down, making it an invaluable survival tool.
Quick Revive: This is cheaper than the Juggernog (1500 Points)but it is still worth your money. The Quick Revive is just what it is, it allows you to revive your teammates quicker than usual. This is important in later rounds as zombies get quicker and harder to kill, so the less time you spend trying to help someone, the better. In Solo Play, you can revive yourself with a purchase of a quick revive. When you go down with the perk, you automatically get revived. While your down and getting revived, the game gives you the upgraded version of the starting pistols (Mustang and Sally), which are now grenade pistols.
Speed Cola: This is a perk that allows you to reload your gun faster and to aim faster; it is basically a sleight of hand perk. This is the most expensive power-up (3000 Points) so save your money up to get it. This power-up comes in handy when you are cornered and need to reload fast. Definitely get this perk, especially if you have weapons that take a long time to reload (LMG's, Thunder Gun, etc.).
Double Tap and Double Tap 2x: Double Tap (2000 points) is a perk that allows your weapons to fire at a faster rate than normal. The original Double Tap is available in the WaW and Black Ops zombie maps. However, the Double Tap 2x; which is available in Black Ops 2 zombie maps, is different from the original. This upgraded version of the Double Tap not only allows you to fire faster, but it also makes your bullets more powerful, which is very helpful to the player. Double Tap 2x is definitely worth getting in the newer BO2 maps, but I would personally stay away from it in the older maps unless that is the only other perk you can buy outside of the original 3 sodas.;
, These perks are not contained within the first maps (with the exception of mule kick in Black Ops) and some perks are specific only to one map, so you have to play the different maps in order to access all of the new soda machines.


Dr.(PHD) Flopper (found in Ascension, Call of the Dead, Shangri-La, Moon, and Origins): Dr. Flopper (2000 points) is a perk that is found in the all of the Black Ops map packs; it is a perk that allows you to dive and create explosive damage. It is most effective when you dive into a group of zombies from heights (the lander platform area where you buy the Dr. Flopper in Ascension, for example). The zombies are destroyed instantly after you perform the jump. Also, another aid the perk provides is that you are immune to all recoil damage when shooting a ray gun at zombies in close range.
Dead Shot Daiquiri (Call of the Dead, Shangri-La, Moon, Mob of the Dead, and Origins): Dead Shot Daiquiri (1500 points) is a new perk that assists the player with shooting. When you aim down sight with any weapon with this perk, your aim is automatically directed towards the head of any approaching zombie. It also reduces sway in Sniper Rifles. This perk is helpful if you have a hard time aiming your weapon and getting head shots; if your a more advanced player, however, it is not as useful.
Mule Kick (available in every map on Black Ops including original WaW maps, Die Rise, Buried, and Origins): Mule Kick (3000 points) is a perk that simply allows you to have 1 extra weapon in your arsenal. This means that you have the ability to have 3 weapons as opposed to 2. You can treat this extra weapon just as you would your original 2, that includes upgrading it through the pack-a-punch. It is important to keep in mind, however, that if you go down, the third weapon you acquired goes away. Since the extra weapon is a result of the perk, when the perk goes away, so does this extra weapon. Very handy perk to have, especially in later rounds where ammo becomes a factor.
Stamin Up (Ascension, Call of the Dead, Shangri-La, Moon, Tranzit, Buried, Origins): Stamin Up (2000 points) is a perk that allows you to run faster and for a longer duration. It is a perk that is certainly helpful when you need to move through tighter areas of the map and need to move fast.
Tombstone (Tranzit): Tombstone (2000 points) is a new perk (found only in BO2) which allows you to come back to live without losing your perks and weapons. How it works is that when you go down, you are given an option to either hold down the action button and die right away (which says "don't feed the zombies") or you can wait for someone to revive you. Here is the catch; you can only regain all of your perks and weapons if you decide to hold down the action button and die immediately. If someone revives you before you complete this action, you do not get your perks back, only your weapons. If you die without using the tombstone perk, you would return to the next round in the game as if you never had the perk (with your starting pistol and nothing else). So if you want to utilize this perk, you need to hold down the action button immediately and die. When the next round begins, you need to find your tombstone (the icon that is left where you died the previous round). If you do not get to this icon within a certain amount of time, the icon goes away and you lose everything, so you need to make sure that you re-spawn close to it so you can get all of your weapons and perks back. It is a useful perk, however, risky for your team since now they have to fight the hordes of zombies without you.
Who's Who (Die Rise): This new perk (2000 points) is similar to the last one as it allows you to regain all of your perks and weapons if you go down. There are some differences though, most notable is the fact you have to revive yourself. Once you go down, you are re-spawned in an area close to where you went down. You are now in a limbo mode where you have the chance to revive yourself. The zombies still recognize you are alive and will still try to attack you while you are in this limbo state. In this mode you are armed only with a pistol to defend yourself (no perks). In order to revive yourself with all of your weapons and perks, you need to be able to elude the zombies and revive yourself without going down in this limbo state. You need to do this quickly, as there is a limited time given to revive the player with your limbo character. If you do go down in this limbo state, then you are down for good and need to be revived by another player. If you go don't go down but don't revive your character in time, then that "limbo" character becomes your playable character and you carry on through the game as normal. If you are now playing with your limbo character, you lose all of your perks and weapons and only armed with the pistol they give you. Not personally one of my favorite perks as it is complicated to use, especially during the later rounds where knifing and pistols do not kill the zombies.
Vulture Aid (Buried): This perk (3000 points) allows you to pick up more points for killing zombies and allows you to see all the items you can buy in the map. When you kill a zombie with this perk, the zombie either drops ammo or money. You have to run to where you killed that zombie to get the extras; an extremely helpful tool when ammo and/or money is tight. Also, the perk allows you to see anything on the map you can buy much more easily as it shows you larger and brighter icons that you can see from anywhere. These icons include the mystery box, other soda machines, and the wall weapons. Especially when you need something on the run, having this perk as a helpful reminder is very helpful.
Electric Cherry (Mob of the Dead and Origins): This new (2000 points) perk activates when players reload their weapons. When a player reloads, a shock is given out and electrocutes the zombies. The power of the shock depends on how much ammo you have left; if you have a lot of ammo, then the shock is small. If you have low ammo and reload, then the shock will be larger.
Der Wunderfizz-This perk (1500 points) provides a random perk to you with purchase, very similar to the mystery box concept. Need to be careful with this perk, as you can only get four perks and you might not get the perks you want through this machine.

