 It is ideal to plant American cress directly after the last frost so that it is ready for harvest during the summer. You can, however, plant this cress anytime between March and September. If planting late in September, you should plant the seeds no later than six weeks before the first frost.You can do a quick online search to see what the expected first and last frost dates are according to the area where you live.;
, American cress thrives in partial shade. If partial shade isn’t possible, it will also grow in full shade and full sun. The best choice for American cress is to plant it in a semi-shaded area on a north facing wall.You can also plant American cress in boxes, pots, and other containers. Make sure the container has good bottom drainage. The best place to put the container is on a windowsill.American cress is great as an edge crop in an herb or vegetable garden.
 Although there are ideal conditions for the soil, American cress can be grown in a variety of soil types. You can plant it in sandy, loamy, or clay soils. Look for an area where the soil has a pH of 5.6 – 7.5. The soil should be cool and moist to the touch.You can test your soil’s pH by buying a test as your local gardening store. Dig a small hole in the soil, pour some water into the hole, and insert the test.
It’s possible to adjust the pH of your soil if necessary. If the soil is too acidic, you can add pulverized or granular lime. To decrease the pH, you can add an organic material—like pine needles or compost.
 Once you have decided on the location, you can begin to sow the seeds ½” (1.3 cm) deep. Each plant will grow about 12 inches (30 cm) wide, so make sure that you plant the seeds far enough apart. Keep the plants 4 to 6 (10 to 15 cm) inches apart once they start to sprout.You can transplant some of the seedling once they start to grow to keep them far enough apart.
 American cress requires frequent watering, especially when planted during the spring. When watered, the soil should be moist, but never muddy. You can water American cress more or less than once a week, depending on how the soil feels.Check the soil once a day or every two days to see how dry or moist the soil is.
 American cress rarely experiences problem with mildew and fungus, but it can occur during very wet weather. You can often remove some of the disease by rubbing two affected leaves together. If that doesn’t work, look for a mild fungicide and spray it on the plants as directed by the specific product’s label., American cress typically does not have a problem with pests, so pesticides are rarely needed. You should pick off aphids or caterpillars if they appear on the plant. Slugs should also be picked off, and they may appear more often during wet fall weather.Do not use a chemical pesticide if you do experience a problem with pests since American cress is usually grown for consumption. Look for an organic pesticide instead.
 American cress grows quickly and can be harvested in as few as 7 weeks, though it may take slightly longer. The plant is ready to be harvested when it reaches 3 or 4 inches (7 to 10 cm) high., Once the plant reaches 3 or 4 inches (7 to 10 cm), begin to cut it back. Start with the bottom leaves and work all the way up through the plant. Hold the stems and cut off the leaves. Once you’ve cut off all of the leaves, cut the plant back to a half an inch (1 cm). This height is best to stimulate regrowth. You should keep the leaves and seeds, but you can remove and throw away the stems.You can cut or pinch off the tips of the plant whenever you want because it will grow back.
 Once harvested, American cress will grow back quickly. Cut or pick off the leaves as soon as the plant grows back. Regularly cutting the leaves will promote fresh growth., The young, tender leaves are the best to eat. You can, however, eat any part of the plant that is green. Throw out any part of the plant that is yellow., Make sure that you wash off the cress before eating. Ideally, you should wash it off after harvesting and before storing. Simply hold the plant under running water. Run your hands through the plant to make sure all dirt and other particles have been removed. Dry off the cress by putting it in between several layers of paper towels., American cress can be stored in the refrigerator for one week after it has been picked. Wrap the plant loosely in a paper towel. Put the covered plant into a zip-top bag. Store it in the refrigerator’s crisper drawer (if you have it)., You can eat all of the American cress plant. American cress goes well with soups, salads, and sauces. It is also good to use as a garnish for meats.