 Like many humans, dogs are creatures of habit and their behavior is often determined by how they feel about their environment. A routine gives a dog a sense of security because he knows what to expect, thus reducing anxiety, hyperactivity, etc. The owner must be consistent with the routine, however, or the dog will not feel safe and secure.


Sit down and write out a schedule for your dog that takes into account both his and your needs.
Make sure it includes sleeping, exercise, feeding, "potty" breaks, mental stimulation and play.
If you need to adjust the schedule, try to do it gradually and only change one aspect of the routine at a time. , Feeding your dog at the same time, the same amount, the same food (without sugar) and in the same place each day provides consistency and will help regulate your dog’s metabolism and digestion. A hungry dog isn’t a happy dog. Establishing a feeding schedule is also important because it will help you be consistent about potty breaks and your dog avoid “mistakes” in your home.


A grown dog should eat twice per day, while a puppy should eat three times per day unless your veterinarian has advised otherwise.
To avoid nibbling throughout the day – and the “mistakes” it often creates – put your dog’s food bowl down, indicate it’s time to eat, leave it there for 5 minutes and then put it away.Feed your dog after his walks or exercise because this mimics his natural instinct to work for his food.
Also ensure that your dog has plenty of clean, fresh water at all times, especially after exercise.Take your dog to a vet if he stops eating much or if he gobbles everything down immediately., All dogs need exercise for good health. Walking, in particular, is critical because dogs have a “migration instinct” to find food. Thus, it fulfills your dog’s physical and mental needs. A dog that is hyper or has behavioral issues may need even more walking than the average dog. While it might sound counterintuitive to give a hyper dog more opportunities for active movement, it actually helps calm them down because they’re using that extra energy. Dogs who are taken on daily walks are also less destructive, obsessive, and have fewer problems with separation anxiety and dominance issues.


Ideally, you should walk your dog in the morning after he eats and again in the evening. Doing this will also give your dog a chance to relieve himself.Dogs with high energy should be taken on walks more than twice per day to relieve the extra energy
Don’t take your dog on a vigorous walk right before bedtime, though, because this can make it hard for him to sleep.
If you’re unable to meet his walking needs, give your dog plenty of time outside in a fenced yard or hire a dog walker.Also provide your dog with other means of exercising, such as playing catch or going to the dog park to play with other dogs.
 A full bladder can make for an irritable dog, and many mistakes in the home. It’s important that he has plenty of chances to go outside and relieve himself beyond daily walks. It’s also best to stick to a potty schedule. Look for the following cues that your dog needs to go potty.For young puppies, don’t wait for cues because there often aren’t any. They don’t yet have control of their sphincters. This means as soon as they feel the need to “go,” they are already “going.” It also means they often don’t eliminate everything all at once. So take him outside first thing in the morning, a few minutes after eating or drinking, after lively play, and as many other times as you can.
Older puppies have more control but still don’t eliminate everything all at once. So, they need to be let outside on a consistent schedule, in addition to plenty of times. However, they are learning so signs include: restlessness, sniffing, circling, or suddenly running to another room or to the corner of a room.
Grown dogs signal by whining; standing, pawing or barking at the door; standing by you and wagging their tails; and restlessness., Counting the many naps they take throughout the day, most breeds sleep an average of 14 hours per day. In the wild, dogs sleep in dens, so create a confined, designated place for your dog to sleep. Or buy a dog pillow that accommodates his instinctive need for shelter and that he associates with sleeping. You should also wake him up at the same time each day.If your dog is restless at night, consider getting a crate. Make going into the crate a more enticing experience by throwing in a treat or a toy before smiling and saying your version of, “Bedtime!” Then praise your dog once in the crate, tell them “Goodnight,” and leave them alone.
You don’t want your dog to associate the crate with punishment, but you do want to make nighttime a routine, with a consistent bedtime.
Also make sure to take your dog outside to relieve himself immediately before bedtime. If you find your dog having mistakes at night, regulate his water intake in the evening.
Additionally, readjust your dog’s evening feeding schedule if he’s having trouble sleeping at night. You could be feeding him too early or too late., A bored dog can get into lots of trouble and be hyperactive. Channel and redirect his energy with toys and canine puzzles (rotate them out); giving him "jobs" to do like playing fly ball, fetch, Frisbee (dogs are bred to hunt and herd); teaching him tricks; arranging for interactions with other dogs; and running errands together, such as a quick trip to the mailbox or a ride in the car.