 It has to be small enough to fit into your locker easily. Also, make sure it is not see through. You can decorate your bag as well.;
, Have at least two pads and two tampons in regular and heavy flow in your bag. This is very important. Packing an extra pair of underwear might help. Your period might catch you by surprise, and it sucks when that happens. Even if it doesn't, your friend might need feminine supplies and it feels great to be able to help out a friend in a time of need, especially if you are a girl.
 But, be careful, some schools have rules against wearing perfume because some people may be allergic to it. Have cologne or aftershave if you prefer.
 What if you get bad breath or you have something stuck in your teeth? You can get mini tooth brushes from the store and pack those with some floss and perhaps some toothpicks.
 Be careful, in some schools you aren't allowed to bring most medications because you could give it to other students. But cough drops are usually okay, and they are a good idea just in case you get a bad cough. Make sure you check your school's policy on bring medications (such as cough drops).
 Just in case you end up messing up your makeup or you forget to put some on. If you don't wear makeup, skip this step. Mascara, foundation, and lip gloss are some good things to bring.
 Put a brush, ponytail holders and bobby pins in your 'Just in Case' bag. If you have really short hair, you could still pack ponytail bands to help out your friends.
 Do not put more than $20 / £18 / ¥17 / €22 in your bag. You don't want it to get stolen. Use this money if you or a friend need to buy something.
 If you end up getting your period by surprise, or your flow is heavier than you expected and you leak, if you keep an extra pair of pants in your locker you won't have to walk around with a blood stain on your pants. Also, if you end up spilling something on your pants or shirt, you will have an extra to change into.
 Zip your bag or close it, and put in your locker when you get the chance. You should now have your very own 'Just in Case' kit. Use it as needed.

