 The first type of medical treatment that doctors often prescribe for plaque psoriasis is a medicated cream. These are applied directly to areas of inflammation. These creams often contain steroids, which help to minimize skin cell growth and reduce inflammation.Reducing skin growth in areas with plaque psoriasis is important for treatment because the scaling of the skin is due to the overgrowth of cells in that area.
Reducing inflammation will minimize the redness and will reduce itching and pain in the area as well.
If you experience scalp psoriasis, ask your doctor about a medicated steroid solution. These are typically thinner and more watery than lotions and creams, and are thus more easily absorbed by the scalp.;
, Light therapy can help to treat severe plaque psoriasis by exposing the skin to ultraviolet light on a regular basis. In some cases, your doctor will even prescribe a medication, psoralen, which, when taken in combination with light therapy, increases its effectiveness. The use of ultraviolet light slows the growth of plaque psoriasis skin cells, minimizing scaling and redness.Light therapy is done in a doctor's office or with a UVB light unit at home.
The key to light therapy is doing it consistently. Whether you do it at home or in a doctor's office, it needs to be done daily for maximum effect.
Using tanning beds does not provide the same benefit to plaque psoriasis. Instead of the therapeutic use of UVB light, tanning beds mostly emit UVA light. Additionally, tanning beds increase the likelihood of getting skin cancer.
 Systemic therapy can be given orally, by injection, or by infusion, depending on what specific medication your doctor prescribes. In many cases, systemic therapy won't be used unless other treatments don't minimize the plaque psoriasis. However, if you have severe plaque psoriasis, your dermatologist will likely recommend this treatment in addition to other treatments.


Some medications that may be prescribed include: Methotrexate, Retinoids, Cyclosporine, and Biologic response modifiers., Your dermatologist may prescribe a traditional systemic therapy or a biologic therapy. Unlike traditional systemic therapies, which treat the entire immune system, biologic therapies target specific areas of the immune system. In the case of treatment for plaque psoriasis, biologic treatments block cells and proteins that are central to the development of psoriasis.Biologic drugs are either injected or administered intravenously.
You cannot take biologic drugs if you have an active infection or if your immune system is severely compromised.

