 Multiple choice tests require that you pick an answer from a set of usually 3-5 choices. In other words, you only need to be able to recognize the correct answer. You will not need to come up with a word or paragraph of your own. However, knowing the information at a deeper level (such as memorizing definitions) can help you recognize the correct answer when you see it., If you're being tested over books or chapters that you've been expected to read, spend some time with them and make sure you've read through them thoroughly. Re-learn the main ideas and the important arguments from the text and summarize them in your notes.


If you're studying up the night before, don't waste time trying to re-read every word. You won't add anything. Instead, focus on retaining the big concepts from the book, the main points and themes. If you've taken good notes, underlined, or highlighted important passages, this will be much easier.
 You can hit a wall pretty quickly while you're studying if you just read for a couple hours on end. It's hard to remember much of anything by cramming it in without doing anything active. Get up and move around, read out-loud while you study, and take lots of notes. The act of writing can help you retain and remember information more quickly. If you've written an idea, it's much more likely that you'll be able to recall it when you need to on the exam.


Some studies show that studying in different locations can help you retain more information. Study one chapter in your bedroom, one in the basement, another at the library, etc. Your brain can channel the different concepts and connect them to those locations, making it easier to remember what you read.
 Ask your teacher about the possibility of a sample test or an old version of the test on which you might practice. Also look in the textbook, which sometimes offers end-of-chapter reviews that include sample test questions or might even offer sample exams at the end of each chapter. Sometimes these are even more difficult than the regular test and will be a good check for your comprehension.


Recreate the test environment as closely as possible. For example, if you will not be able to use your notes during an exam, practice answering questions without your notes.
Time yourself to see how long it takes at a comfortable pace, and then try taking a sample within the time limit of the class.
 Keep music turned off. Most tests are taken in complete silence, so study and practice in silence to prepare. Don't chat online or check Facebook while you're studying.


Use 15 minutes of video game, Internet, or TV time as a reward for studying 45 minutes. You'll break up the monotony and end up getting more done if you're not distracted by something you'd rather be doing.
 Before answering any of the questions, look over each page to get an idea of how many questions there are, how many points they are worth, and if they are categorized by chapter or topic. This will give you some idea of how long it will take you to finish the exam. It will also help you pull from the right course material you studied.
 Make sure you understand what is being asked. Then look over each of the choices. This helps stop you from making a hasty choice because you did not give yourself a chance to see the correct answer.


Try to answer the question without looking at the choices. Then see if the answer you think is correct is an option.
Be careful of negatively worded questions. These include words like "not," "never," and "none." Questions like these can throw students off track, even if they know the material well.
 As you look through answers, cross out those you know are incorrect. This limits the potential answers and increases your odds of choosing the correct one if you don't know it outright.


Cross out any "throw away" choices. These are answers that are completely absurd or unfamiliar. They serve as fillers, simply to have a certain number of answers available.
Treat each choice as a true-false question. Read the question with a particular answer in mind. Is it true? Or is it false?
Look at the wording of the question and answers. Sometimes you can tell what the correct answer is by the tense of the word, such as a word that ends in "-ing" while all the rest of the choices end in "-ed."

, Go ahead and mark the best choice, so you do not leave the question unanswered. Then mark that question by circling it or putting a star or question mark next to it. Work through the rest of the test. When you finish answering all the other questions, go back and try to answer the ones that caused you trouble the first time through the test.


Pay attention as you take the rest of the test. Sometimes other questions will give you the answer you need to a question you are struggling with early on.
Take questions at face value. Teachers rarely try to trick or deceive their students. Do not read too much into the question.
 As you work, make sure you keep an eye on the clock. Most multiple choice tests will have to be done in a given length of time, so make sure you save yourself enough to finish. Neither rush nor dally on the tough ones. Work smart.


If you've got a 50 minute class and thirty questions, you'll know you need to be at least to number 15 by the time half the class has passed. If you're not, pick up the pace.
 Even if you do not know an answer, you have a chance of getting it right simply by marking one of the choices. Otherwise, you automatically lose those points because you did not even bother to answer.
 If you have time left, look over the questions and the answers you chose. It is possible to misread or misunderstand a question the first time through, especially if you are in a hurry.
 A common mistake students make after getting a test back is looking at the grade and either celebrating or becoming depressed, then throwing it away to promptly forget the test entirely. Good or bad, look through it. See which questions you missed, see which questions you weren't sure about that you got right. Take some time to learn from the grade that you got and look for ways to improve your test-taking and your studying for next time.


It's a good idea to save the tests for classes that you will also take finals for. Reviewing the tests is a great way to study for the final exam, and often many of the questions will be straight-up repeats of the information from the regular tests. Hang on to them.
 If you're disappointed in your grade, make an appointment to talk to your teacher about it, not to demand a better grade or to be allowed to re-take the test, but just to find out how you might do better in the class. If you say, "I thought I was studying right, but I guess I didn't. What do you think I need to work on to be more successful?" your teacher will notice that you're taking the initiative to do more work.


Talking to your teacher is always a good idea, but complaining about your grade never is. Make sure you find a calm attitude and make an appointment to discuss your grade with your teacher when you're chilled out.
 Lots of students like to compare grades with other students in the class. Try to avoid this, both when you do well and when you do poorly. It isn't anyone else's business who got what and who's "smarter" than who. Taking tests is a skill that comes naturally to some and proves more difficult for others, who may be just as bright and skilled.
 You don't have to get an A+ every time. Even Einstein got low grades every now and then. Focus, instead, on improving steadily. A B should feel like a congressional medal of honor at the end of the semester if you started out getting Ds. Celebrate!


It's often common for students to get great grades early in the semester and slowly trail off throughout. Try to be consistent, putting in the same amount of hard work all throughout the semester. Don't let those good early efforts go to waste.

