 The trick here is knowing how much is too much. A flash of skin can tease and trigger desire, but in order to keep yourself in a guy's mind, you need to leave something to the imagination.Aim for balance. If you decide to show off your legs, keep your chest and back covered. If you show off your back, keep your legs and chest covered. If you go for a little cleavage, keep your back and legs in check.
Choose your best feature to flaunt in order to make the strongest impression possible.;
, Your wrists are one feature you can always expose for subtle yet lasting sexiness.


The effect is more biological than anything else. The glands in your wrists emit pheromones, and these pheromones trigger feelings of attraction without the other party even realizing it., A red dress, skirt, or top can spark desire in a man on sight.


Some studies suggest that women wearing red are 56 percent more likely to be hit on or asked out than women wearing blue or white.Red mimics the red flush that skin takes on during moments of passion.
 Oddly enough, your lips are the one feature that may not benefit as much from the color red as you would think. Neutrals and soft pinks tend to have a more dramatic effect than fire engine red.


Women with pale skin look best in light rose shades, according to some.
Women with medium-tone skin should consider pinks with brown undertones.
Women with darker skin tend to look good in wine-colored pinks.
 Admit it: you love the feeling of soft silk, suede, or cashmere on your skin. As it turns out, the texture of these materials beg to be touched by guys glancing your way, too.Silk can be especially alluring since it has culturally sexy connotations, but textured material in general makes a better choice than everyday fabrics like cotton or linen.
 High heels are culturally construed as sexy footwear. You don't need to break your ankles wearing heels you can hardly walk in, but a shoe with a little bit of a heel will look sexier than one with none.


There is some legitimate reason behind this principle, as well. High heels change the way a woman stands and walks. Slouching is much easier with sneakers than it is with strappy stilettos.
High heels can also make legs look longer and slimmer.
 Perfume can have a draw a guy in close, but if you splash too much on, you will only end up pushing him away. The idea is to where enough perfume to catch someone's attention and draw them in closer for a better sniff.


Pure perfumes should be dotted or sprayed on the wrists or behind the ears once a day.
An eau de toilette should be sprayed in front of you and walked through before you head out for the night.
In general, opt for perfumes that smell like exotic flowers, vanilla, amber, spices, etc.
 Wash your hair the morning or night before you plan to go out and apply a deep conditioner for extra shine.


A good way to increase the glossiness of your hair is to condition first and shampoo afterward, thereby stripping away excess residue.
Rough-dry your hair by raking your fingers through it. This increases the amount of volume and lift your hair has.
Dry your hair completely by finishing up with three minutes of heat. If your hair is left wet, it will lose volume and end up becoming limp.
You could also spray a shine spray on your locks before you head out for extra glossiness.
 The eyes are responsible for conveying a large portion of nonverbal communication. In order to look sexy in someone else's eyes, you have to use your own to draw that person in, first.


If you are a little on the shy side, cast a quick glance toward someone to convey your interest. Keep casting glances his way every now and then until he takes the bait.
If you feel a little bolder, let your eyes lock with his and linger for a little while before you pull them away. As you turn away, offer an inviting smile.
 A smile suggests that the person wearing it is friendly and approachable. Someone who is more approachable is also more likely to seem interested, thereby making the person on the other end more interested, as well.


A wide, open mouth smile looks confident and friendly, but a shy, closed mouth smile can look demure and sexy in its own way.
 Blinking, nodding, and shaking your head are a few simple things you can do to make yourself seem more animated. Letting your hands naturally wave about can have the same effect.


A more animated women generally appears sexier than one who seems stiff and inhibited.
 During conversation, lightly brush your hand on the guy's forearm. This indicates that you are fully engaged in the conversation and breaks the first physical boundary between the two of you.


If you do not feel comfortable enough to touch the guy in question, briefly touch your own neck or collarbone. This draws attention to these exposed yet intimate flashes of skin.
 Good posture makes your figure look better. Even a gal with perfect proportions can look frumpy is she does nothing but slouch.


Good posture also conveys confidence, which can be a very sexy quality.
 Instead of hiding in the bathroom as you touch up your lipstick or gloss, whip out your compact mirror and do it in front of the guys in the room.


This action draws attention to your lips. The lips and the eyes are usually considered to be the most sultry features of the face.



Slow down the speed at which you speak and pause in between sentences.
When walking by yourself, slowly strut instead of dashing from place to place.
 Even if you don't plan on turning any heads today, you should still take the time to keep up on your daily hygiene routine. If your skin, hair, and teeth are properly cared for on a regular basis, they will be in a healthier, more beautiful state the next time you do want to head out.


Bathe regularly. You should shower at least every other day and consider bathing every day during hot, humid months. Make sure to moisturize your skin with lotions or cream after getting out of the shower.
Only wash your hair every other day. Washing your hair every day can dry it out, causing it to become dry, frizzy, and easily broken.
Brush your teeth two to three times every day. At minimum, you should brush your teeth in the morning, after waking up, and at night, immediately before going to bed.
 Eat right and exercise. You may not be blessed with a model's physique, but a balanced diet and regular exercise can do wonders for your appearance.


A balanced diet can make your skin, hair, and overall demeanor glow.
Regular exercise keeps off excess fat and also tones your body.
 Some foods contain compounds that boost your hormones, making you feel sexier on the inside. When your own sex drive spikes, you are more likely to look and act sexy in front of others without thinking about it.Chocolate contains phenylethylamine, which causes the body to release endorphins. Dark chocolate is especially good.
Coffee stimulates the portion of your brain responsible for regulating arousal.
Saffron is a spice known to improve sex drive and performance.
Watermelon has a high level of citrulline, an amino acid that lets the body produce arginine, which increases sex drive.
 Even if you don't plan to show your underwear off, wearing something sexy beneath your clothes can make you feel more confident and more seductive. This boost of confidence will allow you to be naturally sexy without having to think about.


Consider something in black or animal print.
Also take the material into consideration. Lace and silk are both good options.
 Confidence is key. In order to seem sexy to others, you need to believe in your own sexiness, first.


Avoid fishing for compliments or putting yourself down, as these are both marks of insecurity.
On the other hand, you should not gloat or come across as being arrogant about your looks or your strengths.
 Passion, overall, is a sexy attribute to have. You should be passionate about your interests and passionate about the person you've set your sights on.


No matter what your passions are, you should treat them—and talk about them—with vigor. Just don't get carried away. You can have a passion for music, medicine, or underwater basket weaving, but the moment someone's attention starts to fade as you talk about it, you should take it as an indication that you've talked about it enough.
 This inspires self-confidence and boosts self-esteem, both of which are key ingredients of sexiness.


If you can afford something a little special, buy yourself a trip to a day spa, a massage chair, a foot bath/massage device, a great new outfit, or a pedicure kit.
If you don't have the extra cash, take the time to indulge in a bubble bath or paint your nails.
 Never degrade yourself by thinking that your self-worth and sexiness is determined only by others.


Respect your body. Don't let others touch you without permission or harass you.
Respect your mind and your heart. If someone tries to degrade, in any way, walk away. That person is not worth your time.
Wear dresses that show off your sexy side. Wear loose sexy clothing that show of bits of your arms, back, and neck.

