 You can emphasize your relaxation on your vacation by scheduling a spa treatment for yourself. You may choose to get a massage, manicure and pedicure, facial, or wrap. This can get you relaxed for the rest of your trip, especially if you do this at the beginning of the vacation.Make your appointment ahead of time to reduce the stress of getting an appointment when you arrive. Try finding a spa near your hotel.
If getting a spa treatment during your trip is not an option, then you can also try starting your vacation a day early and getting a spa treatment to help you relax before you leave.
 If your goal is relaxation on your vacation, you should plan for it. This means not planning every minute with an activity. Instead, allow yourself free time to enjoy yourself and rest. You don’t have to stay at the hotel, but you shouldn’t be running around trying to pack in every tourist attraction either.For example, you can spend an afternoon at the pool or beach. Go to a local cafe, coffee shop, or park and read or people watch. Take a leisurely walk through the city or countryside.
Find ways to stop, rest, and relax while enjoying your surroundings.
 Instead of doing what you feel you should do on your vacation, do what you want to do. If you want to sit by the beach and read for a few days, do that. If you don’t care about seeing every museum or tourist attraction, skip them. Do what you want to do.Trying to do what you think you should do can cause stress.
If you are traveling with others who want to do something you don’t want to, stay behind and do what you find relaxing instead.
 Though you may want to do a lot on the first days and relax at the end, maximize your memories and relaxation by doing something fun at the end of your vacation.Saving something exciting for the last day helps you remember the experience in a more positive way and think about the entire vacation as a happier, more relaxing experience.
Try to include a buffer day as well to help you ease back into your normal routine. For example, you can come back a day before you have to start work again to give yourself a chance to rest and mentally prepare to return to work.
 Unless you go on a vacation alone, you will probably have other people with you. Traveling with others can lead to stress and arguing, so you should come up with ways to get along. This may include letting everyone do their own activities and relax in their own way.


For example, many people argue about what and where to eat. You can set up a system where each person chooses a meal or restaurant once during the trip to avoid arguing. If no one can come to a decision, everyone can agree to eat at different places and not get upset.
The key is to accept that a relaxing vacation is different for everyone. This means that though you are all vacationing together, you may not do everything together, and that is okay. Don’t try to force a compromise. Everyone should be allowed to do what they want to do while on vacation.

