 You will need a large, medium, and small pot. They can be plain or already painted. If they are plain, you can paint and decorate them to suit your garden's décor. Plan on each pot being about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) smaller than the last.;
, The pots needs to be small enough so that you can place them upside down inside the large and medium terra cotta pots without going outside the rim. You can use more terra cotta pots instead, but plastic pots are much cheaper. They can be any color since you won't see them in the end.
 You will need to drill some holes along the top edge/inside rim of both plastic pots. Space each hole a few inches/centimeters apart. If the pots don't have any drainage holes along the bottom, you will need to drill some as well., Wipe the pots down with a damp cloth, then mask off anything you don't want painted with painter's tape. Paint the pots with 2 to 3 coats of outdoor-quality paint; allow each coat to dry before applying the next one. Do not paint the inside of the pots.Seal the paint with a clear, acrylic sealer to make it last longer.
You can paint the pots a solid color, or you can do designs, such as strip, zigzags, or polka dots.
You can make the pots all the same color, or you can paint each pot a different color.
Remove any painter's tape before the paint dries.
 Choose a stencil, such as a monogram, word, or house number. Secure it to the pot using painter's tape, then apply outdoor-quality paint over the stencil using a paintbrush or a foam brush. Work your way from the outer edges of the stencil inward. This will prevent the paint from bleeding under the stencil. Carefully peel the stencil away, then let the paint dry.


If your paint is sheer, you may need to apply another coat or two. Allow each coat to dry before applying the next one. Keep the stencil in place until you apply your last coat of paint.
You can apply the stencils to an unpainted pot or to a painted one. If you are applying the stencils to a bare pot, be sure to wipe it down with a damp cloth first.
If you are adding house numbers, aim to make them about 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) tall and 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) wide. This will make them more visible from the street.
 It would be a good idea to add 3 to 4 spacers under the pot so that it doesn't actually touch the tray. ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) thick pieces of wood work great., This will help prevent the soil from falling through the drainage soil. If you can't find any window screening, you can use a lid from a plastic Tupperware container and poke lots of tiny holes into it., This will be your base layer. You only need 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of soil.
 The bottom of the plastic pot is now the top. Make sure that it is below the rim of the terra cotta pot. If the plastic pot is too far below the rim, take it out, add more soil, then put it back in. Gently press it into the soil to create a seal., Place the medium-sized terra cotta pot on top of the plastic one, right-side-up. Insert another plastic screening into the bottom, then a thin layer of dirt. Place the second plastic pot upside-down into it, and make sure that it is below the rim.
 Place the small terra cotta pot on top, right-side-up. Insert a piece of window screening into the bottom. You do not need to add another plastic pot into it, unless you wish to save soil., Flowers and herbs are popular choices for these types of planters. You can also use trailing filler plants, strawberries, vegetables, or even succulents. You can buy young plants from your local nursery or gardening shop, or you can try to start them from seed.
 The soil should feel damp and springy, like a sponge. If your soil is too dry, mix some water into it.Make sure that your soil is suitable for the type of plants you are using.
 Use a trowel to scoop the soil into your planter. Stop when the soil is 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) from the top rim of each terra cotta pot., Remove the plants from the plastic containers that they came in. Dig holes for them into the planter, leaving at least 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) between each one. Insert the plants into the holes, then gently pat the soil around them. Make sure that the base of the plant is about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) below the rim of the pot., This will help settle the soil and the plants.You will need to water each tier separately. Keep watering until the soil is damp and water comes out of the bottom of the largest pot.

