 These are available at costume shops all year round and at most stores near Halloween. If you can find one with glowing eyes, all the better!
, Make sure you’re somewhere that has good places to hide — ideally a cemetery, the woods, or a road lined with trees and bushes.

Don’t be obvious about the full moon to your friends, but do make sure they notice it — while you’re walking you can just say “Wow, the moon is so huge tonight!” or something like that.
 You can “disappear” by hiding behind a bush or a tree, for example. Do this after you’ve been walking for a while — at least 10 or 15 minutes — otherwise your goal (the prank) might become obvious.

Note that it’ll have to be a larger group in order for you to disappear easily. Aim for at least 3 other people: the more the better.
If you can’t find a good time to slip away, tell your friends you need to pee and that they can keep walking — you’ll catch up.
 You can do this from behind, beside, or even in front of your friends — just make sure that they don’t see or hear you.

Resist the urge to laugh here. If you think you might laugh, make sure you’re far enough away from them that they won’t hear you, and try to stifle the sound by burying your face in your jacket and hands.
 You’ll know they’ve noticed you’re missing when they begin to look around and/or wonder out loud where you are. If they call out to you, don’t answer., Once your friends notice you’re missing, you can make noise; just don’t let them know it’s you making the noise! You might start by making a low howling noise from where you’re hiding — low enough that they’re not totally sure they’ve heard it.

If you don’t think you can make a good howling noise, maybe play one on your smart phone or some other recording device.
After making the howling noise, remain hidden while you run past them. If you’re on a tree-lined street or in the woods, run quick and loudly, being sure that they hear your footsteps. If it’s very dark, you may need to move more slowly to avoid tripping and falling.
If you can’t get close to them without them seeing you, throw large rocks towards (not at) them instead. You can also snap branches in your hands. These thudding and snapping sounds should startle your friends, too.
 When your friends seem a bit more frightened (after a minute or two of you making sounds), scream loudly and run out from where you’re hiding as you look behind you.

When they ask what’s wrong, tell them that you think you saw something in the woods — that it looked kind of like a large wolf. Say that you felt it brush past you.
To heighten your story, you might even rub a small amount of fake blood on your wrist. If you do this, don’t mention it. Just rub your wrist lightly as if it’s in pain, and if your friends ask about it, say you think you must have scratched it on something while you were running away.
 Make sure your friends notice you eating more than normal (especially meat) and doing dog-like things.

Dog-like things might include sniffing at food before you eat it or scratching at the couch to make it more comfortable before you sit down on it.
You’ll also get your friends wondering what’s wrong if you act weird whenever they mention that night where you supposedly saw the wolf. If they mention the night, look serious and scared for a minute, and then change the subject.
 This friend could tell the others that you’ve been acting strangely, and that he/she’s beginning to wonder if werewolves are real and if you were bitten by one.

He can say he even thought he saw you chasing someone’s cat the other day, for example.
 You can do this in a number of ways. One way would be to go for another walk with your friends the next full moon, and then disappear and reappear as a werewolf (wearing the werewolf mask).

Another thing you could do is get your friend who’s in on the prank to tell your friends he saw you go into a certain space — an abandoned house or a creepy schoolyard, or the woods, for example. Your friend can bring your other friends there, and you can hide then jump out at them wearing a werewolf mask.
 Just as you did at the start of the prank, get your friends nervous by making noises around them, and making low howling sounds.

You can even make the howling sounds get louder right before you jump out and scare them.
Don’t forget to make sure you reveal yourself as a werewolf on the next full moon — your friends might still get scared if it’s not a full moon, but a full moon will be the most effective time to reveal yourself as a werewolf.

