 You can add some flavor to your work space without making it look too cluttered. Just put up a few photos of your favorite people or places, a lovely piece of art, or a card that makes you smile. Adding a plant or bouquet of flowers to your desk can also make your space more visually appealing. Every fifteen minutes or so, take a break from your computer and rest your eyes on these favorite items.;
, A zen garden can help you feel calmer and less overwhelmed. Take a five-minute break every hour or so to rake your zen garden, and feel soothed by the sound of the rake pushing through the sand. Rearranging the garden a bit can also make you feel more calm and in control. The zen garden would also create another perfect resting spot for your eyes., You will feel less stressed at work if your desk is more organized. Make sure your desk isn't cluttered with anything beyond the essential items you use often, like a cup of pencils, notepad, and your phone, as well as the few visually-appealing items you've chosen for resting your eyes. File everything away neatly, and throw out any pens that no longer work. The more manageable your workspace feels, the more in control of your work and life you will feel.


Take at least five to ten minutes at the end of every workday to organize your space. This will guarantee that the order you've set up will be maintained.
 If your space is more ergonomically organized, your body will be less tense and your mind will follow. If your hands are aching from so much typing, you should consider getting a split keyboard or a sideways mouse to ease the pressure on your wrists and fingers. Keep the things you use often within reach so you don't have to strain to find and use them.


Adjust your seat so you are facing your monitor and aren't straining your neck by looking too far above or below you.
 If you don't have a swivel chair, you can consider getting one to keep your body active and engaged while you type. Swiveling around in the chair will make your time at work feel more fun and less monotonous. Though studies haven't concluded that a stability ball can improve your posture, sitting on this ball can just make work feel more fun and give you more freedom to move around.If sitting in a chair for many hours a day is causing you a lot of pain, you can consider getting a standing desk. This will improve your posture and can make you feel more calm at work.
 Light some sage (if your office allows it) or leave a bouquet of lavender on your desk and let the natural smells make you feel calmer and more at peace. Even adding some nice potpourri to your work space can make the environment feel more your own and can relax your mind and body., Make sure your work space is filled with soothing, soft light. You should have enough light to see clearly and to feel alert, but too much light, especially fluorescent lighting, can make you feel more anxious and worried. A desk lamp with a soft bulb covered by an opaque lid can mimic the soothing effects of a real candle.


If you have a window in your workspace, try to be as close to the light from the window as possible. Your back should be positioned toward the window so the natural light can fall in front of you.

