 To give your hair a pleasant scent, it’s important to ensure that it’s clean. Use your favorite shampoo to wash your hair thoroughly before you apply any scented or perfumed products.Your hair can often start to smell if it’s extremely greasy. It’s a good idea to wash it whenever you notice your roots getting particularly oily.
Most shampoos have a pleasant scent themselves that can help perfume your hair. However, the fragrance from a shampoo typically doesn’t last as long as other products so you should layer it with other perfumed items to keep your hair smelling good all day.
If you’re using scented shampoo, choose a fragrance that's similar to the perfumed product that you plan to add later. It helps create a base that allows your hair to stay perfumed longer.;
, Depending on the perfumed item that you use to scent your hair, it may contain alcohol that can dehydrate your locks. That’s why it’s extremely important to moisturize your hair beforehand in case it loses any moisture after you scent it. Use your favorite conditioner to hydrate your hair after you wash it.If you have coarse, damaged, color-treated, or any type of hair that’s naturally dry, you may want to follow up your regular conditioner with a leave-in conditioning treatment.
When your hair is especially dry, you may want to swap your regular conditioner for a deep conditioning treatment or mask. Leave it on for at least 10 to 15 minutes before washing it out.
 For the longest lasting fragrance in your hair, you should make sure that your locks are completely dry before applying any perfumed products. If your hair is wet, the water can form a barrier that keeps the fragrance from penetrating your tresses so the scent doesn’t last as long. After washing and conditioning your hair, make sure it is dry before you apply the fragrance.To avoid damage, it’s best to allow your hair to air dry.
If you’re short on time, you can use a blow dryer to dry your hair. Just be sure to use it on the lowest heat setting possible and apply a heat protectant product before you dry it.

