 As a parent, it can be hard to distinguish between challenges that are helping your child grow and those that are merely wearing on their health. School is one of the primary sources for stress in teens, and, oftentimes, parents don't help with matters.Listen for complaining or signs of overwhelm in your teen. If they say something like "I don't know how I will get all this work done over the weekend," try to help rather than responding "Oh, you're doing well. Keep up the hard work." Your nudging could be adding to the stress, and this type of comment may also come across as dismissive.
Instead, see if your child is taking on too much like college-level classes or various club and organizations responsibilities. They may need to cut back or seek guidance on managing their academic work better.
You may also consider talking with other parents who have teens around the same age to get an idea of what is “normal.”

, Many parents don't realize the impact environment can have on a teen's mental health and well-being. Take an honest assessment of your home life to see if there are any factors that could be adding undue stress on your child.For example, if you or your spouse were just recently fired from your job, your teen could be worried about how the family will make ends meet. Or, if a parent is struggling with a mental illness or substance abuse problem, your teen could be negatively affected as well.
 Seemingly minor circumstances in your teen's personal life could also contribute to stress. If you are seeing signs of stress, reflect on the previous days or weeks. Has there been any upset in your teen's life? Maybe you thought it was small, but it could be having a major impact on your teen's functioning.


For example, maybe your daughter was really excited about trying out for the cheerleading squad. However, after try-outs, she learned that she didn't make the squad. She may have minimized the issue in front of you, but not achieving this goal could be affecting her more than she is letting on., Teenagers are at the point in life when relationships such as romantic connections and friendships become more important than previous years. A recent change in a relationship could foreshadow major stress down the road.For instance, if your teen son was dumped by his first girlfriend, it could have a negative impact on his ability to focus in school and cause him to have trouble sleeping. Don't shrug the matter off as "puppy love." To him, it was important, and the consequences are affecting him even if he doesn't say so.
 The teenage years are a common time for teens to begin experimenting with drugs and alcohol. Pay attention to any signs that your teen may be using drugs. Sincere there are many different types of drugs, there are many different signs to watch for.


Talk to your teen if you suspect that they might be using drugs or alcohol.
 Teenagers may suffer from depression and other mental health issues just like adults. If you notice that your teen has been withdrawing more than usual, seems sad, or has lost interest in things that they used to enjoy, then they might be suffering from depression or another mental health issue.

Talk with your teen and take them to see a therapist if they express that they have been struggling with depression, anxiety, or other mental health issues.

