 The hole needs to be big enough to fit the rubber gasket and the flexible aquarium tubing. You can create the hole using a drill and drill bit or with a nail.The hole needs to be about 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.62 centimeters) up from the bottom of the bottle.
If you are using a nail, heat it up over a flame first, then make the hole. Widen the hole with a craft blade.
 The tubing needs to be only 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.62 centimeters) long. You will be using this to attach the aquarium fitting to the bottle., The gasket needs to be big enough to fit into the hole, but small enough to fit around the tubing. If the gasket is too big for the tubing, you can cut a segment out of it to make it smaller, then wrap it around the tubing., Push the assembled gasket and tubing into the hole. Next, push the tubing into the hole that that about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of it is inside the bottle. The rest of the tubing should be sticking out of the bottle., Purchase a small tube of sealant meant for fixing aquariums, or other leaks. Pipe a thin band around the joint between the gasket and the bottle. If you need to, use a popsicle stick or a toothpick to smooth the sealant down. Allow the sealant to cure.You may need to seal the area between the gasket and the tubing itself.
 You can purchase aquarium fittings in aquarium supply stores and online. They look a little like a faucet, with an opening on each end, and a knob on top. One of the opens is usually pointed. You want to insert the non-pointed opening into the tubing., You don't really have to do this, but it will make filling the bottle easier. You can also cut it off only partway so that it's still attached to the rest of the bottle by a "hinge." This will allow you to partially close the opening., Use a hole puncher to punch 3 to 4 holes along the top, cut edge of the bottle. Make the holes straight across from each other so that they form a triangle (for three holes) or a square (for four holes).If you want to stand the irrigator on a table above your plant, fill the bottom inch (2.54 centimeters) or so with pebbles. This will help keep it stable., Cut 3 to 4 long pieces of thin wire or strong string. Thread and tie each string to a punched hole. Gather all of the strings together, then tie them into a knot at the other end.Skip this step if you are standing the irrigator up.
 Hang the irrigator from a hook above your plant. Close the knob on the aquarium fitting first so that no water leaks out. Fill the bottle with water.

You can also stand the irrigator on a table or wall above your plant instead.
 If the water won't reach the plant because something is in the way, cut another piece of aquarium tubing. Secure one end to the pointed tip of the aquarium fitting, and set the other end on top of the soil, right next to the plant.The more you unscrew the knot, the faster the water will flow.
The tighter you screw the knob, the slower the water will flow.

