 Using just your fingers, you can apply pressure to your forehead so that shifting your eyebrows can strengthen that part of your face. This can help smooth lines on your forehead.Put your index fingers just above each of your eyes.
Pull down on your eyes while trying to raise your eyebrows.
Repeat 10 times to help firm your forehead.;
, This simple exercise uses your palms to create resistance while flexing your eyebrows. Doing this workout will help create smooth lines on your forehead.








Place each of your palms on the sides of your forehead, the bottom of each palm resting on your eyebrows. Your palms should be holding the skin firmly in place.
Raise your eyebrow muscles, like you are surprised, then lower them, like you are angry.
Raise and lower 10 times, then raise and hold for 30 seconds. Lower and hold for 30 seconds, then repeat the up and down against 10 more times.
 Using your fingers and your eyebrows, you can exercise the muscles in your forehead. Just a little bit of pressure can create enough resistance for a good exercise.








Using two fingers in a peace sign, and place your fingernails over each eyebrow.
Gently push that skin down with your fingers, then push your brows up and down.
Repeat the up and down motion with your brows 10 times.
Do 3 sets of 10, take a short rest, then do another 3 sets of 10.
 Your eyelids are easy muscles to work, and don’t need much resistance. Using your fingers can help you stretch them out, removing wrinkles and giving you stronger eyelids.Sit down and close your eyes.
With your lids relaxed, use your index fingers to lift up your eyebrows. While lifting, keep your eyes closed to stretch your eyelids as far as possible.
Hold this position for 10 seconds, then relax and repeat 10 times.
 Work your eyelids further by squeezing your eyes shut with a little stretching resistance from your mouth. Because it uses so many different muscles, this exercise can help to stretch out your entire face, not just your eyes.Pull your lips downward so that your facial muscles tighten, then pull your lips to one side.
Squeeze one eye shut for one second, then repeat 10 times, holding your lips to the side. Then do the other eye.
Do 3 sets of 10 for each eye, take a short rest, then do another 3 sets of 10.
 This will help to build the muscles around your eyelids to give you more awake-looking eyes. Use your fingers to provide some resistance to the basic action of opening and closing your eyes.








Make a C around your eyes using your thumbs and index finger. Make sure your index finger is over your eyebrow and thumb against your cheek.
Shut your eyes, and slowly squeeze your eyelids close together. Relax the tension without opening your eyes
Repeat squeezing and relaxing your eyelids 25 times.
 One of the simplest ways to firm up your smile is to practice doing it. In this exercise, you’ll slowly move your mouth into the position of a full smile, holding different positions. This will give you better control of your face and smiling capabilities.








Slowly begin to smile by stretching the corner of your mouth laterally, lips still together.
After that, turn your mouth upward to expose your upper teeth.
Smile as widely as you can, displaying your teeth.
Once you have reached that point, slowly relax your mouth, bringing the smile back to the starting point.
Stop at several stages on this expansion of your smile, and hold that position for 10 seconds.
 Similar to the last exercise, this one using different stages of your smile to work the muscles in your face. Here, your fingers will provide extra resistance to further work the muscles around your mouth.








Make a full smile, and use your fingers to hold it in place by putting pressure on each corner.
Close your lips halfway, then fully, using your fingers to resist the movement.
Hold each position for 10 seconds.
 This exercise works the muscles around your upper lip to help prevent sagging and keep a strong lip contour. Doing it properly will help you have a stronger smile that shows more of your upper teeth.








Open your mouth slightly and flare your nostrils. Wrinkle up your nose as far as possible, then slowly draw your upper lip as high as you can, and hold for 10 seconds.
Leave your mouth slightly open, and place one finger under the eye on the cheekbone. Curl your upper lip slowly upward, keeping finger pressure on your face. Hold for 10 seconds, then slowly return to the original position.
 This is a simple exercise that will help increase the blood flow to your lips. This will give the fleshier parts a healthier, livelier, and more natural color.








Open your mouth slightly, making sure your upper and lower lips are relaxed.
Bring your lower lip forward until it makes contact with your upper lip.
Bring your upper and lower lips inward to your mouth. Exert pressure, then relax.
 This exercise works your mandible, the lower jaw, and important part of smiling, talking, and chewing, as well as anything else your mouth does. An exercise like this will help to prevent a double chin and prevent aging grooves on the lower part of your face.








Keep your mouth, especially your teeth and lips, slightly closed.
Separate your teeth as much as you can without opening your lips.
Bring your mandible forward slowly. Go as far as you can, stretching your lower lip upward, and hold for 5 seconds.
Slowly return your jaw, lips, then teeth back to their original position.
 Moving your mouth to some basic sounds can help you target the lips, as well as the muscles between your upper lip and nose. This is a simple exercise that only requires some exaggerated facial movement while making sounds.








Open your mouth, then purse your lips together so that your teeth are separated and not showing.
Say “OO,” using an exaggerated movement to purse your lips together.
Change sounds to “EE,” again using an exaggerated motion to stretch your lips into the proper shape. You can also replace “EE” with “AH” for a slightly different workout.
Do 10 reps between “OO” and “EE,” then repeat for 3 sets.
 Use the natural pressure from a sucking motion to firm up your lips. By removing it at the same time, you’ll be able to provide additional resistance to work against.








Put your finger in your mouth, and suck on it as hard as possible.
While doing that, slowly removing it from your mouth.
Repeat 10 times.
 This will help strengthen your cheek muscles. Make sure to keep your head back when you do this exercise.Press down on your cheeks with your three middle fingers.
While pushing, smile as hard as you can to push your fingers back.
 This exercise can help smooth laugh lines and the fine lines around your undereye. Your hands will be doing the work here, stretching the muscles on your face and skin.Place your palms firmly against your cheeks.
Pull the corners of your lips up toward your temples until you expose your upper teeth and gums.
Hold the position for 30 seconds, release, then repeat 3 times.
 This exercise will help to condition your lip muscles. Once again your hands will do the work by squeezing your face around your mouth and nose.








Place your palms on your face, with the outer edge on your laugh lines and the bottom edges on the top of the jaw line. Use your whole palm to put pressure on your face.
Use your lip muscles (not your hands) to push your lips together and hold for 20 seconds. Then, push your palms up toward your nose and hold for 10 seconds.
Repeat the exercise 3 times.
 Along with your specific exercises, regular smiling can help keep your muscles strong, while not looking quite as strange as you will when doing the exercises. Plus, smiling often can make you look more relaxed and confident, and help you reduce everyday stress., Wash your face regularly to remove impurities and keep your skin clear. In addition, add some skin care products to your washing, like a simple cleanser, moisturizer, and retinoid. This regimen should be simple, as too many products can cause the ingredients to cancel one another out., Part of facial exercises is helping to tighten your skin for a strong, and younger, look. To help boost the skin in your face, you need to manage your diet well. Get foods strong in Vitamins A and C, as well as Omega-3 fatty acids. This diet will help keep your skin clear and face muscles well-developed.Some good foods for your face include dark colored and leafy fruits and vegetables like carrots, apricots, spinach, tomatoes, and blueberries, beans, peas, and lentils, fatty fish like salmon and mackerel, nuts, garlic, and dark chocolate. In general, foods that are healthy for you overall are also healthy for your face and skin.
Foods high in processed or refined carbohydrates and unhealthy fats will promote aging in your skin, so be careful about eating them.
 The sun can easily damage your skin if you aren’t careful, and contributes to giving your face a more aging look. Avoid being outside during peak hours (10 am to 2 pm), wear clothing that covers your body, and lather up with sunscreen. 