 Buy her something that you know she's always wanted, or find something that you know she will like. Try to buy something special that she wouldn't necessarily buy for herself. You don't need to break the bank with an expensive gold necklace. The important thing is that your gift is thoughtful and makes her feel appreciated.


If you can't think of a specific item that she wants or needs, try to think of something that plays on her interests. If she likes to garden, give her a packet of seeds, or buy her a potted plant that she can replant in her garden. If she likes dark chocolate, buy her a bar of quality chocolate.
If you don't want to buy her one expensive gift, try putting together a small gift basket of her favorite things. A bottle of wine, a bar of chocolate, a bouquet of flowers. Even if the individual items aren't very expensive, she will appreciate the thought that you put into choosing her favorite things.;
, Paint her a painting, write her a poem, carve her something out of wood, or arrange photos of the two of you together into a collage. You won't have to spend much money, and she will appreciate your gift all the more if you make it specifically for her. Don't be afraid to get creative.Make her a mix-CD. Make her a card. Make her a thoughtful video and post it to YouTube or Facebook. Make her a picture-frame, a flip-book, a t-shirt, or a portrait.
Make her a found-object sculpture that she can put in her garden. Make her a coffee mug, a bowl, or a vase out of fired clay. Carve and polish a cutting board out of a unique piece of wood. If she loves the beach, give her a mason jar full of shells that you collected.
 Cook her favorite foods for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. Consider serving her breakfast in bed for a classic Mother's Day treat. Make the meal, set the table, and clean up afterward.


If you aren't confident in the kitchen, look up recipes online. Ask a sibling, a friend, or another family member for help.
Consider making her sweet treats. Cookies, brownies, muffins—whatever she likes. Make a nice basket with a Mother's Day card. Consider decorating the treats with her favorite things. If she loves the beach, for example, you might decorate cupcakes with ocean-themed frosting: crabs, palm trees, dolphins, starfish.
If you don't live with her, you can invite her over to your house for dinner. It might not be a surprise, but she will appreciate it. Consider taking her out to her favorite restaurant.
 Pay for a massage, a facial, a manicure, a pedicure, or all of the above. Show that you appreciate her by spoiling her for the day. She may appreciate the chance to lay back, relax, and let someone else take care of her for a change.
 If you know what kind of flowers she likes, buy her a bouquet from a flower shop. She will appreciate flowers no matter which type you give her, but there's a good chance that she has a favorite. Many grocery stores and drugstores also sell flowers. Pick the flowers yourself, if you can find them, and your mom will appreciate the effort.You can buy a wrapped-up bouquet and simply give it to her, or you can put the flowers into a vase that's filled with a few inches of water. Your mom will probably want to put the flowers into a vase or jar to preserve them, so she may appreciate the thought involved in giving her a vase.
If you don't know what type of flowers she likes, consider just asking her. Commit this to memory and use it in the future. She will appreciate that you remembered. This does not only apply to your mom: casually ask significant others what their favorite flower is, and remember the answer for special occasions.
If you can't give her the flowers in person, consider using a flower delivery service. Most florists will deliver flowers for you, and some may even have a special deal for Mother's Day. This is a simple process: you just need to call the florist or order from their website.

