 There are various treatments available that will help you learn how to prevent and reduce anxiety. Many therapists like to use Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) to treat excessive anxiety with patients.Talk to your physician for a referral or do an internet search for providers in your area and schedule an appointment.


Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) focuses on both negative thoughts and negative behavior that are exacerbating your anxiety.
CBT helps you see how your negative thoughts are contributing to your anxiety. It focuses on changing your negative thoughts to healthier alternative thinking.
CBT also helps you learn better behavioral responses to situations that trigger your anxiety.
 There are many medications that can be used to help you keep your anxiety under control. Discuss these options with your physician. If you decide to take this approach, be sure that you take your medication as prescribed.Here are some types of medication that your doctor might prescribe for you:Antidepressants are sometimes prescribed to help with anxiety. Keep in mind that this type of medication make take a few days to a couple of weeks to build up to therapeutic levels in your body. Therefore, you may not experience immediate relief. But don’t stop taking your medication. Instead talk to your doctor about expectations, especially if you haven’t experienced any relief after several weeks.
Anti-anxiety medications such as benzodiazepines may also reduce your anxiety. Be careful with these because they can be habit-forming. They should only be used for short-term use.
Beta blockers helps with anxiety by blocking the stimulating effects of adrenaline. These medications help to reduce blood pressure, heart rate, and shakiness that occur with increased anxiety. They should only be used right before a specific anxiety provoking situation.
 Getting support from others who have similar experiences could be very helpful. You can get some insight into strategies that work for other people and share with them what has worked for you. It may be especially helpful to have a support group available when an event is nearing that you know may cause you some anxiety and distress. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America may be able to link you to a support group in your area.