 Place the two ingredients in a medium saucepan set over medium heat. Whisk them together until they form a smooth, even mixture.Using hot water and whisking the tomato base over constant heat should help break down the tomato paste more thoroughly, making it easier to blend it into a smooth base.
When ready, the tomato base should have the consistency of a relatively thin tomato sauce.
 Add the minced onion flakes, garlic powder, cumin, paprika, dried oregano, white vinegar, sugar, and red pepper flakes to the tomato base. Whisk to combine.


Start with the minimum amount of sugar—1/4 tsp (1.25 ml)—to avoid making the sauce too sweet. Similarly, start with the minimum amount of red pepper flakes—1/4 tsp (1.25 ml)—to avoid making the sauce too spicy.
 Taste the taco sauce using a clean spoon. If necessary, add more sugar or red pepper flakes to the sauce to achieve the flavor profile you prefer.


To create a mild taco sauce, stick with the minimum amount of red pepper and increase the amount of sugar up to 1 tsp (5 ml).
To create a hot taco sauce, stick with the minimum amount of sugar and increase the amount of red pepper flakes up to 1 tsp (5 ml).
For medium heat, experiment with the amount of sugar and red pepper flakes a little at a time, using a clean spoon to test the flavor after each addition. If you add too much of either seasoning, you might be able to help balance out the excess by adding more of the other.
 Reduce the heat to low and simmer the taco sauce uncovered for 15 to 20 minutes, or until it thickens to your desired consistency.Periodically stir the taco sauce to prevent it from burning.
Note that longer simmer times will create thicker sauce.
In addition to thickening the sauce, this step also causes the flavors to blend together, creating a more complex flavor profile as a result.
 Remove the taco sauce from the heat and let it cool slightly. You can serve it while it's still warm or cool it completely prior to enjoying it.


Allow the sauce to drop to room temperature before transferring it to the refrigerator to chill.
Store leftover taco sauce in an airtight container kept in the refrigerator. It should remain good for up to 5 days.
To store the sauce for several months, pour it into a freezer-safe airtight container and stick it in the freezer. Thaw before use.

