 You should end up at the home page. After that click the blue sign up button in the middle of your browser. This will take you to a new page.;
, If you're using Storybird just for fun then choose the regular user option. If you're using Storybird as a student of a class, choose the student option. If you're using Storybird to educate children at school, choose the educator/teacher option.
 You'll need to choose your age group, create a username, fill out your email and create a strong password. If you're under the age of 15, get an adult to help you.
 Your profile picture will give a sense of identity and of who you are. You can upload a picture from one of your files on your computer. If you don't have any pictures from your files you can find one on Photobucket, Flickr, Google images, etc.
 This is where all the books you wish to read will go. You can find plenty of featured books with the read button on the middle, top of your browser. From there you will see hundreds of featured books. On the tags below you can explore popular books, choose your favourite categories, choose the age group, etc. If you would like to search up a book to do with your favourite item such as horses, you can do so in the search bar at the top right corner of your browser.


Your bookshelf is located when you click on the you button and the drop-down menu appears. Then you click on the bookshelf button to go to all the stories you've bookmarked.
 You can follow friends, authors and artists to see their newest books and illustrations come up in your notifications. You can follow other users by going to their profile and clicking the follow button in the right corner of your browser.
 The your stuff button is located on the drop-down menu of the you button. Here is where your books are located (unpublished and published), your followers are and also your bookshelf is here all in one.
 This should be located at the top of your browser. This will be the first part of creating a (hopefully featured) story.
 The first art you choose will be your books cover page. The cover page illustration should be relevant to the story such as if you were doing a story on horses you'd pick an illustration with horses in it. If you're not finding the art work you want, search it up with the search bar which should be above all the art work and in the right side of your browser.


You can also buy the art work so no one else can use it. If you choose not to buy it, it's still available for others to use as their cover page too. If you like the art work you can also heart it.
 You have the choice of writing a poem (single page), a picture book (multi page, no chapters), or a long form book (multi chapters).
 A poem doesn't have to rhyme, but the words should make sense and fit together. With the words by the side of the picture, create a sentence or two. Then you will have your poem, but make sure it is inspirational and makes sense.
 The picture book will have an illustration on each page. To add illustrations to each page, drag the pictures from the sides of the book. To add a new page click the plus button on the right bottom corner of your browser. The text will be typed on the left side of the book.
 First you will need to type in the books title which will be located in the centre of the book/browser. Then type in a chapter title below the book cover and then start writing the paragraph. You can insert extra art work or dividers with the insert button on the right top corner of your browser and save your work on the left top corner.


The tagline above the book title is basically a quote or a description that sums the book up such as A little girl in a big world.
 After creating your first chapter of your book you'll need to fill in a form before publishing it. The first thing you'll need to do is decide what type of page/chapter is it. It can be a single-page story, a multi chapter book, the duo to an existing book or the last chapter of an existing book. For now you might want to choose the first chapter of a new book which means that you want to write a long form book.


Create a chapter note. Notes should be different and unique for each individual chapter and should be a note from you the author yourself. You can thank the viewers for reading your book or say how good this chapter is going to be.
Change the chapter title if you wish. If you already named the title of the chapter then it should automatically come up, if not then create one now. The chapter title should be what the paragraphs are about such as How it all started.
Change the book cover if you wish. If you're tired of the art work or you find it doesn't fit, you can always change the book cover. The same applies to the title.
Create your summary. The summary applies to all chapters and basically sums up the book and should describe the book.
Add tags. Tags are like categories but are smaller words such as 'horses', 'girls', 'city' or 'diary'. You can add as many as you like but make sure to space them apart.
Add a category. You can choose two categories for one book. If the book is about animals, put it in the animal category. If the book is told about or in a diary, put it in the diary category. It's very simple.
Choose a suitable age group. This is what kind of audience your book is aimed at such as for little toddlers, kids, teenagers or adults. You can choose more than one age group, and it can be all of the age groups too.
 Moderation is where your book has to get checked over by an admin to see whether the age group is correct, whether the book has swearing in it, etc. Submitting to moderation can take months so be patient! Meanwhile you can create more chapters or more books.

