 It might take years to learn how to use a turkey call, so have patience and practice a lot.


Blow air across the latex reed to make the sound of a turkey. These turkey calls are a reed stretched across a horseshoe-shaped frame that is centered inside a plastic skirt.
Pick a single or double reed call for your first call as they are easier for beginners to use. Put the call into your mouth so the open end is facing out, and push it up to your mouth’s roof with your tongue.Make sure the seal is tight. Put your tongue lightly against the reed.Trim some of the tape so the call fits into your mouth if it’s too wide. Try not to bend the frame or you could knock the reeds loose and this can alter the sound. The manufacturers of turkey calls set the tension very carefully for sound quality.
 Hold the call with your tongue against the roof of your mouth to make this basic turkey call.


Turkeys give out a “tree yelp” when they want to reassure other turkeys roosted nearby, and a lost yelp when they want to reassemble after being scattered.
Exhale the letter “H” as you hold the call against your mouth’s roof. Force the air to go in between your tongue and the call. Some hunters will say a word when yelping to get the sound. Chick, chirp, chop and chalk are some words used.
Make sure air doesn’t escape over the call between the call and your mouth’s roof. That’s incorrect.
 Apply less pressure on the reed to lower the sound of the tones.Control the yelping sound with your tongue to place more or less pressure on the reed. Exaggerate the length of the high tone at first for about 2 seconds.
Then slightly open your mouth or remove your tongue’s pressure from the reed to make a lower tone. Once you’ve mastered that maneuver, speed it up. Blend together high and low tone to make the yelp.
The yelp should be a 5- to 15 note series made in a rhythmic manner. Vary the volume and skip beats. Gobblers and hens use this call. The hens use it to tell gobblers they want to mate. Use the yelp in spring and fall.
 This sound occurs when you say the word “putt” with your teeth clenched together as you exhale. Some hunters will say the words pock and puck instead as they make the call.A cluck call is about 2 or three notes. It’s used by turkeys to get the attention of other turkeys and to communicate with them. It’s a good call to use when you want to attract the attention of a spring gobbler. Turkeys gobble when they are in the woods and trying to attract female turkeys. They give out yelps when they are separated from other turkeys. They cackle as they fly down from a tree top, and they purr as they travel and feed.
A kee-kee run audio sound is another call popular by fall hunters who want to bring in a flock. Turkeys use this sound to regroup their flock.
Make 2-4 high tone calls followed by 2 or 3 yelps. Use this largely in fall turkey hunting. Say pee-pee-pee to kee kee, and use more tongue pressure on the reed. Rise the notes with lost urgency.
 The purr is a call that a turkey uses when it’s foraging in the fields or woods. You can attract a gobbler with a purr and then a cluck.


To make a purr sound, position your tongue slightly again the reed. Now exhale and flutter your lips rapidly to emulate the turkey’s purr.
Some hunters find this sound very difficult to make so they will practice it all season long. Gobblers will come looking for hens when they hear the purr sound.
To emulate the sound of a lonely bird, make a series of Cut sounds, which are used by hens who are looking to mate, especially in the spring. This call should be loud and aggressive. It should last between 5 to 15 seconds long.

