 If you can't take it anymore – don't. There is much to be said for the tactful approach of ignoring haters, but avoidance doesn't always resolve the problem. Find a moment to speak honestly with these people, and try to explain where you're coming from. Speak with each hater as a mature and conscious equal; you cannot use the language of hatred to end hate.


Say, "I've been getting a lot of negative energy from you recently. I'd appreciate it if you kept those thoughts to yourself, or even tried to understand my perspective. I don't want to have to deal with this anymore."
Try to understand why they are acting this way. Say, "Have I done something to personally wrong you? You seem to be taking a lot of negativity out on me, and I don't understand why."

, Haters feed on your emotions. If you respond quickly and emotionally, there's a good chance that you won't be able to make a strong point, and you will only give them more reason to make fun of you. Do not let your words be clouded by anger and frustration. Give yourself the time to cool down before you respond., Resolve conflict with measured words and confident maturity. If hatred is fire: be water. Be cool, collected, and healing. When you fight fire with fire, you usually just wind up with a really big fire.


That said: sometimes, fighting back physically and decisively can put a stop to the situation. If you do decide to take this route, do so with full awareness of the consequences. Know that violence begets violence, and that you might make the problem much worse by opening that door.
 The Internet can be a wide and wonderful place, and it can provide an intoxicating degree of anonymity. Some people use this anonymity to snipe at others from behind a computer keyboard. If people are hating on you from the Internet, all of the other advice applies – but you might truly need to learn to let go. You can try to face down haters with individual comments, but you may find it difficult to do much more than feed their hate.


Try reaching out to haters with personalized comments. Be empathetic, logical, and polite. Offer solutions. Try not to respond with angry and poorly-thought-out words.Consider not even bothering to engage with haters. It's hard to please everyone, and it's hard to meaningfully connect with someone over a comment board – especially when that person is dedicated to making hateful remarks. This is the nature of having an online presence: some people may love you, and some people may hate you.