 In some cases, your doctor may suggest leaving a smaller pyogenic granuloma to heal on its own.You may also receive a prescription for a topical medication to apply to the granuloma. The two topical medications for which you may receive a prescription are:


Timolol, a gel often used on children and for granulomasImiquimod, which stimulates the immune system to release cytokinesSilver nitrate, which your doctor may apply;
, Clean the area that you plan to treat to remove any bacteria at the site or on your surrounding skin. Gently wash with a mild, unscented soap and warm water. It’s common for pyogenic granuloma to bleed easily and you shouldn’t be scared by this; however, if you are treating someone else, be sure you are wearing gloves to protect yourself from exposure to their blood.


Consider using an antiseptic solution to clean the area if you like, though soap and water disinfects just as well.
Dry off your skin around the granuloma by patting it. This can prevent excessive bleeding.
 If your doctor has prescribed you imiquimod or timolol, apply the treatment gently to the affected area. Repeat as many times per day as your doctor prescribes.


Be sure to use as little pressure as possible when dabbing the medication on your granuloma. This can minimize any bleeding that may occur.
Follow the instructions for application by your doctor, who will determine the proper dosage. Let your doctor know if you experience any reactions to the medication.
 Because skin affected by granuloma tends to bleed easily, it is important to keep it clean, dry, and protected. You can do this by keeping it covered with a non-adhesive sterile bandage until any bleeding stops, which may be one to two days or longer.Hold the bandage in place with medical tape. Apply it to the bandage on an area of your skin that is not affected by the granuloma.
Ask your doctor how long you should keep the granuloma covered.
Change your dressing at least every other day or when it is soiled. It is important to do this because a dirty bandage could lead to a secondary infection.
 It may be tempting to pick at a granuloma or crust that may form over it. You should avoid doing this because it could spread bacteria or injure healing skin. Allow the granuloma to complete it’s course of topical treatment and consult your doctor if you notice any potential problems., Your doctor may opt to apply a silver nitrate to your granuloma. This will chemically cauterize, or burn off, your granuloma.This antiseptic solution can help with bleeding and may effectively reduce your pyogenic granuloma.Watch for severe reactions to silver nitrate treatments such as black scabs and skin ulcerations. See your doctor as soon as possible to prevent infection or further injury.

