 Many people fail to set personal boundaries because they feel guilty about it or think their needs don’t matter. However, your needs are just as important as anyone else’s, and you have to be in good mental and emotional health to be able to help others and fulfill your own responsibilities. Setting boundaries you’re comfortable with isn’t selfishness – it’s your right.In the long run, healthy boundaries don’t only benefit you. They also benefit your loved one with BPD by creating a clear sense of structure and predictability in the relationship.;
, Determine ahead of time which limits you are going to establish with your loved one and why. One good way to define your boundaries is to think about your values. Good boundaries are a way of protecting the things that matter to you most and ensuring you aren’t pressured into activities or situations that go against the way you want to live.For instance, if your friend wants to talk on the phone with you every night, but you value spending evenings with your family, you might decide not to take your friend’s calls after five o’clock.
 It's important to think about how you will enforce it, if your loved one does not respect your boundaries. If you don’t specify consequences and follow through with them, your loved one will probably not take your boundaries seriously. A good consequence should be something that follows naturally from the other person’s actions.For instance, you might decide that if your partner shouts at you again, you will leave the house for a few hours until they can calm down.
 The other person may be angry, hurt, or embarrassed when you tell them you need them to behave differently. They may take the change personally, accuse you of not loving them, or act out against the boundaries. Decide how you will handle various reactions so you aren’t caught off guard when it happens., Talking about boundaries can be a touchy subject. Make the conversation a little easier by talking with the other person at a time when you’re both emotionally stable. Avoid introducing the topic of boundaries during or right after a fight. If the other person feels defensive or angry, the conversation won’t be productive.Introduce the topic by saying something like, “Are you free for a minute? There’s something I’ve been wanting to talk with you about.”

, Be upfront when you tell your loved one about your new boundaries. Be kind, but don’t apologize or back down. Explain exactly what you need from the other person without any ambiguity.Use a calm, non-confrontational tone to lessen the risk of the other person taking offense.
 For your loved one, hearing about the new limits you’re imposing on the relationship might sting. However, it’s important that they understand why you’re doing it. Be gentle but honest about your reasons.Phrase your explanation in a non-accusatory way that focuses on your needs instead of what the other person is doing wrong.
For instance, if you find your spouse’s mood swings exhausting to deal with, you could say, “It’s really wearing me out trying to guess how you’ll be feeling from one day to the next. I need more emotional stability.”

, Someone with BPD may feel insulted when others set boundaries with them. Make sure to give your loved one plenty of reassurance that you’re not rejecting them as a person and that your relationship with them is still important to you.Emphasize the ways your boundary will benefit both of you. This will help your loved one understand that you’re not setting limits just to try to push them away.
For instance, you could tell a friend, “I think spending more time on our own will be good for both of us in the long run. I have more energy for socializing when I spend enough time alone, so we’ll both have more fun when we do get together.”

, Your loved one may try to make you feel bad for setting boundaries. Don’t let them sway you with emotional manipulation. You have the right to protect your own well-being., If the other person doesn’t respect your boundaries, follow through with your consequences consistently. It’s important to follow through every time. Otherwise, they will get the message that you’re not serious about your boundaries.Once your loved one realizes you are serious about your boundaries and consequences, they may accept them and stop testing you.
 When you’re frustrated with your loved one’s behavior, it can be tempting to make an ultimatum, just to try to get them to cooperate with you. However, ultimatums lose their power if you don’t intend to follow through on them. Avoid giving an ultimatum unless you’ve thought it through and are fully prepared to carry it out., Setting and maintaining boundaries is a process, not a one-time event. Don’t hesitate to change your boundaries if you find that something isn’t working for you. Communicate with the other person about changes in boundaries so you stay on the same page about what you both expect from the relationship., Sometimes even the best efforts to set healthy boundaries don’t improve a relationship with a person who has BPD. If the person refuses to cooperate with you or acts abusive towards you, it’s probably best to end the relationship.


Put your safety and sanity first – you’re under no obligation to maintain a relationship or friendship with someone who doesn’t respect you or your needs.