 Depending on your climate, you should begin checking forsythia branches every few days for new flower buds in December, January or February.In USDA Hardiness Zones 8 and 9, begin checking in December as these shrubs can begin to bloom by the end of January.In Zones 5 through 7, begin checking in January or February.These buds will appear small, elongated, and pointed and green or yellowish in color, encircling the branch all along its length.;
, Once the buds appear, you can cut the stems as long or as short as you’d like and bring the stems indoors., You will want to split the branch up the middle at the cut end. Make the split 1 ½ to 4 inches long.
 Fill a vase or decorative cup with warm water and place the cut ends in the vessel. After a few minutes, take each branch out of the water one at a time and use sharp pruners to cut 1 inch off the end.


Splitting the branches and removing another inch from the end will help keep the stems open to absorb water. If you do not split the branches, the cut end of the branch will try to seal itself off with sap.
 If these buds are left on the stems submerged in water, they will rot, causing bacteria to grow in the water and make your beautiful arrangement of forsythia smell bad, rather than fragrant.
, Avoid spots with direct sunlight as this will cause the flowers to fade more rapidly.
 This will help to eliminate any bacteria that may begin to grow, which will cause the flowers to stink and make the stems slimy.


You can also add a floral preservative to the water to help reduce bacteria. They can be purchased from a garden center or your local florist. The packet of preservative should be poured directly into the water in the vase and stirred until it dissolves, before putting the branches back in the vase.
As long as you replace the water in the vase regularly, you will not need to add a preservative.
 The length of time it takes the buds to bloom depends on how close they were to blooming before the stems were cut, but typically the buds should bloom within one to eight weeks.


If the buds do not open four to six weeks after you’ve cut them, they will probably take about three to four weeks to open.
Though the flowers will bloom more quickly after they are brought indoors due to the warmer indoor temperature, it still takes some time for the buds to mature and open. Of course, the beauty of forsythia buds, especially in the dead of winter, are well worth the wait!

