 If your potted plant is totally infested with tiny pests, flooding the soil with a water-insecticide solution will cause the ants to flee their nest. The ants that come into contact with the insecticide mixture will die or drown. To prepare the solution:


Grab a clean bucket.
Fill the bucket with 1 gallon of water. (If your potted plant is large, double or triple the amount of water).
Stir in 1 cup of insecticidal soap or dish soap or detergent per 1 gallon of water. Some dish soaps and detergents are a milder, less expensive, but less reliable alternatives to insecticidal soap. Branded dish soaps and detergents include: Dawn, Palmolive, Dove, Ivory, and Joy., First, set aside approximately half of the solution to submerge the pot in. Find a bucket or tub that is large enough for the pot to fit inside and fill it with half the mixture. Second, fill a small spray bottle with the solution—you will use this to spray any ants that might escape from the soil. Lastly, you will pour all of the remaining solution to through the infested plant's soil.
 Move the plant to a shady spot in your yard. Slowly pour half of the insecticide mixture through the soil of the potted plant. Spray any ants that escape the potted plant with the insecticide mixture. Let the planted pot sit for 1 hour.Insecticidal soap is mild and safe to use in organic gardens. These soaps contain specially formatted potassium fatty acids that kill insects on contact but are not harmful to humans or animals. Since these soaps have a low mammalian toxicity, they are considered safe to use around children and pets and are approved for use on organic farms. While it should not ruin your yard or garden, you may wish to work on a concrete patio or driveway to reduce any possible risk of damage., After pouring the solution through the soil, and catching the runoff in a container, pick up the pot and submerge it in the insecticide solution. Let it sit in the solution for 15 minutes. Spray any ants that escape the potted plant with the insecticide mixture. Remove the potted plant from the solution and set it on the ground., Use a hose to drench the entire potted plant with clean water. The fresh water will flush out any remaining insecticide solution. Allow the plant and soil to dry completely before moving it to a sunny location or watering it again.