 Who knows, it might blossom into a close friendship!


Speak with others, but never be afraid of friendships. Just because one particular group was unpleasant, doesn't mean everyone are like that.
However, don't go and cry on their shoulder because you badly want to have friends. you may not know how these people are either!

, Maintain that acquaintance, but be aware that they didn't make friends out of liking!


If someone comes and starts talking with you out of the blue, be aware that they were sorry for you. Most of the time, these people will leave you as soon as you get friends.
 Just because some people did not want to be friendly with you, don't feel useless. They aren't respecting differences.


If you are here, you have a reason to be here. Think about happy, comforting thoughts and feel proud of yourself for not letting rejection damage you!
Think about your good qualities, and feel happy. there is no reason why you should cry over people who rejected you!

, They will comfort you and draw you out of your shell.


Talk with your parents who will always love you, no matter what, and let them help you move on.
Never think 'I am so bad, no one wants to be friends with me' and things along those lines. You should not feel ashamed as you don't have anything to be ashamed of!

, Show them that they are not indispensable, and that you can live without them.


However, don't take 'revenge' and try to defame them or hurt them. Remember, the best revenge is letting them see you get on with your life better than before.
Also, don't dwell on your past, and move on from the rejection you faced. Stop thinking about those people.
 Be more careful about friendships.



Be positive about the future, but never let optimism take over your common sense. Being positive doesn't mean that you go and make friends with every person you set your eyes on.
Don't be more awkward after this. Instead, be more practical and careful about any kind of relation you have with others in the society.

