 Before you start attempting to use your gas oven, or any oven, read over any instruction manuals you have. This will inform you of the basics of how to turn the oven on and off as well how to move the racks and other aspects of how your oven works.Every oven comes with racks. Before using your oven, experiment with taking them in and out of the oven. Depending on what you're cooking, you may have to adjust the oven racks. It's a good idea to get a sense of how to do so.
Figure out how to turn the oven on and set the temperature. Usually, you have to turn a knob near the front of the oven to do so. You can then turn the knob to the appropriate heat setting. Some ovens give off a signal, such as light going on and off or a noise being made, indicating when the oven is adequately heated.;
, Gas ovens tend to fluctuate in temperature. Even if you set the oven for a specific temperature, the heat may rise or fall unexpectedly during the cooking process. Therefore, use an oven thermometer to measure temperature. You may need to turn the heat slightly up or slightly down during the cooking process.Use the oven light to monitor the oven's temperature. Opening the oven too often during the cooking process can cause the temperature to drop suddenly.
 Heat tends to fluctuate in a gas oven. Some spots will become hotter or colder during the cooking process. Therefore, it can help to occasionally open the oven and rotate your baking trays a few degrees to ensure things cook evenly.Cakes, breads, and muffin trays should be rotated 90 degrees halfway through cooking. If you're using more than one rack to bake something like cookies, switch the top and bottom trays as well.
Casserole dishes should be rotated slightly multiple times during the cooking process.
 A baking stone can be used to cook things like baked goods and pizzas. However, it can also help regulate temperature in a gas oven. It can help radiate temperature upward in a more even fashion. Place it on the bottom of your oven or on the lowest rack when you're not using it. Then, place whatever you're cooking just above the baking stone to help it cook more evenly., It can sometimes be hard to get things like pies to brown on the top in a gas oven. It can help to move dishes you need to brown to the top tray. This will allow them to brown faster., Gas ovens tend to be more humid, which can affect crispiness. Things like roasted potatoes may not get crisp as easily in a gas oven. It can help to turn the oven temperature up about 25 degrees hotter than the recipe calls for. This will result in a crispier final product., You should never use dark metals in a gas oven. In a gas oven, heat comes from the bottom of the oven. Dark metal cookware will absorb heat faster, which can result in the bottoms of dishes become brown or burnt.Instead of dark metal cookware, opt for light-colored metal, glass, or silicone.

