 Chances are if you're sick, you're feeling tired. Energy levels can drop when you're not feeling well and you might feel like sleeping on your sick day. This is a natural immune response and sleep is a requirement for good health. Use your sick day as an opportunity to catch up on lost sleep and start to feel better.Take as many naps as you need during the day.
Don't try to stay up late. Go to bed early and get a good nights rest.
 Depending on your symptoms, a bath or shower can help you feel better. Both hot and cold showers will have different effects and should be used in different cases. Review the following information to learn when you should use hot or cold water: Hot water can help relax and ease muscle or joint pain. It may also help with de-congestion.Cool or lukewarm showers and baths can help reduce swelling and can lower a high fever.
Very cold showers can actually raise your temperature due to shivering.
Never take a hot shower or bath if you have a fever as this can raise your temperature to dangerous levels.
 Although you may not have a big appetite when you are sick, you still need to eat and maintain caloric energy. Eating can help you recover from your illness and can even reduce stress. Make yourself something tasty to start feeling better.Carbohydrates are important when you are sick and you'll want around 150 grams of them per sick day.
Half a cup of apple juice can have up to 15 grams of carbohydrates.
Half a cup of sorbet will give you around 30 grams of carbohydrates.
Try to eat around six small meals per sick day, instead of the usual big three.
Don't eat anything to heavy, greasy, or spicy if you have nausea or have been vomiting.
 Some symptoms can cause you to become dehydrated during your sick day. Fever, diarrhea, vomiting, or frequent urination are all contributors to becoming dehydrated. Make sure you drink plenty of fluids on your sick day and stay hydrated.Drink plenty of water during the day.
Avoid fruit juices or coffee as these can make diarrhea worse.
 Exposure to natural and direct sunlight has been shown to improve overall health. By opening up your curtains and letting the sunlight in, you can start to gain the health benefits that ultra-violet light can bring.Exposure to sunlight can increase production of vitamin D in the body. Vitamin D is important to many of the body's functions.
Getting some sun can help regulate the sleep/wake cycle and let you get the most out of your rest.
Short and repeated exposure works best, bringing the benefits of sun exposure while mitigating the hazards.
Any UV index above 3 requires sun protection.

