 This is the first step to dealing with it.
 Try to see if you can identify the initial source of your obsession, and where you got it from. For example, suppose you are obsessed with the number 28 and like to go around repeating it. You may have started being obsessed with 28 because it's your best friend's favorite number and you love the sound of it. Be sure to note those things., If you only think about it once a week, it is probably not an obsession, but if you think about it at least once an hour then it would be considered an obsession. For example, if your mind repeats the number 28 more than fifty times per hour, that is a strong obsession, but if it says "28" once a week, that may not be an intense obsession., As mentioned earlier, many autistic people have obsessions and special interests. You can rely on others like you for support if you need to., Sometimes obsessions are harmless, but other times they take over your life. If you think about the obsession all the time and it impacts your concentration, that is a problem and you should speak to someone about it., If it's the former, you should reconsider how limiting your obsession may be. You do not need to steer clear of the obsession if it is pleasurable, but you should make sure you think about other things as well. If you are having an intense passion or hobby, or special interest, then follow it, but make sure that is not all you do every day.

Embracing special interests can be good for your mental health. There's absolutely nothing wrong with having an intense passion about something, and it can bring you lots of joy.
 If you have a hard time tearing yourself away from the obsession, work on how to set limits. Schedule yourself a guilt-free time to focus on your obsession, and set a timer for a certain length of time. When you are done, focus on something else for a while.

For example, you might decide to draw characters from your favorite story for half an hour, and then study for half an hour.
 You may be experiencing signs of OCD, PTSD, or another type of anxiety issue. Obsessions can be related to autism, but may also be caused by something else, so it's helpful to rule out other factors., You will likely encounter people who do not understand why you are so obsessed with this one thing, so try to see it from their point of view and be able to explain it to someone who has no idea how your mind works in this sense., Take time to talk about your obsession and how it is impacting you, and invite them to do other things with you. Perhaps you could paint, camp or take a road trip just to get the obsession off your mind!