 Starting with a clean and fresh face will make your makeup stand out more, help it last longer, and help prevent your makeup from clumping and flaking. Use your favorite gel or cream facial cleanser and lukewarm water.


Wet your face and pour some cleanser into your hands. Work the cleanser into a lather, and then gently massage it into your face for about 30 seconds using circular motions.Use a gel cleanser if you wear a lot of makeup, and a cream cleanser if your skin needs more hydration.;
, Fill your hands with clean water and rinse the cleanser off your face. When you have removed all traces of the cleanser, pat your face dry with a clean, soft towel. Be sure to leave your skin slightly damp., Before your skin dries completely, apply your favorite after-cleaning facial products. This can include:


Serums
Eye creams
Toners
Moisturizers

, Another important part of making sure your eyeshadow lasts is to provide the shadow with a base to stick to. While eyeshadow may initially stick to your skin, over time it will smear, smudge, and fade. But if you use a base, the eyeshadow will have something else to stick to, meaning it will last longer, and will look more vibrant. Popular eyeshadow bases include:


Primers
Concealers and foundations
Eyeliner

, Just like you can prime a wall before painting it, so too can you prime your skin before applying makeup. Be sure to use an oil-free primer that’s specifically designed for the eyes.Use a pea sized amount for each eye and use your finger or a brush to gently rub a thin layer of primer all over your eyelids and underneath your eyes.Let it dry for a few seconds before moving on and applying your eyeshadow., Oil-free liquid concealer or foundation can be used as a substitute for primer. Apply a light coat of concealer or foundation to your eyelid like you would a primer, and then allow it to set for a few seconds. Then apply a thin layer of face powder over top of the concealer.Using concealer will help cover up redness and veins,which is especially important if you're going to be using a light eyeshadow.
Be sure to use a concealer or foundation that’s a shade lighter than your skin tone to even out your complexion.
 Choose a white eyeliner or an eyeliner that’s a similar shade to the eyeshadow that you'll be applying (this will make the color even more intense).Starting at your lash line, apply the eyeliner to your eyelid all the way up to the crease of your eye.


Blend the eyeliner by gently rubbing it into your eyelid with your finger.When you do apply your eyeshadow, be sure to gently press it into the base you’ve created with the eyeliner.
 To make your eyeshadow last as long as possible, use a combination of cream and powder eyeshadows on top of your base. Start with the cream shadow, applying it with a brush to your eyelid, lash line, and the crease of your eye.If you are using different shades of eyeshadow, experiment with different cream and powder hues to see how they can be mixed and matched to create different effects.
 Dip a clean brush into your powder eyeshadow and tap off the excess. Apply a layer of powder over top of the cream eyeshadow.Once you have applied all your eyeshadow, you can apply your eyeliner, and then your mascara. For the best results and to prevent smearing, use a quick drying eyeliner., As a final, optional step, consider using a makeup setting spray over top of your eyeshadow that will set your makeup and help it last longer.Makeup setting sprays do for makeup what hairspray does for your hairdo: they keep it in place longer. These products go by several names, including:


Fixing mist
Makeup fixer
Set and stay

