 Point the ball's valve, where the air-pump is inserted, directly back toward you. Fluff the grass so the ball sits as high and soft on it as possible. Take several steps to drop back, and kick the ball head-on, flush with the valve, as flat as possible. Use the top of your laces and put no English or spin on the ball whatsoever.


Struck correctly, a knuckle ball will feint slightly through the air, not spinning, but dipping up and down unpredictably. If you can get it over the wall, it can be very hard for a goalie to trap, and can even slip through the hands suddenly. It almost defies physics.
 If you're within striking distance, everyone will expect that you'll take a shot on goal. Instead, try to curve it around the wall for a higher-probability assisting goal, or chip it up softly over the wall for a chance at a header. Or even just make a sharp pass to an unmarked teammate off the wall. Put the ball into play rather than trying to bend it like Beckham.
 Too often, defenders who form a wall to defend a free kick will jump up in the air instinctively when the ball is kicked. This is especially true if you're close to the goal and have taken several shots at the wall before, trying to get over it. One sneaky trick is to aim as low as possible, to skid the ball under the wall, hopefully going under the defenders to break the defense and let a teammate get a shot on it.
 Look to pass into space next to the wall and let a teammate run onto the ball rather than trying to get it up in the air. Use the angles opened up by the wall to make a surprising pass, rather than trying to use power to muscle the ball into the box.
 You can sometimes juke out the defenders forming the wall, and even get the goalie to hop out of position prematurely, by organizing between two and four teammates to take fake free kicks, running toward the ball in a coordinated way, but jumping over it instead and running on to take a pass if necessary. After they swarm toward the goal, take the chip over the wall as your teammates run onto the ball.


Alternatively, you can have a teammate make a short touch back to you, who can take cross the ball in, shoot it, or work a pass around from a new angle to get the ball back into play.







