 Instead of thinking of the sexual or romantic things you could be doing with someone else, do those things with your partner. Surprise them with a gift or a picnic. Take them back to the spot where you first met them. Plan a mini vacation for just the two of you. If you invest in your own relationship, you will be less likely to wander., When there is a problem, talk to your partner about it. Listen to their opinions, without interruption. Try to have as few unresolved issues between the two of you as possible.Avoid yelling or cursing at your partner.
 Take a moment to reflect on why you fell in love with them in the first place. Write down everything you like about them, from the freckle below their left eye to their kind heart. Celebrate them for the things you love about them rather than finding these attributes in others.

You might even consider sharing this list with your spouse.
 Often times, your partner probably makes you very happy; however, the idea that grass might be greener on the other side can poison even the best of relationships. Begin keeping a journal documenting your days, and the status of your relationship with your partner.

Write down any arguments you had or times when they were kind to you. Think about what you would be missing if your relationship ended due to cheating.
 At the end of the day, some people are just not meant for monogamy. This does not mean that you should cheat, but that you should instead be honest with your partner. They might be feeling the same way and perhaps you two could have an open relationship, instead. Or perhaps, it is time to move on so your partner can find someone whose views on relationships are more in line with their own., If you have always had a problem with cheating on your partners in the past and you desire to turn over a new leaf, seek professional help. It is unfair to continue entering into romantic relationships with people if you have these unresolved issues. Many counselors can help reshape the way people think about things and create new habits. Find a therapist in your area and make an appointment for a session. Being faithful can sometimes be tough, but with the right supports, you can keep your commitment!