 Finding a village should be the very first step to making a business. You will need the villagers for trading and their crops to trade with.
 This will keep your villagers alive., This doesn't have to be your home, but it will do for now., You may even try rounding up sheep, cows, chickens, and pigs for meat trades., This will allow you to trade more with the villagers and other players., Once they see you are making a profit trading, they will be interested on getting in with the business.

The jobs for players will be

Farmer (For harvesting crops.)
Hunter (For livestock)
Excavator (For mining)
Builder (For expanding areas and homage for others)
Organizer (For separating the goods into their proper places)



,
Let them prove themselves to you before accepting them into your business.
Do not promote them to a higher ranking job until they have shown their worth.
Check their past records with other players to see if they have stolen or cheated out others.
Have a friend you trust watch over the newcomers to make sure they know what they are doing.


This should be the nerve center of all your work after you get everything flowing good.
 Give out a quill and book to people so they can write their applications to you to work for you. This will allow organization and written consent for them to be hired or denied. Have an Ender Chest for these important documents.

This will allow organization and written consent for them to be hired or denied.
Have an Ender Chest for these important documents.
Make the office look cozy and welcoming. Add plants, bookshelves, pictures, and a fireplace, if desired.
 It may take time to get things flowing properly, but it depends on how many players are on the server and how well known you are also. Try promoting yourself by giving away items and saying that they can have more by working for you and they will not have to worry about surviving on their own. Hand out flyers (books) of what your business will be and offer benefits such as free living and protection. Food should also be included.

Once the business has grown big enough, you could try expanding into another village or start a donation shop.

