 It's great to try to make the most out of a negative situation. However, you want to make sure you avoid getting into further trouble. Know who's running the detention and what that teacher's personality is like. Some teachers may be very strict and vigilant while others may be somewhat lax about the rules.


If you don't know the teacher, ask other students who've worked with this teacher in the past. They may be able to offer some insight that can help you navigate detention.
If you're stuck with a strict teacher, make a point of following the rules. Even if it's difficult, you want to avoid getting into further trouble.
 What are the rules in your school regarding conduct for detention? Make sure you know them going into detention. You want to avoid getting into more trouble.


You do not want to end up in detention in another week or have to face more serious consequences. If your school has strict rules, try to follow them.
Some rules are easily bendable. For example, while outside reading may be forbidden, a particular teacher may not strictly enforce such rules. In that situation, bend the rules to pass the time.
However, if a teacher asks you to stop a particular behavior, do not push it. You are in detention for a reason. Being disrespectful of the rules could land you in more trouble.
 During detention, take some time to reflect on why you're there. You may be able to figure out how to avoid ending up in detention in the future.


If you're in detention because you had too many tardies, think of ways to better manage your time. Plan to get up an hour early in the mornings. Think about avoiding checking your phone or going on the computer until you're showered and dressed.
If you're in detention for disrespecting a teacher, consider why you were disrespectful. You do not want to get in trouble again. If you have trouble managing your outbursts, talk to your parents about possibly seeing a psychiatrist to talk about regulating your emotions.
If you hurt another student's feelings, reflect on how that student may feel. Think about the comments you made. Imagine how you would feel if someone said something like that about you or a friend. After detention, make an effort to genuinely apologize to that student.

