 If you're interested in purchasing organic foods, you'll need to understand organic labeling laws. Not everything labeled "organic" is necessarily 100% organic.


Foods that are labeled as 100% organic or organic must abide by the following: be produced without genetic engineering, radiation or sludge; not use any synthetic chemicals or pesticides in the farming process; and go through and pay for the USDA certification process.Foods that are labeled 100% must meet these guidelines. In addition, all of their ingredients need to be 100% organic as well. No other additives outside of water or salt are permitted.Foods that are only labeled "organic" are 95% organic.If you're interested in buying organic foods, make sure they are labeled with the USDA seal.Avoid products without specialty labeling.;
, Some of the best types of organic foods you can buy — of all categories — is locally grown organic products. The benefits of these foods extend beyond the benefits of organically raised items.


Local foods and produce are often times more flavorful. These foods are picked at the peak of freshness instead of being picked early to account for long shipping and transit times.Locally grown items are often higher in nutrients as well. Foods that are grown far away or in other countries slowly lose many of their nutrients over time.Like organic foods, local produce is also environmentally friendly. You don't need to have the items shipped far and it helps support the local farming community., Some of the absolute best foods to buy organically grown are fruits and vegetables. These foods tend to be the "dirtiest" or contain the highest amount of pesticide and chemical residues.You can of course, go for all organic fruits and vegetables; however, organics can be costly to purchase and put you over your food budget. The method of farming and lower output makes these foods pricey.
If you want to limit your organic produce purchases to be more economical, consider only purchasing organic versions of the common "dirty dozen." The following foods are known to have the highest amount of chemical residue:apples, peaches, nectarines, strawberries, grapes, celery, spinach, sweet bell peppers, potatoes, tomatoes, cherries and lettuce.
 Although there are benefits to buying all organic protein sources (due to less chemicals, hormones and antibiotic use), the best protein to buy organic is red meat.


The hormones added to beef may be linked to increased risk of certain cancers, though research is ongoing.
In addition, many cattle are given a variety of antibiotics when they are raised and these levels of antibiotics have been shown to show up in the meat itself. The USDA believes these antibiotics and the common use of them may lead to the development of antibiotic resistant bacteria., Similar to beef products, dairy products can also be contaminated by the chemicals, hormones and antibiotics the cows are fed or given when they are raised. This is a great group of foods to buy organic.


Milk makes up a large part of the dairy foods consumed. Studies have shown that conventional milk contains higher levels of the hormones rBST or rBGH, which may be linked to certain cancers in humans, though this is inconclusive.If you have children or you yourself drink large quantities of milk, use it in cereal or oatmeal or to make smoothies, buy organic milk.
 Although there is no nutritional difference between conventional and organic baby food, purchasing organic baby food may be a good idea, as infants and babies may be more susceptible to the residues found in conventional produce used to make baby foods. Their immune systems are not as mature as an adults.If you're purchasing baby food, go for 100% organic — especially of the "dirty dozen".
In addition, if you're making your own baby food from scratch, use 100% organic meats and produce.
 Outside of the food arena, there are other household products that are considered organic or free from harmful chemicals. These may be good to buy in addition to your organic foods.


Many non-stick cookware pieces — like pots and pans — contain a fluorochemical called PTFE. When overheated (over 35 ºC or 662ºF), the pan releases toxic chemicals into your food and air that can coat your lungs and cause allergy-like symptoms.Many cleaning agents contain harmful chemicals like bleach, ammonia, chlorine and phthalates. All can irritate the skin, eyes and respiratory tract.You may want to look for natural or chemical-free versions of your household cleaners.

