 You'll want these fries to be thicker than the other two methods, as this helps them avoid drying out.









Peel the potatoes (optional -- if not, rinse and scrub skins).
Cut each potato lengthwise into two halves.
Lay each half cut-side down, then cut parallel to the cutting board to cut in half once more.
Cut these potato planks into your fries.
 This vinegar boil is called "parboiling," and the vinegar helps to keep the potatoes nice and firm. Put everything into the pot cold, then crank the heat up to high until it boils for 10 minutes.









When pierced with a fork, each fry should be tender but not falling apart., The buttermilk will form the crust needed to get a nice, crispy fry. Normally this comes from the deep-frier, but you won't be deep-frying this time. The buttermilk is a perfect substitute.
 The potatoes will need to cook in the oil, but you want the oil to be hot to avoid soggy, greasy fries. Heating up the oil in the oven ahead of time is the perfect solution. While you could check the temperature, it should be good to go after 2-3 minutes, and will quickly rise to the right heat if the oven is pre-heated.
 Whisk together these dry ingredients -- they are the second half of your DIY oven french fry crispy-crust. This is also a great time to whisk in any desired flavors or seasonings, like a teaspoon (5ml) of any or all of:


Thyme
Black Pepper
Garlic Powder
Paprika
Cayenne Pepper (only 1/2 teaspoon (2.5ml), unless you want spicy fries).
 Pour the buttermilk/potato mixture through a sieve, then dust the potatoes with the flour mixture. Leave it in the sieve, shaking to coat evenly and remove any excess dry ingredients. You want light and evenly coated potato sticks.
 The waiting period helps your lovely crust develop, and then it's right from here to the oven. Remove the hot oil carefully and layer the potatoes down so they don't overlap.
 The face-down side should be a beautiful golden brown. Use a set of kitchen tongs to flip each potato over.
 Once they are pierced with a fork and an appealing color, they're ready to come out.
 Your potatoes are ready to serve! Blot with paper towels to remove excess oil, and salt to taste as soon as they come out of the oven.







