 Gaining a diverse set of skills as it relates to the card printing business could be very valuable. Know the ins-and-outs of printing, and you’ll be ready to succeed and expand if when the time comes.


Work for a potentially rival printing card business. Gain the information and tricks of the trade before you venture out on your own. The experience will be invaluable.
Try a job at a newspaper printer. Operating a printing machine will help you learn about the types of printing machines (e.g. lithography), how to install printing plates, and the processes involved with inking the presses. You’ll also learn about paper sizing related to machinery.
Work for a nationwide printing service. Learn the ropes from a place that has made it large, like Kinkos or Staples.;
, Go to where they have stores and talk to the employees. Learn about what services and products they offer.


Note which cards they stock. The type of paper, the lettering, and the amount they can deliver are all important items to note.
Observe their inventory. You may be able to glean information about their financial status by how much they have on the shelves and what types of large-scale services they may be able to fulfill with on-hand quantity.
Look at the location of their stock. Their experience may already tell them which types of cards turn over the biggest profit or which are easiest to sell. Having those items in specific locations may be to entice the customer.
Note the price of their cards and other items. Knowing how much they charge for their cards could provide you with a competitive advantage if you’re able to undercut that price.
 Identify the historical and current trends to gather a knowledge about items will sell like hot-cakes, and which items will languish on the shelves. Pink card-stock may be the rage on Valentine’s day, but stocking up on it for the rest of the year might not be a great idea.
 You may want to get information about card printing by joining the International Card Manufacturers Association (ICMA). Lean on the decades of experience from members to jump unforeseen hurdles.
 You need to be unique, a business with a niche that separates and raises you above the rest. It’s not just about what you can do, but what your competitors can’t or won’t do.


Find a weakness in your rivals. Look for orders they won’t fill, items they don’t stock. Call in their businesses and see what sorts of limits they place on their services. Aim to fill all the gaps they create.
Find your target audience. Do you want to target small businesses, young professionals, or a huge corporation? See what current deals they have, and attempt to find a way to beat or modify those deals. Ingratiate yourself to the customers you would like to have.

