 Restaurant owner Alfredo di Lello invented Alfredo sauce for his wife by mixing together Parmesan, cream and butter in his kitchen. The sauce reportedly restored her appetite during an uncomfortable pregnancy. In this recipe, chopped raw cashews and almond milk thicken the sauce without requiring heavy cream or dairy. Traditional Alfredo is full of fat and calories; the vegan version is much healthier.;
, Marinara sauce has its origins in the 16th century. Supposedly, the Neapolitan sailors invented the sauce after the Spanish introduced the tomato, a New World crop, to Europe. A pot of simmering spaghetti sauce will fill your home with delightful aromas. You can add vegan meatballs or tofu crumbles if you prefer the texture of meat without animal ingredients.
 Italian cooks utilize a variety of vegetables when making their own homemade tomato sauces. Add some red pepper flakes to this recipe to transform it into an ‘arrabiata’ (angry) sauce. You can use vegan tomato sauce as a topping for linguine or other pasta, since its strong flavors contrast nicely with the mildness of pasta. This sauce can also serve as a topping for pizza or as a dip for calzones or garlic bread.
 Peppers are used in many different Italian dishes. For example, many Italians use peppers to make Nduja, which is similar to Andouille sausage. This article will teach you how to roast your own red peppers at home. Use the finished sauce to top pasta, ravioli or gnocchi.
 Peanut sauce is generally used in cuisine from Africa, Thailand, Malaysia, China, Vietnam and Indonesia. Ginger is a common ingredient, as is garlic, coconut milk and spices. Vegan ginger peanut sauce makes an excellent sauce for stir-fry. It combines well with rice and other grains as well as with tofu.
 Gravy is traditionally made by sautéing flour in animal fat to form a roux. Then, cooks add milk or water to make gravy. You can still “pass the gravy” with this recipe that substitutes olive oil for animal fat. You’ll also know that you’re serving a much healthier version of a rich and beloved classic.
 Curry with vegetables makes a wonderful, flavorful weeknight supper. With this recipe, you’ll create three batches of sauce that you can freeze and quickly thaw for a quick meal any time of day. Curry is associated with Southern Asia but was actually invented by the British. The term curry was a catch-all for sauces made from butter, nuts, spices and fruits that were poured over rice.
 The Aztecs invented the concept of wrapping, filling and eating tortillas. The word “enchilada” first appeared in the U.S. in 1885 and literally means, “in chile.” Traditional enchiladas are more of a street snack consisting of a corn tortilla dipped in chile sauce rather than the casserole-like dish that we prepare in the U.S. today. This article provides techniques for making both red and green enchilada sauce so that you can customize your recipe to your tastes.
 This traditional French sauce usually has a base of milk with a buttery roux. This recipe uses almond meal and almond milk to create a similarly creamy texture. Top it off with a pinch of nutmeg and serve it with stuffed squash or with pasta. In France, béchamel sauce is known as one of the four meres or “mother sauces” from which all other sauces are derived.
 Pesto means “pressed.” The inventors of this sauce had no access to food processors or blenders. Instead, they pressed the basil and other ingredients with a mortar and pestle. This vegan pesto recipe substitutes nutritional yeast for the traditional parmesan cheese. This flexible sauce makes a delicious topping for pizza, pasta and even warm potato salad.
 Historians believe that Mole was invented in the 1680s in a convent in Puebla de los Angeles. The sister superior of the convent supposedly created the dish to honor the archbishop who created a convent for her order. Vegan mole sauce still has the rich, cocoa-infused flavor of the traditional sauce. Use this sauce to add flavor to vegan chili or use it to create a twist on a traditional pot of beans.

