 Most cats won't like to be anywhere near water, but some breeds are more accommodating than others.If you'd like your cat to be water-friendly, consider getting any of the following common cat breeds:


Bengal
Turkish angora or van
American bobtail
Maine coon

, Kittens are more likely to be calm around water the earlier you introduce them to it. Within the first few months of the cat's life, it's ok to try to introduce them to water calmly and gently, going a little at a time.


Introduce the cat to water when its calm and tired. The best time to bathe a cat? Right after its been playing, or has eaten. Cats tend to get really active just before eating, and just after is the perfect time to try to introduce your kitten to water, if necessary.
Trim the cat's claws before you try to introduce it to water, and wear long sleeves when you're trying to play with the cat in water.
 Many house cats are fascinated by dripping faucets. For a quick test, to see whether or not your cat will be water-friendly or easy to bathe, try to set your faucet to drip at a slow, even rate. Set your cat up on the counter and see if it seems interested in the dripping.


Some cats will play with faucet water, or even drink from it. Others will ignore it completely. Both are perfectly normal cat responses., Make sure to be quiet, slow and gentle and use warm water in a spray bottle. Use a calm tone of voice and hold the cat against your body with one hand firmly under its belly. Pet the cat along the back of the neck and the jaw to help it calm down some if you're trying to introduce it to water. Move extremely slowly.


In some cases, it's good to wrap the cat in a soft, fluffy, warm towel while you're doing this. You can use it to dry the cat off when you're finished, and use it to calm the cat now.
Never try to introduce a cat to water by submerging it in the tub. There's no reason to use that much water to clean a small cat, and you'll only serve to aggravate the animal.
 The best way for a cat to contact water is with its paws. Use a small spray bottle to wet a small washcloth with warm water and get the kittens paws wet. Wait a while and let the cat feel the sensation. Let the kitten groom itself and get used to the sensation of the water on its fur.
 Eventually, you can apply more water with a spray bottle, or in some cases (with very accommodating cats) bathe them. Go very slowly, gently adding a small amount of water to the cat's fur at a time. Hold the cat firmly against your chest to keep them calm and restrained.


If you just want to see if your cat will play in water, let your cat dictate the move. If it screeches and struggles to get away from you when you put some water on its paws, guess what? Your cat doesn't like water.
If the cat makes a break for it, it's usually best to just give it up. Don't force interactions if the cat's not having it.
 Always make sure the kitten is kept warm and immediately dry the kitten off with a towel followed by a warm, fluffy towel. You might be able to use a quiet blow-dryer on a very low setting, unless your cat gets scared off.


Let the cat groom itself and provide a warm sleeping area for the animal. Again, healthy cats are fully capable of grooming themselves.
 Most cats don't like water and most cats don't need to be bathed. There's little reason to force a cat to do something it doesn't want to do. If your cat doesn't like water, don't force it.


Cats generally not need to be bathed, and should only be bathed if they've gotten into something especially dirty or toxic.If you must wash your cat, trim their claws first and introduce them to water when they're tired out from playing.
Don't submerge cats in water to bathe them. Instead, use a spray bottle to wet their fur and gently wash them with a washcloth.
Dry the cat thoroughly any time they become wet. Use a fluffy warm towel to dry the cat's fur.

