 Great defenders may not get the glory, but they win games. A good defender reads the game and offense to cut out threats before they get near goal. They are confident and physical, muscling off attackers to win the ball either in the air or on the ground. If you love frustrating the other team, leaving them empty-handed, be a defender. Natural defenders tend to be:


Tall and strong, holding their own against big forwards.
Smart and confident, knowing when to step and make a tackle and when to wait.
Good at crosses and clearances from both feet.
Effective communicators with teammates and other defenders.
Tireless, hunting down attackers throughout the entire game.;
, Midfielders are the all-around players who must do a bit of everything -- tackle, pass, shoot, hold the ball, etc. Their most important job is to keep the team together, organizing the attack and distributing the ball from the backs up to the forwards. In general, midfielders:


Run up and down the field for long periods.
Pass accurately at both long and short distances.
Remain composed and calm with the ball.
Play effectively with both left and right feet as dribblers, shooters, and passers.
Understand both defense and offensive strategies/tactics., Forwards, sometimes known as strikers, have one job: score. To do so, they tend to be big and/or fast players. They must be excellent in the air and have a high top speed to beat defenders to the ball. Good strikers are great shooters, both from the ground and out of the air, and they have an aggressive mentality that aims to score at any opportunity. Strikers prioritize:


One-on-one moves and tricks to beat defenders.
Bursts of speed and power to win the ball and shoot.
Quick, accurate shots from anywhere near the box.
Strong aerial play to win crosses and clearances.
 Good goalkeepers are like cats, pouncing on the ball the second after it leaves an attacker's foot. They must also be smart, confident players, knowing when to come out and snag a cross and when to stay in goal and wait for a shot. If you're good with your hands and quick off your feet, consider being a keeper.


Remember that being a keeper isn't just about your hands-- it is about rapid, split-second jumps and leaps to block shots.
 While the advice above is a good start, you won't know your best position until you've played all of them. Furthermore, the best players in the world can play a little bit of everything and understand the entire field, not just one spot. While body type and style are key, the most important part of choosing a position is feeling comfortable and effective.


Until you are 11-12, there is no need to pick one position, just play everywhere.In practice or pick-up games with friends, try to move around a lot. What feels comfortable? What do you enjoy playing?
Lionel Messi, based on body type, should not be a striker -- he is much too small. But his incredible quickness, foot-skills, and intelligence helped him become one of the world's best scorers.
 Tactics refer to your team's lineup and are represented by a series of numbers starting from the defenders. So, the phrase "4-4-2" means your team has four defenders, four midfielders, and two forwards. A 3-5-3 would have three defenders, five midfielders, and three forwards. Note, however, that coaches vary the exact positions all the time, meaning you need to pay attention in practice to know what position are available to you.


Your team's formation is easiest to see right at kick-off. Where everyone starts will dictate the positions and tactics.