 One of the most effective ways to gain an employee’s trust is to keep your word. This means that when you say you will do something, be it give your employees a raise, or fix the vending machine, you do it. Keeping your word also includes being on time for meetings, and respecting your employee’s wish to discuss something with you; if you say you are going to be free at 10:30 to talk to an employee, do everything you can to be free at that time. This may help your employees to trust you, because they will see that you do what you say.


On the other hand, if you don’t follow through with what you say, your employees may think that they have to remind you again and again about something you said awhile ago. This can cause tension in the workplace, and is not conducive to a trusting—or productive—environment.;
, To the best of your abilities—and to the extent that your boss wishes—try to openly discuss the state of the company with your employees. Discuss the challenges the company is facing, as well as the goals and achievements. You can also discuss the challenges you are personally facing at your job; being open about your own state of affairs may help your employees to feel that they can discuss their own challenges with you.


Of course, there is some information you cannot share, like the salaries of other employees.
 Keep in mind that your employees may come to you for help with challenges they are facing; if you demonstrate that you can be of assistance, and know what you are doing, they will be more likely to trust you.


While this does not mean that you have to be know how to do everything around the office, you should have a grasp on what you have claimed that you specialize in. If you do not know how to do something, do not try to show fake knowledge; instead admit that you aren’t sure what to do, and then call in the person you do think will know how to solve the problem so that you, the employee, and the person you have called in can work on the problem together.
 Try to be consistent in your interactions with your employees; rather than making your trustworthiness a one time deal, try to demonstrate in often. Remember that sticking to your word can help you to gain the trust of your employees.

