 Your teenager might not always want to admit it, but they still look up to you. If you demonstrate positive ways to cope with stress, they’ll probably adopt these coping strategies too. Practice healthy behaviors like eating a balanced diet, making time for sleep, getting regular exercise, and working relaxation into your day.Avoid coping with your own stress by smoking cigarettes, drinking alcohol, or using drugs. Your teenager may start doing the same things.
Make sure to model good problem solving skills as well.
 Overscheduling is a common source of stress in teens. If your child is having a hard time getting everything done, help them look over their schedule and see if they can cut any activities out.If your teen regularly tries to pack their schedule too full, make some rules about how many activities they can participate in.
 Exercise is a potent stress reliever, but many teens don’t take advantage of its benefits. Encourage your child to play a sport, take up running, or just work more walking into their day.If your teen doesn’t like to exercise, make it a family activity by suggesting that you start walking or going to the gym together.
One good way to get your teen to exercise more is to limit their screen time.
 Sleep is essential for managing stress. Teens need between 9 and 9 ½ hours of sleep every night, so make sure they have a quiet environment that’s conducive to a good night’s rest.If your teen has trouble falling asleep, help them create a bedtime routine to wind down and relax. Suggest that they stop using electronics at least an hour before bed and read a book, write in a journal, or do another soothing activity instead. If you are met with resistance on using electronics before bedtime, then you may need to make it a rule.
 If despite your best efforts your teen continues to experience the symptoms of stress, they may need to see a professional mental health therapist. A therapist can serve as an unbiased person who your teen can talk to about matters that they may not feel as comfortable sharing with a parent. In addition, a therapist can teach your teen relaxation techniques and problem-solving skills to better cope with stress now and in the future.Contact the guidance counselor at your teen's school for help, or reach out to your family doctor for a mental health referral.

