 Reintroducing nutrients like calcium into your teeth may help strengthen them. One way to get rid of white spots and other signs of damage on your teeth is to make a remineralizing toothpaste that is rich in calcium and other basic elements. Ingredients like baking soda will also act as abrasive elements to scuff off the white spots and normalize the pH balance in your mouth. To make remineralizing toothpaste:Combine 5 tablespoons (74 mL) of calcium powder, 2 tablespoons (30 mL) of baking soda, and 1 tablespoon (15 mL) of food-grade diatomaceous earth in a small bowl. You can also add 3 tablespoons (44 mL) of xylitol powder to help keep the paste from tasting too bitter.
Add enough coconut oil to the powdered ingredients to form a paste-like consistency. This is typically about 3 – 5 tablespoons (44 – 74 mL) of coconut oil.
If desired, you can also add one or two drops of food-safe essential oil for taste. Popular options include mint, lemon, and cinnamon.
Store the paste in a sealed jar, and brush your teeth with it two to three times daily.;
, If you prefer to use tooth powders to brush your teeth instead of toothpaste, you can create a homemade remineralizing powder using bentonite clay, which has the ability to draw out heavy metals and toxins from your teeth and mouth and restore the pH balance of your mouth. The clay is rich in minerals like calcium, magnesium, and silica, which help get rid of white spots on your teeth. To make remineralizing tooth powder at home:Combine 4 tablespoons (60 mL) of bentonite clay, 3 tablespoons (44 mL) of calcium powder, 1 tablespoon (15 mL) of cinnamon powder, 1 teaspoon (5 mL) of clove powder, 1 tablespoon (15 mL) of xylitol powder, and 1 tablespoon (15 mL) of baking soda in a small bowl.
If desired, you can also add 2 teaspoons (10 mL) of mint leaf powder or a few drops of peppermint or cinnamon food-safe essential oil to improve the flavor of the tooth powder.
Store the powder in a sealed jar, and apply to the teeth with your finger or a toothbrush two to three times daily.
 Green tea is a natural ingredient found in a number of homeopathic remedies, and it also has properties that can help get rid of white spots on your teeth. Green tea is a mineral- and vitamin-rich food source that may help remineralize teeth. Green tea also contains antibacterial catechins, which may prevent the buildup of plaque. Green tea is also a natural source of fluoride. To use green tea:Soak one tea bag of green tea leaves in 1 – 2 cups (0.2 – 0.5 L) of warm water, keeping the leaves submerged for about five minutes before removing the bag.
Let the tea cool till it tolerably warm, but not too hot. When it has cooled, take a swig of tea and swirl it all around your mouth for 30 seconds to one minute. Repeat until all of the tea is gone.
Repeat this process about two to four times daily.
Keep in mind, however, that green tea can stain your teeth gray if you drink too much of it, so use this method sparingly.
 Oil pulling is an ancient remedy that uses essential oils to remove toxins and bacteria from the mouth. Oil pulling can also whiten the teeth, prevent dry mouth, and restore the mineral content in teeth. Regular oil pulling may help get rid of white spots on the teeth as well as strengthen your teeth and gums. Oil pulling is best if done first thing in the morning after waking up, but you can also do it again at night for speedier results.Take roughly 1 – 2 tablespoons (15 – 30 mL) of organic coconut oil or sesame oil into your mouth.
Swish the oil around your entire mouth for about one to two minutes to start. As you get more accustomed to oil pulling, gradually increase this time to about 20 minutes if you can.
After pulling the oil for your set amount of time, spit it out and rinse your mouth with warm water.
Follow up oil pulling by brushing your teeth with a remineralizing toothpaste or tooth powder.
Remember that oil pulling does not replace brushing your teeth. You can either do this before or after brushing your teeth.
 Some ingredients in over-the-counter products can cause damage to teeth and result in more white spots. This is because these products contain bleach and other chemicals that resurface and recolor the enamel on your teeth, which weakens the enamel in the process. Since white spots are already an indication of weakened tooth enamel, trying to get rid of white spots by inflicting more damage on the teeth is counterproductive.


Try dipping a cotton swab into freshly squeezed lemon juice and applying it to the teeth. Freshly squeezed lemon juice is a natural form of bleach, so this is a safe way to naturally whiten the teeth and help the white spots to blend in.Even so, make sure you stop if you feel any sort of pain or tooth sensitivity.
The process will take longer but the results can be promising

