 Bullies often lack empathy, which is why they are able to hurt and tease others without feeling bad about it. Children who seem to be devoid of compassion or don’t feel bad for others often tend to bully. They also have a hard time looking at situations from perspectives other than their own.If your child tells you about a child who was teased at school, you might ask, “How do you think that felt to him?” or “How did you feel when you witnessed that happening?” Their answer can help you understand their ability to relate to others.;
, Part of the appeal of bullying is a desire for increased social status. Bullies often like being popular, admired, or even feared by others, and they use their bullying as a means to get there. In fact, research shows that, as kids are climbing the social rungs of power at school, aggressive behavior increases. The more popular they become, often, the more bullying that occurs.For example, if you hear your child saying that they stopped being friends with some old friends in favor of sitting at the popular kids’ table or being accepted by a new group, this could be a clue that they are interested in popularity.
On the other hand, a mere interest in popularity doesn't denote bullying behavior. You'll want to pay attention to your child using social status in an aggressive manner. For instance, they may refuse to be seen with an old friend who is unpopular, or they might make another less popular kid do their homework or give them money.
 Do they seem proud or arrogant? Bullies are often perceived as having high self-esteem and as such, appear proud and arrogant. They usually think they can do things better than everyone else and look down on others because of it. They may also believe that everyone likes them and wants to be just like them.


If you hear your child talking to a friend about how ugly or stupid someone is and how they are so much better looking or smarter than that person, they could be bullying that person.Your child might be talking on the phone and say, "None of the girls even like Toby. He's so weird and ugly."

, One more subtle form of bullying, frequently exercised by females, is called relational aggression. This type of bullying may not include obvious threats like punching or name-calling. It may involve harder to pinpoint behaviors like starting rumors, backstabbing, or excluding certain students.You can spot relational aggression in your child's communication, too. A bully might be talking to one friend and say, "I would let Samantha come to my party, but she wears old-fashioned clothes. It's embarrassing. I don't want Leslie and Raven to think I like her."

, If you suspect that your child could be bullying kids at school, reach out to their teacher, coach, or school counselor. Often, it takes the concentrated effort of several people in a child's life to pinpoint bullying behavior and intervene. Ask these adults what their impression of your child's behavior is at school and how your child seems to get along with other students.You might say, "Excuse me, Mr. Coffman, but I wanted to talked to you about Joseph. One of his other teachers says he acts aggressive on the playground with the other boys, even picking on one particular kid. Have you seen any examples of behavior like this?"

, Any child has the potential for over-stepping the line of aggressive behavior at school. One incident isn't usually enough to warrant a label of bullying. However, if the school is calling you on a regular basis about your child's behavior or other parents have reached out to you, you may want to take their concerns more seriously.


Your child's school likely has a policy requiring them to document any instances of bullying behavior, investigate it, and try to resolve the problem. If your child is repeatedly getting into trouble about bullying, work with the school to determine how you can help intervene., Bullies often display aggressive behavior towards others, including parents, teachers, siblings, and other adults. This aggressiveness is often in the form of yelling, making disrespectful comments, and even harming them physically. They will often show no remorse about what they’ve done, even if they hurt someone else., If your child is hot-tempered, lashes out towards others, easily frustrates, and is impulsive, they may be more inclined to display bully-type behavior. Bullies also often test limits and boundaries, and break rules. They typically either don’t care about following rules, or feel that they don’t apply to them., Does your child only play with certain kids and refuse to play with others? Bullies tend to exclude some kids from study or play, and are intolerant of children who are “different” or “weird.” Bullies often interact with children who are also aggressive and who possibly bully others., Cyberbullying is an easy way to target others. Often, children attack victims on social media sites like Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. If your child seems to always spend time on the phone or computer, it could be because bullying is taking place.


Social media provides a way to behave aggressively and inappropriately behind a screen. A lot of bullying is carried out anonymously—and to the obliviousness of parents., Bullies are often able to charm themselves out of certain situations. They also typically put on a show when grown-ups are around and act extremely nice and caring. If they aren’t like this all of the time, or only when they are potentially in trouble, it could be a sign they are bullies. , Often, there are underlying causes for bullying. It could be because they see their parents exhibiting the same behavior. The bullying could also occur because of a need to be popular and they feel this is the only way to do it. Sometimes, the bullying could also take place because the child was bullied before in the past.You might say, “I saw that you are no longer playing with Charlie anymore? You want to tell me about that?” Then, depending on their response, you might go on to say, “You should know that bullying is wrong. Let’s talk about what counts as bullying so we can be sure you’re not doing that…”

, You know your child better than anyone and because of this, you know what type of punishment would likely work best. Some parents find that paying extra attention to the child combats the behavior, while others find that having the bullying apologize and feel embarrassed does the trick. Taking your child to a homeless shelter or place where there are people who are less fortunate may also teach empathy, which could make them feel remorse about the way they are acting., If you can’t seem to get through to your child, consult a therapist or counselor for help. The therapist may be able to get to the bottom of why your child is exhibiting the hateful behavior. Through sessions, the therapist may also stop the child from doing it again.Ask your child’s doctor or guidance counselor for recommendations on a therapist that can help, if you’re not sure where to look.

