 Research shows that not only is exercise a great stress-reliever, it improves your ability to concentrate and study. Find something that you love to do, and try to set aside part of every day to do it. You might like running, bicycling, walking, dancing, or another exercise. Both aerobic exercise (exercise that makes you breathe more heavily) and anaerobic exercise (like weight-lifting) can help you get rid of stress.Regular exercise actually changes your brain chemistry to get rid of stress, according to research.Exercise will improve the quality of your sleep, an important factor in preventing stress.
 If you're stressed, you'll need to find healthy ways to get rid of it. Punch a pillow, or take a deep breath. Take a short run. Your goal should be to recognize when you're stressed, and find ways that you can use to not take out your frustration on other people.Pretending that you're not stressed isn't really a successful long-term solution.
You can literally "blow" off steam by blowing on a pinwheel or a feather. The way this works is to encourage deep breathing and distracting your attention from the thing that's upsetting you.
 Even when you're feeling stressed, taking time to schedule relaxing activities for even short periods of time will help you avoid getting overwhelmed. Taking short walks, bubble baths, or setting aside time every day for meditation are all ways to include relaxation as a healthy part of your daily schedule.Find relaxing activities that don't take very long to do, such as jumping on a trampoline for the length of your favorite song, or spending 10 minutes playing with your dog.
Remember that doing things that make you feel relaxed and happy are essential part of living a successful life. They shouldn't make you feel guilty.
 Laughter is consistently shown to be one of the best ways to counteract stress. Taking 30 minutes to watch your favorite sitcom, or reading from a humorous website to relax are great ways to deal with stress. Browse through a joke book, or watch a scene from your favorite comedic movie when you need a break.Laughter serves to relieve your stress response, and stimulate relaxation. It even releases pain-relievers within the body.
Laughter Yoga is a new trend that is becoming popular. Look for videos of laughter yoga online if there's not a class happening near you. Chances are, even watching other people engaged in laughter will cause you to chuckle.
 Singing serves to reduce stress by lowering your heart rate and releasing endorphins that help you feel better. Whether you sing in a choir, or only in the shower, singing is a great way to lower your stress.Singing loudly maximizes the benefits that come from singing. If you life with other people, you might feel shy about doing this. Possible solutions are to sing when you're alone in the house, or go to the car and sing there.
Sing along with the radio or with your favorite artist if you're too self-conscious to sing alone.
 If you're feeling stressed, chances are you're getting less sleep than you need. Most people need at least 8 hours of sleep per night, and some may need more. Some common ways that stress interferes with sleep are racing thoughts as you settle into sleep, and repetitive and persistent thoughts that cause you to feel stressed as you try to get to sleep.Avoid strenuous exercise within 2 hours of sleep.
Try to maintain a regular sleep schedule on weekdays and weekends. Sleeping late on the weekends may seem pleasant, but it interferes with your circadian rhythm.
 A common response to stress is overeating foods that are high in calories, sugar and/or fat. However, poor eating habits result in more stress overall, spending more on foods and overeating, often resulting in weight gain. Maintain a healthy diet by sticking to foods that are high in nutritional content and fiber.


Instead of chips, try snacking on healthy things like apples, carrot sticks, or raw chopped up vegetables.
If you crave sugar when you're stressed out, make a smoothie from a banana, some blueberries and some non-fat yogurt. Other fruit combinations will also help satisfy your sweet tooth without resulting in more stress.
 Both caffeine and alcohol deplete the stress resources of your body and result in a higher level of stress. Caffeine interferes with your ability to get to sleep at night, while alcohol affects the quality of sleep you get.


Be aware than many products contain caffeine. Tea, coffee, sodas, and energy drinks are all possible sources of caffeine. The Mayo Clinic suggests that you limit yourself to no more than 100mg of caffeine per day (about the amount in a cup of brewed coffee) if you're an adolescent, and no more than 400mg per day if you're an adult.Both caffeine and alcohol may be used in moderation in times when you're not stressed. However, in stressful circumstances, these substances have a negative effect on the body.
Do not use alcohol if you are underage. People who drink underage are more likely to engage in other risky behaviors, including drug use and unsafe sex. They are also more likely to fail out of school.If you are of drinking age, consume it in moderation, which the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism defines as no more than 1 drink per day for women and no more than 2 drinks per day for men.