 Aggression in older dogs is relatively common. It is sometimes the result of declining cognitive function. However, aggression may also be the symptom of declining vision or hearing. For example, dogs with poor eyesight are startled easily by loud noises, triggering their flight or fight response.Be sure to have your veterinarian evaluate your dog and determine the cause of its aggression. They recommend medication for your dog’s anxiety.
 Once you have determined the roots of your dog’s aggression, you should avoid situations that increase its anxiety. For many older dogs, anxiety and fear are the root causes of their aggression. Avoiding situations that may trigger your dog’s fear response will help you manage its aggression.For example, if your dog is anxious around other people or animals, you should avoid taking them to places, such as parks, where they may be overwhelmed by new stimuli and act aggressively.
If your dog is dealing with vision problems, avoid creating loud noises around your dog or going places where there is a lot of auditory stimulation.
 If you are out with your dog, be on the lookout for signs of anxiety or stress. Heavy panting and growling are often an indication that your dog is overwhelmed and becoming irritated. Once you see these signs, remove your dog from the situation and take it somewhere familiar with a lower stimulus value.If you are in public, it may be best to simply take your dog home. Try not to take it somewhere new. This will only increase your dog’s anxiety.
 For elderly dogs with decreased cognitive capacity of poor vision and hearing, a head collar and will offer you more control over your pet. This will allow you to prevent your dog from lashing out and possibly hurting others. It will also help comfort your dog by reminding it that you are in control.If your dog is particularly aggressive or unpredictable, you may want to consider a basket muzzle. However, you should not leave a muzzled dog unattended. This could lead to series oral and facial damage.

