 In the wake of grief, people often neglect their physical needs. Even if it's difficult, make an effort to care for yourself. Not engaging in basic self care can affect your mood for the worse.


Eat right. Many people suffer from a loss of appetite after losing a loved one or have an erratic, somewhat unhealthy eating schedule. However, strive for a healthy and well-balanced diet after losing someone. Eating quality foods, like fruits and vegetables, can help regulate your mood.Try to engage in very basic self care rituals. When you're grieving, these can sometimes be forgotten. Remember to brush your teeth twice a day, shower regularly, and try to get some exercise. Some self care rituals will inevitably slip during the grieving process. However, try to keep up as best you can given the situation. Simply caring for yourself can help with your emotional wellbeing.
 Alcohol and drug use can be tempting after grief. It can help numb the pain. However, you are at higher risk to develop a substance abuse problem when you're grieving. It can also be bad for your emotional health to avoid addressing your grief. Try to avoid drinking and drug use in the months after losing a loved one., Much like your diet, maintaining a solid sleep schedule is important in regulating your emotions. When you're going through a traumatic experience, it's important you make sleep a priority. Strive for 7 to 8 hours of high quality sleep each night.It may be very difficult to sleep after losing someone. If you have prolonged difficulty sleeping, talk to your doctor about temporarily trying a medication to help regulate your sleep cycle.
 It may be very difficult to maintain a regular schedule after losing a loved one. However, having some semblance of normalcy during your grief can provide comfort. A simple routine can help ground you and help you deal with negative emotions.


Things like eating, sleeping, and exercise are important to incorporate in a routine. Make sure you make time for those basic needs.You should also try to see people at least once a week. Many people isolate themselves after a loss. However, you need support from those who care about you to move forward.