 Android 4.3 and later allows users to create restricted profiles that can only access certain apps. With the password, you can change which apps the user has access to.On the lock screen, open the unrestricted user account with your PIN.
Go to settings and click Users, then the restricted account.
Toggle on the programs you wish the restricted account to have access to.
 Start by opening the Google Play Store app.Press Menu and then Settings.
Find “Use Pin for Purchases”, “Require Authentication for Purchases”, or “Use Password to Restrict Purchases” and tap it to toggle it off. You will be prompted to enter your PIN.
 Start by opening the Google Play app.


Select Settings, and under User Controls, select Content Filtering.
You will be prompted to enter your password. Do so.
Click all of the boxes (Everyone, Low Maturity, Medium Maturity, High Maturity) to allow any type of content.
 This method will clear the PIN and remove the filter.Go to Settings > Apps.
Tap on Google Play Store.
Tap the Clear Data button.
 Because Android offers very few built-in parental controls, parents often install monitoring or control apps to limit access to the internet or certain apps. Restarting in safe mode is often all it takes to disable these controls.Hold down the physical power button on your device.
Long-press the “Power Off” option.
A dialogue box should pop up asking if you want to restart in safe mode. Tap OK. If the dialogue box does not appear, try the alternate method below.
When the phone restarts, you should see the words “Safe Mode” at the bottom left of the screen.
To exit safe mode, just restart your device normally.
 Again, restarting in safe mode should disable most parental control apps.Turn off your phone.
Once it is off, turn it on by pressing the power button.
As your phone is booting, hold down both the volume up and volume down button at the same time, and keep them held.
One your phone is on, you should see the words “Safe Mode” at the bottom left of the screen.
To exit safe mode, just restart your device normally.

