 Depending on your skin and the severity of your blind pimple, you may want to consider using heat therapy or ice therapy. A warm compress can dry out a blind pimple and help it drain, while an ice pack can help reduce pain and swelling at the site of the pimple.You may want to use ice for the early stages of a blind pimple. If the pimple gets larger, more inflamed, or more painful, then you may want to use more warm compresses to try to draw out the fluid.


You can make a simple warm compress by soaking a clean wash cloth in warm to hot water (but be careful not to burn yourself). Apply a warm compress for just a few minutes at a time, but you can repeat the process as often as necessary throughout the day.For ice therapy, apply an ice pack, or wrap ice cubes in a clean towel or wash cloth. Apply the cold compress for no more than 10 minutes at a time, up to four times each day.
 Apples and honey are thought to be helpful for treating acne (including blind pimples) due to the properties of both ingredients. Apples contain malic acid, which can help make skin firmer and stronger, while honey has antimicrobial properties that can help fight bacteria (which may be the cause of your clogged pores).Blend an apple into a pulp. Then gradually add all-natural honey to thicken the pulp until it forms an easily-spreadable paste.
Apply the paste to your blind pimple and let it stay on for at least ten minutes. Then wipe or rinse the paste away and wash your skin with a gentle facial wash.
 Tea tree oil is often used in natural remedies to treat a variety of skin conditions. Applying tea tree oil to a blind pimple may help remove dead skin cells, oil, and dirt that has clogged your pores and reduce inflammation.Use a small amount of oil on the blind pimple three times each day. This may work best when combined with other skin care routines, like using exfoliators or a gentle face wash.
 Aloe vera has long been used to remedy skin ailments, and many people believe that aloe vera may help treat blind pimples. If you're using a store-bought gel, simply apply the aloe vera gel to the affected site. If using your own aloe leaves, break the leaf along the stem and squeeze out some of the plant's gel-like juice.Apply aloe vera directly to the site of the blind pimple, and leave it on for at least 20 minutes. After 20 minutes, rinse your face with warm water to clear away your skin.

