 The best option is a freshly harvested pumpkin with at least 2 inches (5 cm) of stem.


A long stem is important because it helps wick away moisture from the pumpkin. A pumpkin with no stem or a very short stem is more likely to retain moisture.
 Combine 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 mL) of mild dish detergent with 1 gallon (4 L) warm water in a large bucket. Wash the pumpkin in this solution to remove surface bacteria.


Use a mild liquid dish soap instead of a harsh cleanser. Harsh cleansers can be too abrasive.
Rinse the soapy solution off the pumpkin once finished.
 Use a clean rag or clean paper towels to dry the pumpkin completely.


This preservation method aims to dry the pumpkin out rather than keeping it moist. As such, you should manually remove as much of the moisture as possible by wiping it away.
 Pour a little rubbing alcohol into a spray bottle and mist the surface of the pumpkin, coating it completely without drenching it.


You could also spray the pumpkin with a household cleaner.
Rubbing alcohol and household cleaners are both used to protect the surface from new bacteria and mold spores.
Do no drench the pumpkin. Too much rubbing alcohol can be abrasive and might cause damage to the pumpkin. Too much could also cause moisture to build.
 Place the pumpkin on several layers of newspaper in a dark, warm, dry area. Let it dry out for several weeks until the pumpkin feels notably lighter.


Make sure that the area you choose has good ventilation. Otherwise, the air can become stagnant, causing moisture to build up as a result. Moisture can cause the pumpkin to rot.
Warmth speeds up the drying process and darkness preserves the color. You could also place the pumpkins beneath an electric fan to speed the drying process further.
Change the newspaper every few days. As it absorbs the moisture of the pumpkin, it will become damp. This dampness can cause your pumpkin to rot if it is not removed.
In addition to feeling lighter, you should also be able to hear seeds rattling around inside the pumpkin when you pick it up.
 After the pumpkin has dried out completely, apply a coat of paste wax over the surface to seal it and protect it against bacteria.


Clear shellac can also be used instead of paste wax.

