 Each member of the Elite Four specializes in a certain Pokémon type. Aaron prioritizes Bug type, Bertha prefers Ground type, Flint likes Fire type, and Lucian excels in Psychic type.


Since you cannot change lineups between fights with the Elite Four, you will need to bring a powerful, but diverse lineup.;
, Unfortunately, no single Pokémon fits both so you’ll have to pick one. If you started the game with Chimchar, his evolved form will take you through the bulk of the fight. Here is a list of Aaron’s Pokémon and their potential weaknesses:


Dustox: Bug/Poison. Weak to Flying, Ground, Rock, Fire, or Psychic
Heracross: Bug/Fight. Weak to Flying , Fire, Psychic
Vespiquen: Bug/Flying. Weak to Flying, Rock , Fire, Electric, Ice
Beautifly: Bug/Flying. Weak to Flying, Rock , Fire, Electric, Ice
Drapion: Dark/Poison. Weak to Ground

, All of her Pokémon share a weakness to it. Torterra is especially good if you started the game with a turtwig. Here is a list of Bertha’s Pokémon and their weaknesses:


Quagsire: Ground/Water. Weak to Grass Hippowdon: Ground. Weak to Grass, Water, Ice
Sudowoodo: Rock. Weak to Fighting, Ground, Steel, Grass, Water
Whiscash: Ground/Water. Weak to Grass Golem: Rock/Ground. Weak to Fighting, Ground, Steel, Grass , Water , Ice

, A Gastrodon is perfect here. If you started the game with Piplup, the evolved form will get you through most of this fight as well. Here is a list of Flint’s Pokémon with weaknesses:


Rapidash: Fire. Weak to Ground, Rock, Water
Infernape: Fire/Fight. Weak to Flying, Ground, Water, Psychic
Steelix: Steel/Ground. Weak to Fighting, Ground, Fire, Water
Lopunny: Normal. Weak to Fighting
Drifblim: Ghost/Flying. Weak to Rock, Ghost, Electric, Ice, Dark

, Fighting has good defense against Psychic, but may lose usefulness beyond this fight. Strong dark attacks can work through this fight very quickly. A Spiritomb will do very well, but there are many options.


Mr. Mime: Psychic. Weak to Bug, Dark, Ghost
Girafarig: Normal/Psychic. Weak to Bug, Dark
Medicham: Psychic/Fight. Weak to Flying, Ghost
Alakazam: Psychic. Weak to Bug, Dark, Ghost
Bronzong: Steel/Psychic. Weak to Fire, Ground Note: Bronzong will have the ability Levitate (causes user to be unaffected by ground types)

, Cynthia is the Pokémon Champion that immediately follows the Elite Four. A Togekiss is a good choice to beat her Spiritomb. Otherwise fill in the gaps from your choices for the Elite Four to create a well rounded team.


Spiritomb: Ghost/Dark. No weaknesses. Just don't use any normal moves.
Garchomp: Dragon/Ground. Weak to Ice , Dragon
Gastrodon: Water/Ground. Weak to Grass Milotic: Water. Weak to Grass, Electric
Roserade: Grass/Poison. Weak to Flying, Fire, Psychic, Ice
Lucario: Steel/Fight. Weak to Fighting, Ground, Fire

, Moves like Surf, Thunderbolt, Ice Beam, Flamethrower, and Earthquake can be super effective against the Elite Four's Pokémon when used in the correct situation. They can also give your Pokémon more diverse attack type options. Moves that cause status effects (Toxic, Thunder Wave, and Sleep Powder) as well as moves that raise your Attack and/or Speed (Swords Dance and Dragon Dance) can also be very helpful.
 Unique Pokémon like Palkia or Dialga will always be a strong choice, but if you don’t have access to them or don’t want to use them for a challenge, there are many options for a well rounded team. Sensible switching to exploit differences in the fight will be key. Good luck!

