 These cameras are increasingly easier to find in thrift stores and eBay for not much money. Film is somewhat expensive -- about $1/polaroid -- although relatively cheap compared to traditional art supplies.;
,, A set-up scene is an interesting base for a polaroid manipulation -- make a backdrop using a bright-colored cloth, and set up objects in interesting combinations. You might even use Polaroid camera or other photos as a subject: a picture of a picture. The idea is that you run with the abstract nature of this medium. Nature scenes are also great, as they make for a nice juxtaposition with the flat, uniquely cardboard-esque picture quality of the polaroid. Experiment with unexpected angles and perspectives.
 Don't be afraid to block out large areas of the photo with textures such as stripes or cross-hatching. Sometimes being too conservative makes the composition seem uncommitted and, for lack of a better term, wussy. Try choosing one item in the photo to spotlight and scratching out everything else around it. Or simply outline objects in the image as a means of emphasizing shapes and relationships -- the more you work with polaroid manipulation, the more developed your personal style and instinct for working the image will become.
 Start by removing the white foil-backed border by picking at the seams on the back of the photo and peeling it away from the black backing. You should now have a clear top layer and black back layer, with the photo "gunk" sandwiched in between. Carefully peel these layers apart -- depending on how developed the photo is doing this more quickly or more slowly may be better. Experiment, experiment, experiment!

, Try removing large areas and gluing or taping images from other Polaroids or magazines, foil, paint, etc. to make collages and evolved versions of the object in the original polaroid. The polaroid "gunk" is water-soluble -- use a wet paper towel or q-tips to remove large areas of the photo from the clear overlay. Remember that you will be working from the back side of the image.
 If your work has a lot of emulsion (the "gunk" that contains the polaroid image) exposed, you may want to use tape exclusively as glue may cause it to run or smudge.

