 Sometimes you don’t know who or what is doing something. In those cases, you use the interrogative pronouns. These include who, whom, what, whose, and which. Interrogatives lack an antecedent.”Who is going to the movie?”
”Whose car is that parked out front of our house?”
”I don’t understand what is going on.”

, Demonstrative pronouns include this, that, these, those, and such. These words refer to a specific noun that is being referred to in a conversation. The speaker or reader should understand exactly what the antecedent is.She looked at a red car. "That is a nice car,” she said.

In this example, that is a demonstrative pronoun which is clearly referencing the red car.
 Relative pronouns are used after nouns to provide more information about that noun. They can tell us which person or thing we are talking about, or they give more information about that person or thing. Relative pronouns are who, whom, which, whose, and that.


Who is the subject pronoun. You use it when it is performing the action. It is only used to refer to people. For example, “We visited my grandmother, who lives down the street.”
”Whom” is an object pronoun. Again, this means we only use it when it is receiving the action or after a preposition. For example, “To whom am I speaking?”
“Which” is used when you are providing non-essential information. For example, ”I put ketchup on my pasta, which is how I like it.”
“That” is used when providing essential information about an object. For example, ”I like pasta that is covered in ketchup.”

, Intensive pronounces end in either –self (if it is singular) or –selves (if it is plural). They are myself, ourselves, herself, himself, itself, themselves, yourself, and yourselves. You can use these pronouns to add emphasis to a sentence.


”He himself will carry the torch to the podium.”
”They can do it themselves.”

, The reflexive pronouns are the same pronouns as the intensive. They end in –self (for singular) or –selves (for plural). They indicate that the subject and the object are the same person or thing.


“I helped myself to the buffet.”

In this sentence, the subject (I) and the object (myself) refer to the same person.
 These pronouns are often used to describe a general antecedent without specifying exactly who or what is .being discussed.Indefinite pronouns are almost always singular. The exceptions to this rule are both, all, few, many, or all. These are plural.Indefinite pronouns include:


Each
Anybody
Somebody
Nobody
Everybody
One
Anyone
Everyone
Someone
Neither
Either
Nothing
Anything
Everything
Something

