 If you want to hook up with a girl, you have to flirt with her first to show that you can play ball. To flirt with a girl the right way, you have to let her know that you're interested without giving too much away. After you make eye contact, don't be afraid to approach the girl and get a flirty conversation going. Here are some ways to flirt:


Flirt with your body language. Maintain eye contact while you talk, keep your body turned toward her, and lean in a bit so you get closer.
Tease her. Gently tease the girl about anything from her obsession with her cat to her pink shoes, all the while letting her know you think she's really cute.
Keep it light. Maintain a light, fun, flirtatious banter when you're first trying to get to know the girl. If you try to get too serious right away, she'll think you're too intense.
Don't forget to smile and laugh. Let her know how much you like talking to her without saying so.
Touch her lightly. If it's going well, give her a light touch on the shoulder or arm.;
, Every girl wants to feel like she's the only girl in the world, so you should make her feel like a truly unique individual -- even if you're just trying to hook up with her. To make her feel special, you have to be a good listener, ask the right questions, and make her feel like everything she's saying is important.


Ask her questions about herself. Don't ask anything too deep -- just talk about her siblings, favorite bands, and what she likes to do on the weekends.
Listen intently. Don't look around the room while she's talking; instead, put your phone away, and only break eye contact to smile and look at the ground if things are getting too intense.
Let her know what makes her stand out. You don't have to say, "I've never met anyone like you before," but you can say, "I've never heard such an incredible laugh." Let her know she's unique.
 Charming people can walk into any room and talk to any person at all without getting uncomfortable. To charm the girl, you have to exude confidence and show that you're completely comfortable with yourself and that you love talking to people and making them feel great.


Keep things positive. Charming people make the best of everything and are always emphasizing the great things in life -- that's why people want to be around them.
Show that you can talk to anyone. Though you should focus on the girl, if her friends are around, you should charm them while keeping her attention. This will show that you can keep up a conversation with anyone.
Impress her with your wit. Don't just laugh if she says something funny; fire back with a hilarious comment.
 Though it's important to get the girl interested, you still have to play it coy if you really want her to hook up with you. No girl wants to hook up with the low-hanging fruit; you should look interested, but not desperate to hook up with her at any cost. There's a fine line between flirting and coming on too strong, so make sure you don't smother the girl with affection.


You should compliment her, but don't tell her she's beautiful, amazing, and has an absolutely gorgeous body -- she will start to get overwhelmed or will suspect that you're not really being sincere.
Don't talk about how you never get girls and are surprised that a great girl like her is actually talking to you. You should make her think that girls love talking to you all the time, even if it's not true.
Sometimes it helps to make her jealous just a bit. If you mention another girl, briefly flirt with another girl, or just don't sound 100% invested in general, the girl will only want you more. Now, if you throw yourself at another girl right in front of her, she'll quickly lose interest.
 If the girl just isn't having it, you'll know pretty quickly. If you're pulling out all the stops but she's just rolling her eyes, looking around the room, or signaling her friends to save her, then it's time to cut her loose. Don't hang around longer than you're wanted, or you'll just embarrass yourself. If she doesn't want you, that's okay -- move on and know you'll find someone else who isn't immune to your charms.


If she clearly doesn't want you, be a gentleman as you say goodbye. Don't make things worse by saying, "Well, you clearly don't like me" -- instead, just tell her it was nice to meet her and go on your merry way.

