 Before starting work on your portfolio, surround yourself with resources and inspiration. Watch movies that are pivotal in special effect makeup history, and gather books and images of great work from the early days of film up until the present. This is a library that you can draw from if you ever feel uninspired or stuck during your work on a project.It’s essential to understand the history and breadth of horror and special effects makeup. Having this knowledge will widen your creative scope so you come up with new ideas more easily, and it will prevent you from making cliché or outdated makeup choices.
 Now that you have basic knowledge and a library of inspiration, it’s time to experiment. Use either yourself or a friend to try out a bunch of looks. Have fun, take risks, and don’t expect too much out of yourself. This experimental phase will get you familiar with using materials and combining different horror makeup methods.


If you aren’t enrolled in a makeup school and need more guidance as you experiment, follow step-by-step tutorials on Youtube created by special effects makeup artists.
Even if you follow a tutorial, try to add a personal touch. It’s important to exercise your creativity and to not get dependent on specific instructions.
 As you start to do independent projects, which you will eventually turn into a portfolio you can use to get a job, you will need to come up with ideas for a characters or effects. If you are in school, you will be assigned a project, and will likely have more specific guidelines. If you are learning independently, you will need to come up with an idea yourself.Don’t feel your idea needs to be especially elaborate. You can even start with just one word, like “Zombie” or “Monster”. In your planning stage, you will flesh out this idea more.
 No matter whether you are in a class or working independently, never skip the planning stage. This is the point of maximum creativity, when you can use a pencil and paper to draw or write out your idea. You’ll find that when you allow yourself creative freedom, your character may end up going in a much more interesting direction than when you started!Start by listing adjectives about your character or effect. Then start to draw the character in color.
You can even write a little story about your character, or figure out its background. Getting more familiar with your character will give you a better sense of what he, she or it looks like.
For instance, maybe you started with the word “Monster”. Add words like “brown”, “short” and “hairy”. You could make up a story about how this is a lonely monster that lives in the sewers of a large city and rarely sees sunlight. Just a short story like this can unfold a vision in your mind of the monster.
 Take your sketches and descriptions of your character and do the makeup either on yourself or on a friend. You may have to practice this look a few times before coming up with something that you’re proud of., Take a high-definition photograph of your work from several different angles. It’s important to document your work so that you can eventually put it in your portfolio and show off your skills to potential employers.


If you did the makeup on yourself, have a friend or family member take the photograph for you., Repeat the process of formulating an idea and creating a makeup look at least seven more times. For each project, pick ideas that are radically different from each other and showcase different skills. This will show potential employers that you have a varied skill set and ample creativity.For instance, one project could be a minimal zombie makeup look just using paint. Another project could be an alien where you use a bald cap and a large prosthetic for the top of the head, along with green and grey paint. Another could be a glamorous mermaid with scaly skin and a wig.
 Take all of your photographs from the projects you worked on and write a short description describing the idea for the makeup look and the inspiration you drew from. Then create both a physical portfolio and a digital portfolio that you will be able to show employers.Your description could look like this: “Zombie. This character makeup was created using paint and foam latex pieces. The latex pieces were designed, molded, and attached to the subject to look like damaged and dead skin. The illusion was enhanced by adding a greenish tinge to the skin using paint.”

