 Children lose interest in toys after awhile. While your child may have loved their Mr. Potato Head for years, they may have grown out of it with time. Periodically do a sweep of your home. Identify any toys that are no longer used.Box up unwanted toys. Swing by a local thrift store and offer them as a donation.
You can encourage your children to join in on the process. Point out the positives about donating toys, such as helping a child in need.
You can also do something like provide your child with one box. Tell them they can keep everything that fits in the single box, and must discard everything else.
When cleaning, always take a mental note of which toys need to be put away often and which toys you do not frequently see. This can help you decide what to keep and what to donate.
 You can buy a plastic shoe tree at most department stores. If you don't want too many boxes and baskets cluttering your floor, store certain toys in the tree. A shoe tree is a particularly good place to store plastic figurines, as these may scratch or break if stored in a box or basket., Toy boxes and bins are usually bigger than necessary due to excess packaging. Toss the original baskets and bins and instead store toys in compartments in your home.If you know how a toy works, you can also throw out instruction manuals. If you ever need to refer to them again, many instructions manuals can be found online.
 An ottoman in a common area, such as a living room, can easily be used for storage space. You can place toys in the ottoman to free up space in your home.Do not just throw toys in the ottoman, however. Stick to basic organization. Divide toys into small boxes you can comfortably fit in the ottoman.
 Toys your child does not play with often, for example, can be stored in a closet. There's no need to have a toy that's not used a lot kept easily accessible. If your child wants a toy that's in storage, you can take it out upon their request.
 You can buy a cute swing for stuffed animals online or purchase one at a local department store. Instead of placing stuffed animals on the ground, you can position them in the swing. In addition to freeing up floor space, this creates a cute decoration for your child's room.If your child is very young, make sure to keep the swing near the ground. You want your child to be able to reach their toys.

