 While there are slight variations in this style of poetry, they all fall within the same rhythmic umbrella. A true limerick has five lines; the first, second, and fifth rhyme with each other, and the third and fourth rhyme with each other. In addition to rhyme, consider:


Number of syllables. The first, second and fifth lines should have eight or nine syllables, while the third and fourth lines should have five or six.
Meter. A limerick has a certain "rhythm" created by how the syllables are stressed.

Anapaestic meter - two short syllables are followed by a long (stressed) one (duh-duh-DUM, duh-duh-DUM). Here's an example (note that the emphasis naturally falls on the italicized syllables): Twas the night before Christmas and all through the house

Amphibrachic meter - a long (stressed) syllable is sandwiched between two short ones (duh-DUM-duh, duh-DUM-duh). Example: There was a young lady of Wantage
Lines can begin on two, one, or occasionally no unstressed beats. Some prefer to continue the rhythm across from one line to the next, especially when a sentence carries across lines, but this is not essential.
 Knowing this first will help you mentally sift through rhymes. The ending of the initial line is usually a geographical place. Take Pittsburgh. Note that the first syllable of Pittsburgh is stressed, resulting in one short syllable at the end of the line. Another example: New York. Note that the second syllable of New York is stressed. This will create two very different limericks.


Choosing a place like Pottawattamie or xyz may embark you on a long, uphill poem-writing battle. The more common the sound, the more rhymes you'll have at your disposal.

You don't have to choose a place! Or that place doesn't have to be a city -- "There once was a girl in a shoe," is more vivid than a girl living in a plain ol' city.
 Let the story and punchline of your limerick be inspired by the rhymes you think of. After all, a good limerick is cohesive and clever. Let's go back to "Pittsburgh" and "New York."


Because Pittsburgh is stressed on the first syllable, you'll have to rhyme with both syllables. First things that come to mind: kids lurk, zits work, bits jerk, hits perk, lit smirk, or maybe a different combination of these words.
Because New York is stressed on the second syllable, you only need to rhyme with that one. First things that come to mind: cork, pork, stork, fork. Write your own extensive list.
 The two examples we're using are already starting to form their own feel. For the Steel City, with words like kids and zits and private bits, you could go for a limerick about puberty. And for the Big Apple, through the combination of cork, pork and fork, you could imagine a limerick about a fancy dinner with lots of meat and wine.


Go through the list you created and think up little stories of what could have happened and how your ideas could be related. The association only has to be loose. Sometimes, the more nonsensical, the funnier the limerick is. So long as it paints a picture in the reader's head, your limerick is successful.
 Decide on who the person(s) is you introduce in line 1. What is important about him or her? Do you focus on their profession or social status, or on age, health or particular stage in his or her life?


For the Pittsburgh limerick, you could go for the word "adolescent." Something everyone can relate to!
For the New York limerick, you might be thinking of the word "distinguished" with something following that.

