 Before filling any propane tank there must be a proper visual inspection of the cylinder. Look for any damages such as deep dents or areas of heavy rust. Look around the fitting on top of the tank to make sure it is not bent or damaged in any way. Inspect the nozzle for obstruction.;
, The date is on top of the tank along with other important stamped information. If the current date exceeds twelve years of the stamped date, the tank is out of date. Check with your local propane dealer for exchange. For example: a tank that is stamped "01 98" expires 02/10. If the date is followed by a letter, call your propane dealer for the date of expiration.
 The tank should be weighed to get credit for the propane that still exists in the bottle and to prevent from over filling. To find the weight of your tank look for the letters "TW" stamped at the top of your tank followed by a number. For example: "TW 16.9" is the tank weight when it is empty. A number very close to this one might be found on the bottle from your grill. Grills commonly use 20lbs bottles. A tank stamped with "TW 16.9" (empty weight of tank) plus 20lbs (amount dispensed into tank) equals the maximum weight of the tank, 36.9lbs.
 (You can find the maximum pounds of propane that can be added to an empty tank by looking for the letters "WC" stamped on the top of the tank, this stamp is followed by a number. Look on the chart inside the dispensing station to convert the WC# to the proper dispensing amount or call your local propane dealer for the information.) For example, If your tank is stamped "WC 95.5" the maximum amount of propane added is 40lb.s

,, It is located on the neck of the fitting. When the tank is full, a full stream of fluid will spray from the bleeder port. This should occur at the same time the desired weight is achieved. Do not overfill and use neoprene gloves to prevent frostbite. Rubber will not stop liquid propane from causing burns. Neoprene will prevent the burn from happening. Also make sure the neoprene gloves you are wearing are loose enough to shake off with one swing in case you do come into contact with liquid propane.
 Reinspect for any signs of leakage.


You are now ready to use your newly refilled bottle. When you attach your bottle for use, inspect your equipment for signs of leakage before using.

