 Baking soda is the most classic secret in the facial cleaning world. It can be made into a paste and used to shrink out of control pimples and it can be used in a more general way to simply clean your face. Baking soda works as a gentle exfoliating agent, meaning it removes excess oil, dirt, and other debris from your skin. Take two tbsp of baking soda and about one cup of lukewarm water. Stir and apply to your skin using circular motions. Rinse off after a minute or so. Repeat the process daily for about a week for great results.
 The acidic nature of lemon juice, makes it ideal for minimizing pores. Lemon juice also contains vitamin C, which can help lighten skin, concealing blemishes. Take one tbsp of lemon juice and mix it with one cup of water. Stir together and apply to your skin with a cotton ball., The natural properties of ACV will attack blackheads and whiteheads lodged in your bores. It’s antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory powers will also help treat acne and pimple flare-ups. Just mix organic apple cider and water in equal parts. Soak a cotton ball and then dab the areas with visible pores. Within a few weeks, you’ll start to see results., This may sound gross, but egg whites have been known to shrink enlarged pores, because the egg will soak up grease from your skin. Whisk an egg white with some water and then apply it to your face. In order to keep the egg in place, put pieces of tissue paper over the eggs. Leave for about 10 minutes or until it dries.
 Yogurt has lactic acid, which can clean oil, dirt, and dead skin cells from your skin. This will help reduce your pores and can also lessen fine lines. Apply a thin layer of plain yogurt to your face. Don’t use yogurts that have a lot of processed sugars. Let it sit on your face for 10 minutes and then rinse it off completely. Repeat daily for up to a month.


Those with really oily skin can also crush add egg white to the yogurt for a boost of facial cleaning power.
 Eat more silica-rich foods, like romaine lettuce, cucumbers, tomatoes, bell peppers, broccoli, green cabbage, and Brussel sprouts. Protein, vitamin E, copper, zinc, and iron all influence our bodies ability to make collagen as well.Simply drink more water. Water is key. Keeping yourself hydrated will give you a more vibrant complexion. Water helps wash away toxins in your system that affect your complexion. Water will help reduce your pore size.