 Before filing for bankruptcy, you need to look closely at your overall financial health and create a budget. In order to decide whether bankruptcy is your best option, and if so, what bankruptcy is best, you need to know: whether you will be able to pay any of your bills; whether selling some of your assets will help you regain financial stability; the amount of income you have coming in; and whether you can pay any restructured loan payments. For some people, filing bankruptcy may be able temporarily stop:


Repossession of your car and other property used as collateral for a loan.
Collection actions for the amount owed to a lender to satisfy the difference between an outstanding loan and the amount the lender collected from selling your property (known as a deficiency balance). For example, in some states, a borrower will be responsible to pay the difference between the balance on their mortgage (ex. $100,000) and the amount the lender received from selling their home ($80,000); the deficiency balance in this example is $20,000 and the borrower would be responsible for repaying this amount.
Lawsuits to recoup deficiency judgment (the amount a court ruled that you owe to the lender)., Generally, individuals tend to file for two types of bankruptcy, either Chapter 7 or Chapter 11. The main difference between these two bankruptcy plans is whether you have income to pay restructured debt (where a lender changes your payment responsibilities so you can make your payments) or you do not have adequate income and want to sell your assets to payoff as much debt as you can.


Chapter 7 bankruptcy, known as liquidation bankruptcy, may be the right choice for you if you have trouble paying your bills, you have a low income and you are willing to sell your assets to payoff your creditors.It may also be a good choice if you are only looking to stall the foreclosure process but not actually keep your home. Chapter 7 bankruptcy allows you to remain in your home without making payments for a limited amount of time, which may allow you to put money aside to rent a property.
With Chapter 7 bankruptcy you will no longer be liable for the mortgage payments nor will you be responsible for a paying any deficiency judgments.
In order to keep your car under Chapter 7 or Chapter 13 you will have to make some type of agreement regarding payment.
If you want to keep your home and you have an income, Chapter 13 bankruptcy may be the right choice for you.
Under Chapter 13 bankruptcy, your debt is restructured, which means that over a period of three to five years you will be required to repay a portion of your total debt, including any delinquent mortgage payments.
By negotiating the payment of overdue mortgage payments and making future payments, you will be able to remain in your home and avoid foreclosure., If you choose to file for bankruptcy, you should hire a bankruptcy attorney. The bankruptcy process is very complex and whether you are filing for Chapter 7 Bankruptcy or Chapter 13 Bankruptcy, you will be required to do all or some of the following:


Analyze your debt and determine your income.
Have all of your property properly valued.
Complete bankruptcy forms, which includes financial disclosures and repayment or liquidation plans.
File your legal forms and documents in the proper court.
Attend court hearings and meetings with your creditors.
Make payments if you are filing for Chapter 13 bankruptcy or payoff certain creditors with the sale of your assets.
When the bankruptcy repayment plan is complete (Chapter 13) or you have paid off or discharged all of your debts, you can petition for your bankruptcy discharge. This legal document states that you are no longer legally obligated to repay any remaining unsecured debts (debt for which there is no collateral; a mortgage is a debt secured by your home; a credit card bill is unsecured debt).