 A flat sheet is a sheet that is rectangular in shape, with no elastics or rounded corners; it is different from a fitted sheet, which has rounded, stretchy corners made for hugging your mattress.


If you have a fitted sheet, place this on the bed first before laying your flat sheet on top of it. Then, lay your flat sheet out on your bed with three sides of the sheet hanging off the mattress at the sides and foot of the bed. Align the top of the flat sheet with the top of the mattress (at the head of your bed) so that it is flush with the mattress, not hanging over it.
If you do not have a fitted sheet, place the flat sheet over the mattress so that all of its sides hang evenly over the mattress (at the sides, head and foot of the bed).;
, Lifting the bottom of the mattress lightly with one hand, use your other hand to tuck the sheet beneath the mattress, moving from one corner of the mattress to the other.









Once you have put the mattress back down, slide your hand (or, if you prefer, both hands) between the mattress and boxspring (or base) to ensure that sheet is smooth and not bunching anywhere.
You might also tug lightly on the outer ends of the sheet that are still hanging down on either side of the mattress to help keep the sheet taut and smooth.
If you do not have a fitted sheet and are using the flat sheet to lie on top of once you’re in bed, repeat this process at the head of the bed, lifting the mattress slightly and tucking the top end of the flat sheet beneath the mattress.
 Move to one of the two corners at the foot of your bed in preparation for your first hospital corner. For each corner, you’ll be working with the side of the sheet that you have not yet tucked up under the mattress — i.e. the long side, which is hanging over the side of your bed.
 Your hand will be right in the centre, or peak, of the “tent”, and the two sides should fall back down to the mattress at roughly 45-degree angles. As you make the “tent” with one hand, use your other hand to hold down the sheet where the bottom of the “tent” meets the surface of the mattress, roughly at the corner.









As you hold up the sheet with one hand and hold it down at the corner with the other to form a tent shape, you’ll see that some excess fabric still hangs down at the corner of the bed. This is the excess fabric you’ll be working with in the next step.
 Grab the excess fabric that still hangs down around the bed corner you’re working on and tuck it under the mattress. If possible, do this while still holding up the “tent” with your other hand. As you tuck in the fabric, guide the sheet with your hand so that it moves around the corner of the mattress as smoothly as possible.









If you have trouble making the sheet smooth with one hand, you can place the “tent” on top of the mattress and use both hands to smooth the corner. You can also hold the “tent” (now placed on top of the mattress) firmly with one hand as you smooth the excess fabric with your other hand.
 Let go of the long side of the sheet (in which you just made a tent), allowing it to fall back down over the freshly tucked corner and the side of the bed. For a crisper corner, hold the corner in place with one hand as you let the sheet fall. In some hospital settings, you stop here, as shown in the picture.
 As you tuck the sheet under the mattress, use your hand to smooth out any wrinkles that appear in the sheet on top of the bed as you go.
 Start at the foot of the bed. Once you’ve completed those two corners, you can move on to the top of the bed if applicable (if you aren’t using a fitted sheet).
 Run your hand along the sheet on top of the bed to smooth out any wrinkles. If there’s quite a bit of excess fabric on the sides of the bed after you’ve done this, tuck it underneath the mattress.

