 You may be worried about embarrassing yourself by making a mess. You want to look good in front of your crush. You certainly don’t want to slop food all over your outfit, or gross your crush out by eating food that ends up all over you. Make it easy on yourself by avoiding messy options.Eating spaghetti can lead to slurping long noodles and slopping sauce all over.
Choose salad over soup. Soup is another slurpy and splashy troublemaker.
Ice cream is a melty mess. You don’t want to have to be licking away at your dessert.
Take care with finger foods which will get sauce all over your fingers or drip toppings down your arms. Some culprits are burgers, and bbq or buffalo wings.
 Eating noisy food can seem very awkward, and draw unwanted attention to you while you are eating, especially if no one around you is talking while you are chewing. Choose what you will chew with the noise it makes in mind.Avoid foods you have to chew a LOT in order to swallow it. This will reduce the amount of time you are making noise with your food. An example of a tough to chew food would be Grape Nuts.
The crunchiest fruits and vegetables like apples, uncooked carrots and celery will make quite the crack.
Some chip companies pride themselves on making the loudest, crunchiest products. Some notorious brands are Kettle Brand, Cape Cod and Doritos.
 You don’t want to have to worry about stinking the place up. Garlic is known to leave your breath stinky, but you also want to avoid things which could stink up the whole area or give you indigestion.Fish products, like tuna, can really send off a strong smell when opened in public.
Spicy foods from Indian food to Mexican food can be doubly problematic. Not only can they give off a strong odor, but they can lead to indigestion and gas.
 You may feel judged that you are eating too little or too much. Measure your food with your hands by comparing portions of your food to parts of your hand. This way you will go into your meal knowing what is the norm when it comes to portions. Even if the serving you receive is larger, you can eat only as much as is considered an appropriate portion.Your main meat portion of beef, chicken or fish should fit in the palm of your hand, which should equal about 3 ounces.
Eat a handful, or half a cup of a starch like noodles or rice.
A side vegetable portion, like cooked carrots, should match the size of your fist, which would be about 1 cup.
A bowl of salad should be the size of both of your fists put together or 2 cups.

