 If you have recently washed your hair and do not wish to do so again, you can spray you hair down with a spray bottle full of fresh water, instead.
 If possible, stand in front of a large bathroom mirror, with another mirror placed behind you so that you can see what you are doing from both sides.
 Do this while holding your head in a neutral position — not tilted to one side or the other, or too far back or forward.
 Divide your hair into the following sections: bangs, top-front (left and right), top-back (left and right), sides (left and right), and one section at the nape of your neck. Twirl each section around your finger before clipping it up and out of the way. Leave the section at the nape of your neck out; this is the one you will start with, as cutting your hair from back to front is easier than front to back.









If you have thick hair, you may need to further divide these sections, particularly at the top-front and top-back of your head, and the nape of your neck.
 You’ll need to hold the scissors differently depending on what type of haircut you want.


If you want a blunt (straight across) cut, you’ll need to hold your scissors horizontally as you cut straight across your hair.
If you want a softer, more natural and layered look, you’ll need to turn your scissors at a 45-degree angle and cut upward into your hair, making small diagonal cuts.
For a more wispy edge (like for bangs), first cut your hair to the desired length, then, making an almost vertical angle with your scissors, cut upward in one quick motion into your hair. Only do a few of these per section of hair, otherwise it will look too wispy and sparse.
 Bring the hair in front of your shoulders. Comb the section out. Take firm hold of it between your pointer and middle fingers (as if those two fingers are a pair of scissors cutting your strand of hair), and comb through the section again. Pulling the hair taut, slide your fingers down the section until they are just above where you want to cut, then use your scissors to cut just beneath your fingers.
 Once you are happy with the section at the nape of your neck, let down the top-back right section of your hair and cut that. Then let down the top-back left section of your hair and cut it so that it’s even with the top-back right and nape sections.









Work from back to front, section to section, until all of your hair is even.
Don’t forget to comb out each section before you cut it.
If your sections begin to dry out before you get to them, give them a quick spritz of water before combing them out and cutting.
 Once you’ve finished cutting all of your hair evenly to one length, you can add layers. For a more natural look, you might choose to cut small sections of hair at random.









When creating layers on longer hair, it is important to create varying mid-length layers for a professional, graduated look.
 Shampoo, condition, and rinse your hair. Then dry it with a towel or a blow-dryer — whichever you prefer.
 Once your hair is clean and dry, have another look at it to make sure everything is even and that any layers you’ve introduced are well-blended.









You might find more uneven bits as time goes on. Don’t get upset — just fix them as you find them.

