 In order to prevent another episode of cutting, you need to remove the tools that you use to do it. Get rid of any objects you have used before to self-harm. If you have to spend time searching for something to harm yourself with, you may be able to crush the impulse. The time to think about your actions or the added effort can act as deterrents.


Don't keep sharp objects on your table and don't put razors in drawers or cupboards that you can easily access.If you do not yet feel able to throw out your tools, try to delay getting to them by keeping them wrapped up tightly and high up on hard-to-reach shelves.
If possible, give them to someone else. This is a guaranteed way that they won't be find-able. You'll likely be angry initially, but when it passes, you'll be thankful that it stopped you from being able to harm yourself.
 The moment you have the urge to harm yourself, stop and think of what has just occurred. These are your triggers. Remember them and try to avoid these situations. Sometimes, they can be predicted and if they can be predicted, they can be avoided.


Common triggers can include problems with peers such as bullying and cyber bullying, pressure at school, feeling socially isolated, abuse, confusion around sexuality, and issues in your family.Some people are more likely to cut at certain times of the day. If you know that you're more prone to cutting in the morning, take extra caution just after you roll out of bed. Know yourself and what to do to handle the next urge.
If you've just had an argument with somebody close to you, for example, and are having the urge to self-harm, stop and ask yourself what's making you feel this way: "I feel like harming myself because I've just had an argument with somebody I love, and it's making me feel really bad." Determine what in particular makes this situation trigger negative emotions, such as a certain feeling or maybe an action. Work on reducing this issue until you have it under control or completely diminished., It's important to celebrate progress you've made. Try marking a calendar with a preferred color on days you don't cut. At the end of each month, tally the number of days you didn't cut and write it on the bottom. Work to increase the number of days the following month.

