 There are countless small things you can do to show you are thinking about someone or that you care about them. Doing something small on a regular basis sends the message that you are committed to being their friend.Try some of the following.Surprise them with a “just because” card or gift.
Create something handmade and give it to them.
Cook dinner for them or offer to take them out if they've had a rough day.
Send them a text saying that they crossed your mind and that you hope they are having a good day.
 It is important to remember dates that are cause for celebration for your friend, such as their birthday or anniversary. Remembering days or dates that are important to your friend can also help show you care. Remembering these dates allow you to be able to check-in with your friend more often on days that might be emotional for them. Try and recognize dates such as the following.


The anniversary date of a loved one's passing may be very difficult for them.
Dates of important doctors appointments or surgeries may cause them anxiety or stress.
Dates of large presentations at school or work can be celebrated after.
 Going a little out of your way to be kind to your friend can communicate a lot to them. Open doors for your friend, offer to help bring in the groceries, or help change the baby's diaper. If you are hanging out and you are getting up, ask if they need anything.Anything that shows you are thinking about them and wanting to make their life easier can show that you care.
 Physical contact such as touching someone's arm when they are upset or giving them a hug can communicate affection in a simple and direct way.Hug each other as a hello and goodbye, or throw an arm around your friends shoulder when you are congratulating them. Make sure that you are operating within your comfort zone as well as your friend's. If you know they do not like to be touched then respect that.
 Sharing your life with your friend sends the message that you care enough to include them in your world. Share something with them like a family tradition, or an object that means something special to you. Explain to them the story behind what you are sharing with them and how important it is to you.


In addition to sharing your life with your friend, you should also be prepared to make sacrifices for your friend in times of need. For example, if your friend is struggling you might want to cancel social plans in order to be with them.
 If you know your friend really well, you might be able to tell what your friend needs without having to ask or be asked. Think about what's going on in your friend's life and try to anticipate what they want and need from you as a friend. This requires being in-the-know with your friend, so staying current on their life is a prerequisite.


For example, if your friend had an interview, offer to call and chat about it to process what happened (or offer to do so at happy hour that evening!).
Or, if you know your friend had a stressful week, ask them if they want to get brunch and pedicures over the weekend.

