 A personal essay, fortunately or unfortunately, can be about anything. This works against you because it opens up every possible door; you can't possible know which one is best. But it can also work to your advantage because it gives you the freedom of choosing what most suits you. What do you love? What do you hate? What's an experience that changed you? What's the best part of your day? All in all, what would you enjoy writing about?


Don't be afraid to be controversial. Universities are places for the learned and the worldly. It is perfectly fine to write about politics, religion, or something serious as long as your paper is well-written and thought out. If a global issue applies to you, write about it. You won't be one of those papers that is forgotten.
Don't be afraid to be mundane. However, there's something to be said for a beautifully simple paper. How many essays will the panel read that are a scene from the family dinner table? Your morning process of waking? Something incredibly minute--not some life-altering event--can stand alone in it's uniqueness if made relevant and thought-provoking.
 Striving to be anyone else in this paper will shine through more than any other quality. The purpose of the essay is to show the admissions committee the real you, why you think and act the way you do, and what motivates you. So don’t write as if you are someone else, use stilted language, or gloss over how you really feel.


Write as you speak. Use a conversational tone; you want the reader to feel like more of a friend and less of an evaluator. A casual, relaxed tone will make you seem like a human and not just an applicant.
Don't pad your paper with big words that you just looked up in the thesaurus. What's more, don't show them what you think they value or are looking for; show them what they should value and be looking for.
 Before you set off to write your paper, know what you want to write. Take a moment to just think. Go slow. That way, when you do sit down to put pen to paper, you'll have a better idea of what you want to say and won't get frustrated with writer's block.


Give yourself a while to write it. If you start the night before it's due, you'll be pounding Red Bull and pulling your hair out. Take a day off to let it come to you. Lie in bed, stare at those glow-in-the-dark stars on your ceiling and let inspiration wash over you.

