 When you’re coping with depression, turning to the people who are close to you is a good idea.They can help you manage your disorder, but they can also help you process your emotions. They can listen to the situation and how you feel about it, as well as offer suggestions for working through your feelings.


Talking to others can also help you gain perspective on things that may be contributing to your depression, such as problems you may be having or events that have occurred. Others may help you see the situation from a different angle.
In general, talking through your emotions and the events in your life is beneficial.
 Although you may already be in therapy, there may be times that you need immediate, urgent, or crisis help processing your emotions. Your depression and feelings may have you feeling especially out of sorts or you may have thoughts about harming yourself. In these cases, it can be a good idea to contact a mental health professional for maintenance therapy or crisis services.You can contact your regular therapist for an immediate session by saying something like, “My depression and feelings are really getting to me right now. Could we have a session today?”
You can also talk to a school counselor or professional recommended by your doctor.
In addition, you can contact a crisis line like the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline by dialing 1-800-273-8255.
 Talking to other people who are also coping with depression can be helpful in several ways. A support group can provide you with a safe place to explore your emotions and strategies for managing your depression. In addition, the support group members can provide you with encouragement.


If you don’t already attend a support group, you can find groups near you on the Anxiety and Depression Association of America’s webpage at https://www.adaa.org/supportgroups.
If you are a member of a support group, you might ask the other members, “Could you talk about some of the ways you process your emotions?”

