 It’s easy to be upset when someone says something negative about you, but don’t jump to conclusions about whether your reputation is ruined. Ask yourself how you’d view these comments if they’d been said about somebody else.You don’t have to be universally liked to have a decent reputation.
If your reputation really is damaged, figure out which sphere the damage has occurred in. For instance, you might have a bad reputation at work or school, but your reputation among your friends might be fine.;
, You can’t control what people think about you, but you can control your own actions. Focus only on what you can do to repair your reputation. Don’t waste your energy worrying about what other people are saying about you., If you know that some of your behaviors have caused your bad reputation, stop doing those things. Think about why you behave this way, what it will take for you to learn different behaviors, and whether you could replace a negative behavior with a more positive one.For instance, maybe you gossip about other people to feel included in your social circle. To change this behavior, you could look for a better way to feel included, such as helping your friends more often.
Think about changing the kinds of people you surround yourself with as they may be contributing to your actions and negative reputation too.
 If you know that your reputation has taken a hit, jump into action right away. Acknowledge the problem and apologize if you need to. If you’ve hurt or inconvenienced somebody, find a way to make amends.Don’t just ignore the problem and hope it blows over. If you don’t acknowledge what people are saying, the damage could be even greater in the long term.
 If your reputation has been damaged online, a reputation management service that specializes in SEO can help you recover. This type of service can help you bury negative content online by pushing positive content to the first pages of search engine results about you.This strategy can be especially helpful if you are running an online business.
It’s always a good idea to build a strong, positive online presence. Update your social media accounts regularly and consider starting your own website or blog.
If you have no web presence of your own, it’s hard to defend yourself against bad reviews and other negative feedback online. Take the opportunities you have to explain your side and/or rectify customer dissatisfaction publicly online.
 If you are a teen or young adult who is trying to bounce back from a bad rep, it may help to seek the advice of an adult you trust. A teacher, coach, or school counselor may serve as a great person to share your feelings and get unbiased advice.

Go to the person and ask if you can speak to them privately. Share the details of your situation and ask them how you might bounce back from it.

