 If you receive a notice that you've been included in the registry for a class action lawsuit, it will contain important information about the lawsuit.


Every person who potentially could be affected by the outcome of the lawsuit has the right to be notified of the pending class action. However, in many cases it is impossible to notify everyone who might be a rightful member of the class.If you receive a notice regarding a class action, it indicates that you have been identified as a potential member of the class.The notice may have the address of a website, or a phone number you can call for more information. If there's not enough on the notice for you to make a decision, you should make use of those other resources.;
, Depending on when in the course of the lawsuit the notice was sent, you may have several options regarding what to do about it.


An initial notice typically is sent when the class is certified. You also may receive a notice of a settlement. If you've gotten the first notice informing you of the certification of a class, you have more options.If the first notice you receive is notice of settlement, your only options will be either to accept the settlement or opt out. You might choose to opt out if you have significant injuries or losses as a result of your use of the product or service, and want to sue the company on your own.When the class is certified, you have more options. You can opt out if you want, but you also have the option of choosing to participate as a named plaintiff. This is something you might do if you have suffered a serious injury or lost a lot of money, because your portion of the class action proceeds probably would not cover your losses otherwise., Typically you are automatically included in a class if you receive a notice. However, if you want to opt out you must contact the attorneys in charge of the suit.


You also need to contact the attorneys if you want to participate as a named plaintiff. However, if you're thinking about doing that you should consider talking to an attorney on your own first.Search in your area for an attorney with experience in class actions involving products or services similar to those that caused your injuries or losses. For example, if you were injured because of a defective product, you should look for an attorney who has experience in products liability. The attorney can give you advice on whether it's in your best interests to join the class or sue the company on your own.
Keep in mind that typically you must have your own attorney if you want to participate as a named plaintiff.If you want to opt out of the class and any proceeds of the settlement, there typically will be a phone number you can call to have your name removed from the class registry. Once you do that, you won't receive any further notices regarding the status of the case, and you won't be eligible to receive any portion of the award or settlement proceeds.Keep in mind that typically there will be a deadline for you to opt out of the class. If you miss the deadline, you'll remain in the class and lose your right to file a lawsuit on your own.