 If you're out on a serious hunting trip, you probably won't want to carry back a bunch of whole birds, most of which you're planning on discarding. If you're only after the meat, dressing them out quickly by removing the breasts and leaving the skin, feathers, and other mess in the field is a snap. You can also leave the wings on with this method, to stay in compliance with hunting regulations in your area.


If you've got the time, it's better to dress your ducks later and more thoroughly. There's more meat to be had, and the skin is a desirable eating feature for many cooks. This method should only be done in the field when storage is at a premium.
 Start by opening up the chest skin as you would doing a full skinning of the duck. Feel with your fingers for the breast-bone and tear the skin in opposite directions, opening up the chest like a shirt. Pull it back far enough to expose the breast in its entirety, then set it on the ground on its back.
 Hold the duck in place with your feet, putting one food on the duck's neck and one on it's feet. You're going to be pulling the breast out and leaving the rest of the duck on the ground, making it easy to hold the mess in place with your feet.
 With one hand, hook two fingers up under the breast plate, near the wishbone up toward the neck of the duck. With your other hand, hook two fingers underneath the breast plate near the abdomen.


You should be able to feel the breast quite distinctly on the duck, as it's the largest and most substantial portion of meat, slightly raised up above the abdomen, and slightly darker red in color than the surrounding tissue.
 After you've hooked your fingers firmly around the breast, pull upward, sawing back and forth slightly to help the breast come free. The wings, also, should pull through, because the joint is firm. Done correctly, you'll pull off the breast meat perfectly cleanly, with the wings attached, leaving the entrails, skin, head, tail, and feathers all on the ground. Perfect for the pot and so the game warden can identify it.

