 There are many herbs that have anti-inflammatory properties. Anti-inflammatory effects seem to be the result of plant bioflavonoids, phenolic substances, and other substances that function as antioxidants. Some of the most effective anti-inflammatory herbs include:Cayenne pepper (fruit)
Chamomile (flowers)
Licorice (root)
Turmeric (root)
Willow bark (bark)
Yarrow (flowers, leaves);
, Herbal teas may also help with some types of digestive inflammation such as cramping, nausea, and diarrhea. If you want to use herbs to treat digestive inflammation, then you may want to try an herb that targets the digestive system. The digestive anti-inflammatory herbs include:goldenseal root
licorice rootchamomilecalendula, For an anti-inflammatory herb that targets the respiratory system try making a tea from licorice root or mullein leaves.For example, if you have a cold or bronchitis, then you may find it helpful to drink a tea made from licorice root or mullein leaves. A tea made from one of these herbs may help to ease some of the inflammation in your throat, nasal passages, and lungs.
 For bladder inflammations (cystitis, urethritis), you can try drinking a tea made from corn silk.Corn silk has been used as a folk remedy indifferent parts of the world and it has been found to be effective as an anti-inflammatory agent.To make corn silk tea, you can just use some of the corn silk from a fresh cob of corn. The silk is the white thread that is between the corn and the husk.
 For skin conditions with an inflammatory component, you can apply a tea compress made from calendula, goldenseal, or myrrh.Applying the tea directly to your skin will produce the best benefit.


To make a tea compress, brew a cup of tea using one of the herbs and then let it cool until it is lukewarm. You may also chill the tea to increase the anti-inflammatory effects, since cold can help to reduce swelling and inflammation.
After the tea has cooled, soak a clean washcloth in the tea and wring out the excess.
Then, apply the washcloth to the part do your skin that is inflamed.
Do not apply a tea compress to skin that is broken or that seems infected. See a doctor for help.
 For dry herb teas, you will need to use one teaspoon of the herb you have selected. If you are using fresh herbs, then you will need about three tablespoons of the herb. Fresh herbs still have water in them so they are larger than dried herbs.


If you are using willow bark, add three to four one inch pieces to boiling water. Then, cover and boil the tea for 15 to 25 minutes.
 Place your herbs into your tea infuser and then place the infuser into a mug. If you do not have a tea infuser, then you can just place your herbs in a mug and strain them out after steeping the tea.
 Pour one cup of boiled water over your herbs and then allow the tea to steep for 10 to 15 minutes. After time is up, remove the tea strainer or pour the tea through a fine sieve to remove the herbs.


It is best to make teas fresh, but you can store in the refrigerator for one to three days. One serving contains about six to eight ounces of liquid.
 You can drink three to four cups of herbal tea every day. Don’t go over four cups per day without speaking to your physician, naturopath, or herbalist first. You can also add a little honey or lemon to your tea if desired.
 High-quality herbs will provide more anti-inflammatory benefits, so make sure that you choose your herbs carefully. Some good things to consider when purchasing herbs for teas include:



Growing practices. Choose organically grown herbs over herbs that were grown using pesticides. You may also want to look for herbs that were grown using sustainable growing practices or that were sourced in the wild. These herbs may be more potent than herbs that were produced in mass quantities.

Use of Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP). GMP is a set of rules and regulations that was developed by the FDA for dietary supplements. If you are buying a pre-packaged herbal tea that is also labeled as a supplement, then make sure that the manufacturer adheres to these guidelines. This information should be listed on the package.

Appearance and smell of the herbs. Before you decide to purchase loose herbs, consider the color, smell and taste of the herbs. Greener herbs are fresher than brown colored herbs. The herbs should also have an aromatic smell., If you know that you are allergic to a certain herb, then you should avoid that plant and all plants in its family. If you have a plant allergy, then check with your doctor or allergist if you are unsure about what plant families you are allergic to. Some of the different plant families include:


Aster Family: Chamomile, Yarrow
Buttercup Family: Goldenseal
Legume Family: Licorice
Ginger Family: Turmeric
Willow Family: Willow Bark
Nightshade Family: Cayenne
Figwort Family: Mullein
Poaceae Family: Corn silk
Burseraceae Family: Myrrh

, Herbs do not often cause major side effects, but some people do experience side effects from herbal teas. When side effects occur, they tend to be minor ones such as stomach upset, burping, and mild nausea. If you notice that a specific herb is causing side effects for you, then you may want to stop taking it.
 Many herbs are safe for pregnant women, but some are not. To be safe, you should always talk to your doctor before taking any medicinal herbs, but it is even more important to do this when you are pregnant or nursing. If you are pregnant or nursing, make sure that you speak to your physician before taking any herbs for inflammation.

