, You can either spray the cups of a 12-cup, regular-sized muffin or cupcake pan with non-stick vegetable oil, or you can put paper liners in each of the cups.


If the muffin pan has more than 12 cups, fill those you won’t use halfway with water. Choose cups in different spots so the muffins will bake evenly.
You can also use foil liners; however, they tend to retain heat, so you may need to adjust your oven temperature or cooking time.
 Use a wooden spoon to mix together the flour, sugar, baking powder and salt in a medium-sized mixing bowl.


Ensure you scoop flour into the measuring cup without packing it down before leveling if off with a knife.
You can also use a sifter or strainer before measuring the flour if it has become packed down in the bag., In a separate, medium-sized mixing bowl, use a whisk, electric mixer or a fork to mix everything until it's well blended. You shouldn’t be able to see any streaks of egg.
 Use the wooden spoon to mix the two, using only 10-15 strokes, so you don’t over-mix and end up with tough muffins with tunnels from over-activating the flour’s gluten.
 Pour the blueberries into the center of the batter. Take a large, soft spatula and gently go along the side of the bowl to the bottom and bring the batter to the top, covering the blueberries.


Do this 3-4 times so the blueberries don’t crush and bleed into the batter.
You can also dust the blueberries in flour before adding them to help prevent bleeding.
Blueberries are just one of many things you can add to your muffins to change or add flavor. You can also easily make muffins with a variety of spices, fruits, nuts, oats, creams and glazes.
 Using a spoon or ice cream scooper, fill each cup only 2/3 full with batter so they will have nicely domed tops.


You can also wait until the last 10 minutes before sprinkling on the turbinado sugar.
 Rotate the pan halfway through backing, particularly if one side seems to be getting done faster than another.
 Insert a toothpick in the center of several muffins and, if it’s clean when you remove it, they’re done. Otherwise continue baking another 5 minutes.
 Let the muffins cool for 5-10 minutes in the pan before using a butter knife to carefully remove them from the pan and transfer them to the cooling rack.
