 First and foremost, you need to make this girl aware of your presence. Try to make a good first impression, but don't think too hard about it. Be confident, upbeat, and genuine. To start: try asking her a question, or making a situational joke. Tell her your name, and she'll probably tell you hers.


If you have a class together, find an excuse to talk to her about the class. Ask her about the homework, or crack a joke about the teacher.
Don't worry too much about saying exactly the right thing. The more natural and collected you feel, the better of an impression you will make.;
, It will probably be much easier to pursue a girl if you're on regular speaking terms with her. Strike up a conversation whenever you get the chance, and try to make a good impression each time. Do not fear the "friend zone!" Make friends with the girl, but be sure to keep up a sense of flirtation and mystery.
 Ask her questions about herself, and listen carefully to the answers. Don't let her do all of the talking, however! Many people love to talk about themselves, but you might come off as overbearing if you pin her down with a barrage of intense questioning. Make sure to keep up a careful balance of asking, listening, and talking.


What does she do for fun? What music, books, or movies does she love? Where did she come from? What is her favorite subject?
Be genuinely interested in what she has to say. You're trying to make a real connection with a human being, here – not just trying to "get the girl." Make her feel worthy of attention.
 Listen to her, and she may open up to you. There is a balance to be struck here: if she confides in you too intimately and platonically, it might be hard for her to make the mental jump to seeing you as a friend. That said, she'll probably be more comfortable taking you as a romantic partner if she knows that she can trust you.
 Throughout the day, steal glances at her when you get the chance. Don't be creepy about it – just make a point of looking in her direction. When she meets your gaze, smile slightly and look away quickly. This is a classic (and often effective) way of showing someone that you're interested.Studies have shown that basic flirting can be more important than physical attractiveness when it comes to getting someone's attention. People who signal their availability and confidence through smiling and eye contact tend to be the most effective at attracting mates.Eye contact can actually make someone more likely to find you attractive. Don't mistake this for a "trick" that will make your crush fall for you – but be aware of the effect, and try to use it to your advantage., Don't be afraid to smile and laugh a lot when you're talking to her. This shows her that you're interested in what she has to say, that you're enjoying her company, and that the two of you have a similar sense of humor. Be open and genuine.
 Once you've gotten to know her pretty well, look for ways to establish a physical connection. Offer a hug when you say hello and goodbye; touch her shoulder to get her attention or to emphasize a point; take her hand, briefly, to lead her somewhere; instead of sitting across from her, sit next to her with your thighs and shoulders touching. Find excuses to "accidentally" graze her arm or leg – even this can help you get her attention.Be aware that she may not be receptive to physical flirting. Stop what you're doing if she seems uncomfortable or doesn't respond well. She may not be interested in you, or she may not like being touched.
Touching is a great way to indicate that you're interested. If she responds well—and especially if she touches you back—there's a good chance that she's at least a bit interested., Say something sweet and simple so that she feels your attention on her. Say, "I love your shoes!" or "Did you get a haircut? It looks really cute." Try complimenting her on a talent or an accomplishment: "Did you draw that? I'm impressed," or "Great job in the 100-meter dash today!" Make sure she knows that you appreciate her.
 When you are pursuing a girl, all of the talking and flirting is building up to one moment: the moment when you "make a move." This might take various forms, depending on the situation. Perhaps you want to ask her on a date, or to accompany you to a dance; perhaps you want to hook up with her at a party; perhaps you want to kiss her; or perhaps you just want her to know that you like her. No matter the case, the dynamic of pursuit means that you'll probably need to be the one to start this conversation.
 If you're serious about building a romantic relationship with this girl, consider asking her out on a "date." This can be as elaborate as a fancy dinner reservation or as simple as a walk to the park. The idea here is to spend meaningful one-on-one time together – to move your interaction pattern from "friends-with-mutual-attraction" to "dating-and-acting-on-attraction."


You may find that the simple act of asking her on a date changes the dynamic of your friendship. You are essentially shifting the agreed-upon balance from mostly-platonic to mostly-romantic. This is not bad, necessarily – but you should be aware of what's happening.
 This is a classic "move" that will show your interest and effectively set the stage for a more romantic relationship. Find the right moment: when you say goodnight at the end of an amazing date, or when the mood feels especially romantic. Be smooth and natural, and take it slow.


Notice when she wants to kiss you. If she is looking at you expectantly, watching your face, smiling a lot, and bringing her face close to yours – it might mean that she wants you to kiss her!
Wait for a moment that feels "cinematic." If it feels like this is the scene in a movie when the main character kisses the girl – then it is probably time for you to kiss the girl!
If she doesn't respond to the kiss, then you may have misread the moment. Don't be embarrassed. At the very least, going for a kiss makes your intentions clear, and it gives her the chance to accept or reject your advances.

