 Over the counter remedies do exist and are helpful, but there's no substitute for seeing a licensed doctor with a full arsenal of medical options.


A corn is a symptom of a condition, not a condition itself. A podiatrist can help you determine the cause of the corn so you can deal with the problem directly. Corns are most often caused by footwear that doesn't fit properly, excessive use of dress shoes, toe deformities, or problems with your posture or gait that pressure areas of your feet.
The podiatrist will most likely decide to remove the corn for you, but will advise you that the corn will return if you do not resolve the condition that caused it.
Follow the podiatrist's recommendations for corn management. These may include a change in footwear, padding to protect the area from friction or pressure, foot orthotics to change the pressure distribution on your feet, or surgical correction for foot or toe problems.;
, The best way to begin removing a corn is to:


Soak your foot in comfortably hot water for 5 to 10 minutes to soften the corn.
Sand the corn gently using a pumice stone or another sanding object, like a skin file.
You may need to repeat the treatment several times before the corn is fully removed.
 Specially-made silicone foam wedges will help relieve the pressure and friction between toes., Follow package instructions carefully. Most corn removal products contain salicylic acid, which could irritate or burn your foot.


Most OTC pads contain 40% salicylic acid, making this a strong medication.Even so, your doctor may recommend that you file away some of the dead skin on the corn before applying the pad.
 Antibiotic ointments are a common way to prevent infection, which is a common risk you run when treating the corn at home., An ounce of prevention is worth a pound cure.


Wear properly fitted, well-padded, shoes that have a wide toe box.
Bring your shoes to a cobbler to have the toe box stretched in the area where you develop corns.
Choose thick socks to absorb pressure on the foot. Make sure the socks fit loosely and do not cause your shoe to be too snug. Also make sure that your socks don't have seams that rub against any corns or places where you might get corns.
 These include:


Washing your feet every day with soap, water, and a scrubbing brush. When your feet are dry, apply a foot cream (not just normal lotion) to rehydrate.
Go shoe-shopping later on in the day. Feet naturally swell as the day progresses. That means that shoes bought early in the day might not fit you later on in the day.
Change your socks daily and use a pumice regularly. When using a pumice stone, be careful not to scrape away dead skin too forcefully.

