 Use a cleanser to do this until your face is clean, and then dry your face.;
, Make sure to use everything if necessary; Exfoliator, Moisturizer, Cleanser, Toner, etc. (A good brand would be Clinique.)

, What you need totally depends on your skin tone. If your skin is "bad", a good foundation is totally fine as long as you blend well and remove it every night. Concealer is to be use sparingly for little problem spots as it can look cakey. If your skin is nice, go for a tinted moisturizer or BB Cream; it will give you a healthy glow. ^^Set that with translucent or bronzing powder.
 The helps your eyeshadow to last longer. If you don't have an eye primer, the look of foundation, cream bases, or concealer will do the job too.


Using a fluffy brush will blend the shadow.
 If you feel it, feel free to use a soft gray instead. For more definition: sweep a darker shade into the crease and outer corner and highlight your brow-bone with a light shade.
 It will give great subtle definition if used properly! If you have ex. brown eyes, they will look great with a pop of purple, blue or green beneath the eye, but feel free to stick to black, charcoal, or brown. If your eyes are small, a white or peach line on your waterline will open them up.
 If it really suits you, you can also wing out your liner for a dramatic and trendy effect!

, If they're naturally curly though, you can skip this step!

, If you're a brunette, black (or clear if your lashes are already really black) is most likely the color for you. If blonde or red-head, you might want to opt for a brown, dark brown, or black/brown.
 It makes your eyebrows look a lot better, and helps your makeup look ten times better.



It's your choice whether to go for blush or not. If you want to, cream blushes are a great idea since their finish is really natural and dewy. If your skin tends to get super-oily though, powder blushes are great. Use a rosy, peachy, or berry color depending on your natural flush.
 This will help it to last. Setting your makeup will help it last longer and help it not wear off throughout the day.
 If wanted, apply a fun lip color. Make sure it's not too bold! A natural flush or naturally nuded-out lips are the way to go. Use a balm before-hand! Or just use gloss.
