 Before you create the character and play it in a session of D&D you should read the entire entry in the Player's Handbook (PHB). This is where you find the basic information about the Druid and its special abilities.;
, All races can play a druid equally well. This means that the choice of a race is almost entirely subjective. One consideration is that if you use the wild shape special ability you will lose any physical characteristics of your race. So races such as Half-Orc and Dwarf that have mostly physical advantages may not be the best choice. Humans make excellent druids.
 Consult your Dungeon Master (DM) to see what system(s) can be used and generate your vital statistics (stats). Wisdom is the key ability for most druid abilities, including spellcasting. However, if you plan to use wild shape and fight in melee combat then you will need a high constitution as well. If you use the wild shape ability your physical stats will change, so if you plan to use wild shape frequently then you should consider favoring your mental stats.
 The skills Concentration, Handle Animal, Knowledge Nature, and Survival are common choices for druids. The skills you choose will determine the type of character you are, so pick according to the personality that you want to have. You will need Handle Animal to command your animal companion. Feats are a more complicated choice for druids. There are essentially two routes a druid can take. The first is spellcasting and the second is wild shape combat. If you plan to go the spellcasting route then you should choose feats that will enhance your spellcasting. If you want to use wild shape and then fight in melee combat then you need to select feats that will help this. You should pick one track and try to specialize, this will get you the best results. Whichever route you take, you will want the feat Natural Spell, which allows you to cast spells while in animal form.
 A druid gets an animal companion that follows them on quests and helps in a variety of ways. There is a list of acceptable animal companions in the PHB. Some DMs will allow substitutions but you must ask before making one. You should prepare a mini character sheet for your animal companion so that you can use it in any situation. Do not forget that at some levels, your animal companion may be made more powerful or swapped for a different animal.
 Note that Druids must be partly neutral to keep most of their powers

, When you buy weapons and armor for a druid you need to pay careful attention to the types of weapon and armor that a druid can use. You may want to get both a melee and a ranged weapon. You will also want basic survival gear; bedroll, rations etc.
 As a druid you are a flexible character. You can be a backup divine caster, as well as deal some damage like an arcane caster. If you choose to maximize your wild shape ability then you can serve as a secondary fighter. Remember that you can choose the best role according to the situation.
 There are many spells that you can cast, you should try to be familiar with them all, or at least the ones that you plan to use frequently. If you do not know your spells well you will slow down the game. Reading the spell entry carefully will also help you determine if a spell is worth preparing or not and make your character more effective.
 Understanding wild shape is the hardest part of playing a druid. You will need to read the rules for the spells Polymorph and Alter Self first, as wild shape is based on those spells. Then you need to read the description of wild shape in the druid entry of the PHB to see how wild shape differs from the two spells it emulates. You may need to read this material two or three times before you understand it fully. Taking notes is a good idea. Once you understand how wild shape works you should look through the Monster Manual (MM) for animals that you would like to turn into. When you find one you like, write down any changes that would occur so that you are ready. If you decide to turn into a wolf in a fight you do not want to make everyone wait while you add up all of the important information. Remember that your modifiers will be similar to, but not the same as, the default entries in the MM.

