 Find out what a senator has to do before you decide whether you want to become one. The job definitely requires patience and an interest in politics and law.The main duty of a senator is to vote on potential new laws called bills. These bills often require close attention and repeated changes before they can pass a vote.
Senators often form specialized committees to discuss specific issues. If you are interested in a subject such as trade or the environment, becoming a senator might come with the opportunity to examine better ways to construct laws that relate to that subject.
Senators represent a specific state or region, and must be prepared to defend that group's interests whenever a new law affects the voters who elected her or him.;
, Try to follow as much news as you can, especially about political events. Gather your news from a variety of newspapers, television stations, or websites, even ones you don't agree with, and think critically about each person's opinion.


If you have a friend who's also interested in politics but disagrees with you, this is a great opportunity for debate. Don't make it personal or hurt your friendship; consider it good practice understanding people in a different political position.
 You probably already have opinions on certain issues, but try to investigate the details. Determine which ones you feel most strongly about, and what exactly you think should be done about them.


Keep sight of what you want to do when you're in the senate, not what you think you have to say to get there. You want to build a base of happy supporters, not lie to get votes then immediately lose your office in the next election.
 If you agree with the work of a particular political party, ask the local branch about volunteering or job opportunities. If you would rather remain independent, become familiar with the political process by volunteering at a polling station or joining your school's student government.


Many non-profit organizations want volunteers or temporary employees to spread word about a specific issue. Research an issue you care about, especially one that might be voted on in the next year, and contact organizations that you support to ask about opportunities.
If you can't spare the time for a full job, find out when your city council or political party branch holds meetings. These are often open to the public or party members and can teach you more about the political process with less time commitment.
 This isn't technically a requirement, but it's extremely difficult to get elected without a bachelor's degree or higher. In 2014, only one U.S. senator out of the entire 100 had no education past high school.Political science and law are the two most common subjects studied by future senators. In 2014, 57 out of 100 U.S. senators held degrees from law school., Many future senators gain valuable connections and respect by first pursuing careers in law, business, nonprofit work, or the military. You don't need to follow the traditional paths, but try to find work that helps people in some way.

