


You know Jesus said we all have power to be witnesses. And, the Holy Spirit will also revive you: "But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwells in you." (Romans 8:11).
You cannot declare things into existence like God can. You can ask whatever things you desire in Jesus name, and do not doubt. Then God will always answer your prayers: "Yes, no or wait.";
, Try not to think negative thoughts about them. Understand that the job of judgment belongs to God and Him alone. While you may think that He must be angry at someone for whatever reason (abortion, atheism, being gay, etc.) understand that that is between Him and them. Your job is to love others.



Don't be presumptuous and think that God will give you whatever you want. In praying and asking God for things, don't assume that He will absolutely do whatever you are asking for.
The Bible says that God will meet all of our needs, not all of our wants. There were dozens of people that Jesus did not heal. When the Pharisees asked Jesus for a sign, he usually did not give them one.



A great verse is "What is man that you are mindful of him?"
Also, James 4:14 says, "What is your life? You are a mist that appears for a little while and then vanishes." Amen. We are nothing but dust, essentially. We are like ants compared to the magnificence of God, the creator of the world. To think of ourselves as on the same level as God, or even close, would be very prideful. "His ways are as far above ours, as the heavens are above the earth."

, A big reason for this is because God might realize that the thing we want might become an idol for us.


God doesn't want us to be distracted from focusing on Him, so there are certain things he might never give us. Testing oneself is fine, but testing God is doubt and distrust.



There is a popular idea out now that God wants you to be wealthy, but that concept cannot be found in the Bible. But "He shall give you all things according to his riches in Glory". But, not if we ask amiss to consume it to ourselves. Share, give, loan what you can, and agree on terms, but do not demand or insist that the debtor makes the repayment. The debtor knows to repay you. So if he does not, then he is doing that to God.
Yet, Jesus taught that we should be willing to give all that we have away to the poor. Jesus said that "You cannot love both God and money."
Money often conflicts with our devotion to God. Therefore, often times God will not give us a lot more money than we need.



For whatever reason, God allows many people to live with pain.
In the Bible, Paul says that God allowed Satan to give him a thorn in his flesh to humble him.
Sometimes God will let us suffer physically to humble us and draw us close to him. Suffering often produces a greater character in someone. Therefore, God allows us to suffer to make us better people.



Just because you might want some discomfort to go away now, that does not mean that it is in your best interest that it does. God might use a test you are going through now to become your testimony later on and bring others to Christ.  God sees the big picture, whereas we only see what is happening now. 
Trust that God knows what he is doing.

