 Environmental enrichment is very important for any animal’s welfare and well-being. Having an enriched environment keeps animals physically and mentally stimulated by providing novel and potentially challenging experiences. An enriched environment also allows animals to exhibit their natural behaviors (e.g., chasing, hunting).Environmental enrichment needs can vary from species to species, so it is important to do your research to determine what will work best for the animal you have.
 You can create an enriching environment for your cat in several ways. For example, you can provide him with a steady rotation of toys so that he does not become bored with what she plays with. Giving him toys that match his personality can keep him even more entertained.Toys that dangle are good for cats that like to chase things and use their hunting skills.Moving the toy away from his visual field will make it harder for him to chase and catch, and will make playtime more interesting for him.Scheduling regular playtime with your cat is an important component of environmental enrichment. Aim to play with your cat twice a day for about 5 to 15 minutes per session.Consider switching out his toys every few days.
Puzzle-feeders provide both mental and physical stimulation. You can place dry food inside these toys so that you cat has to put in extra effort to get to the food.Window perches are an excellent way to enrich your cat’s environment by providing him with visual stimulation.Cat videos featuring typical cat prey (rodents, birds) can also keep him busy, especially in the winter when there isn’t much to see outside.Training your cat provides great environmental enrichment by giving your cat mental and physical challenges. The main key to training a cat is making bad behavior undesirable and making good behavior extremely desirable.
 Just like cats, dogs need a variety and steady rotation of toys to prevent boredom. A good rule of thumb is to provide your dog with three toys at a time and rotate them out on a regular basis (e.g., about every five days).Dogs can benefit from watching dog videos when you are not home. Dog videos are more suitable for dogs who may become highly reactive when seeing something outside that they cannot get to.Puzzle feeders are a great way to provide your dog with environmental enrichment.Leaving the television or radio on when you are not home, or giving your dog a toy that makes noise, can stimulate his auditory sense and be enriching for him.Hiding treats around the house can help your dog use his sense of smell, which can keep him entertained and happy.Regular playtime with you is another way to provide environmental enrichment for your dog.Dogs can be trained to do many tricks or tasks, such as sitting, playing fetch, and playing dead. The process of learning the tricks and tasks will be enriching for your dog, as long as you make it a rewarding and positive experience (e.g., verbal praise, treats).
 Pocket pets tend to be very energetic animals and need enrichment to keep them busy and active. As with dogs and cats, pocket pets need toys and plenty of them. Rather than going out and spending a lot of money on toys at your local pet store, you can make your own toys out of items such as empty toilet paper and paper towel rolls.


If you would like to purchase toys at the pet store, consider purchasing nibbler and chew toys.Ramps and stairs are useful if your pocket pet’s cage is multi-level. Just make sure that the ramps and stairs are solid to prevent his feet from getting stuck.Exercise wheels are a great way for your pocket pet to exercise, but are not suitable for all pocket pets. For example, exercise wheels can seriously injure a guinea pig’s back, but are fine for a hamster or mouse.Playtime outside of the cage is important for pocket pets. Before letting your pocket pet out of his cage, make sure that your other pets are blocked from the area.Also, make sure to cover up any furniture that he could nibble on,and block his access to potential hiding places (e.g., under and between furniture).
 When outfitting your bird’s cage, make sure to include several perches of varying diameters and textures to keep his feet healthy and prevent a specific foot condition called ‘bumble foot.’ Select a perch diameter that will allow your bird to firmly grip the perch without falling off.Birds tends to like puzzle-feeder toys, as well as plush toys that they can snuggle up against.Be mindful that large birds can destroy toys quickly, so you may have to purchase toys for your bird on a regular basis.Contrary to popular belief, it is not recommended to provide birds with a mirror.Birds can be trained. For example, you can teach your budgie to step up.
 Provide environmental enrichment for your reptile. The environmental enrichment needs for reptiles are different from those of other animals typically kept as pets. For example, reptiles need perches, branches, and rock piles in their cages to give them places to climb and hide.It is also good to hide food throughout a reptile’s cage to encourage the natural tendency to forage for food.Doing your research on your specie of reptile (e.g., feeding habits, reproductive biology, natural aging process) is critical in providing the right type of environmental enrichment for him.Veiled chameleons prefer to drink water from dew-dampened leaves instead of a water bowl. For this type of reptile, you would need to set up either a misting system or a rainforest environment to allow water to accumulate on the foliage in his cage.If you are not too squeamish, feeding live crickets is good environmental enrichment for bearded dragons.