 Taking hormones to replace estrogen, progesterone, and testosterone can be beneficial for menopausal women. HRT can alleviate peri-menopausal symptoms and could even prevent osteoporosis.


Be aware of the risks of HRT and consult with your doctor prior to deciding to pursue this option. HRT can increase your risk of heart disease, breast cancer, uterine cancer, and stroke., While the efficacy of some of these in providing relief from menopausal symptoms is contested, you could still try an alternative therapy to manage your symptoms.Black cohosh might be effective in alleviating menopausal symptoms. It has not, however, been shown to improve symptoms. If you would like to use this herb to relieve symptoms like hot flashes, do so only in the short-term (six-months maximum), as long-term efficacy and safety are still contested.Phytoestrogens may be helpful in providing relief from menopausal symptoms. They are estrogens that occur in some plants and have the effect of slowing cell growth and preventing inflammation. They are found in a variety of foods and are also widely available as supplements. You may want to moderately complement your diet with phytoestrogens and keep track of any symptoms which are alleviated.

While the safety of phytoestrogens which occur naturally in food is practically uncontested, this is not the case for non-food phytoestrogens. The risks of long-term use of non-food phytoestrogens are unknown.Try herbal preparations. There are a number of herbs which you could try using to alleviate menopausal symptoms, though the efficacy of these is unknown. These include evening primrose, ginkgo, red clover, chaste-tree berry, and ginseng., Consult with your doctor if you experience any unusual pains or sensations or if you find any of your symptoms to be unbearable. Furthermore, if symptoms such as hot flashes, mood changes, or heavy bleeding during or between periods are interfering with your day to day life, see your doctor.You should see your doctor for a full physical exam (including a breast exam, a pelvic exam, and a mammogram) once a year.

