


Men should wear coat or jacket and a tie, until advised to dress more casually. Follow the lead of those with whom you are meeting.
Men may find in a very casual business office that a short sleeve shirt and no tie would be appropriate.
Jeans may be worn for very casual occasions, but never shorts for men or women. Even though the climate is warm and humid, proper attire, even for very casual occasions, will always dictate your choice of clothing. Shorts are not considered proper attire.
Women should wear long-sleeve blouses and skirts that cover the knee.
Women meeting in a more formal office should wear a suit with hosiery.
Women are limited to clothing colors that are muted or dark. Leave brightly colored clothing for at home.
Women must always cover their upper arms when wearing a casual blouse, so no sleeveless tops.;
,, Do not put your hands into your pockets when talking with someone.


Do not crook your index finger to call someone over. This gesture is offensive.
No physical contact between men and women is made in public, except a possible handshake.
 Meetings traditionally start late, and your Indonesian business associates will probably arrive late. However, you are expected on time, and should never make any comment about the meeting starting late or any person arriving late.
 Always rise when your host or hostess enters the room.



Leaving food on your plate signifies you are impolite, so eat all the food you are served.
Only use your right hand for eating, when touching someone, or handling money/papers.
Never eat while walking in public, or chew on a toothpick.
 Never show the soles of your feet/shoes in any way. (Don't cross your legs so that the bottom of your shoe shows and don't prop your feet on anything) or touch anything with your foot.



Never touch another person's head, this includes a child's head (such as a pat on the head).
Yawning in public is inappropriate (cover your mouth if you must yawn).
 Religion/culture dictates specific rules for appropriate gifts. Muslim, Hindus, and the Chinese culture each have rules regarding food, alcohol and other items. Make sure that your gift is not offensive to the recipient.


Gifts are not opened when given. This practice shows the recipient is gracious, not greedy.
Do not give a gift that numbers four or shows a crane or stork. In selecting the gift and the gift wrapping paper stay away from the colors white, black, or blue (Chinese).
A gift of an umbrella means you do not want to see that person again.
 The handshake must be limp and lasts 10 to 15 seconds.


For religious reasons (Muslim and Hindu), men and women do not touch in public in this culture.
Women, do not offer a handshake to an Indonesian man. However, should a man extend his hand, always shake hands. Some Indonesian men may follow western business rules in a business setting.
Men - do not offer a handshake to an Indonesian woman. Reciprocate, however, if she initiates.
 Greetings are not to be rushed; they carry importance and formality. A person's name is very important. Develop a habit of paying close attention during introduction.
 Presenting your business card follows introductions.


Present a business card to each person you are meeting. Offer your card with the printing positioned so the recipient can read it. Your right hand holds the card, with your left hand supporting your right wrist. Your card will be received with both hands.
Take time to carefully read the card.
Never write on a business card.
Never carry your business cards, or place another person's business card in a back pocket.
Print your business cards in English, with the reverse side printed in Indonesian.
Address each person using his or her title, plus full name. A title may be an honorific title or an academic title. Rank and status is very important in this culture.
People are normally called by their first name, as in Mr. Robert or Miss Susan, rather than using their last name.



Selamat means peace and is a traditional greeting.
"Yes, but" means no when someone is speaking to you.

