 Consider how much time you and your child have for walking, brushing and grooming, training, and playing. If you want to keep grooming low maintenance, consider a shorthaired dog that’s recommended for families, like a Boxer.If you don’t have the space in your home and yard for a larger breed, consider apartment dogs, like Italian Greyhounds and Chihuahuas. Keep in mind that, while fine for older kids, smaller breeds are fragile and aren’t recommended for younger children.;
, Working and herding dogs like Labrador Retrievers, Golden Retrievers, German Shepherds, and Collies are well-known as great family dogs. These breeds can help you teach your older child the value of training and have the energy to play with an active preteen or teen. They’ve been bred to be social and to work alongside humans, and are better for families since they are less likely to attach to just one person.In addition to being naturally social, they instinctively take commands and are eager to please their owners and family.
Be sure you have the time and space for an active working or herding breed or mix of these breeds.
 If you and your child don’t have the time to maintain the activity level of highly active dog, consider a more mellow larger breed, like a Newfoundland, Mastiff, or a hound. They are loyal and reliable companions, and their laid back dispositions might work better if your family’s schedule is already packed.If you don’t have the space requirements for a larger mellow breed, consider a lapdog, like a Yorkshire Terrier. If you have another youngster in your household, remember that experts recommend against getting a small dog if you have young children.
 Trainers and vets generally recommend dogs for families that are already house-trained and socialized. Puppies require lots of training and supervision that might take more time than you have on hand, especially if your older kid is busy with school, sports, and other extracurricular activities.If you get a dog over a year old from a breeder or shelter, be sure to ask, “Has this dog interacted with people, and to what degree has it been socialized? Has it ever had previous owners, and has it ever been around kids?”
If you go with an older dog, look for one that lived in a household with kids or at least people other than a single owner. Look for dogs with gentle dispositions, that don’t bark too excessively, and that demonstrate trainability.