 Compare prices on tableware and settings at local department stores. You can often find good deals on tableware and settings at discount stores, department stores, and dollar stores. If you do not have money to spend on tableware or settings, you could also ask to borrow a few things from a friend or family member.Try using disposable plates. You can save money and avoid the dishes.
 Place a large bowl in the middle of your table. Before the meal or during appetizers, distribute small pieces of paper and some pens to guests. Ask guests to write a note about something they are thankful for in their life. Ask them if they are comfortable sharing their notes and, if so, to fold them and put them in the wishing well. During dessert, you can ask a volunteer to read a few of the notes aloud., The dollar store is one of the cheapest places to find holiday decorations. You can even purchase conventional products like glasses, candles, and buckets and then use them to make your own decorations. If you are really ahead of the game, you could buy your decorations the day after the holiday, when they are really cheap, and then use them the following year., Instead of going to the movies or to the shopping mall, you could go for a hike. Hiking is a free activity that has the additional benefit of ensuring everyone in the family gets some exercise on this busy and often stressful holiday. Look for hikes that are close to your family holiday location and include the family hike in your itinerary. The advantage of hiking over other physical activities is that it does not necessarily require specialized equipment, special skills or fitness levels. In other words, as long as one is able bodied, one can probably enjoy a short walk or hike in the woods.


If there are differently abled people in your group, you should look for a path that meets their mobility needs.
Specialized hiking equipment is available such as walking poles and hiking shoes, but this equipment is not necessary for a short, easy Thanksgiving day hike.

