 Approach the ball at an angle. You will plant your non kicking foot about 12-16 inches away from the ball.


Set up slightly off center from where you would if you wanted to kick the ball straight.
A right footed kicker should approach the ball from left to right and a left footed kicker from right to left.
Begin your approach 7-10 feet back with enough room for 3 strides before kicking.;
, In order to make the ball curve, you have to make the ball spin in flight. Spinning the ball is achieved by applying more force to one side than the other.
 To make the ball curve to the left you need to kick it on the right side to apply counter-clockwise spin. Kicking the ball on the left side will make it spin clockwise and curve right., The amount of spin on the ball will vary based upon how hard you kick and where you strike the ball.Practice different strengths of kicks to see which gives you the most spin.
Strike the ball in different positions to vary the amount of spin you give the ball.
 Place a cone 20-30 feet in front of where the ball is placed. Use this as a guide to practice curving the ball around the cone.


Place the cone directly in front of your kicking path.
Aim the ball to the side of the cone.
Try to get the ball to curve back around the cone after passing it.
 As you strike the ball aim for a spot that is near the bottom of the ball to provide lift. Depending on which side of the ball you kick, you will get different directions of spin, and consequently, different directions of curve.


Clockwise spin, from a kick to the left side of the ball, will create a curve to the right.
Counter-clockwise spin, from a kick to the right side of the ball, will curve the ball to the left.
 As you move your leg forward and strike the ball, add extra spin by pushing the ball around with your foot.While your foot is in contact with the ball bring your leg across your body to give the ball extra spin.
 There are many times when curving a soccer ball can be useful during a game. Try kicking the ball with spin from various field positions to practice for game time:Corner Kicks
Free Kicks
Penalty Kicks

, How much spin you put on the ball depends on how much curve you want your shot to take.


Curving around a wall of defenders requires lots of spin.
Curving the ball to fool a goalie on a free kick may require less spin.
To score on your own corner kick takes a large curve.
 The Magnus Effect causes a ball to curve or bend in the direction it is spinning. If you want the ball to curve right, it should spin to the right., If you are planning to curve the ball to the left, kick the ball a little to the left of your target to account for the curve. Conversely, if you plan to curve the ball to the right, you should aim left of your target.

