 Muesli was originally invented by a Swiss physicians named Maximilian Bircher-Benner. While most modern versions of muesli have a high oat-to-fruit ratio, the original was more fruit and nut heavy. His original recipe for the healthy mixture used the following ratios:


1 tablespoon rolled oats, soaked in 2–3 tablespoons water
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 tablespoon cream
1 large, sour apple, finely grated and mixed in directly before serving
Top with 1 tablespoon ground hazelnuts or almonds

, For some people, basic muesli can be a little bland. If you want to sweeten it up a bit, try adding a small amount of sweetener to your mixture to make it more satisfying. Whatever you use, use it conservatively. All of the following make great sweeteners or light seasoning:


Honey
Molasses
Brown sugar
Cinnamon
Toasted coconut
Lemon Juice
Agave syrup
Maple syrup
Nutmeg

, If you'd like your muesli mixture to be a little more crunchy, try baking it on a cookie sheet at 325 degrees for about 30 minutes, or until the mixture becomes golden brown. It might be helpful to add a small amount of coconut oil, or melted butter to the muesli, to encourage browning.
 One great way of making your muesli mobile is to mold it into bars that you can eat on the go. Mix muesli with a few tablespoons of peanut butter, or your favorite nut butter, to act as a binder, and add whatever add-ins you want. Additional dried fruit, nuts, and other cereals all work great.


Press the mixture into a baking pan, about an inch-thick, and let it chill thoroughly in the fridge. Cut into bars and keep them in the refrigerator for a quick snack.
You can also use melted butter and honey as a binder, pressing the mixture into a pan and letting it firm up.
 Muesli can be used as a replacement for any recipe that calls for rolled oats or oatmeal. Cookies, muffins, and even pancakes can be made a little more healthful and tasty with the addition of a small amount of muesli. Try replacing the oats with muesli in any of the listed recipes below:


Cookies
Pancakes
Cakes
Muffins

