 For each day, jot down a few notes about when you massaged, the duration, and if you felt any contractions. You can also log information about any other induction methods that you are trying. This can be a very helpful tool in seeing which methods work for you and which ones fall flat.You might write, “Massaged both breasts at 1pm for 15 mins total-used lotion, no contractions.”
If you prefer to operate on a schedule, you might also set a timer on your phone to alert you for your chosen massaging times.
Make sure to bring this journal with you when you visit with your doctor or midwife.
 Some women find it helpful to use an electric breastfeeding pump in addition to massaging. The pump will apply more forceful pressure to your areola and nipple area, possibly prompting contractions. Women may also find that their hands hurt during pregnancy and a pump will do the manual work for you.Experiment with the pump’s settings to find the one that is the most comfortable for you. Remember that the most pressure does not necessarily yield the best results.
 If your nipples are dry, sore, or tender, you will have a more difficult time benefiting from (or tolerating) the stimulation technique. Apply a natural lubricant, such as nipple butter or coconut oil, to your areola and nipple. Rub it in as part of the massage process. Repeat as needed., Heat is also known to stimulate your let-down reflex and the release of oxytocin. Place a hot compress on one breast at a time for five minutes each. Rotate over the course of 30 minutes to one hour. Repeat this process up to three times a day.Make sure that the compress is not too hot. It should warm your skin, not burn it. You can also purchase microwaveable heat pouches that double as bra inserts at your local maternity store.
You can also take a hot shower. Turn towards the water and direct it toward your breasts while massaging for maximum effect.
 This may seem like a lot of work, but if you get your partner involved you may be able to lighten up a bit. Show your partner the proper massage technique and the touches that you prefer and ask them to do it for you. Request that they remind you when you are due for stimulation sessions.You can also request that your partner stimulate your nipples by sucking or licking on them. This works best when combined with massage techniques.If you prefer to do the stimulating yourself, your partner can always provide verbal encouragement.

