 It is best if you are already a member or at least play regularly before you become a marshal because this helps you understand the basics: How to play the game, the layout of the arena, the equipment.;
, Again it helps to be a member. As someone who plays Laser Quest for fun, you will have no problem getting your customers excited about Laser Quest too.
 Remember that a smile can go a long way.
 Be clean, tidy and hygienic and look smart. Wear sensible shoes because marshals do a lot of walking around.
 If you don’t know the stuff yourself, you will find it extremely difficult to explain to customers. Memorise the deals, special offers and events so you can explain them to customers.
 When you have to give the safety/how to play briefing to a large, noisy group, be sure to speak loudly and make sure that you are listened to. Make sure you are actually enforcing rules such as no physical contact - they are for everyone's safety.
 E.g if you have only a small group playing, let them choose whether to play a team or solo game, and if they choose a team game, let them pick their own teams.
 Being in the arena with the players gives you more of an idea what is going on in the game and allows you to see if anyone is behaving dangerously or unfairly and do something about it. The only reasons to be in the airlock/pack room during the game is if you are sorting out a pack problem or starting/ending the game.
 If you have a small group, offer to join in to make up numbers or even out the teams if there are an odd number. For a group of young children, try putting on a pack but not shooting anyone, just walking around as a target. Just remember that you are being paid and the customers are paying - so don't play to win (especially if you are an experienced player) and don't play in a way that is irritating or unfair (e.g. covering sensors, stalking, repeatedly hitting the same person).
 If someone’s pack is not working, make sure you can get them back in the game quickly and efficiently.
 (Assuming you have these). If the players are interested, show them how you hold the gun in a tournament/how to stand sideways to minimise the targets they display to opponents/tell them about how you know the guy whose picture is in the trophy cabinet/ mention that you’re going to the European Championships. They’ll think you’re awesome. (OK, maybe a bit weird too, but definitely awesome).
 It’s such a simple thing but easily forgotten. Hand them to the players before they have to ask you for them.
 Let them know you think they’re pretty good at Laser Quest. They’re more likely to come back, and more likely to consider becoming a member.
 Some children are scared of the dark or just nervous about playing for the first time. Take time to answer all their questions, even if they seem silly. Make sure their pack is done up properly and tightened. If someone is scared, offer to go in with them and look after them in the arena. Encourage kids to play (even if they’re scared) but never force them. For groups with a lot of small children, keep the lights on in the airlock and make sure the music is not on too loud.
 This means if games are, say, 15 minutes long, never run a 13 minute game and pretend it’s 15 minutes, even if you are running behind schedule. Don't rip anyone off.
 If there are no customers and you have nothing else to do, do some tidying or cleaning, catch up with paperwork, make sure all the packs are hung up correctly, or ask a colleague or manager if there is anything you can do to help them. Nobody is paying you to stand around doing nothing.
 This requires some imagination and getting to know the particular individual/group. It’s not possible to make it extra-special for everyone, especially on a busy day, but there’s always something you can make time to do. For example:


Let the group choose standard game or frantic, and take the time to explain the difference. (Standard game is one second down-time, frantic is one second down-time, so is a faster-paced game).
Go the extra mile in answering the tech-obsessed kid’s questions about how the pack works.
Allow yourself to be used as a human shield by a bunch of teenagers.
Let the birthday girl pick the teams.
Ask whether a group want to play alone or with another group and accommodate that.
Allow a group to take pictures of themselves with their packs on. Offer to take the picture.

