 Think about why you want to tell your partner about your addiction. One reason may be that you need support to help you with recovery. Recovering from a drug addiction is a difficult road. Having your partner provide support can make things easier for you.Do you need your partner’s help staying sober? Has your drug addiction impacted your health, finances, or well-being?;
, Learning that you have a drug addiction may be hard for your partner to hear. It may change the way your partner views you. Though it may not necessarily be negative, they will now know this vital part of you. This means that your relationship will change because of this new knowledge.Your partner may feel hurt or distrustful of you at first. They may need to work through negative emotions as they come to terms with your situation.
The relationship change does not need to be a negative thing. You and your partner may end up closer than ever due to this confession.
 As you prepare to tell your partner about your drug addiction, you should first be honest with yourself. Will your partner be supportive? This doesn’t mean they will support your drug habit, but support your recovery and your healing. This is important as you move forward with your life and your relationship.Ask yourself if you think your partner will be able to handle the fact that you have a drug addiction. Will they judge you and change their opinion about you? Will they support you as you continue through recovery?

, There may be a lot of information that goes along with your confession that you are a drug addict. You may not want to tell your partner everything at once. This may be overwhelming for both of you. Instead, decide what needs to be told at the beginning to let your partner know about your situation and your recovery.You may want to give basic details, like how long you used drugs and which drugs you used. You may want to save more specific details for later, once you have both moved forward and deepened the trust between the two of you.
 Though you love your partner and feel close enough to them to share your drug addiction, that doesn’t guarantee a positive reaction. Even if your partner loves you very much, they may still have a negative reaction. Be prepared for any reaction since this news can be an emotional and difficult thing to hear about someone they love.Be respectful of your partner’s feelings and reactions. This news affects them, too.
Your partner may not be understanding or want to help you at first. Stay positive and patient with your partner as you continue to help them get used to this news.

