 The mark of a too-cool-for-school hipster with fashionably obscure tastes is the music he listens to. Keeping your personal playlists packed with little-known bands, niche genres, and rare recordings is a must if you're looking to gain a reputation as someone with a knack for the obscure. Try to listen to bands and artists that the people you know are unfamiliar with — the smaller and less well-known the act, the better.


You don't have to download un-listenable amateur garbage to get a taste for obscure music. If you're trying to transition from mainstream music to more obscure artists, start by browsing the latest reviews at online sites associated with "hipsterdom", like Pitchfork.com, Avclub.com, and independent music blogs to get ahead of the curve when it comes to good obscure music.
For bonus hipster points, try to get the albums of your favorite obscure bands and artists on vinyl.
 Another way to show that you have a taste for the obscure is to develop a love for little-known cinematic gems. For instance, hosting a screening of the latest release from your favorite indie director or introducing your friends to under-appreciated cult classics can give you a reputation as a connoisseur of the obscure. Having this interest also gives you something to talk about with others, since almost everyone likes movies (think along these lines: "Hey, you like Tarantino? You'd love Sergio Corbucci's The Great Silence).


Unfortunately, indie and arthouse films usually don't have big advertising budgets, so if you're not looking for them, they can complete their theatrical runs before you're even aware of them. Try subscribing to the email newsletter at a local arthouse theater or browsing online movie review sites with an indie focus (like, for instance, Thedissolve.com) to stay abreast of the latest in obscure cinema.
You may also want to try attending film festivals. Small indie films are often screened at festivals before they are picked up for wide distribution. Additionally, some films from particularly unknown directors only make it to the festival circuit, which means that sometimes festivals are the only place to learn about and watch certain films. Try searching an online festival directory (like this one) to find a festival near you.
 Books seldom offer the instant gratification of music or movies, but, for many, they give the sort of long-lasting impact for which there is no substitute. Reading books that few people have heard of can give you a distinguished, scholarly mystique that you simply can't get by consuming obscure books and music. If you don't currently read for pleasure (and, today, many people do not), try to get through a few good, obscure books per year. You'll develop a rewarding new habit and impress people with your eclectic tastes.


To learn about obscure books, try browsing a literature discussion site (like, for instance, Goodreads.com). At these types of sites, you'll usually find reviews, recommendations, and, often, a "New Releases" section (or equivalent) that can point you to the latest and greatest reads.
 Preparing food is an art form that almost everyone participates in in some form or another. By developing an appreciation for food that's out of the ordinary and eventually learning how to make this type of food, you won't just impress others with your obscure tastes — you'll also gain a skill that will make your meals much more enjoyable and allow you to entertain others. If you're not sure how to start, try looking up recipes belonging to your favorite categories of ethnic cuisine online (for instance, Italian, Japanese, Ethiopian, Middle Eastern, etc.). Eventually, try to transition to categories of food you aren't familiar with. Be adventurous! The only way to learn is to practice.


You don't have to break the bank to cook great-tasting meals. Try browsing through the recipes at a low-budget cooking site (like this one) to get ideas for delicious, nutritious recipes that make a great addition to any diet at a fraction of the cost of fancier meals.
 There's no denying it: By and large, people are shallow. Before anyone even has a chance to talk to you, they'll probably judge you by the way you appear (even if this judgement is minor or eventually discarded after they get to know you). To broadcast the fact that you have obscure tastes to everyone who may see you, try dressing with unconventional style. For instance, you may want to go for a vintage look, wearing clothing that was once the cutting edge of fashion but now gives a retro vibe. Or, you may want to go for an avant-garde look, combining patterns and styles in ways that haven't been done before. Be creative — your style is uniquely yours, so own it and enjoy challenging the conventional tastes of ordinary people.


As above, you don't have to spend lots of money to have great style. If you're looking to update your wardrobe for cheap, try shopping at your local thrift store. These types of stores often have old, out-of-fashion clothing available for a fraction of the price of new styles (though you may need to do some digging to find something wearable).
 To a certain extent, everyone is influenced by the people they hang out with. Other people can inform our opinions, give us new perspectives, and introduce us to people and things we might not otherwise have encountered. Similarly, people are often judged by the company they keep. If you're extra-serious about being seen as having obscure tastes, try to hang out with uncommon types of people. People who see you with your "obscure" friends will mentally associate you with them, allowing you to project the image of belonging to a delightfully idiosyncratic group of people.


The places where you're likely to meet people with obscure tastes are the same places where you can find the obscure music, films, books, and so on described above. In other words, try to frequent concerts for up-and-coming indie artists, local film festivals, independent bookstores, non-chain ethnic restaurants, and similar venues for all things "obscure".

