 The best way to clean donkeys is to brush them every day. They don't like to get wet, so it's not necessary to spray them down or give them baths. A daily brushing, as well as cleaning the muck from their hooves, will suffice., Donkeys' hooves grow, just like people's nails, and they need to be trimmed from time to time so they don't get too long and crack. Have a professional farrier trim the donkey's hooves to the appropriate angle, which is 60 to 65 degrees.The donkey's hooves should be trimmed every 8 weeks or so.
 Donkeys' teeth also grow continuously, and they get worn down when the donkey chews food. Your donkey should be seen by an equine dentist every year regardless of how the teeth appear to you. Your donkeys teeth go back as far as the length of your forearm, so there is no way to know what is going on at the back of the mouth without specialist tools. The dentist will need to check right to the back of the mouth to make sure your donkey has functioning teeth that aren't causing difficulty eating and constant pain.


A donkey with poor teeth may be happier on a diet of chaff or mash/wet feed – this will obviate the need for the donkey to chew too much on grass or hay. Consult with your vet as to the best options.
 Donkeys are hardy and almost disease-free. They do need to be vaccinated yearly against tetanus, flu and distemper. Other vaccinations to consider, depending on where you reside, include rabies, encephalitis, and West Nile Virus.
 Both horses and donkeys are beginning to suffer due to overzealous use of wormers in the past, as now the worms aren't responding as they used to and the drugs are becoming more and more inefficient. There is no easy answer to this, but the way forward is definitely not continuing on with the same pattern of untargeted worming that has caused the situation to arise. Donkeys and horses should be have their feces tested four times a year to see what (if any) worms they have and then appropriate treatment can be given. Ask your vet to give you guidance on this, and also ask for a follow up check to make sure the treatment worked.
 Minimizing the number of larva that are eaten is a practical way to help combat the number of intestinal worms in your donkey. 'Poo picking' the grazing at least 3 times a week has been found to significantly reduce the number of worms on the pasture.

