 Eating enough food is an important part of managing bipolar symptoms. When you skip meals, your blood sugar levels drop which has a negative effect on your mood. Try to eat at least three meals a day.If you do not like eating three big meals, you can eat six small meals throughout the day.
 Low levels of omega-3 fatty acids have been linked to depression. Both docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), omega-3 fatty acids, and work to increase serotonin, a neurotransmitter that regulates mood in the brain.Increasing omega-3s has not been shown to decrease mania or rapid cycling.Have one serving of fatty fish, like salmon, mackerel, or sardines, one tablespoon of olive, canola, or soybean oil, or one handful of flax seeds or walnuts a day to get enough omega-3s.
To take omega-3 as a daily supplement, fish oil containing 6.2 grams of EPA plus 3.4 grams of DHA is recommended.When purchasing fish oil, make sure to read the label and see that both of these ingredients are present so that you can more effectively combat symptoms of bipolar disorder.
 People with bipolar disorder have lower levels of serotonin, a neurotransmitter that not only impacts your mood, but can spark a craving for carbs and sweets.Eating sweets activates reward centers in the brain, releasing dopamine, which makes people feel good.
 Carbohydrates are an essential part of your diet. However, there are some carbs that are better for you than others. Try to avoid carbs with refined sugars, as they can make your blood sugar levels spike dramatically then crash, making you feel tired and depressed. Complex carbs release energy in a more sustainable way and can impact our serotonin levels.Eat more complex carbs like sweet potatoes and whole grains. Eat less refined sugar carbs like white bread, white pasta, and white rice.
Add lean protein to fibre to get the nutrition you need in a healthy way. Have peanut butter with apple or hummus and carrots, for example.
 Magnesium works similarly to lithium to decrease mania and rapid cycling. Magnesium also supports healthy sleep.Eat black beans, sunflower and pumpkin seeds, spinach, soybeans, cashews, and chard to get more magnesium in your diet.
Adults should have up to 200 milligrams of elemental magnesium per day, though this value changes when the magnesium is in a combined form, such as magnesium chloride. Check with your doctor to be sure you are getting the right amount if you take a supplement., Whole foods are foods that have not been cooked or processed in any way. Fruits and vegetables are whole foods that contain many of the nutrients you need to stay physically healthy. Vitamin C can help to control your cortisol levels, thereby keeping your stress levels down. Vitamin B9 is essential to prevent increased homocysteine, a hormone prevalent in depression.Folates (B vitamins) have been shown to be lower in both depressive and manic states.Get vitamin C in citrus fruits, berries, bell peppers, kale, spinach, broccoli, and cauliflower. The recommended dose of vitamin C by supplement is 75-90 milligrams per day.Get your B vitamins in beans, spinach, asparagus, mango and whole wheat bread. If you take folate supplements, 200 IU per day is recommended in bipolar disorder., Caffeine and alcohol can both affect your mood, stress levels, and depression. Because of this, it is important to stay away from both of these substances as much as possible.This is particularly important if you are taking medications for your bipolar disorder. You can end up with severe drug interactions, sleep disorders, and mood swings.
Have tea or sparkling water with lemon instead.
 Comorbidities are additional illnesses or disorders you have in addition to the main one being discussed. People with bipolar disorder have potential numerous comorbidities including diabetes, obesity, metabolic syndrome, migraines, back pain, asthma, ulcers, and more.By eating well to manage your symptoms, you will also be decreasing the effects these comorbidities have on your life.
People with bipolar disorder are more likely to develop obesity due to sedentary lifestyles, illness–related physiological mechanisms, and medication side effects.