 Studying by yourself can be lonely, but you might also find it easy to get distracted. Instead of going it alone, try organizing a study group with your classmates or setting up a review session.You’ll feel less isolated, and chances are good that someone in the group may understand something that you do not or that you can help other people.
The act of reviewing the material out loud together will also help you absorb the information.
If you organize a review session or study group, make sure you establish guidelines in the beginning so that it is effective. Each person should know what they should do to be ready for the meeting, and you should talk about how you’ll study. Make an agreement to only focus on the material you are reviewing and eliminate distractions.
 If you are struggling to do well on tests, set up a time to talk with your teacher. They might be able to help you identify the problem and adopt more successful preparation and test-taking techniques.They might also be willing to work with you individually so you can improve your score on tests.
Teachers also want to know that you are making an effort, and they will respect your willingness to admit you might need help.
 Although you might worry that your parents will be upset about poor performance on a test, they will be able to help you study for the exam or find someone who can help you study. If you involve them, they’ll also be able to recognize how hard you are working.Your parents have probably taken a lot of tests in their lives and might be able to offer some good tips or study strategies.
Try explaining the test material to them. Even if they aren’t familiar with it, explaining what you are learning and studying to another person helps you retain the information.
Ask if they could help you locate a private tutor.
 Many schools and community centers offer free or reasonably priced tutoring services, so do a little research in your area and consider signing up for tutoring. This will help you stay on track and prepare for tests so you can do your best.If you have an older friend, classmate, or sibling who is familiar with the subject you are studying, ask them to tutor you. Sometimes, this is more comfortable than working with a stranger.
 If test anxiety, concentration problems, depression, or other factors are keeping you from doing well on tests, don’t be afraid to ask for help. This is the first step in feeling better, and if you can address these problems you will find it much easier to do well on tests.Let your parents, teacher, guidance counselor, or school know about your situation. They might be able to provide you with resources or accommodations that will help you be more successful when taking tests.

