 To constantly worry about what he will do next and how he is making your life miserable will only make you feel worse. It is destructive to focus all your energy externally and not on yourself.Stop trying to control things you cannot, and re-direct your energy towards regaining personal power.
 These emotions will drain your energy and keep you stuck on your ex and/or the current situation. Use your energy instead for working towards the future you want for yourself and/or making your present situation more bearable. Rather than focus on what he is doing to make you unhappy now, remember why you were with him in the first place. There was a reason you liked him initially and you probably had some really good times together.When you feel angry or hurt by something he does, refocus your thoughts toward trying to understand why he acted that way. Seeing his perspective might make his actions easier to accept and move past., Most people act negatively out of fear—the fear of being disrespected, of not being loved, or of what may go wrong. People also usually cause harm to others because they are feeling bad themselves and want to share it with you. They are under such pain that all they have to give to others is pain. Realizing this truth will help you advance on the road to compassion and forgiveness. People hurt others due to ignorance and self-concern. They justify their harmful behavior by thinking they are doing what they need to do given the circumstances in their lives.Think about your motivations before you act on any impulses. Try to acknowledge that your motivations for reacting probably initially stem from these fears or negative thoughts., Nothing your ex does can bother you unless you decide to let it. You can’t control his behavior or what others think about your relationship, but you can decide to not let it ruin your day.Remember that “evilness” is simply a judgment, and not really a useful one. Unless he is threatening you with physical violence or has committed a severe transgression against your general well-being, he is probably not inherently a bad person.Labeling your ex as “evil” pits you and him on opposite sides of a struggle, making him seem more powerful than he really is. Realizing you are both fallible human beings takes away any advantages you may be giving him accidentally.
If he has committed violence or voices an intention to do so, however, take this very seriously and get help from professionals—police, courts, counselors, etc.

