 Also called "cradle cap" in infants, this skin inflammation causes greasy yellowish or reddish scaling, most commonly on the scalp, face, or genitals.If on the face, it is usually around the eyebrows or the sides of the nose.The most common symptoms are flaking or dandruff on the scalp and eyebrows, scaly and red skin, itchiness, and crusty eyelids., Seborrheic dermatitis is sometimes correlated with more serious health conditions such as neurological, endocrine, or heart disorders.Talk to your doctor if you think your skin condition might indicate a more serious health concern such as diabetes or Parkinson's disease.
 Apply warm mineral oil or olive oil to the scalp and let sit for an hour before combing and shampooing.This will help reduce the scaliness on your scalp and can also help reduce the discomfort of infants with cradle cap.
 Especially for mild cases, an over-the-counter anti-dandruff shampoo is often sufficient to relieve symptoms.There are many effective varieties, with ingredients such as pyrithione zinc, tar, selenium, ketoconazole (an antifungal) or salicylic acid.Depending on the type of shampoo you use, you can shampoo between 2-7 times per week. However, as you notice that your dandruff decreases, reduce your use of the antidandruff shampoo.
Be sure you leave the shampoo on your hair for the recommended amount of time. Read the shampoo instructions carefully before using.
You may alternate shampoos if you find that using one variety consistently causes it to lose its effectiveness., If you have facial hair and are experiencing a facial case of seborrheic dermatitis, deciding to go clean-shaven might help.This can prevent the itchiness and flaking on your face and can allow your skin to breathe.
 Products containing alcohol can worsen the condition.These can include cleansers, aftershaves, cosmetics, and fragrances. Try to purchase hypoallergenic products that are unscented, alcohol-free, and suitable for sensitive skin.
 Most cases of scalp seborrheic dermatitis can be treated with over-the-counter methods. However, more severe cases might require more serious medical intervention. Some of these treatments have side effects, so consult a medical professional about the risks before coming up with a treatment plan. Some of these treatments might include:Prescription-strength corticosteroids. You can try over-the-counter hydrocortisone first. Apply it once or twice a day until symptoms improve. However, if there is no improvement after two weeks, then consult a healthcare provider.
Antifungal shampoos, creams, and oral medications
Antibacterial gels and creams
Light therapy
Immune system suppressants

