 This guide is written for Create-A-Sim, but you can mold it to fit whatever you're doing.;
, Name them whatever their name is, choose their skin complexion, and alter with the body weight and muscle sliders until it's just right. Also keep in mind their age. You DO NOT want to make Madonna as a child. However, it is best to do teen and young adult/adult celebrities.
 If you wish, you can access many Sims 3 Custom content sites have lovely and realistic hair that you can download. Make sure to take advantage of the new options within Sims 3 which help alter your Sims hair color to a greater extent. Make sure that you use the right color. You can also make fantasy hair, but the real thing is recommended. I would suggest using the highlights and roots to make the hair look as realistic as possible, try not to go too overboard though.
 It may be useful for you to start with the generic eyes, and then tweak them. I would suggest keeping a picture of the celeb handy so you can use it as a reference, you may also want to use more than one picture as well.
 Again, use pictures as references. Use eyeliner to make the eyes stand out. You are most likely to skip this step if you are creating a Male celebrity (although some Male celebrities may require make-up e.g. Marilyn Manson)

, It's best to create-a-style to help interpret the celebrities fashion sense. I used the white tank top and skinny pants to create a glamorous look for everyday. Use a wedding ring if they're married, and bangle bracelets, watches, and earrings to spice up the outfit. Everything else is self explanatory, except for the swimming. Use a good shape (always bikinis) and color it and pattern in. Add sunglasses as well. Also for teen athletics, wear the shoes that look like Converse. Males, suits look great, and wear the simple necklace when swimming.
 We need to check if your Sim is an actor/actress, musician, writer, etc. Make them artistic, definitely. Musicians are virtuosos, actors are party animals, and writers are bookworms. Although you can add much more personality traits aside from their profession.
 If you want, make a family for them so they don't get lonely. Teens need a family, some young adults need a husband/wife. For the children, make them pretty artistic and brave, and good looking, too.
 They need limo rides, correct? Open up the cheat bar and type in testingcheatsenabled true. Shift click your Sim's mailbox and select "Careers". Keep clicking "More" until you see the Music career or Athletic career. If you want your Sim to be in a black limo, select Athletic and click on the highest level. If you want a pink limo, select Music career and then select Rock Star and you have your very own limo! Please note that when your Celebrity Sim is supposedly going to any random place and they don't own a vehicle, they won't get in a taxi, they will get in their Limousine and drive to their destination in the limo. Same thing going home to their mansion.
 You just bought that 60x60 empty lot near the Alto's and Landgrab's, but you don't have any more money left. Make sure you still have "testingcheatsenabled true" enabled in your cheat box. Open up the cheat box and type in "familyfunds <your Sim's household name> 99999999". You must make sure that your household name has no spaces in it, or you won't get the money. Also make sure to type the number 9 in EXACTLY 8 times. After you do this, you can start building your luxury house. If you have all the expansion packs, you can make a wine cellar out of the empty basement, make your Sim's servants work down in the basement, even trap your Sim's arch enemies down there! Just don't make your Sim's house a "box". Add diagonal walls, add indoor pools, outdoor pools, why not even a frige room! Enjoy making their mansion!

