 Think about what words you would use to describe your skin: oily, dry, acne-prone, sensitive.Look for foundation formulas that will cater to your skin type. If you have oily skin, getting an oil-free foundation will be a sure way to keep your foundation from sliding off your face.It is possible to have a combination skin type. If you find that some of your skin is oily and other parts always need more moisturizer, you likely have combination skin.;
, Undertone is your skin's natural inclination toward pink or yellow. Some skin may be a blend of both (neutral), but more often than not you are one or the other. Honey is a yellow undertone.The easiest way to determine your undertone is to look at the veins on your wrist. If they look green or olive, your undertones are yellow. If they look blue, your undertones are pink.If you still can’t tell your undertone, hold up a white piece of paper to your face. Determine if you seem more yellow, or more pink, compared to the paper.This is your undertone.
Undertone never changes, no matter how much you tan.
 If you are in an office all day you’ll have different foundation needs than if you’re outside sweating in the sun. Think about your lifestyle and determine what needs you want met by your foundation.


Perhaps you are a landscaper and you want long lasting coverage. Alternatively, you may need a foundation that will be great for a few hours during a photography session., Knowing your skin type will help you identify the product and coverage you need. If you have dry skin and need more coverage, try a liquid or moisturizing powder foundation.When you have combination skin, strategically apply powder foundation and liquid foundation with careful blending.Sticks and cream foundations provides a medium to heavy coverage.Liquid and powder foundations can be layered alone or together to provide light to heavy coverage., To choose the correct shade, you need to swatch your skin with foundation. While in the beauty store, pick a number of shades that look close to your skin tone. Apply a small amount by dabbing with your finger. Give the sample twenty minutes to absorb and set.Look at it again. If the sample has disappeared, it’s a perfect match.


It was previously believed the best place to test foundation was on your wrist. This is incorrect, and it is more accurate to test your foundation on your neck or jawline if possible.Your skin tone will likely change throughout the year. Rather than buying a new bottle, try mixing colors to get the perfect shade, or adding a drop of moisturizer to lighten your color.
Go for a tone in between the matching of your cheeks and forehead. Matching the larger zones of your face with the more eye-catching areas will ensure you purchase the correct shade.
 With your honey skin, it may take some time to find the right foundation for you. Don’t get discouraged and be open to experimentation.


Try again if you don’t succeed. Many beauty stores will allow you to exchange an open bottle of product if it doesn’t work out.Ask for help. If you’re unable to determine which foundation is best for you, don’t be afraid to ask a professional or a trusted friend for their opinion.