 One surefire way to make your cold drag on and on - for days or even weeks - is to continue with your normal routine and not give your body time to recuperate. The best way to get over a cold quickly is just to take a few days off, hold up somewhere warm and cozy, and give your body a break.


Even if you're reluctant to take time off work, just think of your co-workers - they don't want you spreading your germs around the office! You're doing them a favor by staying home.
Aside from that, the common cold is a virus which attacks and weakens the immune system, making you more susceptible to contracting other illnesses or your cold becoming worse. Therefore, staying in your home environment is the safest option, at least until you start to feel well again.
 Try to remember that your body is doing its best to fight off the cold virus and it needs all the energy it can get in order to win. Over-exerting yourself with housework, exercise, traveling, or other physical activities will just prolong the cold and make you feel worse. Ensure that you are getting at least eight hours of sleep a night and take frequent naps during the day.Even if you can't sleep, try curling up on the couch with a warm blanket and a hot drink , Use this time as an excuse to binge on multiple re-runs of Friends or read the entire Harry Potter series.
When sleeping, try to prop your head up on an extra pillow. It may feel a little strange if you're not used to it, but the raised angle will aid in the draining of your nasal passages. If it really feels uncomfortable, try placing the extra pillow beneath the bottom sheet or under the mattress on your bed, for a less severe angle., What's the opposite of cold? Warmth! (Well, sort of). Even though cold weather or "catching a chill" doesn't actually cause a cold (the cold virus does), staying warm during the recovery process will help. So turn up the thermostat, light a roaring fire and pile on the blankets -- you'll feel much better soon.


Despite the benefits of heat, dry heat can actually irritate inflamed nasal passages and sore throats. You can combat this by using a humidifier to add moisture back into the air. This can help to make breathing more comfortable.
Just be aware that humidifiers can spread pathogens and molds., All that nose blowing and sweating it out under heavy blankets can leave you feeling dehydrated, which can worsen cold symptoms, leading to headaches and dry, irritated throats.


Try to drink slightly more than average when you're sick - whether the fluids come in the form of hots teas, soups, water-heavy fruit and veg (watermelon, tomato, cucumber, pineapple), or just plain water.
A handy way to check for dehydration is to examine your urine. If it's very pale yellow or almost clear, you're doing okay. But if it's dark yellow, this means that there are higher concentrations of waste in your body that are not being diluted, which is a sign that you should drink more water.

