 Base your decision on whether or not your printer supports color.


Consider how the graphic will transfer to the fabric and whether you want something relatively small or a graphic that will fill the entire fabric sheet.
Keep in mind that photos may change resolution and size during the transfer process.;
, You’ll want the fabric to be the same size as the paper you use in your printer.


Consider using fabric that is 100% cotton, like a 200 count muslin for best transfer results. The ink will pop and be brighter with the right fabric.
Make sure you trim rough or frayed fabric edges so they don’t get caught in your printer. Not only could this ruin your project, loose thread inside your printer could damage its mechanism.
 You will essentially be “marrying” the two together so they need to be the exact same size.


When purchasing freezer paper, make sure it says “freezer” on the box. Don't confuse wax paper with freezer paper, which is a common problem.
Cut enough sheets at the same time to complete all the fabric in the project.
 This will join the freezer paper and fabric together, allowing both to pass through your printer.


Set iron on the highest setting. The high heat will easily bind the fabric to the freezer paper, but work quickly and carefully so as not to burn the fabric.
Press fabric to the shiny side of the freezer paper. Gently press down on the iron as you smooth it over the fabric. Be sure you run the iron over each edge to ensure each side is joined together.
Iron on a smooth, flat surface for best results. If your ironing board has bumps, consider using a thin towel placed on a heat resistant countertop as a makeshift ironing board.
 Even though you may have trimmed the thread already, the ironing process may have produced more fringe.


Use sharp, fabric scissors to trim paper/fabric. Inspect the paper/fabric to ensure it is still stuck together.
 Keep in mind which side will print on the fabric.


Conduct a test run, if necessary, by placing an “x” on one side of a scrap sheet of paper, running it through the printer and seeing which side gets printed.
Conduct a test run with the image until you are satisfied. Unless you have multiple sheets of fabric/freezer transfers, play with your printer’s settings until you are satisfied with the outcome.

