 Washing your face twice daily is the most important thing you can do to get clean, clear skin. If you plan to use an acne removing tool, then wash your face right before you use it to ensure that your skin is clean.

Make sure that you wash your face in the morning, before you go to bed at night, and any time your face gets sweaty.
Use a gentle cleanser and lukewarm water to wash your face. Avoid harsh, exfoliating cleanser. Using exfoliating cleansers and scrubbing your face can irritate your skin and cause redness and inflammation.Do not scrub your face. Just use your fingertips or a gentle cotton washcloth to gently massage the cleanser into your skin. Then, splash water on your face to wash the cleanser away.
Pat your face dry with a towel after you finish washing it.;
, Softening your acne and pimples will make them easier to remove when the pores are opened before using an acne tool. Pores can be opened by placing a hot, wet towel over your face for 2 to 3 minutes or by taking a hot shower.You can also use a steam treatment on your face to open the pores. However, be careful when using this method because you can burn your skin if the water is too hot.
 To prevent bacteria on your hands from coming into contact with your face, disinfect your hands by washing them with antibacterial soap and water. Alternatively, you can wear disposable gloves when using the acne tool.





Disinfecting your hands will help to prevent infection. This is key especially with acne because the presence of bacteria worsens pimples over time.
Therefore, you level of success in clearing up acne will relate to your level of cleanliness and hygiene.
 Use rubbing alcohol pads over the areas you want to treat to sterilize on your face before using the acne tool.





Also sterilize the acne tool (comedone extractor).If your tool is not sterilized, then you may end up introducing more bacteria to your face.
Use rubbing alcohol on a cotton swab to sterilize your tool prior to using it.
 The most common acne tool used is a comedone extractor with two ends, each of a different size. You can then pick the size that is most appropriate to the size of the blackhead you are extracting from your face.





While another option is an acne tool where one side is a blackhead remover, and the other side is a sharp lancet to pop open whiteheads prior to removing them, this takes more skill to use. Keep in mind that it is best to avoid popping whiteheads due to the risk of infection. If you have many whiteheads, then see a dermatologist.
If you are inexperienced at popping whiteheads with a sharp lancet, your best bet may be to get this done by a professional dermatologist (skin specialist) or aesthetician.
If you use the lancet improperly, it may result in scarring or other damage to your face. On the other hand, the side of the tool used for blackheads is much safer and can be used at home.
 The blackhead in its entirety will be pulled from the follicle and you will see oil ooze from the pore.





If the blackhead does not come out with gentle pressure, then do not try to force it. This can lead to an infection and scarring. See a dermatologist if you have a severe blackhead that you cannot remove easily.
 Once the whitehead is broken open, you will want to centre it within the loop of the comedone extractor and rock the tool gently from side to side, again applying slight pressure until it is pulled from the follicle.

If you have any reservations about using the lancet, it is worthwhile investing in seeing either a dermatologist or an aesthetician who is experienced in this area. That way, you will avoid errors that could lead to scarring.
 Lightly pat your skin with gauze to absorb any blood. If done correctly, the bleeding should not last more than a few moments. However, you might have to apply firm pressure for a few seconds or until the bleeding stops.
 You should also clean and disinfect your acne tool before putting it away. Remember that an extra effort toward good hygiene and cleanliness will optimize your success at treating your acne.




