 Although many insurers are financially sound, this is not always the case. Insurance coverage is not guaranteed like bank deposits are, so if an insurer goes out of business, you can lose everything you’ve paid into the policy. So be sure to look into the insurer’s financial stability before you take out a policy with them. Ratings agencies like Fitch, Moody’s, or Standard and Poor’s all rate the financial strength of insurers as a matter of course. The ratings are easy to understand and give a layman a good shorthand way of determining an insurer’s financial strength.
Try websites like Select Quote and Nerd Wallet to get online insurance quotes.
Talk with friends, family, and co-workers and see if they work with a company or particular agent they trust.
 Take all of your research and determine which policies align most with your desired policy components and offers the best terms. Once you have chosen the policy that best fits your needs, you can apply for coverage.
 A life insurance application is going to be a little different than an application for other types of insurance, but you should be able to easily answer the questions. The insurer will likely ask:Your age and gender.
Your height and weight.
Your history of chronic conditions and tobacco use.
 Once you’ve filled out an application, your insurer may make you submit to a medical exam. The examiner will typically come to your home or office at no cost to you. They will obtain blood and urine samples, check your blood pressure, administer an EKG or any other relevant tests. They will test your blood and urine for cholesterol, illegal drugs, liver function, kidney function, and blood glucose levels.Pending your results, you will be graded on a scale of preferred plus, preferred, select, and standard, with preferred plus being the best and standard the worst. These results will influence the cost of your premium.
 Once you’ve taken the medical exam, discuss the results and the cost of the premium with your insurer, in order to design coverage that’s right for you.


For instance, if you think the premium is too high for a whole life policy and you want a whole life policy, you can take out a short term term life policy to keep costs down while you improve your risk profile.

