 Do not stoop to their level. Just get on with your business, nonchalantly and happily. Do not be rude or threatening. If they have nothing better to do than watch you all day, then they have wasted their own time, not yours.
 If you're busy and you don't have time to tolerate nosiness, pretend to listen to songs on your phone or iPod. Keep your headphones in your ears while passing through common areas like corridors, lifts, and parks—anywhere you might encounter your neighbor. This discourages any unnecessary contact: nosy neighbors will see that you are unavailable, and they may look for an easier target.


It helps if the headphones are big enough to be seen from afar. If someone walks up to you before noticing the earphones, chances are they will say what they came to say.
Some people refuse to take a hint, and might still have the audacity to ask prying questions despite the earphones.
 To do this you need to put your phone on silent and vibration in silent should be off. Whenever they approach you, put your phone to your ear and pretend to be in an important conversation. Don't forget to smile and nod at them when on the phone: this will add to the act that you aren't trying to avoid them, but your workload is just too much. Say things like:


"Yes, yes it will be done—will send it over to you by tomorrow."
"How is the report coming along? I heard there were complications."
"There has been a bug that we were trying to fix."
"Or you can simply alternate between "Yes, yes...", "Hmm? Mhm," and "Oh, okay," on your fake phone call. This may be the best choice if you are not confident in your ability to make up convincing material on the spot.
 Move to your backyard, or choose another spot where they can't see you. This works for some activities—you can just as easily host a cookout or play catch with your son in the backyard as you can in the front—but it is not a permanent fix. It is an avoidance technique.


If your neighbor is extremely nosy, he or she might find ways to snoop around despite your efforts to avoid it. Hiding in the backyard might work once or twice, but be prepared for more nosy times ahead.
If you live your life trying to avoid your neighbors, you are letting them rule you. If the problem is this bad, consider confronting or ignoring your neighbors. It can be exhausting to expend all of your mental energy on simply trying to escape someone.
 That gives them less reason to watch. If your neighbors are always asking questions about what you're doing and why you're doing it, an easy solution can be to simply do nothing. Try your best to seem uninteresting. Resume your activities when your neighbors go away.


Bear in mind that if you look like you have nothing to do, some neighbors make take it as license to come strike up a conversation. When in doubt, it is probably best to avoid or confront your neighbors rather than wait for them to leave.
 This may be a wise choice if you think your neighbors are snooping around on your property. Keep your house locked. If you go on vacation, install a security system or video cameras. Ask another neighbor to keep an eye on your property while you're away, in case the nosy neighbor starts snooping around. Consider getting a guard dog.


Bear in mind that depending on the neighbor situation, this approach may be bordering on paranoia. Perhaps your neighbors are actually sneaking onto your property while you're away; perhaps you are just giving them a bad rap.
If you truly suspect your neighbors of entering your property without your consent, confront them and firmly ask them to stop. Warn them that the next time they do this, you will not hesitate to call the police.
 For example, "activity" or "spiders." This will cue your family to behave accordingly, whether you all agree to retreat to the backyard or begin making loud noises.
 If you want your neighbors to stop peeking, consider putting up a fence between your properties. Check local by-laws on fencing. If the fence lies between your properties, you may need to ask your neighbors' permission to construct it. Make sure that you don't build onto their property, or else you may give them even more reason to intrude.


Dogs or small children make a great excuse to build a large fence around your property. Simply say that you didn't want the dog running loose.
If you don't like the idea of a fence, consider planting a hedge, a bush, or a stand of trees. Bear in mind that these barriers will take years to grow into place.
Consider whether you want to feel penned in just because your neighbors are nosy. Building a fence may solve your problem, but it may just inspire your nosy neighbors to get creative.
 If they go outside, go back in and come out in 5 minutes. Wave at them vigorously and say "hi, how are you?" Ask them if you can borrow a cup of sugar or their lawnmower. If you keep asking for things, your neighbors may start hiding from you.

