 If you'd like, you can use the same paper you used for the outside cover to glue to the inside. You can also draw, place stickers, or even paint the inside covers, as they are usually a much easier surface to work with. Now that you are working on the inside of your diary, you can decorate it with some of your more personal interests. For example:


Print out a favorite picture of you and your friends and write your full name and the full name of each of your friends under the picture. Draw speech bubbles and write a phrase each of your friends likes to say.
Cut out a picture of a movie star you think is cute and glue it onto the inside cover.
 Write some personal goals that you want to remember each time you open your diary. Like, "A day without laughter is a day wasted," or "Follow your dreams." They can be on the inside cover or along the tops of several pages. These little surprises will make it fun to write in your journal, as you'll likely forget some of them by the time you get to that page., Flip books are small drawings on every page. Each page, you slightly move the drawing around. When you flip through the pages quickly, the drawing seems to move, allowing you to animate it. If you're an artistic type, draw a little bit more of your drawing every day you write in the book. When you're done you'll have a full diary as well as your little cartoon.
 Get some stickers from a craft store and stick them anywhere you'd like on your diary. You can even stick them on the diary pages.


You can use puffy stickers, but these work much better on the outside covers of your diary. If you use too many puffy stickers on the inside of the diary, it might not close as well.
 A ribbon will make your diary look more sophisticated. Adding a ribbon to your diary is easy.If you'd like to add a ribbon:


Start with a piece of ribbon about 2.5 inches (6.3 cm) longer than your diary on each side.
Using a bottle of glue with a nozzle, stick the nozzle into the spine opening of your diary and squeeze a small amount of glue inside. Make sure you get a decent sized glob, but don't add so much that the glue will spill out.
Poke your ribbon down that opening. You can use a sewing needle or a sharp pencil to press one end of the ribbon about 1–2 inches (3–5 cm) inside the opening. When you close the diary, the spine will press against the binding of the book enough to hold your ribbon and glue while drying.
Make sure you glue your ribbon to the top of your diary and not the bottom.
Now trim the end of your ribbon into a nice V-point by folding the ribbon in half vertically, and cutting at an angle with sharp scissors.

