 If the food you are attempting to color is already a color other than white, this will influence the result of your dyeing efforts. Don't expect blue frosting to turn red if you add juiced raspberries to it, for example.


When in doubt of how something will turn out, use a small portion of dye and food to test the outcome. You can then adjust the shade of your coloring substance if necessary by mixing it with other shades.
Avoid mixing too many different colored dyes together when trying to settle on a color. This can end up making the dye lose its vibrancy and turn out brownish.
 In many cases, there are multiple options for making one color of food dye; in such cases, choose the one with the more subtle flavor. For example, both turmeric and saffron can be used for yellow coloring, but turmeric is less intense and usually makes a better choice.An exception to this would be if you actually want to add flavor from your dye to the food. In such cases, be sure to match the flavor types (such as sweet with sweet) to avoid creating an unappealing mixture.Not all dye production methods are equal in terms of intensity. Generally speaking, juicing and blending will create dyes that are both brighter and more intense tasting than the boiling or drying methods recommended for some vegetables., To keep your food from becoming too wet while ensuring even coloring, take care to create food dyes that compliment the consistency of your food. This will take some trial and error, but common sense also goes a long way!


For powdered coloring, stir into wet, blended foods such as cake icing or mashed potatoes. Sprinkling powder on a dry food will not spread the coloring consistently.
For liquid coloring, use sparingly in all foods unless wetness is not a concern. Dry foods, for example, can become too soggy if too much liquid coloring is used.
 Depending on the kind of food you are coloring, you can get rid of flavor contamination from your food dye by adding additional flavors. For instance, a hint of flavor from beet juice coloring in cake icing can be easily covered up with a drop or two of vanilla or peppermint extract.This method doesn't work quite as well for savory foods colored with sweet dyes. If you color cauliflower red using raspberry puree, for example, even lots of salt and butter might not be able to mask the sweetness of the dye.
Many extracts and other substances that can be useful for masking flavors, such as truffle oil, are quite expensive (and potent), so use them sparingly!

