 Symptoms of these spasms be different depending on the muscles involved. Spasms of the intestines can cause sharp pain and diarrhea. Urinary tract spasms often happen when kidney stones are present, causing severe pain, nausea, and vomiting. If you notice respiratory tract spasms or trouble breathing, seek emergency medical attention. They can be fatal if not quickly treated.


Rule out or treat intestinal problems, such as gallbladder stones or tumors. Urinary spasms will often lessen once you pass or remove kidney stones. You might be able to use medication to treat the pain while waiting for them to pass., Unfortunately, you can't control these smooth muscles, found in organs like your heart and stomach. Spasms in these muscles can sometimes mean there's an underlying medical condition., If you have severe smooth muscle spasms, your doctor may be able to prescribe you medicine. For example, medications such as anticholinergic agents can help intestinal spasms that do not respond to diet and lifestyle changes.


Your doctor may prescribe medications to restore neurotransmitter levels or Botox to paralyze the affected muscles. You should discuss these options with your doctor.
 If you have IBS, you may experience a spasm of the intestine. Antispasmodics help the intestines relax, which helps relieve pain. Talk to your doctor if you have spasms of the intestine, and your doctor can prescribe the proper antispasmodic and treatment plan., One way to treat bladder spasms is to go to the bathroom every 1.5 to 2 hours. This helps keep your bladder empty, so hopefully fewer accidents occur. As the spasms decrease, you can take longer between bathroom breaks.


Kegel exercises, also called pelvic floor exercises, can also help bladder spasms by strengthening and relaxing the bladder. To tighten your pelvic muscles, squeeze your bladder muscles like you were trying to stop urine from flowing or trying to stop yourself from passing gas. Your physician can give you specific instructions if you are struggling to get them right., Heat packs may help relax cramps and spasms in all muscles of the body. Lie on your back and wrap the heat pack around your abdomen and be sure to avoid direct contact of the heat pad with your body.Keep the heat pack on for 10 to 15 minutes and no more than 20 minutes at a time. Relax while you wait.To make your own heat pack, find a large piece of flannel or cloth. It should cover your abdomen when you fold it. Cover the cloth with a heating pad or heated water bottle. Wrap a bath towel or other fabric around you to keep everything snug and in place.

