 Point-slope form allows you to write the equation of a line when you know its slope and have an (x, y) coordinate. You would use this formula when you want to define a second parallel line to an already given line with a defined slope. The formula is y – y1= m(x – x1) where m is the slope of the line, x1 is the x coordinate of a point given on the line and y1 is the y coordinate of that point. As in the slope-intercept equation, x and y are variables that represent coordinates on the line; generally, you will see them remain as x and y in the equation.The following steps will work through this example: Write the equation of a line parallel to the line y = -4x + 3 that goes through point (1, -2).
 When writing the equation of a new line, you must first identify the slope of the line you want to draw yours parallel to. Make sure the equation of the original line is in slope-intercept form and then you know the slope (m).


The line we want to draw parallel to is y = -4x + 3. In this equation, -4 represents the variable m and therefore, is the slope of the line.
 This equation only works if you have a coordinate that passes through the new line. Make sure you don’t choose a coordinate that is on the original line. If your final equations have the same y-intercept, they are not parallel, but the same line.


In our example, we will use the coordinate (1, -2).
 Remember the formula is y – y1= m(x – x1). Plug in the slope and coordinates of your point to write the equation of your new line that is parallel to the first.


Using our example with slope (m) -4 and (x, y) coordinate (1, -2): y – (-2) = -4(x – 1)

, After you have plugged in the numbers, the equation can be simplified into the more common slope-intercept form. This equation's line, if graphed on a coordinate plane, would be parallel to the given equation.


For example: y – (-2) = -4(x – 1)
Two negatives make a positive: y + 2 = -4(x -1)

Distribute the -4 to x and -1: y + 2 = -4x + 4.
Subtract -2 from both side: y + 2 – 2 = -4x + 4 – 2
Simplified equation: y = -4x + 2

