 Connect the new wires in the same order as you removed the old wires. Before installing the boot on to the spark plug, add a small amount of dielectric grease to the spark plug boot. The boot will be fully seated onto the plug when a small click is felt. Plug wires run from the distributor or coil to the plug, and must be replaced exactly as factory run. Running from a coil to the wrong plug will prevent the engine from running, which could lead to damage. Keep the wires away from exhaust components that might damage them, and keep each wire from crossing over another wire.Spark plug wires usually rest in wire looms or standoffs. A wire resting on the engine or a wire crossing another can short or leak or break down due to heat. Thus, make sure to rout the replacements properly through the loom, well away from resting on any metal.If replacing wires with a high performance coil and kit, be aware existing looms may not fit. In this case, you can buy larger diameter standoffs to attach or widen the holes in the looms.
 Try to lift up your hood after you've closed it, and make sure that it isn't loose. You should not be able to pop the hood without using the switch inside your vehicle cab.
 After you have carefully installed the wires in their correct places, start the engine. It should run and idle smoothly. You may notice new power and efficiency, especially if your old wires were heavily worn down. If your engine does not run, runs very roughly, or backfires after replacement, then check for improperly run wires, wires run to the wrong cylinder, wires that are grounded along their length, wires that are not properly seated in the boot, or boots that are not properly seated to make contact with the coil or plug.


Never touch a wire on a running engine, or you might receive a painful shock. There are tens of thousands of volts generated in the ignition system, and an improperly seated wire is much more likely to shock you. It has less of a ground at the plug end, making you a more viable path.
If you notice bad idle backfire or other performance problems, you have likely put a wire in the wrong place. Consider hiring a local mechanic to diagnose and fix the problem.
 While on the test drive, try to put the engine under a load by driving up a hill or slowing down in a higher gear, then accelerate with downshifting to put the ignition system under a load. Ignition systems have a better chance of failing under a load.
