 One of the biggest distractions to exercise is your life. Work, kids, family, and school can get in the way of your workouts quickly. Overcome this common source of distractions by scheduling in your exercise.


Start with a weekly or monthly calendar. Write in all of your activities and obligations that you know. You'll need to plan your exercise around these items.
Next, start to schedule in your exercise sessions. You don't necessarily need to exercise everyday, but choose a few days out of the week where you can fit in a workout.
You may even want to consider adding one or two times of "make-up" exercise if you know you have a particularly busy or stressful week. This back up plan can help ensure you get in enough activity overall.;
, Nothing is worse or more distracting that having to squeeze in a workout when you truly don't have enough time. Plan for adequate amounts of time so you can relax and get in a full exercise routine.


If you're worried about being late for work or picking up you kids from school, you might not work as hard or quit exercising earlier than you need to.
Take the amount of time you need for your fitness routine into account. Trying to squeeze an hour workout in forty-five minutes before you head out to work may not be feasible.
Look at your weekly or monthly workout schedule and ensure that you're giving yourself enough time to get to your gym if needed, exercise and get home. Don't push yourself to fit too much in.
 If you're choosing to stay home and workout, try to minimize the typical distractions that may get in your way.


Although working out at home is definitely cheaper and sometimes more convenient than going to the gym, it may come with more distractions. If you find yourself rarely finishing a workout, stopping multiple times during a workout or skipping it all together, exercising at home may not be the way to go.
For example, if working out in your dark basement or trying to fit in some activity in between your kids homework and bedtime is preventing you from being consistent, try going outside or to a gym to help give you the time and inspirational space to exercise.
Alternatively, you can ask a friend or your spouse to watch your children or hire a babysitter for the thirty minutes to an hour that you plan to exercise. If you have a friend who lives nearby, you may be able to trade off watching the kids and working out for thirty minutes each.
Try to double-task your workout. If you want to spend time with a friend or your family, plan an activity that allows you to get some exercise while enjoying time with them. For example, you could go on a long walk together, you could try rock climbing, or you could take the kids to the zoo.
Consider breaking up your workout time into smaller segments, such as three ten-minute periods. That will allow you to get in your workout time without carving out a large block of distraction-free time.
 Many people have the luxury of going to a gym or fitness center for their exercise routine. Gyms offer the benefit of having a variety of equipment, aerobics classes and trained staff to help you get and stay fit. However, these same reasons can also be frustrating or distracting to you. Don’t feel like you have to ostracize yourself to get in your workout. It’s possible to take part in gym culture while still getting in your workout efficiently.


If you find yourself losing time to chats with fellow gym-goers, try wearing visible ear-buds, even if you aren’t listening to music. When you see people you know, it will be easy to wave, smile, and nod without having to stop and talk. Because you’re wearing the ear-buds, people are more likely to accept a quick greeting and move on.
Create a workout checklist for yourself, and check off each task as you complete it. If you act focused, then you will be focused. It will also show those around you that it’s not a good time for you to talk because you are goal-focused.
If you are able to, try going to the gym at off-peak times when there aren’t as many people there. Ask a gym employee when the quiet times are so that you can try to find one that works with your schedule.
Bad weather days are often popular days at the gym, so they are a good day to do your workout at home.
If you notice you can't get in a good workout, choose a time and space at home to exercise, or consider using the great outdoors for a natural location.
You may want to consider doing a combination of both at-home exercises and going to the gym. For example, you can run in your neighborhood and then go to the gym for weight training.
 Some people choose to read books, magazines or the newspaper during their workout. Although reading may help you take your mind off an activity you don’t enjoy, it can also distract you so much that you undermine your workout. It’s better to focus on your breathing, heart-rate, and the muscles you’re targeting.


It takes a lot of focus to read and concentrate on reading material while you're working out. If you need or want to be working out at a moderate to high intensity pace, reading may hinder you.Focus on your breath and heart-rate to make sure that you are working out in your target zone. To focus on your breath, breathe in for three steps and out for three steps. Monitor your heart-rate with a heart-rate monitor, or, at the very least, the monitor on the machine. You may need to up or lower the intensity of your workout to ensure that you’re reaching your goals and doing it safely.
Depending on your workout, you may try focusing on your target muscles. For example, as you workout on an elliptical, you may spend a few minutes focusing on working your glutes then a few minutes focusing on your calves, and so forth. By focusing on target muscles, you can make sure that you are following through on the movements needed to work them.
In you do choose to read, be careful where you place any reading material. Trainers typically do not recommend placing anything below eye level. You don't want to be looking down or hunching over to read. Place books, magazines or tablets at or above eye level and ensure you're not bending your neck downwards to read.
If you notice you're working out a lower intensity or pace, consider giving up your reading material so you can focus on your pace and intensity.
 Listening to music can be a great motivator for exercise. However, choose the right type of music to fuel your workout, not set you back.


Try to choose songs or music that has a beat or tempo similar to your exercise pace. You may even want to find something with a tempo just slightly faster than your pace to motivate you and keep you going.Avoid songs or types of music that are slow, keep your pace slower or encourage you to stop exercising.
 Another common distraction is your cell phone. This is especially true if you're constantly getting text messages or phone calls. Leave this behind to minimize these types of distractions.If you're constantly getting calls from friends, family members or your boss, switch off your phone, put it on silent or leave it in your gym bag. If you're tempted to answer these calls, you'll never be able to get a good workout in.
Also, attempting to text and run or text and use the elliptical machine may not be safe. You're not paying attention and may throw off your balance. Save texting for later.
If you use your phone for music, set it to a "do not disturb" setting so calls and texts do not show up or come through. But it might be best to leave it off!

, The timing of your workouts is key for long-term consistency. If you can't make your workouts or it's inconvenient you're more likely to stop going.Think about your typical day or week. When is the best time to fit in a workout? When will you be able to dedicate thirty minutes or an hour of time just for exercise? Make sure this time also doesn't come with distractions that can derail you.
You can also choose different times to workout on different days. This will be helpful if you have different work schedules or your children have different schedules on different days. This is why scheduling in your workouts is effective as well.
Many times working out in the morning is better-if you can get up. You're more likely to get it in and stay consistent. Plus, the "rest of your day" won't get in the way of an afternoon exercise session.
 While it’s tempting to plan a long workout, especially if you want to reach your goals faster, it’s also counterproductive. Oftentimes, setting aside too much time to workout reduces focus and invites more distraction. This happens because it’s harder to maintain focus for longer periods of time. Instead, it’s better to set aside thirty minutes to an hour for your workout.

Most people can get a great workout in thirty minutes to an hour, so don’t feel like you need to do more.
 Another reason people may stop working out or ditch the gym is boredom.Doing the same routine day after day, week after week, can get old.


Switch up your workouts regularly or include a variety of exercises each week. This can help things stay spiced up, fun and exciting.
If you find yourself dreading your daily workout, it's time for a change. Don't wait to decide to change up your routine after you've quit for a few weeks. The second you notice boredom or dislike, go for something new.
Try aerobic classes, outdoor exercising, working out with a friend or changing up the time of your workouts.
 One way to stay consistent, motivated and on track is by signing up for a race.


Consider signing up for a short or long race-wherever your fitness level is. Training for a race requires you to stick to a program for a set amount of time. This can keep you on track.
In addition, if you're a competitive person, the training may be motivating and exciting as you improve your athletic performance.

