 These are easy to put together, inexpensive, and best of all, extremely effective. All you need is a few pieces of cardboard or index cards (one for each trap), a bottle of corn syrup or any type of sticky sugar substance, and boric acid powder. Here's how to make the traps:


Mix 2 tablespoons of corn syrup and 2 tablespoons of boric acid in a small bowl.
Make sure the texture is paste-like and sticky, not runny. Add more boric acid if it's too wet.
Use a spoon to spread the mixture over the surface of your cardboard pieces. Each piece is its own trap.
 If they like to collect on your bathroom floor, put one there. Put one under the kitchen sink, and another on your front porch. Set the traps around wherever you see ants gathering.


Since the traps contain boric acid, don't put them in your kitchen cabinets or near food sources.
You can put the traps outside, too. Place them in your flower beds or near your trash cans.
The sugary smell might attract critters other than ants, like your child or dog. Make sure to put the traps out of reach of kids and pets.
 If you have an an infestation, it won't be long before the traps become full of ants who wander onto the cardboard in search of sugary food and feast on the boric acid-tainted syrup. They won't die just yet, but the poison will soon take action in their stomachs. In the meantime, they'll return to their nest to bring some food back for their fellow ants, which will in turn ingest the poison.


When you see ants entering and leaving the traps, let them move around freely. If you kill them, they won't get the chance to bring the poison back to the nest, killing dozens more ants.
This method won't necessarily kill the entire nest of ants, but it will significantly reduce the population of ants around your home.
 After a few days, you'll probably need to set out fresh traps. Mix up a fresh batch of the ant poison, spread it on pieces of cardboard, and set out the traps.
 After a week or two, you should see the number of ants coming to feed on the syrup decline dramatically. When you start to see dead ants around the vicinity of the traps, and you no longer witness hordes of ants marching into the house your work is done.
 Worker ants eat liquids, not solids, but they'll carry cornmeal pieces back to their nest. They'll feed the solid pieces to larvae, which then convert the food into liquid and feed it back to the worker ants.In this way, the boric acid cycles through several generations of ants.


Make sure the dishes of cornmeal and borax are low enough to ants to get in and out.
You can also make a dry paste with cornmeal, borax, and a few drops of water. Spread the paste in areas where you tend to see ants.

