 There are two principal ways that custody orders can be modified: the court can modify custody decisions at any time; or the parents may jointly consent to modify custody decisions.If both parents do not agree to modify the custody arrangement, the parent seeking the modification must file papers with the court to request the change.It is unlikely that you will be able to get a custody order changed within the first two years., If you are requesting a change in an existing custody agreement, you will need to demonstrate to the court that your circumstances are different than when the custody decision was made.For example, if you were not awarded physical custody because you did not have stable employment and that has since changed, you may be able to petition to modify the custody agreement.
Another example might be if one parent is relocating to another state. If you have visitation rights but not custody, you may be able to petition the court to modify your custody arrangement to allow you to maintain a “meaningful relationship” with the child.The child’s wishes may also become a factor to consider. For example, the original custody decision may have been made when the child was very young. If the child is now at an age where s/he has a preference for which parent s/he will live with, the courts may consider modifying a custody decision., Some courts require mediation before they will change a custody or visitation arrangement. You and the other parent may need to meet with a mediator to discuss the reasons for the potential modification before a court hearing is scheduled., These forms will vary by state. Your court or family law attorney can tell you which forms you will need to use.


If you cannot afford an attorney, many courts offer family law facilitators who can review your paperwork. Contact your court to see if this service is available to you.
 The other parent must be served with a copy of the papers you have filed with the court. You should not deliver these papers yourself.If you are delivering the papers by mail, you will usually need to do this at least two weeks in advance of the court hearing. The requirements may vary depending on your jurisdiction.
 If you have been required to attend mediation, you will do that before you attend the court hearing. If you cannot come to an agreement in mediation, you will need to plead your case in court.