 Getting enough sleep is important in order for your body to heal itself when you have a cold. Studies show that sleep deprivation can weaken the immune system, increase the production of stress hormones, put you at higher risk for chronic disease and lower life expectancy. Make sure you get quality sleep by:Avoiding caffeine, nicotine, alcohol and sugary drinks 4 to 6 hours before sleeping. These can act as a stimulant to keep you awake.
Creating a quiet, dark, and cool environment. Use heavy curtains or an eye mask to block light, a powerful cue that tells the brain that it's time to wake up. Keep the temperature comfortably cool—between 65 and 75°F—and the room well ventilated.
Avoiding activities like work or exercise 3 to 4 hours before sleeping. Physically and psychologically stressful activities can make your body secrete the stress hormone cortisol, which is associated with increasing alertness.
Having a regular sleep schedule which creates better quality and consistent sleep. Try to set a routine by going to bed early and waking up early to set your body’s internal clock.
 If you have a cold or nasal congestion, try to lie on the side that is least congested. This might allow the mucus to drain. Sleeping on your side, especially if you have a cold, flu, or ear or nasal infection can help you breathe more comfortably, leading to a better night’s sleep.Avoid sleeping on your stomach since this can obstruct breathing and cause unnecessary stress.
 If you have trouble breathing, try to prop your head up on a pillow to improve airflow and keep mucus from blocking your sinuses. The pillow for your head should support the natural curve of your neck and be comfortable. If your pillow is too high, it can put your neck into a position that causes muscle strain on your back, neck, and shoulders. Instead, your pillow should be adjustable to let you to sleep in different positions.If you sleep on your side, a firm pillow between your knees will prevent your upper leg from pulling your spine out of alignment. This also reduces stress on your hips and lower back. Pull your knees up slightly toward your chest.
A rolled towel or small pillow under your waist may also help support the curve of your spine.
 If you have trouble falling asleep, relaxation techniques can help relieve physical and psychological stress. Once you have found the things that help you relax, make them into a bedtime ritual. To help yourself relax, try reading a book, listening to calm music or practicing breathing exercises.You may get frustrated if you struggle to fall asleep. If you are awake for more than 20 minutes in bed, move to a different part of the house without bright lights. Do something relaxing for a while, until you begin to feel tired and then come back to bed.
 If you have frequently interrupted breathing during sleep, also known as obstructive sleep apnea, ask your doctor for treatment options. Your doctor may recommend surgery or continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). CPAP is a common therapy for sleep apnea which includes a small machine that supplies constant and steady air pressure, a hose, and a mask or nose piece.Some CPAP devices even come with a heated humidifier to help with a dry, stuffy nose.

