 Numerous Internet Explorer updates include stability and bug fixes, which may solve the problems you are having. Internet Explorer is updated through the Windows Update program. See this article for details on installing the latest updates for Windows and Internet Explorer.;
, Malware and other browser hijackers are one of the primary causes of Internet Explorer non-responsive errors. Running regular malware scans is part of a good maintenance routine, and can prevent a lot of problems and security issues. Some of the best anti-malware programs include MalwareBytes, Spybot Search & Destroy, and AdwCleaner.


Run scans with a couple different anti-malware programs, since not all programs will detect the same things.
 Viruses can cause your browser to stop functioning, so it's advisable to always have an antivirus program running in the background. Open your antivirus program's control panel and check that its virus definitions are up to date. Run a virus scan as well to ensure that a virus isn't causing the problem.


If you don't have anti-virus installed, see this article for details on getting one set up.
 Corrupt temporary files can cause issues when your browser tries to load them. Clearing out your temporary files also frees up some space on your hard drive, and can improve the performance of the browser in general.


To delete your Temporary Internet Files without opening Internet Explorer, first open the Control Panel. This can be found in the Start menu, or by pressing ⊞ Win+X if you are using Windows 8.
Open the "Network & Internet" category and select "Internet Options".
Click the Delete... button in the General tab.
Check the "Temporary Internet files and website files" box.
Click the Delete button to delete the files.

Use CCleaner to get rid of lingering files that may be causing problems. CCleaner is much more comprehensive than using the built-in deletion (Disk Cleanup) tools that Windows provides.
 Internet Explorer can be expanded through the use of add-ons and thereby most toolbars, but these sometimes end up causing instability or bogging down the program. If you have too many add-ons or unstable add-ons installed, they could be causing Internet Explorer to crash. Try disabling add-ons one at a time until Internet Explorer starts working again, or disable all of them at once.Click the Gear icon or the Tools menu and select "Manage add-ons".
On the left side of the new window, you can select which types of add-ons you would like to manage. The "Toolbars and Extensions" section will likely have most of the add-ons you've added.
Look for add-ons you don't recognize or don't use any more. Select an add-on and then click the Disable button at the bottom of the window to turn the add-on off.
Look for add-ons that were installed around the same time Internet Explorer began giving your problems. These may be the culprit.
Note that some add-ons are installed by default by Microsoft and companies like Oracle (Java).
 Sometimes stagnant connections can cause a non-responsive Internet Explorer issue. Unplugging for the sixty seconds and plugging it back in to re-initialize sometimes works to help grab a new IP address for you to operate on.
 If disabling add-ons, running malware scans, and deleting temporary files still doesn't fix the issue, your last resort before reinstalling is resetting Internet Explorer. Bringing the browser back to the settings it had when it was first installed on your PC, will most often times fix these things. However, you will lose your history, favorites, and any other changes you've made, so remember to backup your files beforehand.You can reset Internet Explorer from within the browser, or from the Internet Options section of the Control Panel. In Internet Explorer, click the Gear icon or Tools menu and select Internet Options.
Click the Advanced Tab.
Click the Reset... button. You will be asked to confirm that you want to reset. Make sure that it is set to delete your personal settings, as these could be causing the problem.
 If nothing else works, you can try reinstalling Internet Explorer. This may fix the program if it has been corrupted. You can download the Internet Explorer installation file from the Microsoft website. Run the file and follow the prompts to reinstall the browser.


Windows 7 users should download Internet Explorer 11.
Windows Vista users should download Internet Explorer 9.
Windows XP users should download Internet Explorer 8.
Windows 8 users cannot reinstall Internet Explorer as it is built-in to Windows. Instead, it will have to be turned off and then turned back on. Turn it off from the Programs and Features window in the Control Panel. Select "Turn Windows features on or off" from the left menu, and then uncheck Internet Explorer 11. Reboot your computer, and then follow the same procedure to turn it back on.