 You can use programs like Skype to record video and audio directly from your computer. This gets rid of issues like glare from the screen and tinny-sounding voices. Start the screen capture program before you begin the interview and keep the stream of the interviewee's face on screen as you talk.


There are a number of paid and free programs available for this purpose. For instance, Call Recorder for Skype (available on Macs) allows for HD capture of Skype conversations for a fee, although a free trial is also available. More bare-bones options like Screencast-O-Matic are available for free online.
 Some smartphones have built-in options for recording audio from calls. For others, you may need to download and install an app to get this functionality. Luckily, many apps that do this are free.


Another Call Recorder is a good free option for Android users.
Call Recorder FREE is a similar app for iPhones.
 If you can't get the options above to work, you can always record your remote interview with a microphone and/or camera. In this case, your quality is likely to suffer, but it's better than getting nothing at all.


If you're recording audio, set up your mic so that it's an inch or two from the noise. If you're talking on a phone, putting it on speaker mode and leaning into the mic is acceptable.
If you're recording video of a computer screen, position the camera so that you and the screen are both in the frame. If you have two cameras, point the second camera straight at the screen. You may need to dim the lighting in the room to reduce glare on the screen.
 Recordings of calls are subject to state and federal wiretapping laws. As a general rule, if everyone in the call agrees to be recorded, you're fine. However, it's important to keep the following in mind:Federal law requires the consent of at least one party when recording a call. In other words, you can't record a call between other people without at least one of them agreeing to it.
In addition, 11 states require everyone in the call to agree to be recorded. These states are: California, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Montana, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Washington.
If the callers are in multiple states, it's safest to get everyone's consent before beginning.

