 Most countries make certain exemptions from conscription. For example, religious students in Israel were until recently exempt from the draft.You are exempt from a future draft in the United States under the following conditions: you are from a family in which a parent or sibling has died or is missing in military action; your absence would cause your family economic hardship; you are a minister; you are in school to be a minister; you are an immigrant or dual citizen.Remember that the US does not currently have a draft. You can only file an exemption claim in the future, after getting orders to report, to the closest Selective Service office.Some countries, including the US until recently, prohibit homosexuals from serving. This is still the case in Turkey, where, however, you have to submit “proof” of your status by answering questions, providing pictures, or worse. Making use of this exemption can get you out of a draft, but can be traumatic and humiliating.Some countries also allow you to pay an exemption fee to get out of military service. In Turkey, this fee was recently lowered from 10,000 to 6,000 Euros. Still, the cost is so expensive that only well off families can afford it., If you are not exempt, you still may be able to put off entering the military. Many countries offer deferments for education, for example. According to US law, high school students may defer their service in any future draft until they graduate or reach the age of 20. College students may defer until the end of their term. You can defer your service until the end of your studies if you are becoming a minister.The law in the United States also provides for appeals to draft status. If, in the event of a future draft, you file to change your draft classification, you automatically get a deferral until your claim is processed., This is a final option. Just don’t do it. However, you will have to face harsh consequences for refusal. In the US, during wartime and peacetime drafts, people have been jailed for refusing to be inducted into the military. Muhammad Ali famously refused to be drafted to fight in the Vietnam War, for example, and he was indicted, sentenced to five years in prison, and stripped of his boxing titles. Under current law, men are required to register for selective service – for a future draft – and refusal to register is a criminal offense.In the United States, you can be prosecuted for refusing to register with Selective Service, though this has not happened since 1986.The government can also deny you federal student aid, employment with the government, or, if you are an eligible immigrant, US citizenship.