 Some mentoring relationships may operate on a consistent weekly schedule, while others are less rigidly structured. In any case, try not to force mentoring sessions into times or places full of distractions, or when one or both of you are exhausted or preoccupied.


Pick a good place to mentor them in. You want to keep their attention on you, without them getting bored or their attention wandering. For school students, a library would be the traditional choice, and a good one too - it will be quieter than other places, there may be room to spread out books or papers, and if you need a book you're in the right place!
Make sure you are always prepared for a mentoring session. Don’t try to squeeze in some mentoring when you’re distracted by a dozen other things, and reschedule a weekly session if necessary when you’ve been unable to properly prepare. A delayed but fully engaged session is far more beneficial than a half-hearted but on-schedule one., Even if you combined the world’s most effective mentor with the world’s most eager mentee, you wouldn’t see some sort of immediate transformation. Mentoring is about incrementally laying the groundwork for lasting change and self-improvement. It’s not a race or a competition; it’s a process, and it requires patience from both sides.Rome wasn’t built in day, and your mentee won’t be transformed after one session either. Whether they are fast or slow learners, remain calm. If they're not getting something, try to explain it in different ways until they do - or just come back to it later.
Establish ground rules early on regarding mutual respect and accountability. Create an atmosphere in which some degree of personal sharing can occur and so-called “stupid questions” can be asked, but define the roles of mentor and mentee and the proper nature of interactions between the two.
 The mentee isn’t the only one who might question their abilities or results. There will be times when you’ll feel like you’re not doing a good enough job, or simply feel down because the results your mentee is working so hard for don’t seem to be paying off. Remind yourself that you are doing your best, and you are making a positive difference in this other person’s life.


You don’t have to brag about your own success and experience in your field, or assume that such things mean that you are automatically a great mentor. However, you should draw on these realities as confidence-boosters in your ability to achieve your goals, including mentoring.When your mentee is struggling, keep smiling and offer to help them. When they do succeed, feel proud of what they have accomplished with your help and congratulate them. Give yourself a pat on the back as well. Their success is something for both of you to be proud of.
 There will be times when you can’t meet with your mentee face-to-face, and some mentoring relationships may in fact be conducted entirely from a distance. Even if you do lose out on some of the interpersonal connection in such instances, you can develop and effective mentoring partnership regardless. Stay focused on the core concepts of support, guidance, constructive feedback, and accessibility.In an online or similar distance-based mentorship, be available to your mentee but set boundaries as well. You don’t have to respond at 2 am if that is not the nature of your mentoring relationship.
Use online resources to your advantage in distance mentoring. Locate helpful links, pages, forums, videos, documents, games, and so on. But don’t expect these to replace the core mentor-mentee connection that needs to be forged and maintained.

