 Do you want to look like a modern flapper? Do want to have a little something from the 50s or 30s? Maybe you want to have a little Victorian style.;
, It depends on the decade you want to convey. If you're going for the 20s then bobs were all the rage. But instead of cutting it in all one length have some edgy layers for a fun modern twist. If you want to keep your long hair that's fine too! Beachy waves are a cute style for long hair that looks lovely with vintage and modern clothes alike. But don't be afraid to try something new! Vintage is unique and different.
 Vintage shops are pricier but it is easier to find items you like. Thrift stores are cheaper but they have so many clothes and it can be hard to find exactly what you are looking for. Wearing floral dresses that are slightly loose is a good idea, but the dresses should not be too short (think to your knees, or higher, but well below your crotch!) You can also buy vintage style modern clothing. New clothes often mimic old style such as full swing dress skirts, shirtwaist dresses, halter top dresses, or layered flapper style dresses. Often vintage looking new clothes come in more sizes and better prices than genuine vintage clothing.
 Cardigan sweaters are great and very comfy. Leather (or faux leather) jackets are always a must have in any wardrobe. Loose cardigan sweater are most popular as the look more "worn" and old fashioned, and are great for layering with other pieces.
 Pearl necklaces, (You can get great fake ones as getting real ones is very pricey), a gold locket, or just a lot of long layered necklaces are some great examples. For more ideas of what you want Google vintage jewelry.
 Shoes should be modern; Think high heels, modern chunky shoes or sandals. Oxfords are a great choice that look great with many outfits, but usually cost a bit more.
 Slip dresses are are very vintage looking. Just make sure you wear one that suits your body and makes you feel great! Pair the slip dress with a sweater or leather jacket, and wear ankle boots with it. If it's too hot for boots wear Oxfords or something like that.
 High waisted skirts are great. They are very popular in vintage clothes, and are still seen today. They're flattering and go with lots of different tops, so stock up!

, Pair them with dresses, long shirts, or wear them under shorts for a unique look. It doesn't matter what color or pattern, but try to get ones that go with your clothes. Try to buy tights/leggings in materials that are suitable for both cold and warm weather so you can wear them year-round.
 These are very popular and a great choice for summer. Pair dresses them with a cute vest, sandals and a headband for a cute, vintage-inspired summer outfit.

