 If you plan on planting the bulbs in a container or small area, you may only need a few. On the other hand, if you want a beautiful bed of tulips, you will need a great deal more. To cover 10 square feet (3.05 square meters), you will typically need about 65 large tulip bulbs or 75 species tulips, which tend to be a bit smaller.
 In order to get the most performance from a tulip bulb, you need to pay attention to size and quality.Bigger bulbs have more energy stored. As such, the bigger the bulb, the bigger the resulting tulip. If you want smaller tulips, smaller bulbs are in order, but most gardeners prefer to get the biggest bulbs their money can buy. Bigger bulbs are also more likely to successfully produce flowers on a perennial basis.






The bulb should be hard and solid when purchased. The outer skin, called the "tunic," can be a bit torn or scraped up, but the bulb beneath should not be marred. Soft spots are indicative of rot and spots usually signify the presence of disease.
 This is especially important when selecting a hybrid species, since cross-breeding sometimes diminishes the perennial nature of the tulip. Most wild bulbs, or "species," retain their full perennial nature, though.
 Do thorough research to determine which type offers you the look you want for your garden.


Natural varieties, or "species" tulips, are usually listed by height. You should choose whichever height you favor.
Single earlies are the most common type used for formal beds and often look best in yellow, orange, and pink.
Double earlies are a bit smaller than single earlies, and they often look nice in yellow, red, and violet.
Darwins have notably tall stems.
Cottage tulips are similar to Darwins, but the flowers are a bit taller.
Lily-flowered tulips are among the best tulips to use if you plan on cutting them for bouquets or decoration.
Late doubles have heavy flower heads and occasionally need to be staked when grown in regions that experience heavy rainfalls.
Parrots have "feathery" petals with fringed edges.

