 Judgement can inhibit creative thinking. When problem solving, allow your brain to think of new, somewhat crazy ideas. Avoid judging this ideas too "out there" or "absurd." Allowing yourself to think outside the box, without external judgment, is important to creative thinking.Understand, in any given situation, you'll have to filter through many bad thoughts before landing on a good one. You may write 3 mediocre drafts of a poem before you hit your stride. You may think of several bad solutions to an issue at your office before finding a good solution. Accept it's okay to filter through bad ideas before you find a good one.
Be open to alternative ideas. Do not be judgmental of ideas that are outside the realm of conventional. Even if you don't follow all non-conventional ideas exactly, simply exposing yourself to the unusual can help aid creative thought.
 Creative thoughts can come from a variety of places. If you open yourself up to changes in your routine, you're more likely to stumble upon inspiration. Instead of feeling anxious about exploring new ideas or experiences, see them as exciting opportunities to bolster your creativity.


Talk to someone new. Hearing about someone else's story or experiences can increase your creative thinking. You'll be introduced to a new, exciting perspective. Make a point of chatting up a stranger at a bar or volunteering to talk to a new client at work.If an opportunity to try something new presents itself, take it. If your friend asks if you want to try salsa dance lessons, tell her you'll give it a shot. Even if it's not something you'd traditionally be interested in, any new experience can open your mind and improve your capacity for creative thoughts.
 Risk-taking is vital to developing creative thinking. If you're processing new, somewhat scary experiences on a regular basis, you will have to do some creative thinking to find unconventional solutions to new problems and setbacks. Taking risks regularly can make you more resourceful and creative overall.Each day, try to take a chance. Apply for a fellowship even if you feel under-qualified. Ask your boss for a raise even if you feel there's a good chance she'll say no. Take on a new project at work, even if you feel it's somewhat daunting.
Risk-takers tend to have higher levels of creative thinking. A risk presents you with a new situation entirely, forcing you to calibrate your thinking to adjust. Risk-taking also encourages you not to conform. Creative thinkers act independently, following their own intuition over what others are doing., Talent forces people into a black and white thinking pattern. You may find yourself thinking you're either talented or you're not. However, while innate talent can help with creativity, it all comes down to practice. Just make time to be creative every day and your capacity for creative thinking will improve.