 Next time you make rice, use 1/4–1/2 cup (30–60 mL) less water per cup (240 mL) of rice. This should cook the rice for a shorter period of time, and give it less water to absorb.
 If the rice turns out too chewy or dry for your liking, move it to the stovetop with 1/4 cup (30 mL) of water. Cook covered for a few minutes to steam the rice.









Adding it back to the rice cooker without enough water to cover it could result in burning, or the rice cooker failing to turn on.
Next time, simply add about 1/4–1/2 cup (30–60mL) of water per cup (240 mL) rice to the rice cooker before you turn it on.
 A working rice cooker shouldn't burn rice during the cooking, but if left in "warming" mode, the rice at the bottom and sides can get burned. If this happens often, remove rice from the cooker as soon as you hear the "click" signifying it is done (or when the warming light goes on).









On some cookers, you can turn off the warming option entirely, but in this case, you should still eat or refrigerate the rice before it cools to reduce the risk of food poisoning.
If you are cooking other ingredients with the rice, those can burn during cooking. Next time, remove any sugary ingredients and cook separately, or any ingredients that you notice burning.
 Mushy, split grains can still be tasty if used in the right recipe.Consider these options to make the mushy texture less noticeable:









Fry it to remove that excess moisture
Turn it into a sweet dessert
Add it to any soup, baby food, or homemade meatballs

, If you live at 3,000 feet (910 m) or above, you may notice your rice ends up undercooked. If this happens, add an extra 1/4–1/2 cup of water per cup of rice (30–60 mL water per 240 mL rice). The lower air pressure at high altitude causes water to boil at a lower temperature, so the rice will take longer to cook. The more water you add to a rice cooker, the longer it will continue to cook.


Consult the rice cooker instructions or contact the manufacturer if you cannot find the correct amount of additional water. The amount necessary varies with altitude.
 If there is water left over in a rice cooker after it's finished cooking, the rice cooker model is likely defective and may need to be replaced. For the current batch of rice, drain the water and serve if the rice texture suits your preferences. Otherwise, turn the rice cooker back on until the water is used up.
