 It is very important to choose the right place for an indoor kennel. The area must be warm, spacious, and comfortable. It should be a safe environment for your animals. Consider these criteria:


The area should be spacious enough. Consider dedicating at least 1 sq. m (11 sq. ft.) per pup, and no less than 5 sq. m (55 sq. ft.) for whole kennel.
A window is necessary. The bigger the better. Natural daylight causes proper development in growing dogs.
Make a kennel in the dogs' living area, if you're raising puppies. Pups may grow up more sensitive if they do not see people or their mother all the time. If the puppy kennel is located near the mother, the puppies may get more attention and socialize more.
The place should be warm and draft-free. The optimal temperature is 20-24 °C (68-75 °F).;
, Although concrete pads make it much easier to clean the kennel yard because you can simply hose it off with water, it is an added cost. If you are unsure of how to pour concrete yourself, get a quote from two or three concrete companies and choose the one that best suits your needs and budget.


Since concrete takes several days to cure once poured, you must take this into account when planning your kennel building activities.
 Establish the size of the kennel by measuring the height, length and width of your dog, then allow room for movement and growth. Record the measurements on the patterns for bottom and ends and allow a generous door height and width. Measure the width and length needed for the entire kennel perimeter.


If you poured a concrete pad, the kennel dimensions should be a few inches smaller than the pad so that the full kennel sits on the pad.
Metal fencing is typically sold in standard sizes. To prevent the tedious job of cutting fencing, opt for a kennel in a standard size such as 10 ft. (3.05 m) by 10 ft. (3.05 m). The most common metal fencing is chain link, which is sold in a continuous roll.
 You want to keep your floor and walls nice and clean after the dogs are gone. So you need to make sure you have protected them well before installing the kennel. The pen walls should be covered by wooden or plastic boards. Boards must be firmly installed, because puppies will jump on and scratch them. Consider these steps to protect the floor:


Clear the space were the kennel is planned. It should not contain any items such as furniture or other household things. Otherwise the puppies will try to taste everything what is in.
Protect the floor from moisture. Try using a semi-thick plastic film.
If there is a need for protection against the sound, a second layer can be an old carpet. Carpet not only absorbs the sound but takes the moisture in.
The third layer is an irreplaceable linoleum. The best is to choose linoleum with a surface texture, so it will be less slippery.
 Sink them approximately 1 ft. (.3 m) deep and pour concrete mix into the hole. Add water, stir slightly, and hold until set. Attach the fencing to the posts using brackets nailed or screwed in firmly. Repeat on the other two sides, leaving the back open.
 Lay the panel of plywood on a pair of saw horses with the good side facing upwards. Mark out each component with a rafter square, ensuring the wood grain runs vertically on the end panels and horizontally on the side ones. Ensure the front and rear panels conceal the end grains of the side panels.
 Mark the desired bevel or angle on one side. The intersection between this angle and the vertical center line will provide the angle for the opposite side.
 Then use these as patterns for cutting the opposite end and side panels. Mark out and cut the floor. Ensure it is slightly oversized so it can be dressed down later using a plane. It is best to fix the sides to the top surface of the floor rather than to its edges to prevent moisture rising up the end grain of the sides.


Alternatively the sides could overlap the bottom if you can ensure the end grains will be kept dry.
 Cut the panels to shape with either a fine toothed circular saw or panel saw.
 Nails can be partially driven beforehand to allow a free hand for holding the components. Fasten the nails about 4 in. (100mm) apart or apply four galvanised screws to each side.
 Using a saw or plane, bevel the edges of the roof to form a mitre join. Under cut the overhanging edges to help drain water off and avoid excessive moisture on the end grain. These will need to be rounded off for safety. Then glue and fasten the roof panels to the kennel.


Ensure plenty of adhesive is applied to the apex joint.
 To ensure longer life for the plywood, mount the kennel above the ground on treated timber. Three lengths of 3 x 4 in. (75x50mm) laid flat would be ideal.
 A simple box that is approximately 2 feet (.6 m) taller and longer than the animal will be sufficient. Cut the door just large enough for the dog to get in and out, but not so large that rain and cold air easily blows in. Paint or stain it if desired, and then nail on a roof made with tin sheeting or plywood so the rain stays out and the dog stays in.

