 Generally, a minor child may not have her name changed in the state of Colorado if she was adjudicated a juvenile delinquent for an offense that would constitute a felony if she had been charged as an adult., You must file your petition in the court of the county where the minor child lives.


However, if the child is the subject of an action concerning child support or parental obligations such as custody or visitation, the petition must be filed in the same court as the court handling that action., Before you begin filling out the forms to have the child's name changed, the Colorado courts recommend you read through the forms and instructions to make sure you understand all the information you will need to provide., The court may provide you with two fingerprint cards for the FBI and the Colorado Bureau of Investigation. You must submit these cards along with a written request for a criminal background report from both entities.If the court does not provide you with two fingerprint cards, you can get them from your local sheriff's office.You will have to pay fees to the CBI and the FBI for your background reports. The FBI charges $18;the CBI charges $16.50.Expect to wait up to 13 weeks for the FBI request to be processed, and up to four weeks for to receive results from the CBI request.
The report must be processed within 90 days prior to the date you file your petition to change the minor child's name., Colorado provides a packet of forms you might need. Depending on your case, you may not need all of them, but you will need the main petition.


The petition provides information about the name change, including the child's full legal name and the proposed name, along with the reason for the proposed name change.Depending on the circumstances, you also may need to include consent forms filled out by the non-custodial parent, or notice forms certifying to the court that the non-custodial parent knows about the name change hearing., If the minor child has a living non-custodial parent, you must either get written consent to the name change from that parent, or serve that parent with a notice of the hearing so they have the opportunity to explain to a judge why they don't approve of the name change., You must file your petition in county court, unless the child is the subject of a custody or child support case, in which case you must file in district court.


If you file in county court, you must pay a filing fee of $100. If you file in district court, you must pay a filing fee of $227. If you cannot afford to pay these filing fees, you may file a request to have the fees waived. Your request will be reviewed by the court to determine whether you can proceed without paying fees., If the child's non-custodial parent does not consent to the name change, you must serve them with a notice of hearing so they have the opportunity to contest the name change before a judge., You must publish the proposed name change in the paper to provide public notice of the name change and give any interested member of the public the opportunity to attend the hearing and argue against the name change., At the hearing, the judge may ask you questions regarding the reasons you wish to change the minor child's name.


The judge also may question the minor child regarding the name change.