 The tomatoes and mango should both be fully ripe and soft to the touch, but not squishy and bruised. Check near the mango's stem for a small amount of syrup and a mango scent; these are both signs of ripeness. While any varieties of these fruits and vegetables will work, these are the ideal options if available at your local grocery or farmer's market:


Mango: Try to find a non-stringy variety such as Haden and Kent.
Tomatoes: Use a small variety such as Roma. Large varieties will make your salsa soggy.
Onion: A sweet onion variety such as Vidalia makes a sweet salsa, while red onion adds more kick.
Lime or lemon: Lime is preferred, but any variety will do. Bottled lime juice has less punch, but may be a much cheaper alternative in many areas.
Chili pepper: If you enjoy spicy salsa, use habanero, cayenne, or Thai chili to provide great contrast with the sweet mango. Otherwise, select a jalapeño or other relatively mild pepper.;
, Rinse all the fruits, vegetables, and herbs. Peel the onion and garlic, then finely chop them, the tomatoes, and the cilantro leaves. Discard the cilantro stems


If your chopped tomatoes are extra wet, drain them in a colander while you chop the other ingredients.
 The easiest way to cut a mango into thick cubes is to cut it into thirds lengthwise. Set aside the middle third, which contains the pit. Score a grid pattern at ¼ to ½ inch (6–12 mm) intervals into the flesh of each end piece, cutting all the way to the skin. Turn the end piece inside out so the cubes of flesh stick outward, then sever them at the base over a bowl.


Depending on how much flesh there is on your middle section, you can cut cubes off it one by one, or set it aside as a snack for your hard salsa-making.
 Wear gloves to prevent irritation of your skin, and make sure not to touch your face while chopping. Slice the pepper lengthwise in half. Scrape out and discard the seeds and stem. Mince ½ the pepper, or the entire pepper if you enjoy spicy salsa.


If using chili powder instead, add it a teaspoon (5 mL) at a time, according to taste.
 Gently stir all the fruits and vegetables together in the serving bowl. Cut a lime into quarters and squeeze each quarter over the salsa. Add a generous pinch or two of salt and stir.


Taste the salsa before you put away the ingredients. Feel free to add more salt, lime, coriander, chile, or any other ingredient you feel the salsa needs.
If the salsa is too sour, mix in a teaspoon (5 mL) of brown sugar at a time.
If the salsa is floating in its own juices, pour out half the juice or more – but save it for adding to soups or other recipes.
 Unsalted, unflavored chips are best, since the salsa has plenty of flavor on its own. Refrigerate it before serving to enhance the flavor and chill the dish. Leftovers will last for up to three days in the refrigerator.

