 Offering choices gives students a sense of control rather than feeling constantly directed. For example, you could give assignment themes and allow students to pick from them.


Teenagers with a sense of choice will feel less like there is a huge authoritative presence over them. Additionally, they will feel like they have more opportunities for creativity if you offer them choices.;
, Incorporate popular culture, relevant news, and interesting or provocative themes into your curriculum. These are the things that students are comfortable and familiar with, so they will be more inclined to pay attention.


Read the news and pay attention to what your students are talking about before and after class. There may be a way to connect a celebrity scandal to a topic you are trying to teach if you think creatively enough.
 These are the topics which your students enjoy learning more about. If you try hard enough, you will likely recognize the value in these topics as well.
 If you give students assignments that are far too easy, they will likely tune out. Therefore, opt for levels that challenge a student. Just make sure that you don't raise the level to one that your students find to achieve. Raise the expectation to a level just above their capability.


If at all possible, be available for outside help in order to ensure students understand the higher level topics. It is difficult to spend time outside class hours, but holding office hours drives home the point that you genuinely care for your students.
Check in with your students in the form of quizzes or informal discussion to gauge how well they are managing the challenge level of your curriculum. It is important to make sure that everyone in the class understands the material.
 Teenagers will resent you if they can sense a condescending or pandering tone. Do not underestimate the importance of simply treating them like you would treat any other adult.


This means you should consider criticisms and compliments equally. Students may be able to tell you ways that your teaching could be improved which you may not realize yourself. While the way in which they tell you may not always be respectful, try to consider what you can draw from the critiques, if anything.
Do not enforce silly rules or play games meant for children. Teenagers want to feel like an adult and will resent rules which force them to behave like children. Do not use too many childish games to teach your material.
 Always be open so that they believe nothing they have to say is ridiculous. By doing this, students will be more inclined to let you know when they are feeling uninspired. And when this occurs, consider it a challenge for you to find a way to motivate your student.


You do not need to act as a therapist to each and every student, but it is important to be mindful of external influences in students' lives which could affect their learning.
Do not ever force the student to tell you why they are feeling depressed or uninspired. Try to let them come to you about these issues.
 Oftentimes, students feel a large disconnect between the material and the real world. In addition to teaching the material, teach how the material can apply to the real world both in the workforce and in everyday life.


For example, an English teacher should try to relate how different interpretations of novels can help students think about different perspectives people can have. The teacher could then connect this to how it can help in analyzing people's motive in the workplace, in relationships, in politics or in any interpersonal context.
Try to avoid rote memorization of material. Students will respect the material if they can easily understand how it will be used in the future.

