 A flaky, dry pout won’t reflect light, which can make a small pout appear even smaller. Applying a moisturizing balm or treatment product to your lips daily can keep them hydrated and looking full.Buy a product that contains ingredient such as shea butter, which can moisturize your lips throughout the day. Another good option is a rose lip balm, which is high in moisture and smells good. You can find moisturizing lip products at pharmacies, large retailers, and cosmetics stores.
Reapply the lip balm whenever your lips feel dry. Consider using a heavier balm at night or you may want to try a lip conditioning treatment.
 Having plenty of blood flow to your lips can also make them appear bigger and naturally rosy. Gently rubbing your lips can give you a fuller looking pout quickly and anytime you like.Use a toothbrush or your fingers to gently massage your lips. Make sure to get the entire surface by rubbing in small circles.
Biting your lip gently may have the same effect. Be careful that you don’t bite open your lip if you try this.
 There are certain natural products that can plump up your lips without fillers or surgery. Products containing mint, cinnamon, or camphor can boost your lips—and blood flow to them-- for a few hours.Get a product that contains camphor, mint, or cinnamon. You can find these by reading the labels of products available at cosmetics stores, pharmacies, and large retailers. You can also get specially formulated products for plumping your lips at these retailers.
Be aware that some lip plumping products or balms with mint, camphor, or cinnamon can cause allergic reactions. Avoid any products containing ingredients to which you’re allergic or discontinue use if you experience any discomfort or signs of an allergy such as a rash.
 If you want to keep your look simple and avoid plumpers or fully contouring your lips with makeup, dab on a shimmery gloss in a light color. The shimmer can reflect light and a gloss mimics very hydrated lips, both of which can make your pout appear fuller and more luscious.Go with a gloss in a light pink or peach and that has small shimmery bits of gold in it. If you are able, test the gloss for its plumping effect before your buy it.
Try a nude lipstick if you want to avoid a gloss or product with shimmer. Nude lipstick can have the same effect as a shimmery gloss.
 A light, shimmery color will make your lips look more hydrated and fuller. By contrast, a dark lipstick can flatten the appearance of your mouth. Stay away from dark, matte lipsticks as much as possible to keep your pout looking full and luscious.Be aware that darker colors can be much more difficult to apply than a lighter shade that will naturally plump your pout.
Try contouring if you absolutely want to wear a darker lip. This technique can help you create depth even if you are using a darker color.
 It’s easy to fake a fuller lip without dedicating time to contouring. Using concealer or a lip liner around your lips can create a more luscious pout.Apply a dab of bronzer or a darker neutral powder under your lower lip line to create more volume. Make sure to blend in the powder as much as possible so it isn’t the first thing people notice about your mouth.
Pat some concealer on to your lips just slightly above your natural lip line. This can smooth out your lips for color and make the canvas for the color larger without being too obvious.Line and fill your lips with a nude lip liner. Extend the contours of the liner just above your natural lip line. Once you’ve covered the outside and inside of your lips with the pencil, go over it with a clear gloss to make your lips appear moist and full.

