 Some carriers add an extra data charge for tethering, or require you to purchase a tethering plan., There are three ways to tether your phone's internet connection to your laptop. Here are the requirements for each method:



WiFi tethering is available on iPhone 4+ running iOS 4.3+. It connects to any number of laptops with WiFi capability running Mac OS 10.4.11+, or Windows XP SP2 or later.USB tethering works on iPhone 3G+. You'll need a USB cable to connect your iPhone to your laptop. Your computer needs a copy of iTunes 8.2+, and should run Mac OS 10.5.7+ or Windows XP SP2 or later.Bluetooth requires iPhone 3G+. It connects to one laptop with Bluetooth 2.0 capability, running Mac OS 10.4.11+ or Windows XP SP2 or later., Go to your iPhone settings. Slide the Personal Hotspot slider to "On." Tap the method you'd like to use (WiFi, Bluetooth, or USB).


Depending on your device, you can find the Personal Hotspot settings under Settings → Cellular; Settings → General → Network; or the main Settings menu.When using WiFi, tap the WiFi Password button and type in a password. Use ASCII characters only., WiFi tethering is the fastest wireless option, but consumes the most battery power.To connect from your laptop, just enable WiFi, select your phone's network, and enter the password you chose. The network is usually named "iPhone" by default.


Your phone's WiFi tethering will turn off if you do not connect a device within 90 seconds.If you are on a 2G mobile network, the WiFi will disconnect when you make a phone call., Although unpopular due to needing a cable, USB is the fastest connection and the easiest to set up. Once Personal HotSpot is enabled, plug the USB cable into both devices. Tethering should start automatically. If it doesn't, go to your laptop's network settings and select the USB option.


You'll need a copy of iTunes on your laptop. You can download this for free.
 Bluetooth is slower than WiFi and can only tether to one other device. However, it will use up less battery power.Here's how to set up a Bluetooth connection to your laptop:



Mac:

On your laptop, go to System Preferences → Bluetooth.
Click "Turn Bluetooth On," or click "Set Up a New Device" and follow the onscreen prompts. Select the iPhone on the list of devices.
Enter the pairing code on your iPhone.
On some iPhones, you'll need to tap "Use Device as a Network Port" after pairing.Windows 10:Select the action center icon (a speech bubble) on the taskbar, and click Bluetooth.
Click Connect, then select your iPhone.
Enter the pairing code on your iPhone.



Windows 7:

Go to Control Panel → Bluetooth → Bluetooth Settings → Options.Enable Bluetooth discovery and connection.
Go to Start → Devices and Printers → Add a device. Select your iPhone.Enter the pairing code on your iPhone.



Windows Vista:

Go to Control Panel → Hardware and Sound → Bluetooth Devices → Options.Enable Bluetooth discovery and connection.
In the same Bluetooth Devices menu, click Add, then select your iPhone.Enter the pairing code on your iPhone.



