 Horses may be unruly for a variety of reasons, including hormonal imbalances, human handling, and learned responses. For example, a hormonal imbalance may cause your horse to be abnormally aggressive, especially if he is a stallion. Horses that have been inbred or have tumors in hormone-producing organs (e.g., ovaries) are very prone to hormonal imbalances.Your horse may have also experienced poor handling by his previous owner. If his previous owner mistreated him (e.g., physical abuse, overworking, little to no interaction), your horse may have developed dangerous behavioral issues.Your horse may have also learned to demonstrate unruly behavior to get out of something he didn’t want to do.For example, he may have misbehaved in order to avoid doing work.;
, Take your horse to your equine veterinarian to rule out hormonal balances.Your veterinarian will perform various medical diagnostic tests to measure your horse’s hormone levels. If the hormone levels are higher than normal, your veterinarian may prescribe medication to lower the hormone levels or, if necessary, remove a tumor that is causing the hormonal imbalance.


If a hormonal imbalance is not the cause, a thorough review of your horse’s history could help you determine how he was treated by his previous owners, and if he developed a pattern of bad behavior.
 Fortunately, unruly behavior in a horse can usually be improved with proper training and plenty of patience.Consult with your equine veterinarian or an equine behaviorist if you are unsure of where to start with addressing your horse’s unruly behavior. Making your horse less unruly will help you train him to a hitching rail.


Be aware that some unruly behaviors may take months or years to correct., Leading your horse will allow you to assess how your horse responds to pressure from his halter on his poll (behind or right behind his ears) and head, which he would feel when he is tied. A proper response from your horse involves him willingly flexing his neck muscles, bending his head downward, and walking forward. If your horse pulls back (e.g., lifting head, resisting walking forward), he is responding improperly and indicating that he is not ready to be tied.Pulling back is also known as the ‘opposition reflex.’Practice leading your horse from various positions until he demonstrates the proper response.
 Stand in front of your horse and give him a verbal ‘back’ command. If he does not immediately understand this command, apply some indirect pressure with the lead rope. When he backs up, release this indirect pressure.As he backs up, he should feel some pressure from his halter on his poll and head, just like when you led him.


Whether he starts to come forward (proper response) or pulls back (improper response) will help you determine if he is ready to be tied.Continue working with your horse until he demonstrates the proper response to being backed up.
 Tying your horse softly means that you are tying the lead rope around the hitching rail (1 to 3 times) without making an actual knot. It may take some time for your horse to get used to the feeling of being tied to the hitching rail, and he may initially pull back. By not making an actual knot, your horse would be able to pull back without feeling the resistance of being tied.Keep in mind that your horse should not pull back at all when he is tied to the hitching rail. However, he may do so because being tied is not natural for him.
Practice tying softly in short training sessions (10 to 15 minutes). If you notice that he is pulling back, go back to leading and backing him until he stops pulling back, then try tying him softly again.Consider tying your horse when he tired, when he may be less likely to resist. Also, feeding him treats could distract him from being tied.If you notice that your horse is anxious about being tied, tie him with one of his companions close by.You may need to practice tying your horse softly up to 30 times before he is ready for you tie the lead rope into an actual knot., It is important to make a knot that is secure enough to keep your horse tied to the hitching rail, but not so secure that it cannot be undone easily if you need to unhitch your horse quickly. A common knot to make is a quick-release knot.When you drape the lead rope over the hitching rail, make sure that there is some slack in the lead rope so that you do not hitch your horse too tightly.The lead rope should not have so much slack that your horse could step on or over the rope.You should always use a lead rope to tie your horse— never tie him by his reins or bridle. The lead rope should be at approximately your horse’s eye level or the height of his withers. This will decrease the chance of injury if he happens to pull back., With one hand, grab a portion of the loose end of the rope and make a loop that is at least several inches across. Then, rotate your wrist to make a small twist in that loop. With your other hand, cross the rest of the loose end under the section of the lead rope that is attached to your horse's halter.With sections of the lead rope in both hands, the rope should be roughly in the shape of the number '4.', Fold the loose end over and back across the section of lead rope attached to the halter. As you feed this portion of the rope back through the loop, make sure to leave some of it outside of the loop. You will pull on this to loosen the knot. For example, if you are holding the loop in your left hand, you will use your right hand to feed the loose end of the lead rope through the loop.
 You will do this by pushing the knot towards the hitching rail.Make sure that your horse’s head is at a comfortable level (straight ahead and relaxed) before tightening the knot.If you can, keep a close watch on your horse to make sure that he does not undo the knot himself by putting the portion of the rope that is outside of the knot in his mouth., When it is time to untie your horse from the hitching horse, you will simply pull on the remaining loose end of the lead rope.If you made your quick-release knot correctly, the knot should come undone with your pull on the loose end of the rope. Make sure that you untie your horse before you remove his halter.