 You can use a clear base coat, or any color you like. Just make sure there is a least some contrast between the base coat color and the shade you’ll use to paint the lace pattern. Allow the polish to fully dry.









For example, you may want to use a clear base coat if you’re doing a white lace pattern over a French manicure.
To use lace as a template, you’ll need to hold it tightly around your nail, so it’s important that your base coat is fully dry first. Otherwise, the lace can smudge or dent your base coat.;
, Choose lace with holes that aren’t too big or small. With the hand of the nail you’ll be painting, hold the lace pinched behind that finger, so that the front of the nail is covered in lace. Hold the lace tightly and securely, so that the fabric pattern blocks polish from seeping underneath.








A piece of lace that will fit a dozen – or slightly more – holes from the pattern on each nail should work well.
You can buy lace in the ribbon section at local craft stores and some discount department stores.
 Use the nail polish brush to apply some color to a makeup sponge – this will be the color of the “lace” pattern on your nails. Alternately, you can pour a bit of nail polish on a disposable plate and dab the sponge into it. Apply the color by dabbing the sponge on top of the fabric.








The sponge should have color on it, but not be overly-saturated. It shouldn’t drip or have a buildup of polish, so use a light coating of paint.
If you have an airbrush machine for nails, you can use that over the lace instead of a makeup sponge.
 If you dab the paint on thinly, you should be able to remove the lace right away without affecting the design. However, you can secure the lace around your fingertip with a bit of tape, if desired, and let it sit until dry. Use a new piece of lace for each finger.
 Allow the lace pattern paint to dry first. Once the topcoat is dry, use a nail polish remover pen, or wet a cotton ball with polish remover to clean up any polish that got on the skin around your nails.








