 You can add an extra hour of time by taking a step back from social media, especially if you find yourself glued to your computer or your phone throughout the day. You may try to spend one hour off your phone so you do not look at social media. You may also close your computer for an hour so you do not surf the web. You could then use this one hour of time for yourself.If you find you are a chronic email checker, you may try to cut down on checking your emails every hour. Try to set aside time in your day for checking emails and avoid looking at emails when you wake up in the morning. Often, if something is very important, you will get a phone call or a text message., You can add an extra hour to your schedule by managing your time at work or at school. Rather than have tasks scattered throughout your day, try to group tasks together so you do several things within a short time frame. This can then help you to have extra time in the day for yourself.You may have a day planner where you schedule in every hour of the day. Include an hour of time for yourself as part of your schedule and then plan around it.
You can also try overlapping tasks so you can get two things done at once. For example, you may take your child on an adventure to the post office and the grocery store so you can take care of your child and get your errands done all at once.
 You can also try planning to do all your chores on a set day during the week so you can have free time for yourself. Grouping all your chores together on a chores day will also ensure they all get done every week.For example, rather than do the laundry in small amounts throughout the week, you may designate one day as laundry day and get it done all at once. You can then use the time you might have spent on laundry throughout the week on free time for yourself instead.
 If you are parent, you may find it challenging to carve out "me time" in your schedule. You can allot some time to yourself by putting your children in a class that takes one hour a day, such as a dance class, an after school art class, or a sports class. Once you drop off your children, you can use the hour to focus on you and take some time to yourself.


If you have a partner, you may also ask them to do the picking up and dropping off so you can stay home and enjoy one hour to yourself.
 Let your family and friends know that you are trying to set aside an hour a day for yourself and ask them to respect your alone time.You may also ask your family and friends for support. Ask your partner to help you out and cover a few of your responsibilities so you can enjoy your alone time. Or, you may have a family member come over and babysit for you so you can have an hour to yourself.

