 Poured concrete can stand up relatively well to mechanical cleaning methods such as sand blasting, pressure washing, or scraping. The aesthetic of poured concrete may be the look you're after, so read on.;
,, Paint showing poor adhesion can be scraped off by hand using a metal paint scraper and wire brush. Hand scraping and wire brushing is the safest way to go. If paint is loose, this method is easy but tedious. If you don't think you've got the patience, buy a dozen scrapers and wire brushes and invite a group of friends willing to pitch in for an all day porch scraping party. Have safety masks for everybody to avoid breathing any paint particles.
 If you don't already own a pressure washer or sand blaster, you can rent these from local tool rental stores or your nearest big box home supply store. Start early and you should be able to complete a porch in one day. Carefully follow the directions that come with the power tool you've rented. Use eye protection and take care never to aim pressurized sand or water at your own feet, your pets, or anyone else. If you have neighbors located close to your porch, take into consideration that particles and overspray could drift their way.
 More importantly, you can determine whether there has been water seepage or some other problem that damaged the old paint and should be corrected.
 Chemical cleaning may be your best option if the paint you're removing is not a full coat but only a paint spill or splatter spotting that hasn't come off when you scraped or wired brushed it.
 The most effective is formic acid. Formic acid has been distilled for centuries from the venom of stinging ants. Don't inhale the fumes. Prolonged exposure to the fumes can damage your optic nerves. Using formic acid in an open, ventilated area such as a porch should not cause any problems, as long as you protect yourself with rubber gloves, long sleeves and pants, eye protection against splashing, and a breathing mask.
 Allow it to remain on the paint long enough to dissolve the paint. How long can vary depending on how old and hard the paint is. When the paint is soft, you can pry it of with a hand scraper and wire brush, then rinse with fresh water. On a porch, you can accomplish this with your garden hose.
, If you suspect the paint contains lead, local laws may require you to hire a pro for this project, so check before you start.

