 She curls it almost every day, and it's hardly ever straight. It's also very healthy. Use a salon brand hair care product, and if you can't afford one, use Pantene's Pro-V system. It makes hair smell good and makes it soft and manageable. After you get out of the shower, air dry your hair and use a volumizing spray or product to give your hair volume at the roots. Use a leave in conditioner to make your hair soft and non-frizzy. Just don't use too much product, as this can tangle your hair and make it nasty, smelly, greasy, and damaged. Don't put conditioner on your scalp, it can make your hair greasy.


If you're one of those lovely young ladies of color, use an African American shampoo and conditioner. And wash your hair only 2 times a week at the most. After you get out of the shower, spray a hair oil all over your hair and scalp, blow dry your hair on Cool or the lowest heat setting to avoid damage as African American hair can burn and damage easily, and flat iron it with a high quality iron, like a Chi. If you want, for whatever type of hair you have, curl your hair with the straightener by wrapping the strands around the curler and wait to feel the heat to go through. Do this to all layers, but avoid using too much heat. You do not want fried ends.
Also, use hair accessories. Massie is RICH, like, really rich. She has a ton of money. But you may not, so try to shop at places like Forever21 and Hot Topic for cute hair bows and headbands, clips, etc.
Try spritzing a perfume in your brush/comb to give your hair a pleasant scent.;
, Get high quality make up from Sephora and similar places. If you can't afford it, use CoverGirl or Hard Candy makeup. It's excellent. Wear eyeliner that compliments your skin tone, brown for fair skin tones, black for darker complexions. Use a foundation and concealer to make your skin look flawless, BE SURE IT MATCHES YOUR SKIN TONE. Massie A L W A Y S wears lip gloss, no exceptions. Wear a few coats of mascara, again, whatever matches your skin tone. Make sure it doesn't have any clumps. Wear a couple coats on the bottom lashes. Wear a light blush. Groom your eyebrows with a grooming brush and pluck or wax them when hair grows back. Massie's eyebrows are amazing.



Massie uses Chanel No. 19. Try Viva la Juicy, or Pink by Victoria's Secret. Don't use cheap knockoffs, it's very noticeable and people around you - and yourself, too - can react badly. Look for good smelling scents at Bath and Body Works, Aeropostale, or Kohl's. JCP has good scents, too. To test it, try it in an inconceivable area and see if you have an allergic reaction.
Brush your teeth 2-3 times a day using a whitening toothpaste. Crest 3D White works well. Also, rinse your mouth with an enamel strengthening mouthwash, like Listerine. Use an electronic spin brush. These get more germs off of teeth.
Shower at least once a day, with a good smelling soap/gel.
Shave your legs and underarms daily or every other day.
I know it seems gross, but please, shave your privates. Odors can linger in pubic hair and that's not very Massie-ish.
Wash your face everyday with a high quality wash like ProActiv, or Neutrogena Skin ID. Clinique's facial washes are very nice, too.
Chew freshening gum.
Wash your clothes everyday, and shower immediately after coming home from a hot day outside or working out.
Massie has french nails. Try to buy some or get yours done professionally.



Aeropostale has really adorable charm bracelets, like Massie's. Find charms that can fit onto the bracelet. Massie has an "M" on hers; Find one for your initial.
Necklaces are very cute. Try one with a diamond, or a cute figure, like a cupcake, or an angel.
Massie doesn't wear cheap stuff, so try not to. Do not shop at Claire's. That's, ironically, a place where Claire would shop.



Wear form fitting tops. Aeropostale has amazing uniform tops. They're form fitting and very stylish. They have small sleeves, not very much past the end of the ending of the shoulder. Try wearing designer tops, too. Most uniform schools allow blouses.
If your school provides uniforms for you, try to find loops in it. Try wearing a bright cami underneath the shirt. Also, try to tailor the skirt to a couple of inches above your knees. Be careful, though. Schools are very strict about dress codes, and it can get you suspended, or even expelled.
Arizona and SO from Kohl's are good choices for pants. Try getting about 5 pairs, 1 in light khaki, one in dark khaki, two in black, one in navy.
If you can't wear heels, wear designer shoes, like Sperry's, Uggs, and Converse, though Massie would NEVER shop for Converse. Try shoes that no one else knows where they're from.
Studded belts are in. If your school doesn't allow them then just wear a black leather belt.
If your school allows it, wear a pretty jacket over your shirt. If not, wear a school sweatshirt over it. It helps if you get cold.
 Massie has a really big, but really beautiful, bag. It holds a lot. Don't bring a backpack, use your bag. Put notebooks, gum, a make up bag with a comb or brush in it, a Teen Vogue mag, an iPod if you wish, cell phone, nail polish, elastic headbands and rubber bands, bobby pins, etc. Whatever you need!

,,