 This amount -- known as your bankroll -- will vary widely depending on your income. Be honest with yourself about how much money you have to invest in betting.


When deciding how much your bankroll will be should, you should acknowledge that it’s possible that you’ll lose the entire bankroll.
On the one hand, a budget that is too high may result in personal bankruptcy. A bankroll that is too low, on the other hand, will limit your ability to reap big rewards from betting.
The “rule of thumb” for a beginner's maximum bankroll is $1,000.
Do not bet on soccer unless you have sufficient funds.
 This amount is known as your betting unit size.


Don’t place your whole bankroll on one bet. You risk losing it all at once.
Conservative or new bettors should bet about 1-2% of their bankroll on an individual bet. For instance, if you have $1,000, you might drop $10 on a single bet.
Seasoned bettors might wager 3% of their bankroll on well-founded bet.
Your absolute maximum betting unit size should not exceed 5% of your bankroll.
 Choose the game or team you want to bet on.Once you’ve registered with the gambling site or entered the casino, make a stake on a game or team you like. Do not put all your money on one outcome or one game. Distribute your risk by betting on multiple games.


Limiting your maximum bet will increase your chances to win. The “rule of thumb” for a beginner's maximum bet is $50.
If you do lose, be prepared to walk away, no matter how tempted you are to continue. You don't want to lose even more.
Never make a bet when you’re drunk or tired.
 If you win, don't get carried away. Enjoy what you've won by cashing out and coming back later. Set specific guidelines for success when betting on soccer. Your goals should be realistic and achievable.


For instance, you might decide to cash out when you’ve earned over $100.
Make rules for yourself to prevent excessive loss. For instance, you might decide that if you lose more than $100 on a game, you will stop betting and wait for another day to try again.
Gambling can be addictive.If you are experiencing a problem with gambling, tell someone or call your local helpline.

