 Moisturizing your hair is extremely important for curly hair. Curly hair has more difficulty getting moisture to the ends because of the shape. This can cause dryness and dandruff. Moisturizing your hair helps prevent this.Use deep conditioners to replace lost moisture in your hair.Make sure to leave it in for at least 5 minutes, but longer if you have time. Then rinse with cool water to help seal the cuticle.Deep conditioning your hair helps prevent breakage and split ends, which helps promote hair growth.Depending on your hair texture, you can deep condition your hair once a week, or once every other week.;
, When trying to grow longer, thicker curls, it is especially important to moisturize the ends. As your curly hair grows, your hair's natural oils have difficulty coating the whole length of your hair strands.In addition to using deep conditioners, try applying olive or coconut oil into the ends of your hair







, Treating your hair regularly with masks containing proteins and fatty acids can help make it thicker and stronger. These masks are easily made at home with ingredients in your fridge. Eggs and avocados are two great foods that can be used to make hair treatments.









Beat 1-2 eggs in a bowl. Put the egg on wet hair for 30 minutes. You can also mix in an additional egg and a tablespoon of oil (coconut, olive, jojoba). The proteins in eggs help strengthen and thicken your hair. Do this 3-4 times a week.
Mash and avocado and banana together until they are a uniformed consistency. You can also mix two tablespoons of oil (coconut, olive, jojoba) in with half an avocado. Massage this into your scalp and leave for 30 minutes. Wash with plain water, then shampoo with mild shampoo. Do this 2-3 times a week., Jojoba oil is believed to encourage hair growth. Massaging it into the scalp stimulates blood flow and helps hair grow. Jojoba also can help add volume to your hair, making it appear thicker.Jojoba oil is a sealing oil, so use it on wet hair after you condition your hair to seal in moisture.








Jojoba oil helps keep your scalp moist, which helps the natural oils in your scalp. When your scalp's natural oils work, your hair grows.
Jojoba oil also helps cleanse the scalp. Clogged follicles in the scalp can reduce hair growth.
Grapeseed oil is another good, lightweight sealing oil.
 Moisturizing oils are heavier than sealing oils, so they can be used alone to moisturize your hair. Try using coconut or olive oil. Apply it to your hair and scalp and leave on for 30 minutes for a deep conditioning treatment.Try applying castor oil onto your hair and sleeping in it. Castor oil is supposed to give body to thinning hair and help cure bald spots. Massage it into your scalp before bed 2-3 times a week for a few weeks., Many essential oils are used to increase hair growth, strengthen hair, and help with hair loss. There are many ways you can use essential oils. You can apply approximately 20 drops to your scalp, working it down your hair. You can also mix it with other oils for multiple benefits or add a few drops to your shampoo.








Rosemary, thyme, lavender, cedarwood and sage oils are often used for hair growth., Eating a vitamin-rich diet can help encourage hair growth. Foods rich in protein also help hair grow faster.Eat foods with fatty acids, such as salmon and other fish, avocados, and nuts.
Foods rich in beta carotene and vitamin A, such as sweet potatoes and carrots, help hair grow.
You can find protein and iron in foods such as lean meats and eggs.
Leafy greens and beans contain multiple vitamins that promote hair health.
Fruits contain vitamin C, which helps encourage scalp health.You need to include vitamins A, C, H, all the B vitamins, zinc, keratin, copper, and iron in your diet. Buy fruits, vegetables, and iron-rich foods for healthy hair.You can also try supplements if you can't get all the vitamins and nutrients you need from food.
 Biotin is found in the vitamin-B complex, and is thought to help you grow thicker, stronger hair.Try taking it as a supplement, because it doesn't easily absorb into your skin., One way to promote healthy hair and hair growth is to keep the split ends trimmed. The split ends are the damaged part of the hair, so it's not helping you grow thick or healthy hair. Split ends tangle easily and make curls look limp.








Some people say that you should trim your ends every 1-2 months, but this isn't a practice most hairdressers advise. Some people don't get split ends as quickly as others. Trim your hair only when it needs it. Otherwise, you are cutting healthy hair.If you can't bear to cut all your split ends off at once, try cutting a few split ends off at a time. If you have a lot, cut only 1/4 of an inch every month instead of cutting the whole 1/2-2 inches you might have. Continue doing this over a few months until all your split ends are gone., One way to help give your hair a thicker appearance is to get layers put into your hair. This style gives a stacked effect, which makes your hair look fuller and thicker. Go to a salon and tell them you want layers to help give body and thickness to your hair., If you want to grow thick hair, stop using heating tools. Heating tools break down the hair shaft and make the hair thinner. Heating tools also increases split ends.If you want to use heating tools, make sure to use heat protectants., When your hair is wet, use your fingers or a wide toothed comb to remove the tangles. Brushing your hair while wet causes breakage, which slows the growth of your hair.








Do not comb or brush your hair aggressively. This causes unneeded stress on your hair and scalp, and can cause hair breakage., Curly hair needs to be shampooed less because it easily gets stripped of its natural oils.Only wash your hair 2-3 times a week.Make sure to use gentle shampoos and moisturizing shampoos.
 One way to get thicker hair is to add body. Buy a volumizing mousse, gel, or souffle to help increase the width of your strands and make your hair appear thicker. Dry shampoo can also help increase body in your hair., Many suggest brushing the scalp to encourage hair growth. Brushing and massaging the scalp stimulates the sebaceous glands, which helps keep your hair's natural oils in balance.Doing this also helps blood flow to the scalp, keeping it active.Brush your hair once or twice a day for at least 5 minutes. Make sure you do this only with dry hair. Never brush wet hair because it can cause damage.









Bend down at the waist and brush your hair with your head down. This helps the blood flow to your scalp. Brush for 3-5 minutes, then straighten and repeat.When you take a shower, use your fingers to massage your scalp. Spend 1-2 minutes moving the scalp to stimulate it., Cotton can pull and damage your hair. When you're trying to grow out your hair, sleep on a satin pillowcase or with your hair in a satin cap. This helps reduce the damage to your curly locks as you grow it out., When using hair products, check the ingredients. You want to always avoid ammonium lauryl sulfate, sodium lauryl sulfate, and sodium laureth sulfate. These chemicals can cause damage to your hair., If you are going to blow dry your hair, then don't over dry it. When you over dry, you are pulling the hair and decreasing the natural volume. This makes your hair look flatter.








Let the hair dry 80 percent naturally. Then dry with a blow dryer to lift roots and add volume., Adding bangs to your hair can help hair look thicker. It brings more hair into your face, making it look like you have more hair. This is especially good if your hair is thicker towards the front or roots and thinner towards the bottom., One way to create the illusion of thicker hair is to have one layer underneath shorter than the top layer. This adds fullness. Make sure to keep the ends blunt., Giving your hair dimensions by multiple colors can help create the illusion of fullness. Highlighting your hair pushes the shaft open, helping to make your hair fuller.
 If you are going to blow dry your hair, change the way you do it to create some volume. Flip your head to the side instead of over and down. Pull a section out at a 90 degree angle. This will give you volume and thickness all over your hair., Round brushes can help give volume at the roots of your hair. When styling your hair, use one of those instead of a paddle brush., Another way to add volume is to part your hair differently than usual. A middle part can fall flat, and if you've been parting your hair on the same side for years, it will be trained to the part and fall flat. Switch to the other side for some volume.

