 One of the worst things you can do to your body and mind is stress out. Get things prepared for your wedding ahead of time. Don't cross things off your list, such as making the invitations pretty, because you run out of time and you think it's not as important. Spend quality time on them, but do them enough in advance that as your walking down the aisle, all the stress you had doesn't boil over onto you and you pass out. Remember some of the basic necessities you need to get done for your wedding (plan to get them done at least a month before your wedding).


Look at some of these articles that might help you plan your wedding.

How to Plan Your Wedding
How to Plan a Wedding in Six Months
How to Plan a Wedding Reception
How to Plan a Wedding Rehearsal

;
, Fainting can happen even when you have the slightest cold. Be extremely careful so you don't get sick. Don't go out and get food poisoning the day before your wedding. Don't eat anything not bad for you, and stock up on vitamins so you stay bubbly and happy, and feel good. Be as safe as you can before your wedding. If you begin to feel sick or run-down, take some medicine, or nap.


Be physically healthy. To relieve stress or feel a little better, exercise, but don't exercise too much. You don't want to be feeling run down, but you do want to be in good shape and not a wreck on your wedding day.

Remember to eat healthily so you feel fresh and spirited, not slow or hungry.


Be mentally healthy. Stay very calm and do a puzzle or two to keep your mind in shape, so you don't feel as disorganized on your wedding day.
 Fainting happens the most when you are suffering of dehydration. Make sure that you drink lots of water on your wedding day to make sure that you won't faint. On the day of your wedding, keep some water with you at all times and drink it as much as you can (but make sure you go to the bathroom before you walk down the aisle!).
 On the day of your wedding, you don't want to freak out and lose consciousness. Prepare your dress, money, shoes, and everything that you will need to do in order to walk down the aisle. Get everything ready, and ask someone to help you so you don't have so much pressure on yourself. Also prepare yourself for everything you'll be going through on your wedding, including the stress, tiredness, painful smiles, hand-aching thank-you notes, etc., and take a minute to relax and take it in.
 It's easier said than done, of course, but beforehand, take a nap, drink some water, do something to take your mind off the wedding for only a moment. Just be happy and don't think about anything else but your fiancé and your happily-ever-after life together.


Spend some time with your fiancé before the wedding. He might be just as stressed out as you are.
 Be prepared, and know why you fainted. Be prepared for everything to be put off for a little while, and tell someone beforehand what to do if you faint (see tips).

