 If you are a part of a friendship trifecta and feel that the other two members are spending too much time together, talk to them about how you feel. They may not realize that they are excluding you and hurting your feelings. Talking to them about how you feel might put an end to the exclusion.Although it might seem tempting, try not to cause a fight between your friends. It will probably lead to you being further excluded.
In a calm and reasonable manner, say things like “I feel like you leave me out of jokes” or “it makes me sad that you do things without me.”

, Your friends might be growing closer, and excluding you, because you are not pulling your weight in the relationship. There is a tendency for pairing in three-person relationships.To avoid this, it is important that you make yourself available. Be sure to be supportive of your friends and an equally involved member of the friendship.Avoid skipping group activities.
If your friends are going through a difficult time, be supportive. If you bail on them, they will likely bail on you in the future.
 If your friends are pairing off, it might be a sign that you need to branch out and look for other people to hang out with. It is natural for pairing to develop in a group of three, where two people grow close and limit their time with the third person. If you feel left out, look for someone else in your school or at work who you can hang out with.Join a club or group that caters to your hobbies. You will likely meet someone there who you can be friends with.
If your friends are intentionally excluding you, you should be looking for new friends anyway.
 Think of your friends’ pairing as an opportunity to work on you. Spend some time enjoying your hobbies or picking up new ones. Although it may not make you feel better about being a third wheel in the friendship, it will at least take your mind off of it.


Concentrate on your work or school. If your friends are good ones, they will not abandon you.
 Organize some three person activities that will require your involvement and interaction with both friends. Play some three-on-three basketball or a board game.Try having a party and inviting a bunch of people you know. Doing things that involve more than three people will change your group’s dynamics.
 Who says that you should only have two friends? Bring some new people into the mix and broaden your friend group. With a larger group, you will have other people to hang out with. This will change the dynamics and make it easier for your friends to maintain their relationship with each other and you.Invite other people you know from work or school to social gatherings or parties.

