 Decide whether you are looking for a way to afford each loan's minimum payment, a way to pay down large loans quickly, a way to pay off your loans in full quickly, or something else.


Knowing your goal can help you decide what payment plan is right for you, since some help you pay down debts faster while some take longer to pay, but make individual payments more manageable.;
, Federal student aid offers a number of repayment plans for different income levels and abilities to repay. Carefully review the payment options and criteria for each student loan repayment program to see if it could meet your needs.


The Standard Repayment Plan can be used for most Federal Student Loans, and has the borrower paying a fixed amount over the repayment period, which can be up to 30 years.The Graduated Repayment Plan can be applied to most Federal Student Loans, with payments starting at lower amounts and gradually increasing every two years for up to 30 years., Some student loan repayment plans are contingent upon your discretionary income and/or your debt-to-income ratio. Use the Federal Student Aid website to read about income-driven plans and necessary qualifications for each plan.The Pay As You Earn Plan and Revised Pay As You Earn Plan can be used on direct subsidized, unsubsidized, and PLUS loans, and has monthly payments equal to 10% of your discretionary income with forgiveness after 20 to 25 years.
Income-based repayment plans are offered to those with a high debt-to-income ratio, and offer payments fixed at 10% or 15% of your discretionary income, with full loan forgiveness after 20 to 25 years.
Income-contingent plans are open to any borrowers with direct Federal Student Loans, and call for fixed payments at 20% of your discretionary income with forgiveness after 25 years.
 Non-federal loans will not qualify for a federal repayment plan. Check your credit report at AnnualCreditReport.com to see if you have any private loans, and if so to get the exact amounts and the loan providers for each.Private loans are much more difficult to consolidate and often do not have multiple repayment options. If you have a private student loan, contact the servicer immediately to ask about loan due dates and payment amounts.
If you have a large sum in private loans, it may help to speak to a financial planner about your options for repayment.
 If you are more than a few years or a few thousand dollars out from repaying your loans, look at consolidation. Federal student loan consolidation can be applied for directly online, while some private student loans can be consolidated through a private bank.Consolidation brings together all of your loans, allowing you to make one payment and keep a single fixed interest rate, rather than paying a variable rate. It also pushes the repayment period up to 30 years.
Consolidating loans may mean paying more in interest over time, and so is not advisable for those with a small amount of debt or those who are within two to three years of complete repayment.Consolidating loans is necessary for some federal repayment programs.
 Look through your student loan statements or use an online payment calculator figure out how much you will pay per month on your loans.If you have not already chosen a repayment plan, look at different plans to see how your payments could work out over time.


Even if you are on a federal repayment plan, you can often change your plan as you repay. Look over different plans to see what is manageable for you.
Look at current loan statements to see how much you currently pay and compare this with other repayment programs to see if you are on the right repayment plan for you.
 Your repayment plans will dictate the minimum amount you need to pay for each loan, but it is advisable to pay more than the minimum payments when possible. Take a look at your current earnings and see where you can save to put money toward your loans. Look at areas like spending on dining out, clothing, and household purchases to find places in your budget to make room for loans.Ideally, around 20% of your total income should go to paying off your debts, including student loans and credit cards.
Add up the cost of paying all your current minimum debt payments. Then calculate 20% of your income. If you are able, start paying any difference in those amounts toward your loan debt.
Try to reduce spending in unnecessary areas. If you go out to eat twice a week for example, try going out once a week and putting the money you would have spent on the other meal toward your loans.
 You will need to make payments on all of your student loans, but you should prioritize payment for larger loans or ones with higher interest rates. If you are capable of making above the minimum payment on any of your loans, put your extra money toward your bigger loans.Smaller loans, even if they have slightly higher interest rates, will ultimately accrue less interest overall. Put anything above your minimum payments toward your largest loan or your loans with above average interest rates first.
 Payments made under certain plans while working in public service or as a teacher may qualify you for forgiveness on your loans after a reduced period of time. Consider whether you want a public service career as a part of your loan repayment plan.Public service loan forgiveness is applicable for those who work for the government or in a non-profit position.
Forgiveness is offered after 10 years of making eligible payments or 120 qualifying payments.
 Not only does setting up autopay for federal loans ensure that you pay on time every time, it could also help you qualify for a 0.25 percent interest rate reduction. Check directly with your loan servicer to see if autopay is available and for enrollment instructions.If you do not know who your loan servicer is, you can call the Federal Student Aid office or log into your Federal Student Aid account online.
 If you happen to receive a cash windfall, be it lottery winnings, a tax refund, or a few extra dollars as a birthday gift, apply it directly toward your student loans. This allows you to contribute more than you typically would toward your debt without straining your budget.If you don’t want to put all your extra money toward your loans, try to put at least some of it into repayment. If you cannot manage to contribute 100%, try to contribute at least 50%.
 Defaulting on a loan can result in severe penalties, with the government being able to garnish up to 15% of your wages and taking chunks out of any collections fees. If you are struggling to make a payment, contact your loan servicer immediately to let them know.Federal loan servicers are generally quite forgiving and willing to work with you if you are going through a difficult time such as underemployment or unemployment.
Call your loan servicer directly to let them know you’re struggling to repay before your payment due date. Ask them, “What options do I have to help keep me from defaulting while I work on getting the money together?”

