 It turns out that there is actually a "right" way to wash your hair. And many people are doing it wrong. First, look at the amount of shampoo you are using. It's likely too much. You should not be using an amount greater than the size of a quarter.Avoid vigorously rubbing or massaging your head. Putting more pressure on your strands can actually cause fly-aways and rough ends.
Rinse shampoo out before conditioning. Make sure to get rid of excess water by gently squeezing or wringing out your hair.
Rinse your hair with cool water. Hot water can damage your color and your hair. You don't have to take a cold shower, but you should turn the water temperature down before you rinse.
Only wash your hair every other day. This allows the natural oils in your hair time to repair. On the days you don't wash, you can still rinse with water or dry shampoo.
 Heat can damage your hair. Specifically, it can cause the ends to split or become dry. Limit the amount of heat styling you do on your hair.Air dry as often as possible. Daily blow drying can quickly cause your hair to loose it's luster.
Using a straightening iron can make your hair appear shiny and soft temporarily. But in reality, it damages the hair by weakening the follicles and drying it out.
Try to limit straightening your hair to once a week. Look for other ways to style your hair, such as experimenting with texturizing sprays.
When you do use heat, use a protectant. There are many sprays you can use to limit the damage done by hot tools. Ask your stylist to recommend a good one.
 Your hair is particularly prone to damage when it is wet. It is often tangled after washing and can easily break. Make sure to always comb your wet hair instead of brushing.Use a wide-tooth plastic comb. This is the most gentle tool for your hair. You can get a great one for under $5 at your local drugstore.
Avoid tugging on your hair. It can be tempting to yank on tangles, but that can cause breakage. Take the time to gently work tangles out, using the comb and your fingers.
Keep your comb clean. A dirty comb can spread unwanted chemicals and dirt through your hair. Wash your comb with a gentle soap at least once a week.
 A mask is a product that you apply and leave on your hair for about an hour. They are a great way to add moisture to your hair. You can purchase hair masks at your local drug store or beauty supply store, or you can make your own.If you purchase a mask, consider buying one that contains Moroccan oil. This ingredient does a great job of adding moisture to hair, especially the ends.
You can use a lot of different food products to make moisturizing masks. Try mixing 1 overripe banana with 1 teaspoon each of olive oil, honey, and coconut oil.
Place all ingredients in a blender and blend until very smooth. Apply to hair and let sit for 5-10 minutes before rinsing thoroughly.
You can also had a handful of fresh strawberries, and 1 tablespoon each of honey and coconut oil to a blender. Mix until pureed, then apply to hair for anywhere from 10-50 minutes. Rinse thoroughly.
 In order to get smooth and silky ends, you need to make hair care a priority. Get in the habit of caring for your hair on a daily basis. For example, take care to use the right products and not over-style.Make time in your schedule for air drying your hair. This might mean that you need to get up earlier or start washing your hair at night.
Plan ahead each week. This will help you figure out the best days to wash your hair and the best time to use dry shampoo.
Take time each week to give your hair extra hydration. For example, apply a moisturizing mask each Wednesday evening.

