 You'll need to show off your legs to balance out your apple-shape. Drawing attention to your legs will help add more balance to your look. Don't downplay your legs by wearing skinny jeans, leggings, or any other too-tight fabric. This will make your legs look even smaller and will make your waist look even larger as a result. Here are some other tricks to try when choosing a pair of pants for your bottom half:Avoid pants that have a lot of zippers in the front, or this will draw more attention to your middle. Try to find a pair of pants with zippers on the sides instead.
Wear pants with back pockets. This will create definition in your flatter bottom and will balance out your waist.
Wear pants that are denim, trouser cut, flared, wide-legs, or boot cut.
 Don't be afraid to wear shorts just because of your fuller figure. A pair of short-shorts can show off your great legs and minimize your waist. You can even pair them with an elastic belt that isn't too bulky. You can wear them with nude sandals to create even more length.


Go for the high-waisted cut. Anything cut low at the waist may create a "muffin top" and will only draw more attention to your middle. Pick a cut that nips your waistline, making it slimmer and more defined. This applies to pants too.
 A great skirt can help define your apple-shaped body. Try wearing a skirt that has a bias cut or an A-line, or flatter your figure with a full circle skirt. Avoid skirts that are tight around the waist or which fall at your natural waist. You can also wear a trumpet skirt or skirts with a hanky hem.
 If you have an apple-shaped body, then you should create balance on your lower body by wearing shoes that emphasize your legs. Here are some shoes to wear and some others to avoid:Wear: platform shoes, wedges, calf-length boots, ballet flats, clogs, and strappy sandals. All of these will let you show off your legs and create a fuller bottom.

Avoid: kitten heels, buckle boots, Uggs, or any shoes that will make your feet look too big. This will in turn make your legs look smaller and draw even more attention to your waist.

