 It is the person with the least, whose sacrifice to give is greater, whose tithe means the most to God. Mark 12:41-44 tells how people who had money tithed the amount they were supposed to tithe, which ended up being a lot of money. When it came time for a poor widow to tithe, she put in 2 little pennies. Jesus declared her offering of higher value because she gave all she had.;
, Tithe is not meant to come from what is left over. God's instructions are to give the first fruits of our labor. Which is better, to be served a plate of steaming, hot food, right off the grill or to be handed a plate of the same food, cold, picked apart and half-eaten? His people are to want to give to Him. Being on a tight budget, you are in the perfect position to see God's blessings from obedience. Malachi 3:10 says that tithing to God first will result in great blessing. A point He must want His people to understand, God repeats it again in Proverbs 3:9-10.
 According to 2 Corinthians 8:11-12, God is more concerned with obedience and attitude than He is about how much money is being put in the plate. Do not feel bad about what you can or can not give. And do not let others make you feel bad either. God cares about your obedience and motivation, not your bank account.
 If you put off tithing, you will spend that money in other ways. If you wait to give until you can afford it, you might get stuck in a routine of not tithing. Keep it a priority--not out of duty, but of wanting to do what God desires of you.
 In early biblical times, people gave offerings of their produce and livestock. They gave what they had to give. Instead of focusing on your finances right now, which can leave you feeling defeated, give what you have to give. Tithe your time. Tithe your talents and abilities. Volunteer to take care of something the church or community needs to have done. Make something. Fix something. Help someone. Donate things. See a need and take care of it.
 An offering is supposed to be a sacrifice. God's offering was a huge sacrifice--He gave his only son. Tithing is not that demanding of us. However, think back to those early biblical families that gave their first fruits. The first fruits were the best and most cherished of the gathering, a commodity that they surely would have rather kept to themselves, but they gave it to God instead.
 While you are on a tight budget, look for ways to give instead of reasons not to give. Can you sell anything you do not need anymore? Evaluate your television or phone service to see if you are paying for services that you don't use. Are there unnecessary items you can trim off your grocery list, or opt for generic or sale items instead? Could you pick up some side work somewhere? Get the family involved in the effort by collecting cans to turn in for tithe money.

