 Bathing a large dog can be quite a chore. Have everything you need before you start the process. Gather your towels, brush, shampoo, and a pitcher or cup. Having your supplies together will make bath time faster and keep you from leaving your dog unattended.You may need 3 or 4 large towels depending on the size of your dog.;
, Bathe your Great Dane in a walk-in shower, bathtub, or a portable bath tub. Both you and your dog should fit comfortably in the bath area. If your bathroom is small, a portable bath tub would be better.If it is warm outside, you can bathe your dog outside. However, if your dog tends to squirm a lot during bath time, it will be harder to keep him still if you are outside.
 Use a soft bristle brush to remove any loose hair.You can use a rubber grooming mitt instead of a brush of you prefer. Your Great Dane has a short coat so be very gentle when you brush. You do not want to hurt the skin.


Always brush in the direction the coat grows in. It is more comfortable for your dog.Great Danes are not prone to matting, but gently untangle any mats with your fingers or a comb. Do not try to brush matted hair.
 If your dog is unwilling to get in the tub, take him out for some exercise first. Your dog is more likely to enjoy the water after exercise and will have less energy to fight you.You can also put a treat or a toy in the tub to make it more attractive for your dog.


Never use anger or force to get your dog into the tub. This will make the experience unpleasant for both of you, and your dog will begin to think of bath time as something negative that needs to be avoided., Avoid getting water into your dog's ears. This is uncomfortable for your dog and can cause some health problems. Stuff the ears with cotton balls before the bath.Be sure not to put the cotton balls in too deep. You need to remove them once the bath is over.Excess moisture in the ears can lead to ear infections.Clean the ears once a week with an ear cleaner formulated for dogs. Typically, you apply the cleaner and then wipe out the ear with a soft, damp cloth., Once your dog is in the tub, use the shower head, spray hose, large plastic pitcher, or cup to wet your dog.The water should not be too cold or too hot. If the water is too hot or cold for a baby, then it is the wrong temperature for your dog as well.


Wet your dog from the neck down. This will protect its eyes, ears, and mouth.
Large dogs tend to overheat more easily so make sure that you choose the right temperature.
The water should be between 70 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit (or between 22 and 26 degrees Celsius).Talk to your dog in a calm voice as you wet him. This will make him feel comfortable and safe.
 Use a shampoo that is made for dogs. Human shampoo is too harsh for your dog's skin. Gently massage the shampoo into your dog's fur. Work from head to tail. Thoroughly rinse your dog with water.Avoid getting shampoo in the eyes, ears, and nose. You can use a wet washcloth to wipe your dog's face instead of applying shampoo to its head.
You may have to rinse multiple times to ensure that all of the shampoo is removed. Your dog's skin may become irritated if you do not rinse all of the shampoo off.
If your dog got into mud or is really dirty, you may need to shampoo and rinse multiple times.
 It will probably take 2 or 3 beach towels to dry your dog. Put a towel on the floor of the bathroom to keep your floor from getting too wet and place a towel on your dog as soon as he gets out of the bath. Rub him down. Use another towel if the towel gets soaked. Try to get your dog as dry as possible.It is best to air dry, but you can blow dry your dog. It is best to use a doggie blow dryer. Human blow dryers often blow out air that is too hot and can cause itching and dandruff.The sound of the hair dryer may scare some dogs. If your dog reacts to the sound, stick with towel drying.
If it is cold outside, keep your dog indoors until he is completely dry.
It is completely normal for your dog to shake off excess water, and there is not much you can do to prevent it. This is a reflex that prevents them from getting hypothermia.Place towels on the floor, wear clothes that you don't mind getting wet, and remove anything that you do not want to get wet.

