 There is a lot of debate about how much protein people need. The minimum recommendation to maintain health is .8g/kg of protein per kilogram of body weight (approximately .4 grams per pound of bodyweight), so a 150 pound (68kg) adult should try to consume at least 54 to 61 grams of protein per day. Protein recommendations for athletes or those wishing to build muscle mass or lose weight are generally much higher, at 1 gram of protein per pound of bodyweight.To determine the minimum amount of protein you need to stay healthy, multiply your bodyweight in pounds by .4 grams, or in kilograms by 0.8g grams.
To determine the minimum amount of protein you need to support an exercise habit, boost muscle mass, or lose weight, divide your weight in pounds by 2.2, which will give you your weight in kilograms. Multiply this number by 1.2 – 1.7g (if you are a power athlete) to find the number of grams of protein you should consume, or by 1.2 – 1.4g (if you are an endurance athlete). So, an athlete weighing 180 lbs. weighs 82 kg (180 / 2.2 = 82). To get the minimum 1.2g per kg of body weight, this athlete must eat 98.4g of protein (82 x 1.2 = 98.4).When in doubt, ask your doctor or a nutritionist for a specific recommendation.;
, Your body can only use a certain amount of protein at a time, and consuming excessive protein can lead to health issues.


Common symptoms of protein over-consumption include weight gain (from over-consumption of calories in general), dehydration, and kidney problems.Overconsumption of fatty meats and cheeses can also increase bad (LDL) cholesterol and your risk for heart disease.If you experience any of the above issues, consult with your doctor and consider cutting back on your protein intake.
 When planning your diet, focus on adding primarily lean protein sources that are low in salt and additives, and minimize your consumption of processed meats. Also remember that proteins from vegetable sources are not as readily digested by the body, and are considered "incomplete," meaning they are missing one or more amino acid that the body needs.If you wish to increase your intake of vegetable-based proteins note that you may need to consume more grams of protein for your body to get what it needs, and ensure you get all of the amino acids you need by eating a variety of protein-rich foods., Your body can only absorb so much protein at a time, so consuming all of your daily protein in one sitting might leave you lacking. Moreover, studies have shown that adding protein to your diet throughout the day can not only decrease hunger, allowing dieters to lose more weight, but can also boost muscle retention and growth.When planning to add protein to your diet, be sure to think about ways to include protein at every meal and about incorporating protein-rich snacks.
 Creating a meal plan ahead of time is the best way to ensure that you get the protein you need spaced out properly during the day. Prepare protein-rich snacks and foods ahead of time.

