 Insulin administration using a syringe and needle is still one of the most common methods people use to take their insulin.


Start by making sure you have everything you need, including your insulin syringe and needle, alcohol pads, the insulin, and a sharps container nearby.
Remove the insulin vial from the refrigerator about 30 minutes before it is time for your dose to allow the insulin to reach room temperature.Check the dating on your insulin vial before you proceed. Do not use expired insulin or insulin that has been opened for more than 28 days., Dry them completely with a clean towel.Be sure your injection site is clean and dry. Clean the area with soap and water if needed before you begin.Avoid wiping the area with alcohol. If you do wipe the area with alcohol, give the area time to air dry before you administer the dose., Many people use more than one type of insulin. Look carefully at the label to be sure you have the correct product for the scheduled dose.If the insulin vial is in a container or has a cover, remove it and carefully wipe the bottle with an alcohol wipe. Let the bottle air dry, and do not blow on it.Inspect the liquid inside. Check for any visible clumps or particles floating inside the vial. Be sure the vial is not cracked or damaged.Insulins that are clear should not be shaken or rolled. As long as they remain clear they can be given without mixing.Some types of insulin are naturally cloudy. Cloudy insulins should be gently rolled between your hands to mix them properly. Do not shake the insulin., Know the dose you need to administer. Remove the cap from the needle, taking care not to touch the needle with your fingers or to any surface in order to keep it sterile.Pull back the plunger of the syringe to the same mark as the amount of insulin you intend to remove from the vial.Push the needle through the top of the vial, and push the plunger to inject the amount of air you just put in the syringe.Keeping the needle in the vial and the syringe as straight as possible, turn the bottle upside down.Hold the vial and syringe in one hand, and gently pull back on the plunger to withdraw the exact amount of insulin needed with the other.Check the liquid in the syringe for air bubbles. With the needle still inside the vial and still holding it upside down, gently tap the syringe to move air bubbles to the top part of the syringe. Push the air back into the vial, and withdraw more insulin if needed to be sure you have the correct amount in the syringe.Carefully pull the needle from the bottle, and place the syringe on a clean surface without allowing the needle to touch anything., Many people use different types of insulin to cover their blood sugar needs for a longer period of time.If you use more than one type of insulin for each injection, the insulins must be drawn up into the syringe in a specific order and according to your doctor’s instructions.If your doctor has instructed you to use more than one type of insulin at a single injection, draw the insulins up exactly as your doctor directed.
Be sure you know the the amount of each insulin you need, which product to put in the syringe first, and the total amount of insulin that should be in the syringe when you are finished drawing up both insulins.The shorter acting insulin product, which is clear, is drawn into the syringe first, followed by the longer acting product, which is cloudy.You should always go from clear to cloudy when mixing the insulin.
 Avoid scars and moles by one inch, and do not give insulin within two inches of your navel.Avoid bruised areas or areas that are swollen or tender., The insulin is to be administered into the fat layer just under the surface of the skin. This is called a subcutaneous injection. Creating skin folds by gently pinching the skin helps to prevent injecting into muscle tissue.Insert the needle at either a 45 degree or 90 degree angle. The angle of the needle insertion depends on the injection site, the thickness of the skin, and the length of the needle.
In some cases where the skin or fatty tissue is thicker, you may be able to insert the needle at a 90 degree angle.Your doctor or diabetic healthcare provider will guide you in understanding the areas on your body that should be pinched and the angle of insertion for each injection site., Push the needle all the way into the skin and slowly push the plunger of the syringe to deliver your dose. Be sure the plunger is completely depressed.Leave the needle in place for five seconds after injecting, then pull the needle out of the skin at the same angle it went in.Release the skin fold. In some cases, diabetic healthcare providers recommend releasing the skin fold just after needle entry. Talk to your doctor about your insulin injections specific to your body.Sometimes insulin leaks from the injection site. If this is the case with you, then gently press the site for several seconds. If this problem continues, talk to your doctor., Keep the sharps container in a safe place away from children and pets.Both needles and syringes are only to be used once.Each time a needle punctures the top of the vial and the skin, the needle becomes dulled. Dulled needles cause more pain, plus they carry a much greater risk of infection.