 Finger and palm pulses can help strengthen the muscles in your hands as well as your wrists. In addition to being used separately as a strengthening exercise, you also can use this as a warm-up for your hands, fingers, and forearms before doing push-ups.To do finger pulses, place your fingertips on the floor with your palms raised and pulse into them. You can do this while sitting or on all fours to support your weight – don't do this from push-up position. Feel the finger flexors stretch and release with each pulse. Work smoothly through these pulses for a dozen or so repetitions.
Palm pulses are similar to calf raises, in which you raise your heels, keeping your toes and the balls of your feet on the ground – except palm pulses are working your forearms. Strong forearms can help prevent wrist pain during push-ups.
To do palm pulses, your hands should be flat and firm on the floor, directly below your shoulders as though you're doing a regular push-up. You can do this from your knees to support your weight. Raise your palms while keeping your fingers and the base of your knuckles on the floor, then smoothly lower. Do 12 to 24 repetitions of this exercise.
 Wrist releases can be performed either standing or sitting, and will help stretch your wrists and the muscles in your hands, loosening your wrists so they are better able to handle the pressure put on them when you do push-ups.Extend your right arm straight out in front of you, palm toward the ceiling. Flex your right wrist down and back so that your palm is now facing forward in front of you and your fingers are pointing down toward the ground.
Spread your fingers, then use the fingers of your left hand to pull back on your thumb until you feel a stretch. Hold this position, breathing deeply and spreading your fingers. Your fingers may have a tendency to tense or curl up. Resist this tendency by continually focusing on keeping them spread out.
After a few breaths, release your thumb and move on to your pointer finger. Continue the same action for all fingers on your right hand, then lower your right arm and extend your left arm to do the same thing.
 There is a yoga pose that can help you stretch out and strengthen your wrists. The gorilla pose is a deep forward bend ending with your hands palm-up under the soles of your feet.Stand with your feet about hip-width apart. Fold forward from your hips, bending your knees as much as you need to so you can place your hands firmly on the ground.
Bend your wrists inward so that the backs of your hands are resting on the ground and your hands are palm up. Lift your toes and slide your hands under your feet. Your fingers should be pointing toward your heels.
As you breathe deeply, massage your wrist creases with your toes. Stay in this position for as long as 20 breaths before returning to stand.
 The muscles and tendons in your hands and forearms move your wrists and the joints in your fingers. Regularly doing range-of-motion exercises can help prevent wrist pain during push-ups. Do these exercises with one wrist at a time, making sure you switch and do the other.Use a rolled-up towel on the edge of a table for cushioning, and lay your forearm across the table so that your hand is hanging just off the edge. Slowly move your hand upward until you feel a stretch, hold the stretch for 5 to 10 seconds, then release to your starting position. Do 10 repetitions of this exercise, then turn your arm over so that your palm is facing up and do another 10 repetitions of the same exercise.
You can work on your wrist's supination and pronation by standing or sitting with your elbow bent at a 90-degree angle, so your palm is facing the ground. Rotate your forearm to turn your palm face-up, hold for 5 to 10 seconds, then rotate it back down. Do 10 repetitions of this exercise.
Ulnar and radial deviation is the sideways movement of your wrist. Using the rolled-up towel on the edge of a table again, rest your forearm across the table with your hand on its side, as though you are about to shake hands with someone. Move the hand up until you feel a stretch, hold it for 5 to 10 seconds, then lower it to the center. Then move your hand down until you feel a stretch. Hold that stretch also for 5 to 10 seconds before raising to center. That's one repetition. You should do 10 repetitions with each wrist.
 Doing strengthening exercises for the muscles and tendons in your hands and fingers allows them to support more of your body weight when you are in push-up position, putting less pressure on your wrists.Holding your hand up in front of you with fingers spread and your thumb pointed outward, move your thumb slowly across your palm. Hold for 5 to 10 seconds, then release back to the starting point. Do 10 repetitions of this exercise to work on your thumb's flexion and extension.
Hold one hand out and extend the fingers straight out, as though you are signing for someone to stop. Make a hook fist, holding it for 5 to 10 seconds, then return to a straight hand. Make a full fist, hold it for 5 to 10 seconds, then return to a straight hand. Finally, make a straight fist (the same as a full fist, except that your fingers are flat over your palm rather than curled in), hold it for 5 to 10 seconds, then return to a straight hand. Do 10 repetitions of the full set of exercises, then repeat with the other hand.

