 If the scratch has penetrated all the layers of paint down to bare metal, it’s important to add a layer of primer. The primer will prevent rust from developing beneath the surface of the paint, as well as providing a good surface to apply the touch up paint to.Use a small brush to apply a thin layer of primer to any exposed paint.
Be sure to apply the primer to any metal you sanded rust off of.
 Allow the primer to dry completely. Then, take your automotive paint and apply a layer of it over the area you painted with primer. If the scratch is fairly small, try dabbing the paint onto the scratch and allowing it to spread and settle on its own.Dabbing the paint often yields the flattest finished product. A toothpick may work for thinner scratches.
Most automotive touch up paints will not require multiple layers.
 Once the primer and the touch up paint have both dried, you may want to add a layer of clear coat. Because most clear coat comes in a spray can, it’s important that you take steps to prevent over-spray, or accidentally applying clear coat to areas you didn’t intend to. To prevent this, cut a hole through a piece of cardboard and hold it between the can of clear coat and the scratch, then use the cardboard to help direct the flow of the clear coat spray.Unlike a nozzle, the hole in the cardboard will allow the clear coat to mist onto the surface of the paint, rather than striking it as a jet and dripping.
Immediately dab up any dripping clear coat with a clean rag.
 Ensure the clear coat is completely dry, then apply some polishing compound to the area. Use a polishing wheel to polish the paint with the compound, in order to ensure it appears uniform with the rest of the car’s body.The rubbing compound will remove any small gaps in the paint and create a more professional finish.
Stop polishing the area when the shiny paint is revealed by the polishing wheel.
 Rinse the car, then use a bucket of water mixed with automotive soap to wash the entire car. Once done, rinse and dry it, and apply a layer of automotive wax to the entire vehicle so there is a uniform shine to all of the paint.The polishing process can remove some of the protective clear coat over your paint, so applying wax adds a layer of protection for your paint.

