 A big change in behavior is one warning sign that someone may be considering suicide. Paying attention to how the person is acting can help you prevent their suicide.Sometimes people start acting reckless when they are considering suicide. For example, if your dad starts riding his motorcycle without a helmet, he may be considering suicide.
Look for signs like giving away possessions that they really care about. For example, if your cousin gives you her favorite necklace for no reason, she might be suicidal.
Pay attention if they don’t seem interested in things they usually enjoy. For instance, if your aunt loves swimming, but suddenly stopped going for no reason, this might be a warning sign for suicide.;
, There are several phrases and comments your family member may say that are a warning sign that they are considering suicide. You can help your suicidal family member by listening for signs of hopelessness or giving up.If your family member says things like, "I don’t have anything to live for" or "I'm just so tired of life" it is probably a sign they’re considering suicide.
Listen for phrases that suggest your family member feels like the world would be better without them.
For example, "Everyone is better off without me" or "It’ll be better if I’m just not here.”
Notice if they say no one gets them or cares about them. For instance, comments like "No one cares or understands me" or "You don’t get me."

, You can help a suicidal family member if you notice when they seem to be having lots of feelings that may indicate a suicide risk.Being aware of their feelings of depression, hopelessness, extreme frustration, and exhaustion can help you help your family member.


For example, your brother used to be pretty calm and laid-back. Now he is grumpy, sensitive, and sad all the time. It might be a warning sign for suicide.
You can ask how your family member is feeling by saying, “How have you been feeling lately? Have you been depressed or upset a lot?”
If they mention having feelings of guilt, failure, hopelessness, depression, or anxiety, you should pay attention.
Some people are more peaceful and less agitated when they are considering suicide because they think they’ve found a solution to their problems.

