 Nothing is worse than a hot, stuffy room when you have hot flashes. To keep your work area cool, set up a fan on your desk that will circulate cool air around your work station. You may also place a standing fan in your work area to better circulate air.Another option is to move to a desk by the window so you can open it up and let in fresh air when you have a hot flash at work. Make sure the window has a shade so the sunlight doesn’t heat up your work area.
 Stress can be a trigger for hot flashes. To stay relaxed and calm at work, get in the habit of doing deep breathing exercises and meditation. You may do deep breathing exercises at the start or at the midpoint of your day in your work area to relax. You can also do a five minute meditation where you close your eyes, relax in a comfortable seated position, and do deep breathing. This can help you manage stress and avoid triggering a hot flash.Deep breathing can also be a good way to regulate your body temperature when you do have a hot flash. You may take deep inhales and exhales when you feel a hot flash coming on.
You can also take up a yoga class before or after work to help you destress and stay calm.
 Smoking can trigger hot flashes. If you smoke, try to cut down on the number of cigarettes you have a day or try to quit. You may try chewing on nicotine gum or using nicotine patches to help you quit smoking., Though you may find hot flashes uncomfortable, try not to be too embarrassed by them in a work setting. You may try simply telling a coworker, "I'm having hot flashes, happens sometimes." Or you may work through the hot flashes and say nothing to your coworkers. Having hot flashes is a completely natural process and you should not feel embarrassed or ashamed for having them.


Keep in mind there is likely someone else in your office who is experiencing hot flashes and you are likely not alone in feeling your symptoms. You may chat with that person and trade experiences so you do not feel so alone with your condition at work.

