 Your box should fit your item(s) well. It shouldn't be too large, but there should be space for padding on all sides of the item(s). For padding, you might use newspaper, packing peanuts, bubble wrap, and so on.


If you don't have a box, you might be able to salvage one for free from you workplace. Ask your manager if you can take a used box home. Be sure previous addresses are blacked out.
Free Priority shipping boxes can be acquired at your local post office. Simply ask the attendant for some free priority boxes.;
, If you take your box to the post office, they'll calculate the cost for you. To do this at home, use a tape measure to find the length, width, and height of the box. Then weigh it on a scale. After that:


Navigate to the USPS homepage in your web browser. Click on the "Calculate Postage" link and input your package information to determine its cost.
Select the services you want from the pages following the postage calculator. Some examples of services include next day shipping or package insurance, which cost extra., After you've input your package information and selected services, you should reach a screen asking you to confirm the information. Double check the recipient's address and the return address. Then pay for the postage with a credit or debit card.
 Once you've paid for shipping, you'll be able to print out your shipping label.Tape this firmly in place on a clearly visible part of the package. When taping, be sure to avoid the bar codes on the label. Tape could affect the bar code reader and delay your package.
 Packing tape is preferred for sealing your box, but other durable tape, like duct tape, will work in a pinch. Tape the flaps of your box closed so it is firmly fastened shut. If the tape feels loose, use another layer (or a few layers) to reinforce it.


For recycled boxes being used again, you might want some additional stability. Tape all edges and seams of the box with tape to prevent it from falling apart or spilling open in transit.
 Go to the post office home page. You should find a link that says something similar to, "Schedule a Pickup." Select this, and follow the directions to choose a time for your package to be picked up.Although the USPS offers free pickup, many private shipping providers do not. Be wary of these additional expenses, as they can significantly increase the shipping cost.
Generally, you will choose a location for pickup when scheduling. Some examples of locations include in/at your mailbox, or at your front/back door. You can also typically leave instructions to knock on the door/ring the bell, and so on.