 Make sure you can laugh and talk freely during your date. For example, go on a walk to get coffee, or go to a theme park.


Activities can give you something to talk about, if there is a lull in your conversation.
If you feel comfortable, you are more likely to speak and act confidently. Confidence is attractive to guys.
 Make sure there is nothing stressful going on in your life that will distract you during your date.


Set up a date at a time when you don’t have anything else going. For example, if you are worried about a test you are taking soon, schedule your date after your test.
Put your phone in your purse, and do not look at it during your date.
 Drinking will lower your inhibitions, and it may lead you to say and do things you will regret later.


Before you go on your date, think about whether you want to drink on your date. If you decide you do want to drink, consider how many drinks you want to have, and stick to that number.
One alcoholic drink an hour can help you loosen up. However, if you drink more than one drink an hour, the alcohol will get stored in your blood and tissues, and the accumulation will have a more obvious and lasting effect on you. Some guys claim that a girl that is too drunk is cute. However, if you don’t know the guy well, it will be hard to tell whether they or not they will be uncomfortable with you drinking a lot. Additionally, if you are still getting to know a guy, stay safe and do not put yourself at risk of being taken advantage of by getting overly intoxicated.
 Having a sense of humor is attractive! Be light hearted and laugh at his jokes, and make jokes yourself. Find out what kind of sense of humor he has, and you can start interacting with him playfully. For example, you can start a play fight or pretend to be offended by something he says.


Humor is great tool to use when you are getting to know guys. It will help you get through the awkwardness and get to know their quirky side.
Watch funny movies together, and make fun of one another. Releasing endorphins by laughing will help to relieve stress on a date and help have you have a good time.
 Even in the “getting to know” you stage, you should not be afraid to be honest and disagree in conversation.


Always stay respectful when you disagree, but tell him if you think differently about a topic you are discussing.
Sometimes people will be more attracted to people who are bold and disagree with them. , You are a dynamic individual whose interests and personality will mostly likely not perfectly match the guys you are attracted to. This can be a good thing! Getting to know each other can be spicy and more entertaining if you are very different people.


Resist pretending to love everything he loves. For example, if he loves watching television and you are bored by television, you should tell him that. You don't want to lie about what you like and then have to watch hours of Family Guy with him.
Continue to invest and pursue the hobbies you have. Go to yoga, keep cooking, take archery lessons. Whatever it is you do, keep attending to your hobbies and talk about them with guys! Guys are attracted to girls who are passionate about their interests.

