 If you look at music and the different categories of music such alternative rock, blues, Christian, classical, country, gospel, heavy rock, hip, jazz, hop, heavy metal, pop, reggae, rap, rock, and on list just keeps on going, you will find out that music expresses the human imagination.


However, what you imagine yourself to be or what you image what you want to become is important. The issue to consider about inspiration is does the music you listen to inspire you to do great things in life or does it do the opposite and make you reflect on greed, pride, envy, lust, or gluttony? If it makes you reflect on the negative qualities of life, the question you should be asking yourself, is why are you listening to it?
The more you listen to music that has the negative qualities, the more likely you will not be inspired about life. The result is that you are unhappy and take the things you have for granted. If you listen to positive music that inspires you, it makes you reflect on the good qualities that you have within yourself and it helps you to not only strive better in life but to be happy and satisfied with what you have in life.;
, If you do in fact find such content quickly remove it and prevent the child from listening to it.


You have to remember that children brains are not fully developed yet, and they are not aware of the influences that music plays on their character development. Character development includes being able to learn and grow as an emotional, spiritual, and intellectual being. Music is so powerful because it influences our character development and the main purpose of music is to inspire us to do great things in life.

However, it can also have the opposite affect on us and influence us to take things for granted and want more materialistic things out of life; none of which will never completely satisfy us because we are not simply happy with the things that we do have.
 A simple act of kindness can bring out the best in people. All of us at heart want to be loved and respected and by helping out someone it shows these qualities. When we help out another person without asking for nothing in return, we are instilling and enforcing the good qualities within ourselves and we become more grateful for the things that we already have.
 Today it is tougher for the younger generation and the generation that are yet to come. The reason that it is so hard to grow up for them is because more negative things are happening around the world: the terrorist attacks, the sniper shootings, the ongoing wars around the world, etc. It is during these times that people need to become remodels not just for children but for others and to inspire others to do what is right rather than what is wrong.


It can be a simple act of volunteering at a local community event and encouraging others to go. This can prevent children from becoming involved with future criminal activity and inspire them to want to help others in the community. Whether you realize or not your actions do speak louder than words because people actually do observe your actions and take after your habits into their personality subconsciously.
 Thomas Jefferson before he would go to bed would read a book that would inspire him. The books that inspired him the most were books that had some moral story or a moral dilemma in them.


How often do you to read a book that has a moral issue or discuss the merits of having good morals and how they impact your character as a person? If you need inspiration try to read a book on moral values and question what is right and wrong.
 Education is fundamental for growth. The question is who decides if it is the right education or not? You as a citizen have the right to decide what you choose to embrace. This includes what you want to learn about. But knowledge can lead us to do the right thing or the wrong thing.


However, sometimes we do make the wrong choices in life but it is up to us to take responsibility for our actions and to live up to them. For where there is evil in the world, there is also good which is very much alive.
To all the women in the world this wisdom is for you; you do not need to show us how beautiful you are. You already are beautiful just as you are and you can show us your beauty by letting us feel your beautiful presence. To all the the men in the world, I say let the man make the money and do not let the impulses of greed dilute your prospective of life for money does not make a man."


, What exactly holds everything in the universe together? If your answer to this question is that it is atoms, you are absolutely right. But then, what holds the sub particles of the atoms together? Are you stomped that’s alright?


The reason that these tough questions were asked is because it makes you think about what holds everything in the universe together and this is a good thing. There has to be something in the universe that holds everything together including the atoms, the sub particles and everything else, but what is it exactly? You can ponder about that question because it is not my place to say but to make you think.
If you do think that there is a greater power beyond the universe, would this higher power be showed to us in everyday life like though the simple acts of breathing, consuming food, gazing at the stars at night and the list just goes on. The point is with all of our knowledge in the universe we only know and understand about ten percent of it; everything in the universe is different and unique in some way or another and yet these things still manage to work together.

Everything in the universe has a unique and special place and is given a position that will help to support the other things together in the universe to serve for a greater purpose; this purpose is one that we not yet understand exactly but it is a purpose that is filled with being able to rebuild, and renew all life out of love, empathy and compassion which is what truly binds everything together. To find your life purpose you need to examine your values and do what you believe is right but you as an individual must reflect and bring out the good human qualities within yourself.



