 If your teen obsesses about food, healthy eating, and excessive exercise, they may have an unhealthy fixation on body image. This does not necessarily mean your teen has an eating disorder, but it does suggest a possible risk of developing an eating disorder in the future.If your teen complains about being fat or worries about being overweight, they may have body image issues.
Teens frequently check themselves in the mirror before going out. However, if your teen obsesses over the way they look, even when they're just staying at home, there may be some developing body image issues to look out for.
Notice whether your teen talks about their eating habits. Expressions of frustration or shame may be disguised as sarcasm - for example, frequently saying things like, "Wow, I eat like a total slob. It must be disgusting to watch me eat.";
, Irregular or inconsistent eating habits are a common sign of a developing eating disorder.Some teens may claim they've already eaten, or they might take their food to their room claiming that they'll eat alone. Other teens may skip meals altogether, claiming that they're not hungry or making excuses for a lack of appetite.Note that patterns and repetition are key here. Teens may have fluctuating appetites depending on their metabolism and activity levels, so if your teen skips a meal once it doesn't necessarily mean there's a problem.
 Teens with certain types of eating disorders like bulimia tend to purge after eating a meal. This may involve inducing vomiting or inducing a bowel movement.If your teen consistently goes to the bathroom during or immediately after eating, it may be a sign that your teen is purging themself of food.
Some teens may take dietary supplements or laxatives to purge food or regulate the appetite. Be on the lookout for any frequent medicine or supplement use, or frequent trips to the bathroom.
 Teens with eating disorders are often very preoccupied with food. They may eat very small portions, or they may follow strict self-imposed habits while eating. These may include cutting food into tiny pieces, chewing a single bite for extremely long periods of time, generally eating too slowly, or following fad diets.Teens with eating disorders may stick to eating the same foods most of the time.
 While social pressure can influence the development of an eating disorder, some teens are more predisposed towards this illness than others. Think about your family history, especially your teen's mental health history, and assess whether they are at an elevated risk of developing an eating disorder.Keep in mind that while boys and girls can develop an eating disorder, they are more common in girls.
Teens with a family history of anxiety, depression, or addiction are more likely to have a biological predisposition towards eating disorders.
Obsessive-compulsive tendencies, as well as an inclination towards perfectionism, can suggest a possible risk of developing an eating disorder.
If your teen has a close relative who's had an eating disorder, this may increase their chances of developing one as well.
 Teens who struggle with an eating disorder are likely to exhibit noticeable fluctuations in weight, which may include both losing and gaining weight. A teen experiencing weight fluctuations may dress in layers or wear unusually baggy clothes. This may be done to cover up the recent weight loss, or to keep warm if the adolescent does not have sufficient body fat. Teens with an eating disorder may also feel that no amount of weight loss is ever "enough.", Anorexia nervosa is essentially self-starvation.Teens with anorexia may severely limit the overall amount of food they eat, or they may cut out certain food groups, like carbohydrates or fats.


You may notice your teen has dry, yellowish, or pale skin, and brittle hair and nails. They may also have a growth of soft hair, like peach fuzz, on their body.
Constipation, abdominal pain, and either a lack or a surplus of energy at any given time are all physical symptoms of anorexia.They may complain of being cold, dizzy, or tired frequently.
Teen girls who have started menstruating may start to miss periods or have them irregularly if they have developed anorexia.
Food rituals are most common among teens with anorexia. They may eat foods in a certain order or manner, or refuse to eat entire categories of food altogether.
 Binge eating (consuming large amounts of food in a short period of time) and purging (voiding the body) are the two biggest signs of bulimia. Purging may be performed through induced vomiting or induced bowel movements.They may complain of stomach aches, heartburn, or a sore throat.
Teens who have developed bulimia may develop cuts or calluses on their hands and knuckles from sticking their hands down their throat to induce vomiting.
Someone with bulimia may also use excessive mints, gum, or mouthwash to cover the smell of vomit.
A teen who has bulimia may have discolored teeth, cavities, dry skin, and swelling in certain parts of the body. They may also have thinning or brittle hair., Binge eating is the consumption of abnormally large quantities of food in a relatively short period of time. Binge eating may be accompanied by purging in teens who have developed bulimia nervosa. However, some teens may suffer from binge eating disorder, which involves overeating without purging.Look for hidden food wrappers and hoarded "stashes" of food as a clear sign of binge eating.
Teens often have fluctuating appetites, but someone who binge eats may eat without any control, even past the point of feeling full.
Look for weight fluctuations, including mild to severe obesity.
 If you're concerned your teen may have an eating disorder, the first step is talking to your teen about your concerns. This requires a good deal of tact, since teens may quickly get defensive or even aggressive if confronted about an eating disorder.Let your teen know about any concerning behavior you've seen or heard.
Use "I" statements and avoid direct accusations. For example, instead of saying, "You have an eating disorder," say something like, "I've noticed that your eating habits have been a little different, and I'm getting concerned. Can you tell me what's up?"
You may need to approach your teen several times before you get an honest answer. It's not uncommon for teens to lie about not having an eating disorder and insist that everything is fine.
 The first step towards helping your teen is to educate yourself on eating disorders and how to treat them. The National Eating Disorders Association has a hotline where parents and teens can reach out to get help. They can be reached in the United States by calling (800) 931-2237., Many teens struggling with eating disorder need professional treatment. Find a therapist who specializes in eating disorders and/or obsessive-compulsive thinking.Your teen's doctor can identify and manage the physical complications of an eating disorder and help guide you to other resources, therapists, or specialists.
Find a therapist by searching online, checking your local phone book, or asking your teen's doctor for a recommendation.
In addition to counseling, you may also want to schedule a nutritionist appointment.
A nutritionist can work with your teen to make healthy choices and figure out a nutritious diet that will manage weight fluctuations without sacrificing sustenance., Some teens develop negative attitudes towards certain types of food due to environmental cues. If you're worried about your adolescent developing an eating disorder, try to be more conscious about the way you talk about food and fitness around your teen.Don't refer to some foods as "good" and others as "bad," as this can set your teen up for feelings of guilt. Never use food as a bribe, reward, or punishment.
Don't force teens to eat everything on their plate if they are full, but make sure they've eaten enough food to sustain their growing bodies.
Focus on healthy eating and healthy exercise habits. Encourage sports and regular exercise without letting your teen become obsessive with their workout habits.
 Many teens with eating disorders have a distorted image of their own body. It's normal for teens to feel a little insecure in their growing, changing bodies, but it's important to reinforce a positive body image and a strong sense of self-esteem.Never tease your teens about their appearance.
Be critical about the way advertisements and media depict "attractive" bodies.
Display a respectful acceptance of all body types, including your own. If you are critical of your own body, your teen may engage in similar behaviors.
Help your teen develop healthy, effective coping strategies, like managing stress and talking about your problems with others.

