 Women are often taught to be “nurturers,” and women who communicate assertively may be seen as “shrill,” “angry” or “pushy.”However, learning to communicate your needs and ideas in an assertive way will help you feel stronger and more confident. Here are some ways to communicate assertively:Use “I”-focused statements to convey your reactions and feelings. For example, “I don’t like it when you forget to take the trash out. It makes me feel as though you are not sharing the household responsibilities with me.”
Give constructive criticism without judging. For example, “I feel frustrated when you rush me to get ready. It makes me feel anxious and it’s harder for me to enjoy our time out. I would like you to stay out of our room while I get ready.”
Use co-operative phrases, such as “What are your thoughts on this?” or “What would you do?”
Make clear statements of wants and needs. For example, “I want to take a dance class” is clear, whereas “I kind of think it would be nice if we took a dance class” is unclear.
Speak in a clear, calm voice. Don’t shout or murmur. Keep your tone relaxed and steady.
Don’t use avoidance or distraction techniques such as sarcasm, fake humor, or self-deprecation. These will make it harder for others to know when you are being serious and when you’re “joking.”

, It can sometimes be hard to feel as though others take you seriously. While you cannot change others’ beliefs, and some people will remain stubbornly prejudiced against women, you can alter how you present yourself to communicate strength and confidence.Claim your space. You don’t have to take more than you need, but women may subconsciously make themselves smaller by tucking their feet under their chairs, folding their hands in their laps, or crossing their legs or ankles. Studies have shown that these timid body postures can actually make you feel more anxious and unconfident.Claim your space by planting your feet firmly on the floor while sitting. Stand with your feet shoulder width apart. Lean back in your chair or use your armrests.Stand with your shoulders back and your chest out. Slouching can communicate weakness or timidity.
Keep your arms uncrossed. Crossed arms indicate that you’re closed off to communicating, or that you’re trying to defend yourself.
Make eye contact. Aim for maintaining eye contact at least 50% of the time while speaking, and at least 70% of the time while listening.Use relaxed, smooth gestures. Avoid pointing; use an open palm to gesture instead.
Don’t shift your weight back and forth. Distribute your weight evenly.
 Research has shown that women who behave assertively may face backlash due to social prejudices. However, this research also suggests that women who behave assertively in support of others are more likely to be viewed positively.Frame your assertiveness as benefitting the team, rather than only yourself, and you may find that more people listen to you.


This may be because advocacy for others conforms to the stereotypical gender norm that women are “nurturers” or “helpers.” It’s important to recognize that this norm isn’t universally true, but it is commonly accepted. Sometimes, you have to work within a limiting framework while you work to change it.
For example, you could frame your request for a larger office this way: “We’re working on that big project, and I could really use a bigger office to accommodate the extra files and team members. If I had the corner office to work in, we’d have an easier time making headway on this project.”

, Research has demonstrated that society tends to confound gender and status so thoroughly that, if status isn’t “externally conferred” or confirmed by others, people will assume women to automatically have lower status than men who are in the same position. However, supporting and speaking up for other women in your workplace can help confirm their status and improve how others treat them.For example, imagine that you have a position in upper management, and you have two assistant managers beneath you: one male and one female. If someone interacting with your assistant managers makes the mistake of assuming that the male AM is higher up than the female AM, gently correct the mistake: “Actually, Juanita is the same rank as Joseph. She can easily help you with what you need.”

, Research has shown that women are more able to act assertively, make requests, and seek resources when those resources are plentiful. In times when business is good, the restrictions on normative gender behavior may loosen a little.For example, asking for a raise right after your company has posted a quarterly loss isn’t likely to be effective for anyone, but particularly for women. However, if your company just closed a big deal or landed a big client, it could be just the right time for you to make your request.
Several studies have shown that women who can be more flexible or more assertive, depending on the situation, get more promotions than either men or other women., Women may be taught to diminish the value of their efforts. Women are often told that they should be “humble” and reject compliments and statements of praise.Learning to accept praise when it’s given can help you realize the value of your efforts.For example, if your boss tells you you did a great job on your presentation, don’t feel compelled to say something like, “Oh, it was nothing, really.” Instead, take credit for your real accomplishment, and acknowledge others if appropriate: “Thank you! I put some long hours in to prepare for it and I’m glad it went well. I had some great help from Shao, too.”
This is very different from accepting sexual harassment masked as a “compliment.” You are under no obligation to acknowledge or appreciate cat-calling, unsolicited comments on your appearance, or any other statements that may be presented as “compliments.”

, Many couples have dual breadwinners, but the strong gendered norms in most societies mean that women are still considered to hold primary responsibility for household duties, such as getting kids to school, caring for the house, cooking meals, etc. Studies suggest that women in heterosexual couples carry out 67 percent of household duties and cook up to 91 percent of weekday dinners.If you’re in this situation, attain a better balance by asking your partner for his/her help.Research has shown that couples who create a system to share responsibility for household duties are significantly happier overall than couples who don’t.Approach duty-sharing as collaboration, rather than blaming or guilting. For example, sit down with your partner and discuss what duties each of you is best equipped to handle. Decide together on a schedule or rotation. This will help keep one of you from feeling like the other’s constant reminder or caretaker.Standing up for your needs is important; you will not be able to care for others if you don’t first care for yourself.

