 Most commercial headsets will do, but try to pick a pair that doesn't let sound bleed out of the speakers too badly.  This can cause audio doubling, which is a severe annoyance. If you can, pick one with a good, quality microphone.

Don't get cheated when you buy.  Buy online where it is far cheaper to shop for electronics.  There are plenty of budget headsets for people on a tight dime that are very high quality.;
, Try to pick a nice, quiet place to play, where background audio won't be picked up by the microphone.  Total elimination of background noise is impossible, but it should be reduced wherever possible.

Make sure the cords of your headset are unobstructed.  You don't want your headset to be unplugged mid-chat.
If you must have music, please don't play it from a device in the background.  Play it on your computer.  Nobody wants to hear music filtered through your microphone.


Do a quick microphone check.  The settings menu of your computer should be able to tell you how much sound your microphone is picking up.
On a Windows computer, type 'Manage Audio Devices' into the search bar, and you'll find it.
You may have to enable voice chat in the game.  This will usually be found in the settings or options menu.
If the game has its own mic check, give it a quick try to see how you sound to other players.
If you think you sound good, go right on ahead.
 Humans are possessed of a competitive spirit, but that's no excuse to fly off the handle.  Watch your language when talking to the people around you.

A rule of thumb for etiquette over the headset is this: if you wouldn't say it to their face, don't say it over a headset. Specifically, refrain from racial, ethnic, or homophobic slurs.
  This depends a lot on the game. If you're playing a T-Rated game, there might be sensitive ears playing. For an M-Rated game, you have more leeway.

If you do swear, though, do not do so excessively.  Nobody wants to play with the man who's screaming his face red and uses the F-word before every noun, subject, and verb. Refrain from racial, ethnic, or homophobic slurs.
  If you're playing on a headset and chatting, chances are that other people are as well.

Please do not scream, scream, or sing. Nobody wants to hear it. Seriously, nobody has ever said "I'm glad he started singing.  Our game was really improved by that guy who stumbled through 'Freebird'."

, Great and speak to your teammates politely.

Do not heckle your teammates, nor pester them with repeated requests.
Do not romantically solicit your teammates.  Just no.
Contribute to the team.  Let them know when there's a less obvious threat on the playing field.
 Don't be overtly malicious.  Trash talk is all well and good, but don't let it go too far. Don't threaten your opponents with verbal, physical, or any form of assault, and don't threaten their families.

Be a graceful winner.  Congratulate them on a well-played game, and be on your way.
Be a graceful loser.  A quick 'Good Game' goes a long way.

