 Even if you don’t want to devote a lot of time to reading the newspaper or watching the news, you should skim headlines and stay informed about what is happening in the world. This can help you avoid making mistakes with your social media posts. You don’t want to post an innocent post that may be seen as offensive or insensitive because you didn’t know something big was happening.For example, if something tragic happens, you don’t want to post on social media complaining about something small, or celebrating something that happened.
Knowing what tragedies have occurred may help you avoid sharing links that may be considered offensive right after a tragedy. If a plane crashes, you may not want to share travel links, or if there was a huge car accident, you don’t want to post about which new car to buy.
 After a tragedy, you may want to go through your most recent posts and decide if any of them are offensive. You didn’t have any knowledge of the tragedy when you posted it, but if someone reads your social media posts now, they may not realize that and be hurt or offended.For example, if you posted a link about a violent movie or video game a day ago, you may want to take it down if a violent tragedy happens.
 Instead of just posting your thoughts or reactions, you may want to respond to the tragedy in a way that can help. You can share links and retweet posts about raising money and seeking volunteers for aid, or about helplines or organizations that are providing services at the site of the tragedy.For example, you may share a post about the Red Cross looking for blood donors, a church raising money to help families affected by the tragedy, or a humanitarian organization looking for volunteers to help with cleanup efforts.
 If you feel you need to post about the tragedy, then limit the amount of posts. You don’t want to flood your followers’ feed with an incessant stream of posts about the tragedy. Instead, post one update and share perhaps one or two links to articles.Posting too many updates can make yourself sound insincere or upset your followers. Try to use proper posting etiquette and don’t over post about the tragedy.
 You may want to share videos, images, or other graphic content with followers. However, this content may not be suitable for everyone, and some people may find it upsetting or offensive. When posting this content, make sure to place warnings on them or place them behind a cut so people will have to click on the link to see the content.


For example, if you want to show the video of someone getting murdered by a cop or footage from an explosion, this may be upsetting for some people. You should post it if you feel strongly about sharing the images, but warn others who may be triggered by the images.
Explain why you want to share these images. For example, you may say, "This video shows what really happened instead of what the media may want you to believe" or "I feel the impact of this tragedy becomes much more significant when you see for yourself what happened."

