 Toronto's subway system is complex and requires a sharp mind and some skill.


By observing the map above you, you'll see that there are four categories of subway lines.

The Yellow line is called the: 'Yonge-University line'.
The green line is called the: 'Bloor-Danforth' line.
The blue line is called the 'Scarborough RT' line. Keep in mind that the Scarborough line does not use subway trains but ICTS Mark I trains.
The purple line is called the 'Sheppard' line.


When you're on the platform at a subway station, know where is north, south, east and west. You can simply determine this by looking up at the large map above you. This large sign will display the station you are at in a large-easily to read font, a copy of Toronto's subway map, and whichever way the train you are waiting for. Example: Don Mills Station - (Toronto Subway Map) - Line category on top and direction of travel (ex.Westbound to Leslie).;
, 'DWA' stands for Designated Waiting Area. The DWA is the standard spot for riders to catch the next train. On the edge of the platform is a yellow line. Riders are prohibited from passing the yellow line as it is dangerous.
 Some routes within the TTC system have different variations. For example: 100 Flemingdon Park and 100A Flemingdon Park. This means that taking the 100A would take you to an unintended place as opposed to taking the 100 which supposedly would take you to the place you intended to go.
 Emergencies such as assaults, vandalism, and accidents can occur on public transit. Don't hesitate to press the alarm (there are many alarm buttons on subway trains and subway platforms). At subway stations, security guards, called Special Constables are on guard, ready to serve, protect and inform riders. Interact with Special Constables, they're very friendly and they are knowledgeable.
 The Toronto Transit Commission relies on its riders to generate its transit system. So paying the appropriate fare is the right thing to do. For a list of fares according to age, go onto http://ttc.ca. On their home page, you will find info regarding this. You also can purchase a metropass is you're a frequent user or a Student Discount Card. All that information is posted on the TTC's website. Understand that refusing to pay the appropriate fare will result in being fined by a TTC special constable and you may be subject to court.
 The Blue night network is the overnight transit service provided by the TTC. This network consist of 22 routes and two streetcar routes, distributed so that almost all of the city is within 2 kilometers (1.2 mi) of at least one route. During the Blue Night service, The route may change if the route is part of the Blue Night network. For example, the 25 Don Mills route will be changed to: '303 Don Mills' during Blue Night hours.


Also note that during the Blue Night Network, you can request the bus operator to drop you off on front of your home rather than the closest bus stop if you feel vulnerable walking alone out at night.
 The Toronto Transit Commission provides bike racks on all buses for riders who want to take public transit using their bikes. When the bus approaches and stops at the bus stop, inform the driver you want to load your bike onto the rack (if you need assistance with this, inform the driver, he'll/she'll be happy to help). Once done loading the bike onto the rack, hop onto the bus, pay the fare and wait until your stop. When you've arrived at your stop, inform the driver that you'll be unloading your bike from the rack. Unload it and carry on with your day. For a better visual, tend to this video provided by the Toronto Transit Commission at the bottom of the page.
 As some should know, there are many crazy drivers in the city of Toronto. Look both ways before exiting a streetcar. After all, streetcars don't pull up safely to the curb like buses.
 You can download this in Apple's App Store, Android's Google Play store. This app is free and works. All you need to do is enter the route you are going to board and what stop you are at ( determined by nearest intersection of the stop you're at).

