 It's important to go into a game well versed in the ways of your opponent. Dating history, likes, dislikes, or even just a basic knowledge of what they're like will help you gain the upper hand.;
, Because your initial objective is to become romantically involved with this lucky person, you want to make sure that your strategy is corresponding with theirs.
 If they are initially very open and forthcoming, then there is no cause for the hardcore style of dating games. Match their degree of openness. Being similar in this style will lead to more cooperative efforts. You'll know in this step of the game if this interest is something you want to continue to pursue.
 Again, ensuring that you are keeping pace with their dating style, flirt and encourage their attentions in whatever ways would be most effective for them. (More in tips.)

, This step may be hard to do, so at the very least pretend detachment. This step isn't meant to make you play hard to get. In fact, it allows you a little bit of room to make strategic moves that you otherwise couldn't if you let yourself fall too hard too fast.
 The trick to making someone like you is to convince them that when they're around you they're happier! So, when you get the chance to spend some time with them, use it wisely. Titillate each of their five senses to create that sense of happiness when you're around.
 By challenging them,you're accomplishing two extremely important points in a dating game. You are foremost arousing their passions by challenging them. They feel excited and worked up, which is good when you're wanting to play with their minds. You're also providing the segue way for the next step!

, Essential. Repeat. Essential. This can be accomplished by challenging them, speaking up about your feelings, or anything else that tells them that it's their turn to make the next move. What fun is a game of cards if you're the only one playing?

, Predictability is when the games end and when the winners are chosen, so when they begin to predict or corner you in a game, throw them a curve ball. This is not to say start listening to rock if you hate rock, but do something out of the norm for you. If you never call him until he calls you, make the first move. Spicing things up will ensure you the upper hand.
 Remember that in the end, these are just games people use to test the waters and get a feel for the other person. Things could be very different when a solid relationship is built, so it's important to continue to be yourself and honest throughout the whole game process. Just because you're playing doesn't mean you have to fake it.

