 Like you, your pet needs to eat regularly, so make sure he gets his meals on schedule. Make sure you know what kind of food your pet should get, how much of it, and when he should be fed.You should only feed him proper pet food, so no table scraps or treats.
Don’t forget to make sure your pet also has a supply of clean water. If the dish still has water in it, but it looks dirty, rinse it out and refill it.
This is a good thing to talk about with your whole family, so everyone knows who is supposed to feed your pets and when. You don’t want to overfeed or underfeed him.
 If your pet lives in a cage or tank, make sure you clean it regularly. Replace newspaper in the bottom of bird, rodent, and reptile cages, change the bulbs in heat lamps for reptiles, and clean out the water in fish tanks so that your pet has a comfortable place to live.If you have a place for your pet to use the bathroom, whether in the cage or a litter box, make sure you clean that out regularly as well.
 Your pet is part of your family, and you should want to spend time with him. This is especially important for active animals like dogs, but also smaller pets like mice or hamsters.Even cats will want some time with family members, so go ahead and pet him or let him curl up with you for a nap.
Make sure you keep an eye on your pets, especially if they are smaller. You don’t want a gerbil or lizard getting loose in the house.
Be nice and friendly to your pets. If you are mean or aggressive, your pets won’t like that. They will either become more aggressive to you, which could mean biting or scratching, or they will become afraid, and not want to play with you., This is another great way to spend time with your pets for exercise, and one less chore for your parents to do. Make sure you have a leash or other equipment to keep a hold of your pet so he doesn’t run away or get into trouble.


If you have a dog, or another pet that needs to use the bathroom outside, remember to bring a bag so you can pick up his poop to throw away., If your pet has fur or hair, he’ll need a good grooming. Brush or comb him everyday to help get rid of loose or shedding hair, and give him a nice clean look.When you comb through hair, make sure to check for fleas and ticks, as well as anything else that might be stuck in your pet’s coat. If you see a tick you can try to get it off yourself, or ask your parents for help. Just make sure your parents know you found the tick, so they can call the vet if something needs to happen.
You may be able to bathe your dog or cat as well. This can be tough, as your pet may not want a bath, or enjoy splashing. Make sure your parents know you want to give yours a bath. Just don’t overdo it. Once a month for dogs, or once every few months for cats, should be enough.
For rodents and reptiles, pets that live in cages, keeping the cage clean should be enough. You don’t need to wash them.

