 For this, you must read the Owner’s Manual. Reading the 'Scheduled Maintenance Guide' can help you familiarize yourself with your car. It informs you about the time when your auto transmission car needs maintenance, according to the manufacturer. Go through the car manual thoroughly, to know about the best time and place to spend limited dollars on your car's maintenance.


Knowing the scheduled dates will help you to negotiate and budget better, as you won't be at the whim of the mechanic telling you car parts are due for maintaining, changing or updating well before the time the manufacturer recommends.;
, Always take your car to a well-known auto transmission repair shop for maintenance.


Ask your friends, family and co-workers about a shop or mechanic that they know and trust.
Search for local auto repair shops that specialize in auto car, van or pick-up truck maintenance. Being local, you'll find they're more invested in keeping a good reputation among their local community and there will be many locals who can vouch for the quality.
 Make a visit first, to see what your impression is. Make sure that the auto shop has a clean floor. Check that they use clean rags, clear away empty containers or other trash from the floor and generally looks well organized. This will indicate that the mechanics take pride in their work and maintain a well-run repairs shop.



Staff ought to be certified with Automotive Service Excellence( ASE). In case the staff is not certified, they must have some specific training regarding auto repairs; don't be afraid to ask to see it.
 If you have a list of repairs you need doing on a particular day, ask the repairs shop which services are most important, so as to make your list less long and more affordable. Do your calculations and go for the services your car requires the most. You can also consult your experienced friend for the estimate.


Before getting the service, find out a rough figure of what the usual car service charges in your area for the same service. Browse through an online search engine to find out quotes from various helpful websites. There are websites in some areas which can provide you with a list of fair price shops according to your zip code. Such websites can provide you with the information and estimates for common repairs on the car in your local area.
The best way to test an auto transmission repairs shop is to go there when your car needs an oil change and oil filter. By doing this, you can also clarify any queries which have arisen after reading your car's maintenance manual.
If you have a long list of maintenance services that your car requires, make sure that you get it done in alignment with your car's current mileage, so that the car is kept in the best condition possible according to the manufacturer's recommendations.
Choose from lowest to highest prices as per your pocket; there is no need to loiter here and there to find the perfect auto transmission servicing.
 To reach the innermost part causing a problem, sometimes the mechanic has to remove many other parts. You can save money by repairing this part before it causes further trouble. For instance, to repair a squealing drive belt, the mechanic may need to change the upper and lower radiator, hoses and water pump and thermostat, because all this has to be removed in order to reach the drive belt. If you have good negotiation skills, you can save money by negotiating on the labor charges and get the whole lot done at the same time, for less.
 Your vehicle gives you many signals when it needs a repairs. For example, sometimes the light flashes because the fuel filler cap is not properly placed. You can check this yourself by removing the fuel filler cap. See whether the gasket or rubber is in the right place or not. Now, replace the cap firmly. Now when you restart the engine and flashing light has gone, it means that the problem was with the cap; once fixed, you are good to go and potentially bigger, costlier problems have been averted.


When you start the engine, if the check-engine lights comes on, get it checked quickly. It might be normal but sometimes it means something quite serious, so there is a risk involved in driving a car without getting it checked. Engine damage is costly, so the more you delay, the costlier the end result may become.
If the check-engine light flashes on and off, get your car towed to your trusted auto transmission repair shop or bear the (costlier) damage caused by it in future. Never ignore the flashing check-engine lights.
 Some jobs are easy and can be done alone. If you can learn how to change air filters or wiper blades, you can save those dollars you would give to the mechanic for performing this little service on your vehicle. Choose the correct wiper blades or air filters for your vehicle by consulting a local parts person.
 You can order many expensive parts at affordable prices by following some particular websites that offer various deals. You can also check if shipping of these items is free or do they imply any sales tax. Compare local prices with prices on Internet, and go for a reasonable purchase. There's no harm in trying out.


Ask your repairs shop if they are happy to accept your own-purchased parts rather than using their suggested parts. Use their labor but your online shopping savvy, to save money.
 It is inevitable that over time your vehicle will end up with a few dings, dents and chips. An auto-repair shop will sand down all the dented or chipped components; alternatively, repairing and repainting the whole thing will cost you a great deal. Check for a reasonable dent repairing shop instead, one that fixes used cars, and you'll save money by getting cheap dent repairs.

