 Once the news is out, you may need to continue the conversation with your children as new decisions are made or as they slowly process the changes. Let them know that your door is open and that you will try your best to listen and answer any questions they may have., If you don't know the facts yet on your future living situation, tell them only what you know for sure. Then, say that you are still working out some of the details. Let them know that you will tell them as soon as you know.Never make assurances that you can’t stand behind, such as that they won’t have to change schools or that they will still see their friends every day.
 Tell your children's teachers, counselors, babysitters and other caregivers, the parents of their close friends, and any other adults they see regularly about your divorce plans. Your heads up will help them to understand that any significant changes in your child's behavior may be linked to your divorce.Ask these adults to keep you informed of any changes in your child’s behavior or mood.
 If your child is having trouble opening up about their feelings or struggling to deal with the changes, offer to enlist the help of a counselor. This may be the counselor at their school or a mental health professional in your community.A counselor can be a great source of comfort and advice for children who have trouble discussing their feelings with their parents—who very well may be the cause of these feelings.
 Your children are more likely to bounce back well after your split if you maintain a strong, nurturing bond with them. Despite the many adjustments you may be dealing with yourself, try to spend quality time with each child.Try to maintain certain traditions or create new traditions that help all of you spend time together, such as a Sunday evening movie night or Saturday morning pancakes.
Even if your child acts like they don’t want to spend time with you, make an attempt anyway. They may just be testing you to see how much you care.

