 Emotions can run high and even get out of control when you’re in a fight. Avoid saying things you regret by approaching the fight with a calm demeanor. You’ll be able to think and respond more rationally without overreacting. Also, people are more likely to consider your viewpoint if you’re non-defensive and calm in expressing your needs, thoughts, and feelings.If you need a moment to get calm, try taking some deep breaths from your diaphragm. Say, “I need a moment before continuing.”;
, Don’t make vague accusations or generalizations. If you have a complaint against the person, state it clearly. If possible, give an example or several examples to back it up.For example, say, “It bothers me when you interrupt me while I’m speaking. You just interrupted me and I feel like you’re not listening. Please wait for me to finish.”

, Perhaps you feel like unleashing all of your grievances at once. Fights can get out of hand if you start bringing up other things that bother you instead of staying on the topic at hand. If you notice the fight getting off course, bring it back to the original topic.Stay focused by saying, “I know that upsets you, but I want to finish talking about this before we move onto something else.”
Avoid bringing up previous wrongs in the relationship or changing the direction of the fight to make your position look better.
 A fight isn’t fair if you’re the only person talking. Make sure you’re taking time to listen to what they have to say, even if you disagree with it. Don’t interrupt them, let them speak. Try your best to understand why they feel the way they do without trying to prove them wrong.Ask questions about things you’re unclear about or don’t understand.
Say, “I know we disagree, but I want to understand where you’re coming from. Tell me what’s going on for you.”

, Fights can quickly escalate when blaming is involved. It’s easy to blame someone else for the fight or when you feel upset. However, blame only increasing the tension and conflict.Stay away from polarized statements like, “You always forget your phone” or, “You never clean up.”
To express yourself without casting blame, try using “I” statements. Keep the focus on how you feel instead of what they did (or did not do). For example, say, “I felt hurt when you accused me because I know I didn’t do it.”, Don’t attack the person’s character or do things you know will hurt them. Name calling, swearing, or aggressive comments are not welcome during the fight. These tactics are hurtful and do nothing to move you closer to resolving the conflict.This includes physical aggression as well. Do not hit, push, or throw things at the other person.
 One person’s needs are not more important or more valid than the other’s. You might disagree with them on something, but it doesn’t mean that there need isn’t valid. If you can’t come to an agreement, recognize the needs they have and address those.Clarify your needs and the other person’s needs during the fight. Say, “What do you need me to hear?” or, “What need to you feel is most important in this?”

, Be willing to express what you’re thinking and feeling. Often, emotions get covered up with anger, but what lies underneath the anger might be sadness, disappointment, loneliness, hurt, or even misunderstanding. If you’re quick to blow up, take a moment and tune into what you’re feeling. Then, express that feeling.When talking about interactions, use “I” statements instead of blaming or accusing the other person. For example, say, “I felt sad and a little disappointed you didn’t invite me to the BBQ.”

, Sometimes, emotions can run high and one person or both people might need some time to cool off and regroup. Take a break from the fight and agree to come back together. This can help you clear your head and come back more ready to talk.Schedule a time to come back together. For example, pick a time later that day or the next day so that you don’t ignore the issue or pretend it doesn’t exist.
 Some people shut down as a way to cope with problems. This is different than taking a break to cool off. If you tend to stop talking, look away or look down, or generally shut down when fighting, recognize that this doesn’t help resolve the conflict. Do your best to stay in the discussion.If you feel emotionally overwhelmed and need a break, take a quick walk or listen to some music then return to the discussion.
 A fight isn’t fair if you always get your own way or vice versa. Be willing to meet halfway and find compromises in the relationship. Avoid ultimatums or making big choices in the moment. Try to prioritize fairness and being open to doing things as the other person does them.Do something ‘your way’ then try it ‘their way’. Or, get your way this time and let them make the choice next time.
For example, if you struggle to agree on a restaurant or activity, switch off who gets to choose.
 Above all, preserve the relationship above being “right”. There may be times you know you’re right but need to drop an issue to not contribute to conflict. After all, there are three parts to any relationship: you, the other person, and the relationship. Be kind to all three.For example, you may say, “I care about this topic, but I care about you more. I’m ready to drop it. I don’t want to fight with you.”

, Fights can become so tense and you might start to wonder how it will affect the relationship. If you can use a well-placed joke or funny statement, this can ease the tension and help you bond, even in the middle of a fight. Just don’t joke at the other person’s expense, as this might escalate things!For example, do or say something playful, make a silly face, or high-five when you come to something you agree on.
 Don’t leave the argument dangling or unresolved. Have a definitive end to the fight where both people feel heard. Even if you don’t agree on some things, agree to end the fight and move on. This might mean finding a compromise, making apologies, or agreeing to disagree. Whatever happens, clarify that the fight is over and that both of you can move on from it.Concluding the fight is important so that the disagreements or offenses can’t be brought up in future fights. Resolution means that the fight is done and should not be used against each other.

