 If you're feeling so anxious that you can barely think or stay still, then it's likely that your heart rate is up and that you feel like you can't get enough air -- even if you're breathing twice as quickly as you normally do. If you want to control your breathing, then you should take the time to sit down wherever you are, to close your eyes, and to focus on returning your breath to its normal state. You can also try this exercise for good measure:Breathe in slowly through your nose for 5-7 seconds.
Hold your breath in for 3-4 seconds.
Breathe out slowly through your pursed lips like you're whistling for 7-8 seconds.
Repeat these steps 10-20 times, until your breathing has returned to normal.;
, Being out in the sun has been proven to ease anxiety and depression. Just make an effort to go outdoors, be in the sun, and deal with your problems in the daylight instead of inside your own home or a dark space can make a big impact on your overall mood and your feelings about your problems.Your problems won't feel nearly as bad if you're dealing with them outside while feeling the sun hit your face instead of indoors.
 Just being touched by a loved one can make you feel more loved, calm, and in control. Part of anxiety is feeling like you have to deal with your problems alone and that your worries are too big to tackle. Just hugging, holding hands with, or even cuddling with or kissing a loved one can ease your anxiety and make you feel more loved and in control of your world.


If you're prone to anxiety, spend more time with close friends who can give you a comforting touch and make you feel safe.
 If you're a person who is plagued with anxiety, then you should have your "go to" person that you can call whenever you're feeling an overwhelming worry about something in your life. This person should not only be a close and trusted friend, but it should be someone who makes you feel better when you're worried instead of yelling at you, giving you even more reason to worry, or making you feel foolish for having anxiety.Just making a quick phone call to that trusted person and talking about whatever is bothering you can do wonders for quickly easing your pain.
There's a difference between sharing your worries and talking about them so much that you work yourself up and feel even worse. Share your concerns with your friend, but don't overdo it.
 When you're feeling very anxious, your body is filled with adrenaline that has nowhere to go. You should use that worried energy and convert it into something positive, like a good a workout, whether you're jogging, running, climbing stairs, or just taking a fast-paced walk around your office building. Exercise can burn away the stress hormones that created your anxiety symptoms and it will tire your muscles, releasing all of that built-up tension from your body.Exercise also releases endorphins that can improve your mood. Your former worries won't seem so serious anymore.
You can plug your exercise into your routine during a time when you know you're likely to worry, such as right before or after work -- just don't work too late in the evening, or it'll be harder for you to unwind and fall asleep.
 Find a special CD or two that always gets you into a calm "zone" no matter what you're doing. It could be Norah Jones, Adele, or even classical music or jazz. Whatever your special music is, you should keep it on hand at all times, whether it's on your iPod or in a CD, so you can take a minute to fill your ears with the music, close your eyes, and feel truly relaxed by the music.


Listening to the music while keeping your body still and your eyes closed will help you prevent anxiety even more.
 Herbal tea is known to have calming properties, and just the ritual of sitting down over a cup of tea is guaranteed to slow down your mind and body. Enjoy a variety of non-caffeinated teas with flavors such as peppermint, chamomile, and mint when you start your day or as you wind down and get ready for bed.


You should avoid caffeinated teas -- or any caffeinated beverages, such as coffee or soda -- because they will only contribute to your anxiety and will make you more worried and anxious.
 If you've just been given some alarming news, or if there's been something that's been eating away at you all day, make time for a "worry period," when you're free to do nothing but worry about whatever is on your mind. You can even make it a ritual -- every day from 6-6:30 in your favorite chair, and use this time and this time only to sort out all of the worries in your head.


If you set aside a "worry period" every day, then you can make a note to save your concerns for your "worry period" if they come up earlier during the day.
Making time for a worry period will also force to sit there and be alone with your worries, which may make it more likely for you to recognize any irrational or unproductive feelings.
 If you're having an anxiety-ridden day, stop whatever you're doing and make a list of all of the things that are worrying you. Once they are written down, they'll seem less unmanageable, and you may even find that a few of them can be easily tackled. For example, you may have put "haven't made doctor's appointment" or "haven't apologized to Mary" on your list, and you'll find that once you do these things, you'll feel better right away.


Pick your easiest manageable worry, tackle it, and cross it off your list.
 One reason that you may be feeling anxious is because you're worried about uncertainty and don't know enough about the subject. The more you know, the more in control of the situation you'll feel, and the less likely you'll be to think of the worst case scenario, or to make up consequences that couldn't possibly exist.


For example, if you hurt your foot while running and are worried that you'll never be able to run again, go see a doctor instead of worrying about it on your own.
If you're worried about how you're going to drive the family all the way to your Aunt Mary's new house next week, map the directions to her house and even look at a picture of the house to see that it doesn't have to be so unmanageable.
There's a difference between gaining knowledge and obsessing over a medical condition until you're convinced you have it. If you have a common cold, it's best to avoid WebMD, or you'll find a way to convince yourself that you're suffering from a much more serious condition.

