 Any color can be used to create a smoky eye, although you will need at least three shades of a similar hue. The classic smoky eye is created with black or gray, but bronze and brown are also commonly used.


Green eyes look particularly good with a gray and plum smoky eye, while blue eyes pop with gold or copper and brown eyes go great with shades of navy and gray .
You should choose three shades of each color: a light, creamy color; a medium base color; and a dark, smoky color.
Avoid choosing colors that are too bright, or if you have very fair skin, too dark. You want your smoky eye to accentuate your pretty face, not to distract from it.;
, Although it may be quick and easy to choose the first three complementary shades of eyeshadow you find with a sponge applicator, the perfect smoky eye is created using the right supplies.


Using loose powders gives you the best blending ability, which is necessary for creating a great smoky eye. However, loose powder tends to have a lot of “fallout,” meaning the powder may fall down onto your cheeks and face. Be sure to sweep off any errant powder before heading out the door.
Use pitch-black eyeliner to accentuate your smoky eye. You have the option of using a pencil, cream, or liquid eyeliner, and any will work just fine. Cream and liquid eyeliners give a very smooth finish, while a pencil eyeliner gives a softer blended look.
Be sure to use high quality makeup brushes. Using dirty, old, or sponge brushes will create a smeared look that doesn’t blend. The best makeup brush for a smoky eye is a domed eyeshadow brush, which is rounded at the top. You can find these at many beauty supply stores.
Be sure to use a concealer and eyeshadow primer to prep your lids before applying the smoky eye. Use a concealer brush to apply both.
Have a large fluffy brush, makeup remover and q-tips on hand to fix any mistakes or loose shadow on your cheeks.
 Before you put on your smoky eye, you should create your neutral palette. Apply concealer under your eyes and on any dark or red spots, and then apply a powder foundation over the top to set it.









You have the option of applying blush or bronzer to add dimension to your face. For a bronzer, sweep it into the hollows of your cheeks with a large fluffy brush. To apply a blush, blend it into the apples of your cheeks. Remember to apply both lightly, for the most natural look.
Make sure your eyebrows are well-shaped and colored, as the smoky eye will draw attention to them. Having brows that are too thin or light will make your smoky eye look too dark and unnatural.

