 When you first approach her personally, you must be sure to do it in a way that won't scare her. (Which also means respecting the touch barrier even more than usual.) An excellent way of finding excuses to talk to a hopeless romantic girl is to help her if she drops something, offer to help if she's carrying something heavy, etc. A girl like this likes to be "saved". Perform these little tasks as often as you can until she seems comfortable around you, then talk to her when you can. Be sure to always look her in the eyes, and never anywhere else.;
, If she twirls her hair, blushes, glances at you a lot or holds her arms close to her body then you know she's shy around you—which could often mean she likes you and is embarrassed. Be sure to talk gently to her and never do anything which might scare or offend her.
 Although this is definitely not a carte blanche to stalk her (not only a good way to scare her off, but illegal in many parts of the world), you should be around when she needs you. If you see a person or group scaring her for whatever reason, do not be afraid to go over and stand up for her. If she is in a threatening situation, do not be afraid to stand in front of her protectively. Even if she simply falls and everyone laughs at her, be sure to ask if she's okay and help her up. All of these will make you seem the better man, and she will remember what you did. (But if she's being threatened and she sees you ignore her, she'll remember that too.)

, There is nothing more calming to a romantic girl than when a male holds her and reassures her that everything will be okay. Be sure to hold her in that way that makes her feel protected and safe. If she continues to cry, rock her gently or stroke her hair.
 This is the most important thing. Hopeless romantic girls are heavily influenced by romance novels, films, poetry, etc. and therefore have high expectations. Even if your friends or peers say things which might make you embarrassed, ignore them.
 Nothing is more romantic than this clichéd gift, and be sure to accompany it with your most sincere feelings, preferably in words. If you are unable to find a red rose, or are unsure of whether she likes roses, then buy her a bunch of flowers. No girl can deny that she enjoys receiving flowers.


Note — This presupposes that you know when her birthday is, so only do this if you've already established some sort of friendship.
 Nothing is more repelling to a girl like this than a guy who can't manage to confess to her face. It will make her think that you are unable to protect her or look after her as you do not have the courage. It will also help if you ask her in a very romantic situation, as it will be harder for her to deny you. For example, call her to meet you at sunset in a beautiful and secluded area, or ask her whilst the two of you are alone stargazing. A midnight walk along the beach is perfect, too.
 These girls are more sensitive than most, so going too quickly will scare them away. If she seems uncomfortable with something, don't do it again until you are sure that she won't mind.
 If you do by accident, be sure to apologise with a few soft words and her favourite flower. If, however, you do on purpose, then she will leave. You're supposed to protect her, not hurt her.
 Even if it's just home-made chocolates on Valentine's day or a poem she wrote for you. Even if it doesn't taste, sound or look nice. Keep in mind that she tried her best to please you and thank her sincerely for it, so that she knows that you appreciate her efforts.
 If she still isn't ready for something or doesn't want to go somewhere, don't lose patience and force her. It will damage her feelings about you—more importantly, it will damage her. Wait until she is ready—it will be worth it. This doesn't mean that you can never try, but if she clearly isn't happy then stop. What's more important—your happiness, or hers?

