 In some cases. Many find a 'run and gun' technique to work wonders on Search and Destroy, mainly for the shock factor, as not many expect it. However, you do need to be very skilled to pull this off, if you're not, then camping near the bombs while defending works wonders in some cases. If you're cautious, plant Claymores at A/B and then camp near the bare bomb location.;
,, The M16 with red dot is good when fighting someone from a distance. Camping with ANY gun WILL make you look like a scrub.
 Its good to be against a wall or crouching in a bush.
 Keep confidence, your team isn't relying on you as much as you feel and remember; It's just a game. If you're defusing, be sure to find a spot close to one bomb(A/B), yet a spot where you can see the other bomb. This way, you'll either see them running to one bomb, or planting at the other.
 Maybe t-bag a little or flash your night vision on or off, if you want to look like a scrub. Have some respect for the other team, and they'll have respect for you. Don't look like a jerk by teabagging things, just play the game. It takes 5 seconds to plant and defuse a bomb. It takes one second to pick up the bomb so watch out.
 After planting the bomb, throw some C4, so when someone is defusing, they are killed, and you don't give away your position. Then there is one guy down, and you haven't given away your position. Don't make your C4 obvious. Maybe throw it under something, just as long as it's well hidden but still in range.
 People will call you a noob, but who cares? You have 50 more exp for being a "Noob". People just don't like the fact that it is too easy. This is an example of terrible advice. The Grenade Launcher is a very helpful thing, but on Search and Destroy it is a way to get easy kills, which nobody likes. You want to learn to be GOOD at Search and Destroy, this won't help. It is a very easy way to get at least 400 points per game, but they will make you largely disliked amongst the players. Alternatively, take an RPG, as these are just as powerful, yet don't make you look as "noobish".

