 Loose and flowing skirts can easily blow up on a windy day and they are very difficult to manage. In order to avoid showing too much skin as a result of gusty wind, try wearing a tight or fitted skirt that hugs your body.If you don’t feel comfortable in a tight skirt, or that is just not your style, you can try using skirt or dress weights to keep your dress down even on a windy day. Purchase small weights at any sewing supply store. Then sew the weights into the bottom hem of the skirt. This will help hold the skirt in place., Use one or both hands to smooth your skirt from mid-thigh downward as you sit, especially if you're wearing a skirt with a slit in the back. This makes sure you're sitting evenly on the fabric without it bunching, and also closes off any potential space that could be too revealing.
 Crossing your legs will close any gap between your thighs, though it might reveal a bit more of the underside of your leg. Be sure to cross your legs carefully in order to avoid exposing your underwear while doing this. If you want to play it really safe, cross only your ankles - this will draw your legs closer together without exposing any additional skin.You can also situate your hands on your lap so that they cover any area that might be exposed while sitting. This is a good idea if you want to avoid an accidental upskirt while taking a photo or exiting a vehicle., Take stairs one at a time, and try to keep your steps as close as possible. If your skirt has a slit in the back, try to walk so that no one is directly behind you. When you're traveling in a group, hang back and start up the stairs last. This way no one will be behind you and able to see up your skirt.If you're on an escalator that does not have glass sides, position yourself so that your rear is against the side. This prevents people several steps beneath you from trying to glance up your skirt.
On an escalator with stairs, try to position yourself in the middle of a stair and keep your legs close together. You can also use your hand to smooth your skirt in front to avoid an upskirt from below.
 If at all possible, try not to sit down on a flat floor or stretch of grass. You might be covered while you're sitting, but lowering yourself and standing back up might put you in a revealing position, especially if you have to maneuver around high heels.
 Many two-story malls and shopping centres use glass railings and elevators. If you are worried about an upskirt, avoid standing or walking too close to a glass railing. People on the ground floor may be able to see up your skirt. The same thing applies to glass elevators. Do not stand along the glass. Instead, situate yourself in the middle of the elevator so that you are not visible from the ground.
 If you are worried about people seeing up your skirt you should make sure that you manage your movements. Avoid jumping and twirling, or any movements that may cause your skirt to ride up and reveal too much skin.Try out a bunch of different movements in front of the mirror before going out to see what happens to the skirt as you move. This will give you an excellent idea of what movements to avoid when in public.

