 Eleanor Roosevelt once suggested this and it is a good guide to pushing you out of your comfort zone. Comfort zones may feel comfortable but they aren't always the best for you.
 Life looks very different when you ask yourself what things fear ties you down to. It may be a job you cannot stand, a relationship you've outgrown, a pattern of bad habits you feel you cannot break or a constant need to be in control, no matter the cost to you and others.


Would you rather a different job? If yes, how can you go about this? Do you want to change the parameters of the job you're doing within the existing organization or do you want to leave and work for another one? Maybe work for yourself and toss the J.O.B. right out of your life.
Would you rather better relationships? Are you fighting a lot, whining a lot, sucking up to people or running from them? What changes can you make to stand your ground, stop complaining and start enjoying the relationships around you? Be aware that you can't change them; they'll still be the whining and fearful people you know but you, you can change and shine above it all.
 It is simple even as it is hard:


Decide what is to change. Start making the changes, however gradually or immediately.
Have talks with your fears, regular sit-down sessions in which you argue back and throw spanners in the works of fear. "Everything will go wrong" is a common thought; answer is with "Well, what if it does? I will pick myself up and try again and again."
Do things differently. No matter how weird, irregular and uncomfortable at first, just start doing the changes you have imagined. It is in the doing that you will make the real changes and shift yourself from old you to new you.
 You will probably err, stuff up and fall flat on your face at times. Good. That means you know how to avoid those ways and start finding the ways that work. Do not see failure as oppressive; see it as action and learning. Real failure is staying stuck and refusing to move forward, refusing to allow your next stage of life to fully blossom.
 Many of them will be scared. You will need to reassure those most closest to you and most affected. But also help them to see that by your ability to live fearlessly, you will all benefit. You are setting them an example from which they can trust themselves to live larger too.


Avoid the negative people. They are the most afraid and they are the most averse to change. They will insist that whatever you're doing will fail, is doomed, will end up in a total mess. Tell them not to worry, you won't be asking them for a hand up or a handout. Stick to the people who support what you're doing instead. Find kindred spirits who wish to free themselves from socially and culturally condoned strait jackets too; together you have strength.
 Fear holds many a person back, stuck in the hoping stage without committing to doing. Dreams are useful to inspire you but when you stay stuck them out of fear, they cannot come into fruition.


Make yourself a series of motivational notes. Call them whatever you like, they must be action statements that give you the inspiration to get off your backside and keep the momentum going.

