 It may seem like too much trouble to go through all the paperwork, fees, and a court appearance in order to change your name, but it is worthwhile to make the change you prefer official.


Idaho, like many other states, permits you to change your name simply by consistently using that new name, but that type of change won’t likely be accepted by the Social Security Administration, your financial institutions, or even the state Department of Motor Vehicles for your driver’s license. Official, certified documentation of a name change is they way to go.
In order to use the standard process to petition for a name change as an adult in Idaho, you must be 18 years old, reside in the state, not be a registered sex offender, and not be attempting to avoid creditors or debts.;
, This is a government process, so expect some paperwork, fees, and waiting time in order to make your name change official. The four forms you need, which are available online or from your county courthouse, include:Petition for Name Change (NCA 1-1). This is in essence your application form, in which you provide information about yourself, your reason for desiring a name change, and the new name you wish to have. The form must be signed and stamped by a state-licensed notary public who witnesses your signature. Notaries can be found at bank branches, car dealerships, standalone offices, and at various other businesses.
Notice of Hearing (NCA 1-2). This form provides information on your hearing date, case number and location. Most of it will be filled in by the county clerk.
Name Change Letter for Publication (NC 1-3). This form, along with the Notice of Hearing, provides information to be published, by your request and at your expense, in a local newspaper that circulates within (or barring that, nearby) your county of residence. This may seem quaint, but advertising the proposed change in a newspaper is required by law.
Order for Name Change (NCA 8-1). This is the document the judge will sign and which orders your name to be legally changed (or not). If approved, this form (or any certified copies thereof) will be your key to changing your name at the Social Security Administration, DMV, and so on.
 Fill out each of the forms as indicated (but not areas specified for the clerk and/or judge) and file them with the clerk at the courthouse of the county in which you reside.Make one additional copy of your Petition and two additional copies of your Notice to file with the originals.
The clerk will give you a hearing date (at least six weeks after the filing date) and sign the relevant forms and copies.
You will be required at this time to pay a filing fee, currently $166.You may also apply for a fee waiver at this time, however, if you have a financial hardship.
 Contact a newspaper in your county, or, if your county lacks one, a paper nearby. The county clerk should have information on available papers. Provide the paper a signed, completed copy of the Letter for Publication and the Notice of Hearing.The notice must appear in the newspaper once a week for four consecutive weeks, prior to your hearing date.
Publication fees are your responsibility.
Once your notice has run four times, make sure the newspaper provides you with an Affidavit of Publication or sends it directly to the clerk. If it is given to you, file it with the clerk before your court date.
 Arrive early just in case, confirm your room number, and wait for your name and case to be called. Make sure you bring the following with you:The Order for Name Change, plus the Affidavit of Publication if you have not already filed it with the clerk.
A photo ID with your current name.
Any additional documents related to your request, such as evidence regarding your current status on the sex offender registry, if relevant.
You may be questioned under oath by the judge, so answer truthfully.
The judge will sign your request whether it is granted or denied. If it is granted, you can request additional copies of the Order from the clerk for a small fee. Obtain at least two copies now, because you will use them to change your Social Security card and driver’s license.
 If you are under age 18, the name-change process itself is quite similar, but the paperwork is different. Also, at least one parent or guardian must approve of the change.A name change for a minor requires forms NCM 1-1 or 1-4 (Petition); NCM 1-2 or 1-5 (Notice); NCM 8-1 or 8-2 (Order); and NC 1-3 (Publication).
If only one parent signs the petition and plans to attend the hearing, the judge will likely require the other parent to sign a Parental Consent form (NCM 2-1) or be served with the Petition (NCM 1-1 or 1-4) and an Affidavit of Service (NCM 2-2 or 2-3).
A non-consenting parent has the right to attend the hearing.

