 One way to help protect yourself from the Phantom Menace bacteria, and other resistance bacteria, is to use antibiotics the right way. Most common illnesses, such as colds, the flu, most sore throats, and bronchitis, are not caused by bacteria, but viruses. This means antibiotics won’t help since antibiotics don’t treat viruses.Only take antibiotics when you need them, like when you have a bacterial infection.
Again, always take the full course of antibiotics prescribed. A common trend that creates resistant bacteria is to take the medicine until you feel better and to "save the rest" for another time. This creates opportunity for the few bacteria that might still be in your body to mutate and become resistant to the same antibiotic. It's always best to take the full course, no matter when you feel better, to make sure the infection is completely cleared.
 Washing your hands before and after activities is one of the most effective ways to reduce the spreading of germs, including the Phantom Menace bacteria.Wash your hands before and after using the bathroom, cooking, or handling any food. Wash your hands before and after touching anything that has come into contact with anyone who may be sick.Wash your hands, especially after coughing, sneezing, or blowing your nose.
 To protect yourself, make sure to wash your hands properly. Use plenty of soap and water. Make sure the water is warm and that you don’t rush through it.Start by wetting your hands and using enough soap to cover your entire hand up to at least your wrists.
Rub your hands together, making sure to wash the back of your left hand with the palm of your right and vice versa. Make sure to spread your fingers and wash the webs between the fingers. Scrub for at least 20 seconds.
Interlock your fingers so that the backs of the fingers are against the palm of the opposite hand and rub. Grab your right thumb with your left hand and wash, using circular motions, then repeat using your right hand to grab your left thumb.
Rinse well with warm water. Then dry your hands thoroughly with either a single paper towel or a clean cotton towel. Don’t use a dirty, used, or soiled towel. Only use a towel that is reserved for your use.
Use the towel to turn off the water and to open any doors.
 If you are in a situation in which you are unable to properly wash your hands, use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 62% alcohol., You should refrain from sharing objects with people that could possibly be infected.Do not share any personal care items, such as razors, towels, cosmetics, or handkerchiefs.
Do not touch any potentially infected objects. This includes kleenex, towels, clothing, bandages, and athletic equipment. If you have to touch them, only do so if you are wearing gloves.
 Wearing masks, or asking others to wear masks, can reduce the spread of bacteria. If someone near you has a cough, cold, is sneezing, or has an obvious skin infection with reddened skin with pus-filled areas, ask them to wear a mask or cover the infected area with a bandage. Stay away from close physical contact with this person.If you have a cough, cold, are sneezing, or have an infection, wear a mask and cover the infected area with a bandage. Do whatever you can to reduce the amount of bacteria that are spread.
 Sanitizing your home if someone is sick, or after you have had contact with a sick person, is extremely important. Clean surfaces in your home that may come into contact with contaminated materials with a 10% bleach solution for one to five minutes.Wash all clothing and bedding in as hot water as possible. Use bleach on bleach-safe materials and use an oxidizing agent such as Oxy-Clean on items that are not bleach-safe.
To make a bleach solution, mix one part bleach in nine parts water.

