 African violets are easy to grow and bloom year-round. They come in many different varieties, blooming in different shades, often with white-edges on each bloom. They do well in filtered sunlight, such as by a window that gets direct sunlight. Put a curtain up so the houseplant gets just enough light.If you have a bright window spot available, this is the plant for you. It will bloom constantly and produce colorful blooms to brighten up any room.
You should water African violets when the soil feels less moist with tepid water. Water these houseplants at the base and do not get any water on their leaves.;
, Hydrangeas do well in cooler conditions, such as a room with no direct sunlight but some bright light. They enjoy sitting in soil that is not too dry and require watering on a regular basis. They produce beautiful purple and blue blooms.They can also be put outside in the summer to bloom and kept indoors during winter to keep them away from frost.
 Chrysanthemums thrive in brightly lit areas, such as a room that gets direct sunlight. They come in a variety of colors and produce large blooms as long as they get enough direct sunlight on a constant basis.You will need to water chrysanthemums on a regular basis to ensure the soil is moist. You will also need to mist the leaves from time to time.
 Azaleas do well in bright light, but not direct sunlight. Go for these plants if your home has a brightly lit room that is not too warm, as they do better in cooler conditions. A window that gets bright light would be ideal for azaleas. These plants can bloom for three to four weeks at a time.Azaleas require constant water checks to make sure the potting soil does not become too dry. Water the plant until water flows out of the bottom of the pot and get rid of the excess water.
 The peace lily is easy to care for and does well in low light. A spot in a room with less light and low humidity is ideal for this plant. The blooms are cream white and spoon-shaped. This bloom will appear heaviest in the summer months.This plant is easy to grow indoors and only needs moist soil to thrive. Keep in mind peace lilies can be toxic to children or pets if chewed or ingested.

