 The very best time to minimize scarring is during the immediate healing period. Keep acne clean but moisturized. If you need to bandage acne, you should do it lightly. This evenly distributes the tension over the skin and minimizes the chances of scarring., Radix arnebiae has been used in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) for centuries to reduce scarring. It is also known as Zi Cao and Lithospermum erythrorhizon. This herb is known to release heat and toxins.


You may have to go to a TCM practitioner to obtain this herb, however there may be a R. arnebiae soap or powder form available at your local pharmacy. R. arnebiae is also available as a concentrated herb.
To use, mix ½ teaspoon of the powder or ¼ teaspoon of the concentrated herb with 1-2 tablespoons of castor oil or another base oil, such as almond oil, argan oil, or jojoba oil. Massage the mixture into the scar tissue 3-4 times a day, using gentle, circular motions.
Recent studies have indicated that R. arnebiae can reduce the numbers and functions of scar-forming cells., Lemon juice can be applied to darker scars in order to lighten them. The Vitamin C in lemon juice may why it is so useful in reducing scars, as Vitamin C is important in normal wound healing.Use a cotton ball or cotton swab soaked in lemon juice and apply directly to the scar. Allow the lemon juice to air dry and then rinse with warm water. Repeat one to two times a day.
Be aware that you should not expose the lemon-juice treated skin to sunlight. This may result in bleaching. Just be sure that the lemon juice has been completely washed off before going out into the sun.
 This gel can be massaged into scars to soften the tissue. Aloe vera has been studied primarily for its effects on burn scars, but appears to improve the characteristics of scars and reducing their appearance.Aloe vera is an anti-inflammatory herb. The reduction of inflammation, especially during the early stages of scar formation may be important for increasing the elasticity of new tissue.
 Green tea may reduce scars because of its antioxidant activity.Steep a bag of organic green tea in warm water. Apply the tea bag directly on the scar 3-4 times a day for 10-15 minutes.You can also soak a cotton towel or cotton ball in green tea, squeeze out the excess, and place over the scar 3-4 times a day for 10-15 minutes.
 Lavender oil has been traditionally used to reduce scars. Place 2-3 drops of lavender oil in 2 tablespoons of castor oil and massage into the scar. Repeat this 3-4 times a day.St John’s wort oil can also be mixed with castor oil and massaged directly into the scar. Use 2-3 drops of the oil in 2 tablespoons of castor oil and massage into the scar. Repeat 3-4 times daily. St John’s wort promotes wound healing and has been used to reduce C-section scars., Vitamins E and D have been used to improve the appearance of scars.Vitamin C can also promote wound healing and decrease the appearance of scars. It supports the formation of collagen, a protein in the skin that helps its elasticity.Open a caplet of Vitamin E that contains 400 IU of Vitamin E in liquid form. Mix with 4-5 drops of castor oil and apply directly to the scar. Massage in well and leave it on. Repeat 3-4 times every day.
Open a caplet of Vitamin D that contains 1-2000 IU of Vitamin D in liquid form. Mix with of castor oil and apply directly to the scar. Massage in well and leave it on. Repeat 3-4 times every day.
Crush 250 mg tablets of vitamin C and mix with a tablespoon of a oil, such as castor oil. Use a cotton ball to massage into the scar. Allow the mixture to stay on your skin for 10-15 minutes and then rinse off with warm water. Pat dry and repeat twice a day.
 The methods described here can be combined to some extent. You can mix the essential oils. For example, you can combine lavender and St John’s wort oil. However there are some things to avoid:


Don’t mix powders with oils.
Don’t combine any methods with the lemon juice. If you want to use lemon juice along with any other method, rinse off the lemon juice first, wait 2-3 hours and apply a second method.

