 Staying at a hotel on the east end of the island, you are away from the crowds of Charlotte Amalie and have close access to the ferry out of Red Hook to Cruz Bay, St John. Pay the extra fee to have a beach front room, you'll be glad you did. Nothing beats walking out your front door and having your toes in the sand.;
, The cove at Secret Harbour is protected from the open ocean waves and is usually very calm and visibility is excellent. A wide range of fauna and flora can be found here. Stingrays, turtles, lobster (at night), crabs, eels, schools of beautiful Tangs, Cow fish, incredible corals and too much more to list here.
 You didn't come here to watch cable TV all day. A trip into the main town of Charlotte Amalie is a must, especially if you're a shopper. Low cost liquor, cigarettes and jewelry can be found on nearly every corner here. Watch out for crowds from cruise ships during peak months though. A short climb up the hillside in town will take you to Blue Beards Castle. Spend a few bucks and take the tour. You get to see some very interesting colonial homes and their original furnishings. Also the lookout tower has one of the best views of the town and harbor you will find. Snoop around the rest of the town and you will find many fun things to see and do. Just remember to be cautious here at night and stay off the back alleys.
 It is a tourist trap where you have to pay to get in and it has the feeling of a city park in the middle of a town. The scenery and snorkeling are better at just about any free beach on the island. If you want to lay in the sun go to Sapphire Beach, it's close. If you want to snorkel go down to Secret Harbour. If you really want to see a nice beach, hop on the ferry to Cruz Bay on St John. It only takes 15 minutes or so and it's cheap.
 The pace is as laid back as it gets and there are a number of small shops to peek into. Open air taxi's or trucks with seats in the back of them, will be waiting to take you anywhere you want to go. Every beach is a must see here! Check out Cinnamon Bay, Hawksnest, Trunk Bay, Leinster and the rest if you have time. Ask how to get to the sea turtle breeding area if you are up for a short hike down the coastline that takes about 25 minutes. Once you arrive to the beach, take a walk into the trees and you will find some small ruins. Hermit crabs are everywhere in the rocks and on the ruins. If you swim out to the small key, there are very large starfish in just a few feet of water. Swim around back and you might just find yourself a nurse shark. When you are done in the water climb the path that leads up the hill. There are two different sets of ruins to look through. Bring your camera for some breath taking pictures from atop the hill. When you get back to the road you started from, the Annaberg Plantation is a few steps away. This is a very interesting historical site that is home to the ruins of a sugar cane plantation. Best of all, it's completely free.

