 Though biracial hair can vary from individual to individual, in general, a mild, moisturizing shampoo is best. Look for a shampoo with a balanced pH value of 5, which will help to maintain your hair’s natural pH level and keep it healthy. Look for the following ingredients in your shampoo:Water
Lauroamphoglycinate, a moisturizer
Cocoamphacarboxyglycinate, a moisturizer
Sulfosuccinate, a mild cleanser
A list of recommended shampoos for biracial hair can be found online.;
, Many products in commercial shampoos can strip your hair of its natural oils and be detrimental to biracial hair. Read the ingredients list on shampoos and avoid products that contain the following ingredients:Isopropyl alcohol
Mineral oil/ petrolatum
Polyethylene glycol (PEG)
Propylene glycol (PG)
Sodium Lauryl Sulfate (SLS)/ Sodium Laureth Sulfate (SLES)

, An instant conditioner will coat the strands of your hair and give it body as well as shine. It will also flatten the raised cuticles in your hair, making it soft and easy to style, and protect your hair from damage.Look for instant conditioners that contain a combination of lanolin, cholesterol, sulfonated oil, vegetable oil, proteins and polymers.
You can find instant conditioner that are “rinse out” or “leave in”. You can try both on your biracial hair or your child’s biracial hair to determine which type will work best for you. Leave-in conditioner can be beneficial for hair that is going to be combed out or blow dried. However, if you have curly hair that has a finer texture, leave-in conditioner may leave a film or residue on your hair.
 A penetrating conditioner is a deep conditioner that will absorb right into your hair and improve the appearance of damaged hair. This type of conditioner is good if you have split ends, uneven hair growth, hair that is dyed or colored, or hair that has been exposed to chlorine. It’s also good for a dry scalp.Many penetrating conditioners are made from animal proteins and keratin. You should allow this type of conditioner to stay in your hair for 15 minutes before rinsing it out.
You can use a penetrating conditioner once a month if you do not have damaged hair but are looking to moisturize your hair every now and then.
 Overwashing your hair can lead to dryness, brittleness, and damage. You can use other products to style and maintain your hair between washing so it remains healthy-looking and clean without daily shampooing.If you workout every day or sweat often, you can rinse your hair out with water. Avoid shampooing your hair too often, as it can dry out and damage your hair.
To wash a biracial child’s hair, have the child kneel in a chair and bend over the sink or under the faucet in a bathtub. If you are washing your own hair, you should position yourself over a sink with the shampoo next to you. As well, a removable spray nozzle or a detachable showerhead can make the shampooing process easier., Massage the shampoo into the child’s hair. Use the ball of your fingertips, not your nails, to gently massage her scalp with in and out motions. Move your fingers from her hairline and the nape of her neck toward the center of her scalp.If the child has tightly curled hair, avoid gathering her hair into a pile at the top of her head, as this can lead to tangles. Instead, work from the hairline and massage her scalp, letting her hair fall naturally.
If the child has thicker hair, you may need to apply and rinse out the shampoo two to three times. You can do one to two minute rinses in between the shampooing. It can also help to wash thicker hair in sections, pinning back each section and washing one section at a time.
 Conditioner is a key step to caring for biracial hair as it can help to smooth your hair cuticles and keep your hair feeling soft and clean. You should always apply a conditioner after shampooing.Squeeze all excess water from your hair before conditioning it. Divide the hair into sections and put a handful of conditioner in the palm of your hand. Massage the conditioner using your finger pads. You can also use a wide-tooth comb to work the conditioner into your hair.
Work the conditioner through the ends of your hair, as the ends tend to get very dry and are prone to tangling and knotting. Rinse out the conditioner or leave it in for 15 minutes if if it is a leave-in conditioner. You can skip the rinse step for leave-in conditioner if your hair is very dry and needs moisture to look good when combed or styled.
If your hair feels very dry, you can wrap a moist warm towel or a shower cap over your hair and let the conditioner set in your hair for 15 minutes. Then, rinse it out.
 Avoid rubbing your hair as this can cause frizziness and breakage. Instead, blot your hair with a towel and allow your hair to air dry.If you are planning to comb out your hair, you should do so right after you have shampooed and conditioned your hair. Combing out hair when it is wet may be easier than doing it when your hair is dry and lead to less breakage.
 Biracial hair can be tricky to style, as it is often thick, curly, and unruly. You can tackle biracial hair by ensuring you have a styling tools kit that contains several essential styling items, including:Combs: You should have several combs on hand, including a wide-tooth comb, which will help to detangle your hair, a rattail comb for parting hair and removing dirt or residue in your hair, and a pick with wide teeth to help comb out your hair.
A soft or medium boar bristle brush: This type of brush is good for biracial hair as it will not break or damage your hair. Avoid brushes with plastic or nylon bristles.
A spray bottle: You can fill the spray bottle with one part natural oil (such as olive oil, rosemary oil, almond oil, or lavender oil) and six parts water. You can also use a detangler spray that contains natural oils.
A blow dryer: Use a blow dryer that has a comb attachment and/or a diffuser attachment. These attachments can help to dry your hair quickly and prevent tangles.
Hair clips: These will come in handy when parting and dividing your hair.
Styling gel: This can help to keep your hair in place and ensure it looks sleek and clean.
Natural oils: Oils like sage, olive, rosemary, and almond are good for your hair and your scalp. You can apply them every time you style your hair and/or once a day.
 Combing out your hair is one the best ways to keep your hair looking healthy and clean. It will also lead to less tangles and make it easier to maintain your hair.To comb out your hair, you will need a rattail comb, a wide-tooth comb, a boar-bristle brush, hair clips and hair oil.
 If you have finer hair, you may only have four to five sections. Usually, the tighter your curls are, the more sections you will have..Be gentle when you divide your hair and avoid digging the comb into your scalp. If there are any tangles in your hair, use your fingers to pull the strands apart.
Once you have separated a section, twist the section into a tight twist and secure it with a clip. Then, unclip one section of hair and get your wide-tooth comb ready.
 Use the wide-tooth comb and work from the ends up to the roots using quick movements. Try not to comb too aggressively, as you want to avoid pulling out your hair or damaging it.Work one section at a time, unclipping each section and combing from the ends to the roots.
 Once you have combed out all the sections of your hair, apply a small amount of oil to your scalp and massage the oil into your hair. Use only natural oils and avoid heavy oils like lanolin, petroleum, and mineral oils. They will clog up your scalp and attract dust and dirt.You can then use the boar bristle brush to brush the oil into your hair, working section by section again. If you have very thick hair, you may skip this step to prevent your hair from getting too frizzy.
 Blow-drying your hair can help to straighten your hair without using harsh chemicals and make it easier to comb your hair or style it into braids. Blow-dry your hair in sections, after you have combed out your hair and added oil to your scalp.Use the comb attachment on the blow dryer. Blow dry in sections, drying the ends first. Once you dry the ends of a section, move up your hair and dry the hair closest to your scalp last.
 Oiling your scalp with natural oils on a daily basis can help to keep your scalp from drying out. You should also massage your scalp on a daily basis when applying the oil to promote circulation and oil production.Oils like jojoba, argan, castor, and emu can all be beneficial for biracial hair. Shea butter is also known as a good oil for biracial hair.
You should get in the habit of spritzing your hair with water throughout the day, as this will ensure your hair stays silky and moist. Carry a small bottle of water with you and spray your hair throughout the day to maintain a healthy look.
 Wrapping your hair in a scarf or a hair wrap before you go to bed can help to reduce frizziness and prevent your hair from drying out.Another option is to use satin pillowcases, as the satin can help to reduce static and frizziness in your hair., Brushes, combs, and picks can collect dirt, oils, residue, and smells. Give them a good clean at least once a week by soaking them overnight in a mixture of shampoo and warm water.You should also replace any brushes, combs, or picks that are missing teeth or appear damaged. This will prevent your hair from becoming damaged when you use your styling tools.
 A clarifying shampoo can help to remove any residue that has built up on your hair due to the use of hair products and styling products.You can also do a hot oil treatment on your hair once a month to help remove residue on your hair. You can do this at home or get a hot oil treatment done at a professional salon. Hot oil treatments often use natural oils like shea butter or lemongrass oil. Apply the hot oil treatment on your hair and scalp. Then, cover your hair with a plastic cap or a towel and let it sit under a dryer for 15-20 minutes before rinsing it out.
 Maintain your hair by getting frequent trims. This will promote healthy hair growth and prevent the development of split or dry ends. Book consistent appointments with your hairdresser, every six to eight weeks, so your hair gets the trimming it needs to stay healthy.