 If the parents do not plan on having more children they can pass their gently-used baby clothes on to their own siblings to be used for their nieces and nephews.


Some parents even pass outgrown baby clothes further to other relatives such as their own cousins that are expecting a child.
There is no guarantee that these family members will actually use the baby clothes for their own child, but they are highly likely to pass them on to someone that will use them.;
, There are many different organizations that collect gently used baby clothes and other items. Some of these organizations simply give these things to families that need them, such as families that were in a natural disaster.


There are other organizations that might sell the baby clothes in order to raise money for other things that they will give to needy families.
Organizations that take donations of gently used baby clothes can be found on the internet. Many of them have locations where the baby clothes can be dropped off. Some of the organizations will even come to the home to pick up the donated baby clothes and other items.
 For the best chance of having the clothes accepted by the store, they should be thoroughly cleaned, have no stains, no wrinkles, and no signs of wear and tear.


If possible, they should be brought to the stores on hangers. Neatly folding them and putting them in a container is also acceptable.
To make it easier for the store personnel to look through the clothing and make a decision, it is wise to group the clothing by size.
Other acceptable ways to group the clothing are by wearer gender or by season.
 A second-hand store will pay a small price for any items that they feel they can sell to other customers.


There might be immediate payment, or the store might need to have a day or so to examine the clothes and choose which they want to sell in their store. The staff keeps a file for each family that brings in things to sell so that there is no mix-up.
If there are clothes that the staff does not choose to accept for sale in the store, it is the responsibility of the family to take these items back.
 Consignment shops work a little differently from second-hand stores. One of the main differences is that the family does not receive the money until after the clothes are actually purchased.


Sometimes the wait can be long, but often the amount of money that is paid for clothes at a consignment shop is higher than what would be paid at a second-hand store.
Consignment shops are often a bit more particular about what they will accept for their store. For example, they might only accept clothes that are currently popular styles or were made by well-known children’s clothing companies.

