 Wearing thick clothing and heavy rubber gloves, you can safely dig out the remnants of abandoned nests after the wasps have been killed, or during the winter when the frost has killed them off naturally.


If you've sprayed insecticide on the nest, it's important to dispose of it in the garbage, properly. Use a hammer or a board to knock nests down and remove them from the area. Again, if you leave a nest intact, it can be repopulated.
It's still a good idea to wear protective clothing, just to be on the safe side. Even if you're sure most of the wasps are gone, you want to protect yourself from insecticide remnants, as well as the stray wasp.
 Wasps often build nests in small cracks and safe areas that are exposed to the outdoors. Keeping track of these areas as they develop and plugging them up to keep nests from forming will solve your problem before it starts.



Use silicone caulk sealant, applying a small bead of the sealant along the cracks you find, then smoothing them out with a scraper or your finger. Let it dry according to the manufacturer's directions., Wasps will often build nests in piles of firewood, or in piles of outdoor refuse that accumulate. If you've got piles of yard tools, or other odd, assorted materials on your property, try to keep it cleaned up as much as possible, or wasps will take up residence.
 Wasps are more likely to populate areas where there is a lot for them to eat. If you've got fruit trees nearby on your property, it's a good idea to clean up the rotten fruit as much as possible and as quickly as possible, or wasps will become more attracted to the area.


Generally, wasps will be attracted to fruit trees whether you clean up the fruit or not. It's still a good idea to clean it up to keep the wasps under control.
 Rotting food scraps are also attractive to wasps, making it critical that you keep your outdoor garbage cans tightly sealed to avoid letting them take up residence. If necessary, change out your cans regularly, if they attract wasps.

