 Doing a small amount of exercise will keep your body strong and fit as you age. Develop an exercise routine while you are young and then maintain it over the decades to come. This will make you healthier now by managing your weight, building muscle, and reducing stress. It will also benefit your future health by strengthening your bones, improving your balance, and boosting your immune system.


An ideal exercise program includes 15 – 30 minutes of aerobic exercise five times per week and strength training twice per week.
You can do both without having to purchase expensive gym memberships. Many people enjoy jogging, walking, or biking.
Strength training is particularly important for postmenopausal women, who become more vulnerable to osteoporosis. Doing weight training will not only make you stronger, but it will also build bone density. This will make you less likely to break a bone if you fall as you get older. You can purchase weights at your local athletics shop.;
, Don’t skip the annual check-ups just because you feel healthy. The best time to catch health problems is right at the beginning. Then they can be quickly and easily dealt with.Be aware of your family history. If you have a genetic predisposition to some diseases, get screened regularly. In addition, you can ask your doctor if there are any preventative measures you should do to minimize your chances of developing the disease.
These days, having a well-managed chronic health problem is not likely to prevent you from living to be at least 100.
 Illegal drugs can cause sudden and severe health conditions. Because they are unregulated, there is no quality control for illegal drugs. This means that dosages are inconsistent and they may contain other substances that are dangerous for your health. Overdoses are frequently fatal, but even less than fatal effects can cause severe health risks such as:Coma
Brain damage
Seizures
Psychosis
Confusion
Memory loss

, The Mayo Clinic recommends no more than one drink per day for women and one to two drinks per day for men. Binge drinking is extremely unhealthy.High levels of alcohol intake raise your risk for cancers of the digestive tract, heart problems, pancreatitis, strokes, high blood pressure and liver disease.If you enjoy a glass of wine or a beer in the evenings, ask your doctor about whether it could interact with any medications you may be taking. Even over-the-counter medications or herbal remedies and supplements may interact with alcohol.
If you do drink, do not drive. Alcohol consumption impairs your ability to drive safely and puts your life at risk and the lives of others who are on the road. Plan ahead and either take a taxi or appoint a friend as a designated driver who will stay sober.
 Even people who smoked for decades can increase their lifespan and quality of life by quitting. Quitting will improve your health and reduce your risks of:Heart attacks
Strokes
Lung diseases, including cancer
Cancer of the esophagus, larynx, throat, mouth, bladder, pancreas, kidney, and cervix
Respiratory infections
Diabetes
Eye disorders like cataracts
Gum disease

, Safety gear can prevent fatal injuries during accidents. This includes common activities like riding in a car or sports activities.


Always wear your seatbelt when driving or riding in a car. If you are driving, do not speed, especially during bad weather conditions such as ice, rain, snow, or fog. Car accidents are a frequent cause of death.Research what safety gear is necessary for risky or full contact sports. You may need protective padding and helmets when skiing, snowboarding, riding a horse, or playing football. If you are doing sports like skydiving, rock climbing, or bungee jumping make sure that all the gear you are using is in perfect working order.
 In high doses, some substances can put you at risk for developing severe health problems which could lead to an early death. For example:


Asbestos can cause lung disease.Pesticides in high doses are not healthy. Though both organic and non-organic farmers’ produce is monitored and regulated to ensure that pesticide residues do not exceed the legal limits, some people prefer organic produce.Pollution and chemical fumes are damaging when you are exposed over a long period of time. If you live in a high pollution area, such as near a highway, you may want to avoid being outside during times when pollution is highest. Many communities provide pollution alerts when the air quality has reached an unsafe level., Sleep deprivation adds physical stress on your body and lowers your immune system. It also makes you more vulnerable to stress.Most people need at least eight hours of sleep each night. If you have trouble staying awake during the day, you are probably not getting enough sleep.
If you have insomnia, talk to your doctor about ways to treat it. This may include implementing lifestyle changes like always going to sleep at the same time, keeping the room dark and free of distracting noises, and using relaxation techniques before bed.

