 Before you take on the time and expense of a lawsuit, you might want to send a final demand letter to the person you want to sue.


Keep in mind that lawsuits are not only costly and time-consuming endeavors, but you can never be completely sure what the outcome will be. The judge or jury may very well decide against you, or decide to award you a significantly lower amount than you expected.
If you want to make a last attempt to settle, send a written demand to the person you want to sue. Explain the facts of the incident that gave rise to your claim and why you feel you are legally entitled to payment.
You also may wish to attach documents that support your claim. For example, if you want to sue another driver for hitting your car, you may want to attach estimates from mechanics of the cost to repair the damage.
Indicate to the person that unless you receive a response before a specific date, you intend to file a lawsuit. Give him or her time to respond, and make sure you're prepared to follow through and file your complaint if you don't receive a response by the deadline.;
, The court must have jurisdiction over the type of case you want it to hear as well as over the person you're suing.


The general division of the Court of Common Pleas has jurisdiction over most civil cases, including personal injury and breach of contract cases.Generally, you need to file your lawsuit either in the county where the incident or transaction occurred that gave rise to your dispute, or in the county where the person you want to sue lives or does business.In many cases, these will both be the same county. For example, if you want to sue a general contractor you hired for breach of contract after he failed to complete your home renovations, it may be that he lives and does business in the same county where you live and where the contract was signed.
However, it may be that the person you want to sue lives in a different county, in which case you potentially would have a choice of courts in which to file. In that situation, you generally are free to choose the court that's most convenient for you.
If your damages are less than $3,000, you generally must file your lawsuit in the small claims division., The elements of the claim as set forth in Ohio state law tell you what you must prove to win your case.


As the plaintiff – the person who filed the lawsuit – you have the burden of proof in a civil case. Generally, you must prove all elements of your claim by a preponderance of the evidence, which means your version of the story is more likely than not to be true.
For example, if you are suing someone for your personal injuries and property damage sustained in a car accident, you must prove that your injuries and damages occurred as a result of that person's wrongful or negligent conduct. Therefore, you must prove not only that the person you're suing was negligent, you also must prove that you suffered injuries and damage to the extent you claim.The American Association for Law Libraries has a guide you can download for free to learn how to research a legal problem., Ohio provides specific deadlines by which you must file a lawsuit.


Statutes of limitation are designed to ensure the appropriate evidence remains available and the threat of a lawsuit can't linger indefinitely.The statute of limitations varies depending on the type of dispute you have. For example, if you're suing over breach of a contract, Ohio gives you 15 years to bring that lawsuit. However, if you're suing because of personal injury or damage to personal property, you must sue within two years.Ohio has an even shorter statute of limitations of only one year in cases of medical malpractice or defamation.Generally the period of time begins on the date of the incident that gave rise to your dispute. However, in some situations the clock on the statute of limitations does not start running until you have notice of the problem, even though the problem may have occurred years earlier. For example, if you are suing for personal injury as a result of exposure to hazardous or toxic chemicals, the two-year period begins on the date you are told by a medical professional that your injury was related to exposure to that chemical., Before you begin drafting your complaint, gather the documents and information you intend to use to prove your claim.


If you plan to call witnesses who observed the incident that gave rise to your dispute, make sure you have their full legal names, phone numbers, and addresses so you can contact them or serve them with subpoenas.
Photos can be valuable evidence, especially if you have a personal injury claim. Since your injury will heal over time, it's important to document your injury through medical records and photographs so you can prove the extent of your injury in court.
Evidence also may include personnel records or check stubs from work, if you are claiming that you lost work or had to use vacation time as a result of the incident for which you are suing.
If you're suing for breach of contract, you must have a copy of the written contract you claim the other person breached. Typically this contract must be attached to your complaint.
 Even in relatively simple cases, an attorney may be best able to protect your legal rights.


Keep in mind that most attorneys have a free initial consultation, so you can at least talk to someone and get an idea on whether your case is viable before you proceed.
If you're concerned about your ability to pay attorney's fees, you might find out if you qualify for free or reduced-cost representation through Ohio Legal Services. The nonprofit has offices in 30 Ohio counties and provides legal assistance to low-income residents.You also may be able to find a pro bono association in your area, where attorneys provide services for free on a volunteer basis, or a pro se clinic, where lawyers and law students assist people representing themselves., Many courts and legal aid services have fill-in-the-blank forms available that you can use in certain types of cases.


These forms are pre-approved by the courts so you can be sure that you're using the correct format and have included all necessary information.
If you can't find a form, you may want to find a complaint that was previously filed in the same court for a different case. You can use that complaint as a guide to make sure you're formatting your complaint correctly and have all the information required by the court.
 The complaint states who you are, who you're suing, and what your lawsuit is about.


The first page of your complaint will have a caption, which is how the court identifies the case file in which that particular document belongs. All documents filed with the court in your case, beginning with your complaint, will have the same caption.
The body of your complaint includes statements in numbered paragraphs. You should only have one statement per paragraph. When the defendant answers your complaint, he or she must either admit or deny the allegation in each numbered paragraph.At a minimum, you should begin by stating your name and address, the name and address of the person you're suing, and why you're filing your case in that particular court. Then you should include brief statements of the facts of your case, why you believe the defendant owes you money, and a statement demanding particular damages and any other relief to which you're legally entitled., The summons notifies the defendant that you have filed a lawsuit against him or her by providing your name and contact information, the name and address of the court, and the date by which the defendant must respond.If the defendant doesn't respond to your complaint by the date listed on the summons, you may win your case by default., After you've completed all your documents, you should sign and date them and then make copies.


You will need at least one copy for every person you're suing, so they can be served. You also should have at least one copy for your own records.Keep in mind when you file your documents, the clerk will keep the originals for the court record.
 You must take your complaint and other documents to the clerk of the court where you want your case heard to initiate your lawsuit.


You must pay filing fees when you file your complaint. These fees vary depending on the county in which you're filing your lawsuit, but generally are between $100 and $200.You also must pay a deposit of jury fees if you want to have your case heard before a jury rather than by a judge. If you don't pay this deposit at the time you file your complaint, the court will treat it as though you've waived your right to a jury.Jury fees typically are around $200.If you are unable to afford court fees, you may be able to apply for a fee waiver. You will have to provide detailed information regarding your finances and whether you receive any public benefits. If the court declares you indigent, you won't have to pay court costs for your lawsuit., As soon as possible after you've filed your complaint, you must make sure the defendant has legal notice that a lawsuit has been filed against him or her.


Some courts will complete service for you. If your court does this, you must provide instructions for service or it will be delivered to the defendant using certified mail with return receipt requested by default.You must pay a fee to have service completed, which will be higher if you choose personal service using a sheriff's deputy rather than certified mail., Even if you are representing yourself, you are responsible for knowing and following Ohio's court rules the same as an attorney would be.Ohio rules provide deadlines for responding to motions, claims, and other court filings. Missing one of those deadlines could result in the judge ruling for the other side in regard to that particular issue or claim.There also are particular rules governing the discovery process, including the number of questions or requests you may ask in written discovery, and how parties must be notified of depositions. If you don't know and follow these rules, you may be subject to court sanctions., In response to your lawsuit, the defendant may make claims against you, or may file motions, such as a motion to dismiss.


The defendant generally has 28 days to respond to your complaint, or the court may enter a default judgment in your favor.If the defendant has any claims against you as a result of the same incident that gave rise to your dispute, he or she typically must raise them in response to your complaint. You have 28 days to respond to the defendant's counterclaim, or the court may enter a default judgment for the defendant.If the defendant files a motion, such as a motion to dismiss, in response to your complaint, you must file and serve your response to that motion within 14 days of the date you were served., Through the discovery process you exchange information with the defendant regarding the case and the evidence you intend to present at trial.


Written discovery includes interrogatories, in which you provide the defendant with written questions for which he or she must provide written answers under oath; requests for admission; and requests for production.
State and local rules limit the number of interrogatories you can ask the defendant. For example, Clark County's local rules limit the total number of interrogatories to 40.Your interrogatories and requests must have some relevance to your claim. In other words, you can't use the interrogatories to simply conduct a "fishing expedition" to try to find information about the defendant that doesn't bear any connection to your case.The defendant also can send you similar written discovery documents. If you receive these, you must provide answers before the deadlines established by state and local rules. Generally, you have 28 days to respond to written discovery, but local rules may establish shorter deadlines in some cases., The discovery process includes the opportunity to interview witnesses or parties to the case, under oath and on the record.


You may request a deposition either of the defendant or of any of the defendant's witnesses. The defendant likewise may depose you or any of your witnesses. Typically the party requesting the deposition pays the costs for it, which includes fees for a court reporter and the production of a transcript.The transcript of a deposition may become helpful in trial. For example, a witness may say something on the stand that contradicts what he or she said during a deposition. If that happens, the deposition transcript can be used to bring the credibility of the witness's testimony into question., Some courts may require you submit to mediation or some other alternate dispute resolution before you are allowed to proceed to trial.If the judge orders you to attend mediation, keep in mind that you aren't required to resolve the dispute. However, many cases are settled as a result of mediation and don't go forward to trial.In other jurisdictions, the court will schedule a case management conference that you must attend along with the other party and the judge. The purpose of the case management conference is to assist in any potential settlement as well as ensure discovery is progressing smoothly and the case is on track., If you are unable to settle your dispute, you must prepare for a full trial on the merits of your claim.


Since you initiated the lawsuit, the judge will call on you to present your case first. Make sure you have a brief statement of the facts of your case ready.
It also can be helpful to write a chronology of the events that led to your claim. Organize any evidence you plan to present according to that chronology so you have everything you need in order for trial. For example, if you have filed a personal injury lawsuit, you will need access to evidence of the accident itself before you will need evidence of your medical treatment or physical recovery following the accident.Practice asking your witnesses questions before you go to trial, as well as brainstorming possible questions the defendant might ask the witness on cross-examination. You also will have a list of witnesses the defendant might call, so you can come up with questions you might ask them if they take the stand.