 One effective way to gain an employee’s trust is to make the effort to get to know them. This could be as simple as chatting with them about their interests, or arranging a company event where employees and mingle.


Really pay attention when talking to your employees about themselves. Once you have learned their interests, involve them in tasks that tailor to their interests. For example, if you know one of your employees really likes hockey, ask that person to help you organize a company-wide outing to a hockey game.
 Try to make everyone as comfortable as possible in your work environment. Promote a sense of belonging and ownership so that employees won’t consider their jobs as a burden. Instead, they will view their contributions as a way to promote the overall growth of the business.


Try to create a healthy balance between professionalism and friendship. Try to make your employees feel relaxed, and help them to pursue their own personal goals at the company when you can.
 Trust is a subjective term, and may mean different things to different people. Because of this, actively seek your employees’ opinions or ask them questions about how they interpret the concept of trust. Create a survey that your employees can take anonymously. Your survey can progressively include statements like:


There is not much trust between employees and management – seeking a yes or no answer or degree of satisfaction.
I feel I can trust my immediate supervisor/manager – personalized question that is not subject to widely interpreting the word “trust”.
I get fair treatment from my supervisor/manager – leaving the word “trust” aside and seeking what makes employees content.
Identifying what employees consider trust will open new avenues of earning their trust and it will bring opportunities of addressing their trust issues in a better way.
 Trust can get worn down if you continue to give commands and orders without also giving encouragement. In order to keep a healthy amount of trust between you and your employees, it is important to motivate them and make them feel empowered.


Delegate tasks that include making decisions; this shows that you trust their abilities.
Tell your employees how their performance will be measured, and offer encouragement when they meet or surpass these standards.
 Try to give credit where credit is due, rather than taking the credit for your employee’s work. Giving your employee’s credit will help them to feel that you are all working towards a shared goal, and that you have no hidden agenda.


As it occurs, take blame for any poor leadership or mismanagement that you feel was your fault. Admit to areas that need improvement. This will show your employees that you hold yourself as accountable as you hold them.
 If you only ask a few employees out to lunch, or to get drinks after work, it will become clear to your other employees that you are playing favorites. This can severely damage your employees’ trust in you, as it shows that your private and official personas diverge.


At the same time, do not actively show that you dislike anyone. Talking behind an employee’s back with another employee is absolutely out of the question.
 To go the extra mile, make your office feel like a fun place to be; bring your employees surprises, like pizza or refreshments to break up a monotonous day at the office. These treats act as a gesture of appreciation to show your employees that you appreciate their hard work.


You could also consider setting up office parties or outings.

