 Many computers come with basic video editing software, such as iMovie on Macs or Windows Movie Maker (WMM)on PCs. These are absolutely fine to use, however you will find that the equestrian youtubers with the most subscribers, likes, and comments all have more advanced software. Sony Vegas and Final Cut Pro X (FCPX) are most common. Sony has released many different models of "Vegas", prices ranging from under £40 to over £500. The cheaper versions are still sufficiently advanced for many equestrian youtubing purposes. FCPX is at a fixed price of £199.99, and only available on Macs. It is at around the same level as cheaper Sony Vegas models.;
, While your up the yard, don't be embarrassed to ask people to film you riding! It's important to have new clips to make your videos with, so you can let people know what you and your horse have been up to.
 There are many tutorials on the web , use them to make your videos great!

, Being an absent youtuber isn't going to get you any subscribers! Try to upload videos with new clips at least once every two weeks.
 This will get you noticed, and people will subscribe to you! A MEP (Multi Editor Production) is when a load of people all club together to make one huge video. It's an effective way to announce your presence and get you and your videos seen. Many people run YouTube "contests" too, in which people can enter their horse/pony by uploading a video of themselves doing whatever the contest host asks. Prizes often include a "promo", where somebody makes a video of you telling others to subscribe!

, Once you become an established equestrian youtuber, you may want to host your own MEP. You will need something to download people's parts with. And if you run a contest offering a promo as the prize, you will need to download your prizewinner's clips in order to make the promo!

, This means that when somebody subscribes to you, you sub back! This is a very effective way to earn more subscribers.
 You could use Photoshop to make this, which achieves the best results, however many online photo editing websites offer a 'collage' function so you can simply make a background from all your pictures.
 Comment and rate other people's videos. You'll get noticed and others will visit your channel and watch your videos. Also subscribe to other people, you can gain ideas from their videos to improve your own.

