 Open a new web browser tab and go to the CudaSign website.;
, Click the “Log In” link on the top right corner of the main page. You will be brought to the login page. Enter your email and password, then click the “Log In” button.


Don’t have an account yet? Click the blue “Get started free” button near the bottom left of the screen.
 Click the “Upload” button on the header bar. The file chooser window will appear with your local file directory. Navigate through your files and folders, and select the one you need to sign. The file will be uploaded to your CudaSign account.


If the file is already on CudaSign, you may skip this step.
 Click the Documents folder from the left panel. All your documents on CudaSign will be displayed. Click the one you need to sign or the one you’ve just uploaded. It will be opened for your viewing.
 Click the “My Signature” option from the left panel toolbar, and click on the location where you need to sign.
 A window will appear with your signature options. You can type, draw, upload, or select your signature. Click the “Add” button on the lower right corner to add your signature to the document.


Typing your signature—Click the Type tab on the window. Type in your name on the text field that will appear. The text you entered will be displayed in different font styles, which you can use as your signature. Click on the one you’d like to use.
Drawing your signature—Click the Draw tab on the window. A screen will appear with a line. Use your mouse to draw your signature above this line.
Uploading your signature—Click the Upload tab on the window. An “Upload Signature” button will appear. Click on it, and the file chooser window will appear. Navigate through your files and folders and select the picture file containing your signature. Accepted files include png, jpg, bmp, and gif. Use this option only if you already have your signature in an accepted file format.
Selecting from existing signatures—Click the My Signature tab on the window. All the signatures you’ve created and stored in CudaSign will be displayed. Click the one you’d like to use. Use this option only if you already have your signature stored in CudaSign.
 Your signature will appear around the location you’ve specified. It might not appear perfectly aligned or sized yet. Click on it and drag it to the correct position. You’ve now signed your document, and it’s ready for export or email.