 If someone cannot hear you, make yourself visible to them before trying to communicate further. Position yourself in their field of vision and speak with both your body and face facing in their direction.A small wave or another friendly hand motion may also help get someone’s attention.


Do not hesitate to initiate a conversation simply because you think someone may not be able to hear you.
While it may require a bit of mutual effort to establish a way of communicating if someone does happen to be deaf, you will likely be able to do so together with ease.;
, If you’re meeting someone for the first time, identify yourself. If you are meeting someone in a professional or otherwise formal scenario, you may also want to provide a business card. If you’re wearing a name badge, feel free to present it.Try to introduce yourself somewhere quiet. Background noise can make it very challenging for someone with partial hearing to understand you.
In the course of introducing yourself to someone who is deaf, they will likely indicate that they cannot hear, and may indicate a different type of communication. If they do, immediately switch to this form of communication.
 You’ll likely be able to tell whether another person can hear you or not, whether or not they explicitly state that they are deaf. If, for instance, they seem to understand what you’re saying – they probably can, whether or not they can hear. Someone who cannot hear may still be fully capable of understanding most of what you’re saying through lip-reading and/or partial hearing.


If speaking is working and a conversation is going smoothly, continue doing so until they, and focus on speaking slowly and clearly.If you’re struggling to communicate by voice, say something along the lines of, “How do you prefer to communicate?”

, As you establish how best to communicate with someone, their ability to hear will likely naturally come up in conversation, or become apparent without talking about it. Further, the word “d/Deaf” is commonly used in two different ways, so avoid complicating your interaction by starting a conversation asking about someone's potential deafness. The important thing to remember is that you should not assign labels to someone or assume they see themselves a certain way.If you simply ask someone whether they are deaf, they may not know whether you’re asking about their ability to hear (deaf), or about whether they identify with a certain culture (Deaf).
Never use phrases such as “hearing impaired,” which has negative connotations.
Keep in mind that many people who are deaf do not view themselves as disabled, nor believe there is anything wrong with them.

