 By the end of the conversation, you could reveal something more about yourself, however small, whether it's your obsession with your cat, your passion for yoga, or just your thoughts on your favorite band's new album. Have the person walk away knowing something about you, which could make you connect on a deeper level and make the person think you weren't just shooting the breeze.


You probably shouldn't reveal your thoughts on the meaning of life, lost love, or death in a round of small-talk. Just reveal something about yourself and wait to develop a deeper bond before you get too personal.
 If you've really enjoyed talking to the person, whether you're developing a crush or a friend crush, you can say that you really liked talking to this person about a certain subject and ask if the person wants to hang out again or get the person's number. Or you can just mention a place where you both will be. Here are some things you can say:


"I'm really serious about seeing that new movie with you. Can I get your number so we can work out the details later?"
"I've never met someone who loves The Bachelor as much as I do. My roommate and I have the best viewing parties every Monday night -- can I get your number so I can send you the info?"
"Maybe I'll see you at Ashley's next party? I hear she won't let you in the door if you're not wearing a real toga, so it'll be something to see."

, After you've made small talk but have to go, whether it's to get back to class or to talk to someone else at the party, you should make the person feel important, not like you were just paying your dues by talking to him. Here are some ways to end the conversation politely:"It's been great talking to you. I'll let you know how that paella recipe works out for me."
"I'd love to talk more about Spain, but I haven't said hi to Nina yet, and it looks like she's about to leave."
"Oh, there's my best friend, Kelley. Have you met her yet? Come on, I'll introduce you."
"I wish I could keep talking to you, but AP Calculus is calling my name. I'm sure I'll see you soon, though."

