 Notice that there are three different gameplay areas — two small ones on the left and a larger one on the right — divided by teleportation lines. The candy follows a predictable path as it moves through the level:



First, candy appears in the bottom left area.

Next, as pieces are cleared, candy moves through the bottom left area and falls into the board on the right.

Finally, the candy moves through the the top left board before exiting.
Thus, the "bottom" of the board is actually the bottom of the top left area — somewhat confusing!;
, Since you have a limited number of turns at your disposal, it's important to make every move count. This means making the most of the teleports to move your ingredients towards the exits in the top left.


Clearing candies in the bottom left area will make only the candies above them in the bottom left area move.
Clearing candies in the right area will make the candies above them in the right area and the candies in the bottom left area move.
Clearing candies in the top left area will make the candies above them in the top left area, the candies in the top right area, and the candies in the bottom left area move.
Thus, making matches in the top left area is often the most effective way to get your ingredients closer to the exit.
 If you haven't dealt with special candies and teleports before, you may have a few factors to consider in this level. See below:


Striped candies and wrapped/striped combos won't work through a teleport. In other words, if you set off a vertical striped candy in the bottom left area, it will hit candies in the two left areas, but not any on the right.
Wrapped candies won't fall through teleports unless the candies "underneath" them on the other side get cleared for some other reason. In other words, if you set off a wrapped candy in the bottom row of the right area, it will clear the candies around it, but it won't fall into the top left area.
Color bombs work normally.
 You only have 33 turns on this level. That may seem like a lot, but if you're not careful, you can easily find yourself left with just a few turns left and multiple ingredients left on the board. Luckily, the areas on the right side of the stage and (especially) the top left side of the stage will move a lot more candy than clearing in the bottom left area, helping you to make the most of your moves.


For example, if you have one cherry on the board in the far right column of the bottom left area and you don't have any great combinations on the board to make specials, try clearing candies in the far right row of either the area on the right or the area in the top left so that your cherry will at least make progress towards the exit.
There are, however, exceptions to this rule. For instance, it's often worth it to get a special candy even if this doesn't clear candy underneath your ingredients (especially if this special can knock one or more ingredients off the board.)

, On most ingredients levels, new ingredients usually enter the level when the ones that are on the board are cleared (though they will sometimes drop seemingly at random — the Candy Crush community has not determined exactly what will consistently trigger the release of a new ingredient.)Level 76 is no exception. This means that it's in your interest to clear each cherry as quickly as possible — the next one won't show up until you deal with the one you already have.
 Used correctly, vertical striped candies can help get your cherries those crucial last few spaces to the exit. Try to set off vertical striped candies on either of the areas on the left side of the screen so that they're lined up with your cherries — since they'll hit all of the candies in one of the top left columns, they can move your cherries up to four spaces towards the exit.


For instance, let's say that you have a cherry in the second row of the right area. If you can fire a vertical stripe candy in the second row of either of the areas on the left, your cherry will move four spaces towards the exit — not bad.
 Wrapped candies can be a huge help in this level if you're able to maneuver them into the top left area. Since they clear a 3 x 3 square twice, setting one off in the right place can move your candy up to six squares towards the exit, which is quite good.


Though rare, a wrapped/wrapped combo in the top left area is even better. Since the 5 x 5 explosion will clear most of the entire top left area twice, any cherries on the board can potentially move up to eight spaces towards the exit.This will often be enough to clear them off the board entirely.
 Though this isn't a hard and fast rule, opportunities for moving the ingredients into the two center columns and away from the edges are things you should keep an eye out for. This provides you with the most possible combinations for keeping the ingredients moving downwards and off the board since the middle two columns have candies on both side to make moves with rather than just one side.


It's also a good to get into the habit of moving ingredients away from the edges of the level. Though it isn't absolutely essential here, on future ingredients levels it can be easy to accidentally drop ingredients into corners that they are very tough to get out of, so make a point early to keep them moving towards the center.
 When you mix a striped candy and a wrapped candy, you'll create a combo which clears three rows and three columns in a cross pattern. This can be very useful on this particular game board, especially if you're luck enough to hit the candies in the top left area with it. However, this needs to be done as quickly as possible, so as not to use up moves.
 Perhaps the single most useful combo you can get in this level (besides the extra-rare color bomb/color bomb combo) is to combine a color bomb and a striped candy. This will create random striped candies all over the board on the candies that are the same color as the striped candy you used. Generally, this will clear most if not all of the board very quickly, which often means you'll clear one or more cherries off the board in a single move.
 On this level, it's more important than normal to pay attention to the placement of your moves. Try to avoid making matches that don't move your cherries towards the exit (or, in other words, matches that lie above your cherries.) There may be times when you have to do this (especially when your ingredients have almost reached the end), but these moves shouldn't be your priority since they don't get you closer to beating the level.


For this reason, you'll almost always want to avoid making matches in the bottom left section entirely. An exception to this is if you can make a valuable special candy, especially one like a vertical striped piece that can hit the pieces in the top left.
 In general, vertical striped candies are more highly prized in this level than horizontal striped candies because, with their ability to clear an entire vertical column, they can get an ingredient many spaces closer to the exit. By contrast, horizontal striped candies will usually only get an ingredient a single space closer to the exit. Often, this isn't worth the extra moves needed to get the horizontal striped candy in the first place.


As always, however, there are exceptions. For instance, if you can line up a horizontal striped candy with the last row of candy above the exit, you can use it to get your ingredients past that crucial last space.
 With 30,000 points required for one star, level 76 doesn't have particularly demanding point requirements. If you're having a hard time balancing your efforts to create point-winning combos and clear all of the ingredients, try forgetting about points and focusing only on clearing the cherries. Odds are that you'll probably get enough points from this alone to clear the 30,000 mark.


Note that when you clear an ingredients level, a random striped candy appears on the board for each turn you have in reserve. These special striped candies score 3,000 points apiece when they fire (not counting any additional points from cascades that are triggered as a result), so clearing the board as quickly as possible is a great way to rack up major points., Unfortunately, unless you're willing to shell out cash for bonuses, a good amount of your success in Candy Crush Saga will be determined by luck. The candies that fall onto the board are completely random — it's possible to simply "be dealt a bad hand" and to get stuck in a situation where beating the level it difficult if not impossible. Don't give up! Stick with the strategies above and you'll beat level 76 in no time.

