 You may have heard the phrase “don’t sweat the small stuff.” This notion can be the key to staying happy while you’re in school. When something upsets you (like a bad grade, an argument with a friend, or not making a sports team) stop, and try to put it in a bigger context. Chances are this one bad grade, argument, or rejection will not have a major long-term impact on your life. Think of your long-term goals.
Ask yourself if this one upsetting thing have any effect on them.
Chances are, the answer will be no. So don’t sweat it!

, A huge source of stress during school days is interpersonal drama. You can work to avoid this problem and stay happy if you make an effort to mind your own business.When conflicts arise that don’t necessarily involve you, try to stay out of it.
Don’t gossip! It may be tempting, but try not to talk about people behind their backs.
Don’t allow yourself to get pulled into arguments. Don’t let anyone pressure you to take sides.
 If something is on your mind, don’t bottle it up. If you are stressed about an upcoming assignment, you are upset with someone in your life, or you are disappointed about a bad grade you received, you can help yourself feel better by talking about it with a friend. A friend can help you come up with solutions, or just be a shoulder to cry on. Talking about the problem will always make you feel better, plus, talking through a problem helps you make a plan.If you are stressing about an assignment, talk about how to break the assignment down into parts over time.
If you are upset with a friend, go to that person directly and talk to them about what happened.
If you are disappointed about a grade, focus on the next assignment. Talk to your friend about ideas for how to improve.
 Nobody is perfect. You can improve the quality of your days at school if you do not spend them judging other people. The more you try to accept others, the more you will accept yourself, and the happier you will be. If you find yourself making a judgment about the actions or choices of somebody else, try to let it go. Remember that it’s not your problem., School days can be nothing but a series of obstacles, obligations, and important decisions. Or, you can make the choice to not take every little thing so seriously. When you look from a different perspective, life is pretty ridiculous! When you let go of the seriousness, school days can be happy and fun.When something stressful happens to you, try to find the humor in it.
Think of yourself ten years from now. What will that older version of you remember? How will they feel about the little things that are bothering you today?

, If you are stuck taking a course that you really don't like, remember that it's only temporary! Each semester is only a matter of weeks. You can stick it out for that long! You can track the number of weeks that remain in the semester in your school planner. This will have the added benefit of reminding you how close you are to mid-terms or finals.

