 Don't go too far.
 Dependent on where you flew into you could be in gates T, A, B, C, D, E (from west to east) or a separate International Terminal (that there is a walkway to only). Your gate will also have a number.

Some airlines' mobile apps will even tell you which gate you arrived at; however, it's just as easy to look up to tell which terminal building you are in. Step to the side or sit down if needed to figure it out, or ask an airline attendant.
 Many times prior to the Plane Train walkway, you can find the current timetable and gates information on the Departure screens. These are updated frequently, and may be more up-to-date than your ticket or boarding pass., Each terminal's Plane Train is at a point down a walkway midway between the one end of the terminal and the other, and you'll want to walk towards it., Dependent on which terminal you're in, the nearby signs will tell you which gates are in the Plane Train direction you are near; on the other side of the Plane Train, the concourses will be going the opposite direction.

There is a place next to the escalators (where there will be either a small shop or a major-known restaurant) where some people check their flight data.
If you need to use an elevator, look for signs sending you to the elevator; you'll be able to cross over around the bend to send you on the right way to your terminal. The signs may be overhead or around the opposite escalator so look accordingly.
 Keep to one side if people are trying to walk down faster than you.,

Plane Trains come every minute or two, so if it's not right there, there will be one on its way soon.
 Walk quickly into the train, but don't run, for safety reasons., Don't push or barge into people with or without your carry-on baggage. Move carefully around people as you make your way to a safety spot., There are no physical seats on these trains. Hang onto the hanger bars as the train moves. Although the train moves forward, it will feel like you are moving sideways from terminal-to-terminal., Don't try to exit the train with the mob of people if people try to barge through or around you. Walk to a place inside the train where there are few to no people making their way in.

When you get to the terminal, head down the hallways and up the escalators to find your gate.

