 Dogs are big commitments, and foisting such a commitment on someone without their prior approval or knowledge could lead to the recipient rejecting the gift.Changing hands so many times in such a short time is stressful for the dog.To find out if the person you plan on gifting the dog to wants a dog, simply ask, “Do you want me to get you a dog?”
Sometimes, even if someone wants a dog, it’s best if they don’t receive one.For instance, if you’re a parent considering gifting a dog to your young child, you should remember that you will be the one taking care of the dog most of its 10-15+ year life, not your child.;
, After they receive this dog paraphernalia, you can travel with them to your local animal shelter and move forward with the adoption process.This will give the person you’re gifting the dog to time to decide what sort of dog they want.
Along with the adoption kit, provide a gift certificate from your local pet shelter in an amount close to the expected cost of the dog the person you’re giving to will want. You might also choose to produce your own “Pet Promise Certificate” using Petfinder’s online template., Dogs need to be walked, fed, let outside, and played with regularly. Making a gift of a dog to someone who works 10 or 12 hours daily is irresponsible unless that person has someone at home to participate in rearing and attending to the dog.Ensure that the person you’re giving the dog to thinks carefully about their schedule, energy levels, and lifestyle when making their choice.Dogs cannot be returned if later, the person who received the dog decides later that dog ownership is not something they are interested in., Older dogs, on the other hand, are often already trained and less rambunctious than younger dogs. Additionally, larger dogs will need more food and water than smaller dogs. Think carefully about the personality and needs of the dog you make a gift of, and match these needs to someone who can adequately meet them.Shots, spaying/neutering, and other veterinary expenses can add up quickly. Ensure the person you’re gifting the dog to can meet these and other, ongoing care needs., Once the person has thought long and hard about the needs of various breeds as well as their own lifestyle, they should have a better idea of exactly what type of dog they want. Ask them to settle on what breed of dog they want, how old they wish the dog to be, and what sex they want it to be.If the person who will receive the dog is still unsure as to which or what type of dog they want, instruct them to do some research. Information about dog ownership can be obtained through the internet and books at the local library. The recipient should investigate breed-specific profiles that offer information about the energy levels and general personalities of various types of dogs., Generally, kids will not be the primary caretakers of a dog that was received as a gift. Prepare yourself to spend a lot of money, energy, and time on any dog that you buy as a gift for a child. But at any age, your child should understand that a dog is a responsibility that they must also invest at least some time in.