 If you know you need to look great naked in a hurry, try doing this workout: 24 lunges on each leg, 24 bicycle crunches, 24 push-ups, 24 V-crunches and 24 seconds of mountain climbers.Don’t take any breaks during this workout; you want to keep your heart rate up. You should complete the workout fairly quickly, but the actual time will vary for each individual. Keep your heart rate up and break out into a sweat, but do not push yourself to move so fast you begin to feel pain.
To do a V-crunch, sit on your bottom, bend your legs and lift them off the ground, then lean back until you feel a pull in your abs. Straighten your legs while leaning even further back, then return to your initial seated position.
 Even if you’re in really good shape, a little bit of bloat can mess with your confidence. Get rid of bloat by drinking 9 cups (2.2 liters) of water each day, and making some alterations to your diet.Avoid using a lot of salt in cooking. Go for spices other than salt to add flavor to food. You should also stay away from microwavable meals, as these tend to be high in sodium. A lot of salt can lead to extra water retention, which can make you look bloated.
Dairy can make many people feel gassy and bloated. Limit your intake of dairy products, like cheese and milk, in order to flatten your stomach. Spicy foods can also make you feel gassy and bloated, so stay away from these as well.
Stay away from alcohol. Alcohol can irritate your stomach, causing swelling and making you look bloated.
 When it comes to slimming down and reducing bloat, healthy fruits and vegetables can help. However, make sure you're eating the right types of produce. Certain fruits and veggies should be avoided if you're trying to slim down.Broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, and artichokes can sometimes increase bloating in people. Steer clear of these foods if you're trying to look better naked.
Berries, grapes, and citrus fruits tend to help reduce bloat, while honeydew, apples, and pears can increase gas and bloating.
 Drinking tea can help reduce stomach bloat, speed up metabolism, and aid in digestion. Try drinking ginger tea, chai tea, bilberry tea, hibiscus tea, fennel tea or lemon tea to banish inflammation and reduce stomach bloat.Try chamomile tea to reduce bloating and also help curb overeating.If you don’t like tea, try drinking a mug of hot water in the morning and also before and after every meal.
 Glycolic acid is an exfoliator that has the ability to make your skin look younger, smoother and softer. Apply a body wash with glycolic acid to your skin, then use a long-handle brush to rub it in.Only apply your glycolic acid body wash to your body. Do not apply it to your face.
Make sure to rinse off afterwards to ensure all the dead skin cells are washed away.

