 If you want a literal “bouquet” of flowers, for example, then you will need to purchase flower-shaped cookie cutters. You will also need to purchase appropriate colors of food coloring for your cookie designs.;
, You can choose, for instance, a coffee mug, a small basket, a small bucket or a small plant pot. In addition to the container, you will need to purchase florist foam. You’ll insert your favors and cookie sticks into the foam to hold them into place.
 If you want to paint it, or if you want to purchase items to glue onto the container, then you will need to purchase those items in advance from a craft store or discount store. Alternatively, you can choose to leave the container “as-is.”

, Choose a larger size as opposed to a smaller size because this will work better in the bouquet. Alternatively, you can choose a variety of sizes to create additional detail.
 This will give you a point of reference to use while you decorate your cookies with glaze.
 For instance, you may want to place Easter grass or confetti at the base of the bouquet or insert additional favors into the bouquet.
 You can use either a handheld mixer or a stand mixer with a paddle attachment.
,,,, Continue adding the dry ingredients, 1 cup at a time, until they are all incorporated into the mixture.
 You can sprinkle some flour on a cutting board, a piece of wax paper or a clean countertop.
,,,, These will guarantee that your dough has the right thickness.
 When your rolling pin pushes the dough down enough so that the pin is directly on top of the paint stirrers, you will know that your dough is 1/2” thick.
, This will keep it from adhering to the dough as you cut out your cookies.
 Cut out as many shapes as you can from the dough, dipping the cutter in flour as needed to prevent sticking.
 You can always use the paint stirrers as a guide.
,, Spray a baking sheet with nonstick cooking spray and then line it with parchment paper. The spray will help the parchment paper to adhere to the baking sheet because the paper tends to curl up during longer baking times.
 Try to keep the sticks parallel to the work surface so that they don’t poke through the back of the cookie.
 With your reserved dough, make small patches. You may need to lightly moisten your dough with water so that the patches will stick. Gently press the edges of the patch down so that it blends with the surface of the cookie.
 Create an alternating pattern with the remaining sticks. For instance, the top cookie should be in the right hand corner of the baking sheet with the stick pointing to the left. Place the next cookie on the left side of the baking sheet, parallel to the first cookie, with the stick pointing right.
 Leave about 1” (2.5 centimeters) of space between each cookie stick.
 Watch them carefully throughout the process; the thicker cookies make the baking time a little trickier. You should remove them from the oven when the edges of the cookies begin to darken.
, Transfer the cookie sticks to wire racks to cool. You will be able to fit more cookies onto the rack if you lay them out in the same alternating pattern that you used on the baking sheet.
,, Add just a small amount of food coloring to each bowl. If you want a deeper shade of color, then continue adding food coloring a few drops at a time. Stir the glaze, check the color, and add more food coloring if needed.
 You want the glaze to have the consistency of cold honey so that it is easy to spread over the surface of the cookies. If any of the glazes are too thick, then add a teaspoon of milk and whisk it into the glaze.
 Pipe some glaze around the edge of the cookie, leaving a small border between your glaze line and the edge of the cookie. This step creates a border for your background color. In a sense, this is like tracing a picture before coloring it with crayons. The border will ensure that the rest of your glaze doesn’t go “outside the lines.”

, If you need to spread it out a bit, then use a butter knife or a cheese spreader but be careful not to spread it beyond the piped border that you created earlier.
,


For straight lines, circles or other solid shapes, continue to use the plain tip.
To make stars, attach a star tip to the pastry bag. The tip should have a slightly smaller opening than your plain 3/4" tip. Place the tip perpendicular to the surface of the cookie. Squeeze the bag from the top, releasing some glaze, and then pull the bag upward to create the star.
To create a fluted ribbon or border, use the star tip. Hold the pastry bag at a 45-degree angle to the surface of the cookie. Steadily release the filling as you pull the bag along the surface of the cookie to create the fluted design.
,,, This row will be the tallest row.
 Push the sticks down into the foam so that the decorations and cookies are slightly lower than the back row.
, Either attach the card to the container or attach the card to the stick and insert the stick into the florist’s foam.
,,,