 Brushing your body with a natural bristled brush when it is dry helps improve circulation and stimulates your lymphatic system to release toxins. Dry brushing also reduces puffiness and cellulite, improves muscle tone, sloughs of dull, dead skin cells, and encourages skin cell renewal.After purchasing a natural body brush with firm bristles and preferably a long handle, keep the following in mind:Dry brushing is most effective first thing in the morning before you take a shower.
Always brush in gentle, circular motions toward the heart.
Begin the dry brushing at the soles of your feet and work your way up the legs, and then brush your hands and arms. Lastly, brush your buttocks, up the length of your back, and then around to the stomach area, which should be brushed in an anticlockwise direction.
When you are finished brushing, rub detoxifying oil (like sesame oil) all over the body and let it sink in for 5 minutes before showering.;
, It is important to cleanse the skin of impurities after your daily brushing routine. Check the product label and choose a cleanser that is natural, chemical free, and pH balanced. Avoid any harsh soaps, foaming cleansers, or coarse scrubs. Once you have found a detoxifying cleanser, use a clean washcloth and some product to clean the skin on your face and body as you shower or bathe., Soaking in a detoxifying bath a few times per week for 20 - 30 minutes can help clear pollutants from the pores of your skin. The most popular kinds of detoxifying baths are:Epsom salt and ginger bath: Bring a mixture of water and freshly sliced or grated ginger root to a boil and let it steep for 10 minutes. Mix ginger water with 1 cup of Epsom salt and add to a warm tub of water.
Epsom salt and baking soda bath: Add 1 cup of baking soda and 1 - 2 cups of Epsom salt to a warm tub of water.
Epsom salt, sea salt, and sesame oil bath: Add 1 cup of Epsom salt, 1 cup of sea salt, and 1 cup of sesame oil to a warm or hot tub of water.
Apple cider vinegar and Epsom salt bath: Add 1 cup of organic raw unfiltered apple cider vinegar and 1 cup of Epsom salts to a hot bath.
 The negative charge of natural clays, especially montmorillonite clay, helps to detoxify the skin by attracting the positive charge of the impurities and pulling them to the surface of your skin.You can apply the clay mask to your face only or all over your body, letting it dry for about 15 minutes before washing it off with a warm washcloth.
 Help keep your detoxified skin clean and continue to fight damage from free radicals by using products every day that protect the skin. In addition to applying a moisturizer with at least SPF 15 every day, dermatologists also suggest wearing serums that contain chelators underneath your daily moisturizer. Chelators are a class of ingredients that detoxify pollutant buildup on your skin and protect the skin from new damage., Eating refined sugar causes a reaction called glycation, which is when the sugar in your bloodstream attaches to protein or lipid molecules and forms harmful molecules called advanced glycation end products (AGEs). The more sugar you eat, the more of these AGEs you develop. If you accumulate a lot of AGEs in your system, they begin to damage surrounding proteins like the collagen and elastin that keep your skin firm and elastic.Some tips to help you cut back:


Glycation can also be caused if you eat a lot of fruits and vegetables, which also turn into glucose in your system. That doesn’t mean stop eating fruits, just be mindful of your intake!
Limit added sugar in your diet to no more than 10% of total calories, which is about the equivalent of six Hershey’s Kisses a day.Be mindful of sugars hiding in prepared foods. Always check the nutrition label on products to see how much sugar there is, keeping in mind that 4g is equal to 1 teaspoon of sugar.
Avoid products that contain high fructose corn syrup, which is popular in sodas, flavored drinks, packaged breads, crackers, and other snacks.
 Having a protein-rich diet is important to detoxification, but it is also essential that you choose products that do not use hormones. Hormones are often used to treat the animals and/or their byproducts, and these hormones can cause acne and other skin problems. Smart protein choices for detoxing your skin include:Grain-fed beef and poultry
Organic dairy products

, For a detoxifying diet it is important to ingest healthy fats, which help the body absorb essential vitamins and restore or maintain an ideal hormone balance.Unhealthy fats, like saturated and trans fats, should be avoided. Instead, try eating some of the following:


Salmon is high in omega-3 fatty acids, which create strong skin cells, improve skin elasticity, and help prevent wrinkles.Olive oil instead of butter or other oils.
Nuts and seeds for snacking.
 Alkaline minerals like calcium, potassium, and magnesium are what keep our skin, hair, teeth, and bones strong and healthy. If your diet is not balanced and contains too many acidic foods, your body will leach off of the alkaline minerals available to it. Eating more alkaline-rich foods will help restore this balance and keep these important nutrients available.Some alkaline-rich foods to try include:


Broccoli
Kale
Pears
Apples
Spinach
Bananas
Watermelon

, Drinking water throughout the day is important even if you’re not on a detoxifying diet, but drinking a significant amount of water is key to flushing toxins from your skin and body. Drinking water keeps your body and your skin hydrated, keeps your complexion clear, and helps prevent wrinkles. It also helps eliminate toxins in the digestive system and speeds up digestive processes to toxins are eliminated from the body at an expedited pace. Aim to drink 8 - 10 eight ounce glasses of water each day.