 Use a soft, fluffy eyeshadow brush with longer bristles to do this. This will give you that nice, soft base color.









If you have a darker skin tone, a light brown might be too light for you; opt for a shade that is 2 to 3 shades darker than your skin tone instead.;
, The eyeshadow should be darkest along the crease, and faded to almost nothing as it goes towards your eyebrow.
 Use a smaller brush with slightly shorter and stiffer bristles to do this. Focus the shadow inside the crease, as well as just above and below it. For this, you can use a somewhat sparkly eyeshadow.
 Start by blending most it downwards towards your lash line. Finish off by blending it upwards towards your eyebrow, just a little bit past the crease. Don't worry so much about getting the blending on the eyelid perfect, as you will be covering it up.
 Start applying the eyeliner to the center of your eyelid, right along the lash line. Work your way to the corners, making the line thinner as you go. When you are done, you should have a half-circle shape halfway up your eyelid.









You can also use black eyeshadow, black kohl, or a black eyeliner pencil.
If you are having difficulties applying the makeup to your lash line, take a little mirror and hold it below your eyes, in the palm of your hand. Look down into the mirror, and carefully outline your upper lash line.
 Do not blend it up too high, however. The black eyeliner will simply act as a base, so that you can get the darkest black possible.









Finish off your blending by running your brush along your eyelid, just below the crease. This will help soften any harsh edges.
 This will help set it, and prevent it from smudging. It will also help take away any shine. If you want, you can use a black eyeshadow with some shimmer in it.
 Use the same brush you used to apply it originally—the one with the stiffer bristles. Be sure to blend it up towards the brow bone. When you are done, you should have a sort of ombre effect on your eyelid, that starts black, and gradates to a lighter brown towards your brow bone.
 Use a black eyeliner with a felt tip or brush applicator to fill in the gap between your upper lashes and eyelid. This will help create a smoother transition, and blend everything together.
 If you have not already, trim your false lashes down until they fit your eyelid. Apply a thin line of eyelash glue to the back strip of your falsies, and wait until the glue starts to turn tacky. Carefully apply the eyelash, and lower your eyes until it dries.









Most white glues will start to turn clear when they get tacky.
Consider holding your falsie in a U-shape between your fingers while you wait for the glue to turn tacky. This will give it a nice curved shape, and help it mold better against your eyelid.
Learning how to put on false lashes takes practice. Some people use special applicators or tweezers to put them on.
 Use a brush with shorter, slightly stiffer bristles to do this. This will help open up your eyes, and make them appear wider, brighter, and more awake.
 This will give your eyes that darker, smokier effect. Begin by lining your lower eyelid with black liner. Dust on some dark brown eyeshadow using a brush with short, stubby bristles. Be sure to follow the outline of your lower eyelid. Blend everything together using a thin, crease brush.
 This will help balance your eyes out, and make them look less top heavy—especially if you are wearing very heavy false lashes.
 This will give your eyes that nice, clean look. Begin by combing your brows upwards with a "spoolie" brush. Fill in any gaps and sparse areas with an eyebrow pencil; use as light a touch as you can. Next, fill in your eyebrows using a pressed powder and an angled brush; use a softer touch towards the inner corners of your eyebrows. Finish off by combing through your brows with the spoolie brush.








A spoolie brush looks a little bit like a mascara brush.
Use colors that closely match your eyebrows. If you have blond or very pale eyebrows, however, go a few shades darker. If you have black eyebrows, use a very dark brown or charcoal.
To set the look, comb some eyebrow gel over your eyebrows. You can also dust on some translucent setting powder instead.
