 Speech and language therapies can help identify alleviate the communication difficulties faced by an autistic child, especially in respect to striking a chord and starting a conversation with others.


Speech-language pathologists have the knack and expertise to help the child understand the nuances involved in starting a conversation and keeping it alive.
They can help the child acquire social skills and the ability to start a conversation.;
, Pragmatic communication is about using language in a way that satisfies the situation and abides by the conversation's unspoken rules. Because many autistic children do not know and understand the basics of starting a conversation, it can be hard for them to acquire nuanced conversational skills of their own.


Autistic children may not know how to maintain adequate distance from the other person, make eye contact, display facial expressions consistent with their feelings, vary their tone, modify their speech based on their conversation partner (e.g. using simpler words when talking to their little brother), and more.
Speech language therapists can assist the child in pragmatic language instruction, bolstering their ability to make particular speech sounds and modify their speech and tone according to the situation and audience.
 This is a type of therapy in which social skills can be taught in a step-wise manner. CBT uses a step-by-step approach where autistic children are exposed to highly structured activities to encourage the assimilation of social and adaptive skills.


These skills are imparted through highly structured activities in a step-wise manner for the children to assimilate and pick up.
CBT can also help children handle or overcome anxiety and depression, which are common issues for autistic children. This can make them less afraid to initiate conversation, as well as improving general quality of life.
This prevents them from committing mistakes and exposing himself to as many people as possible out of fear of embarrassment.
 Teaching, training, and practice structured by a skilled therapist can improve the way a child interacts with others. Therapists can used techniques such as social stories, role playing, and other visual techniques to teach and prepare the child to open up and communicate better in various social situations. RDI is one therapy that helps with this.


The therapy can include ways to help the child understand tone, eye contact, sarcasm, humor, hand gestures, and non-verbal cues.
These therapies can increase the confidence levels of your child.

