 Ice has evolved from the old-fashioned "cube", and now can be tailored precisely to suit your needs. Flake Ice (also called scale, chip, or snow ice) works well for seafood displays at the fish market or supermarket. It can also be used to store cold beverages - in a bar display, to pack a cooler - or to nurse injuries. The "go to" in bars, restaurants, and fast food establishments remains Cube Ice , Half Cube Ice , or Crescent Ice , as these ice forms tend to cool liquids quickly, while displacing a good amount of liquid as well. This makes serving soft drinks and mixed drinks more profitable. Gourmet Ice (called top hat and octagon ice as well) is elegant and classy, adding a touch of refinement to beverages. This ice is also impurity free, consisting of 100% water. Nugget Ice has become a highly influential ice form in some select establishments. It is soft and chewable, making it desirable in health care facilities as well, as it minimizes the risks of choking by patients. Nugget ice has many established followers already, so if you choose to incorporate this ice into your business, word will surely spread quickly.;
, Will you require a steady stream of ice to be created during the day and throughout the night as bars and restaurants do? Will you require a great amount of ice on hand once a day, as many construction sites do when employees fill their coolers in the morning, usually depleting the bin completely. Obviously, the size of your establishment will play a large role in how much ice you require. Ice machines have the ability to make anywhere from 50 pounds of ice per day up to 2,000 pounds of ice per day, so there are plenty of options available to suit a variety of needs. It is always better to overestimate the amount of ice you need, as running out of ice can cause great problems for your business. It is wise to calculate the hourly production of your ice machine as well, as this well give you a decent idea of how much ice your machine will be creating during peak hours of business.
 Ice Bin or Dispenser; Undercounter or Countertop Ice Machine? While there are many different kinds of ice machines, there are also many different ways to store your ice as well. The standard way to store your ice is an ice bin. Ice Bins provide a safe, sanitary, insulated area for ice to reside while ice is not being used. However, you may require an Ice Dispenser in a fast food establishment, or a Hotel Ice Dispenser for each floor of your hotel or motel. Countertop Ice Machines make a great fit in the office, break room, or cafeteria. These tend to have lower outputs however, and their internal storage bins are self-contained. Undercounter Ice Machines are similar, comprised of an "all-in-one" unit. The ice machine, condenser, and bin are all housed in one convenient appliance.
 The condenser plays a large part in the performance and consistency of your ice machine. Air cooled condensers are generally more energy efficient, but can be noisy. They are also quite sensitive to temperature changes in air and water. If temperatures increase, your ice machine's production may be greatly affected. Remote air cooled condensers can be placed outside, or on the roof of your establishment. This moves the heat and noise produced by the condenser outside, and also provides the condenser with a cooler location in which to operate. Ice machines with remote air cooled condensers tend to be the most energy efficient and resource-conservative. Water cooled ice machines provide you with a unit that is affected little by temperature fluctuation. They are also very quiet, and produce little heat. These ice machines however, use and waste a great amount of water to keep their condensers cool, and will inevitably cause your water bill to rise. Most ice machines are available with either air cooled or water cooled condensers, while remote air cooled condensers are available in a smaller percentage of ice machines.
 This seems like a no-brainer, but it is often overlooked. With so many e-commerce websites out there, there is a great chance to find competitors eager to 'one-up' the other, and in turn offer a better price. Some sites offer "Price Match Guarantees", where they will beat a competitor's advertised price. Others are able to sell units at a lower cost as they may buy in bulk, and receive their ice machines at a lower price. They will then be more inclined to pass these savings on to their customers. You should also calculate the cost of operation into your purchase. Some ice machines operate more efficiently than others, and some Energy Star ice machines may even qualify for rebates in your area.

