 When you’re ready to remove your lashes, wet a cotton swab or pad with an eye makeup remover. Gently run the swab over the lash band where it’s attached to your eyelid to help loosen the adhesive.








It’s best to use an oil-free eye makeup remover because oils can leave behind residue that makes it difficult for lash adhesive to stick to the lashes the next time you use them.;
, After the eye makeup remover has started to loose the lash glue, start to pull up the edge of the lashes. Make sure to peel up from the outer corner of the lashes where they tend to come loose most easily.Use the pads of your fingers to peel off the lashes. Don’t use tweezers or your fingernails because they can rip the lashes or stretch out the band.
 Once you have the outer corner free, pull the lash off toward the inner corner. Make sure to work slowly and carefully, so you don’t stretch the band or warp the lashes.








If there are any areas where the lashes are still stuck, take a fresh cotton swab and wet it with eye makeup remover so you can run it over the spot before continuing to pull on the lash.
 When you’ve removed the lashes from your eyes, wet a cotton pad with eye makeup remover. Run the pad over the entire lash band to remove any eyeliner or mascara that may be on the lashes.








Clean both sides of the lash band to ensure that you remove all of the makeup residue.
If you’re using synthetic eyelashes, you can actually soak them in a little bit of eye makeup remover to help get rid of any makeup or other residue. Don’t soak mink or other natural false lashes, though, or you’ll damage them., After you’ve removed any makeup from the lashes, you should remove any remaining adhesive on the band. Hold the lashes between your forefinger and thumb, and gently pull at the adhesive with a pair of tweezers to remove.








If there is a thick layer of glue, you may be able to pull it off with your fingers.
In some cases, the adhesive will pull free in a single strip. In other case, you’ll need to pull it off in pieces.
 To ensure that there is no bacteria on the lashes, it’s important to disinfect them before you wear them again. Dip a cotton swab in rubbing alcohol, and run it along both sides of the lash band to get rid of any bacteria and adhesive that may still be on the lashes.








If any adhesive is left on the lash bands, it may irritate your eyes the next time that you wear them so it’s important to get all of it off.
 You don’t want to put your lashes away while they’re still wet or they may become damaged or moldy before your next use. Lay the lashes on a towel or piece of paper towel, and let them air dry for 15 or 20 minutes., To keep your lashes clean and dust-free for the next time that you wear them, it’s important to store them in a protective container. You don’t have to buy a special container, though -- save the plastic case that holds the lashes, as well as the tray with the half-moon shapes for the lashes to curl around.If you lose or misplace the packaging from your lashes, you can purchase reusable protective cases from beauty supply stores and online sites. They often hold more than one pair of lashes, so you can store all of your lashes in one place.
 Take the dry lashes and place them on the half-moon trays, bending them gently to fit around the curve so they hold their shape. Next, place the tray inside the plastic case and close the container, so the lashes are protected from dust, dirt, and debris.
 Once the lashes are in their packaging, it’s important to store them in the right spot. Heat and strong light can warp the lashes, so you should keep them in a cool, dark spot, such as a dresser drawer, until you want to apply them the next time.Avoid storing your eyelashes in the bathroom, which often gets hot and humid.

