 Before submitting your work always refer to your rubric or guidelines for the project and make sure you included all the points in your project.;
,,, When you first see a bad mark or an unexpected mark, don't let your emotions get the best of you. Try not to show that you are disappointing until you read the teacher's notes. Most teachers provide an explanation on what you may have missed out on. If you think your mark is still unfair, keep reading.
 Never just accept a mark you think you don't deserve. Stand up for yourself and confront the teacher about any mistakes. Have a good reason for your argument, such as:


"Teacher, I put in a lot of time, and I think you should review this specific part of my project."






"I think you may have skimmed over this part too fast."






"I am very sure I met all the requirements on this part, can you clarify?"






"Can you please review the project with me so I can improve next time?"







, Never present yourself with a lame excuse like " I spent so much time, like, give me a better mark!"

, Teachers aren't perfect and they may have made the mistake. Don't be upset if they did, show them your appreciation for fixing the mistake.
 If the teacher still didn't quite give you the explanation you were looking for, ask other students how they did on the paper/project and compare. When you go to the teacher it is best not to mention names, this may be considered rude. Try not to sound superior to others by saying "But everyone else sucked and they got better than me" Always be professional when reasoning, not arguing!

, If the teacher still is not being fair, it is a good time to contact your parents. This would not be considered taking it too far if there will be a significant drop in your mark. Your parents may be able to communicate to your teacher more effectively. It will also make your teacher realize that you take your work seriously.
 Even if your teacher continues being stubborn, leave it at that and keep trying your best on every other assignment. Do not give your teacher attitude or dirty looks about it, just continue to be polite. There will probably be more assignments to make up for your bad mark.

