 Reduce the amount of sugar in your diet throughout the day. Refined sugar can actually sap your energy and make you more tired. You can get the fuel your body needs by sticking with complex carbohydrates rather than the refined sugar. Complex carbohydrates are found in whole grains, legumes, beans and vegetables, especially starchy vegetables such as potatoes, winter squash, yams, and sweet potatoes.Sugar is a main source of fuel for the body. If you overdo it, you put yourself at risk for diseases such as obesity and diabetes. You can crash after a sugar rush, and those crashes are bad for your body and bad for your brain. It sets you up for needing more sugar to get yourself going again. That vicious cycle can cause fatigue and tire you out.;
, Simply replacing your morning cup of caffeinated coffee with a cup of decaf coffee or herbal tea can help you to wake up. Try to wake up with a hot cup of herbal tea instead of coffee. For some extra wake up help, add some lemon. Sweeten the tea with honey to avoid refined sugar. Try the following flavors:


Peppermint tea is a great drink to use to wake up. The scent and taste help energize you. Use peppermint tea bags or use a heaping teaspoon of dried herb per cup of tea.Ginger tea is used in many cultures instead of coffee for that first cup in the morning. Ginger is a mild stimulant and can help energize you.You can use ginger tea bags or use a heaping teaspoon of finely chopped fresh ginger per cup of tea.
 Start your day off with fruit. Not only is this a healthy way to start your day, but it will also help wake you up. The following fruits are filled with vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates for energy, and antioxidants to release the energy. Try a bowl, eat a piece of, or drink the fresh juice of any of the following:


Apples
Bananas
Cherries
Grapefruit
Blueberries
Peaches
Plums
Nectarines
Pineapple, A cold glass of water can wake you right up in the morning and give you some energy. Dehydration can make you less alert in the morning. Drinking an eight ounce glass of water can help you think more clearly. Plus, after sleeping all night, you need to replenish the water. Keep a pitcher of water in the refrigerator so it’s cold in the morning.


For some extra wake up power, add some slices of fresh lemon, orange, lime, or grapefruit.
Your body is made up of 60% water and replenishing your body’s water is important for increasing mental focus and fatigue. It can also help you to move more by increasing your trips to the bathroom, which can help you to wake up.
 There are certain foods that you can eat in the morning to give you more energy. Carbohydrates and protein are great sources of energy first thing in the morning. You can pick on of these or a combination of all of these to help boost your energy when you wake up.


Carbohydrates work well because they convert quickly to glucose, which gives you energy.
If you want to make your carbohydrate energy last longer, you can add some protein in with your carbs. Protein helps slow down the rate your body absorbs the energy, which helps the energy last longer.
Avoid eating foods high in fat. These will cause you to be sluggish.