 Many people find religious belief systems more than adequate to fill their lives with meaning. Being a "True Believer", however, will only result in giving up your identity for the identity of the collective. Conflicts and mid-life crises inevitably arise when the adopted concept of self conflicts with the true self. If you are inquisitive and trusting of your own intelligence, the first step is to find your true self. Self revelation is not for the squeamish. Take the time to let go of societal and personal preconceptions, letting your identity emerge without construct.;
, The universe was here before Humans and certainly before language, and requires no pedantic explanation. Words are not things or actions. They are vibrations of the air molecules or squiggles on a page. Mistaking words for reality is the mistake that puts politicians in office and sells all of the products, religions, and systems of government on the planet. Saying "Tree" is no more a tree than saying "I love you" means that someone loves you. To perceive reality as it is, one must accept that words are a vehicle for the transference of our perception of reality, not reality itself.
 The fragility of language will undermine your search.
 The universe will unfold and become clear when you seek knowledge without prejudice. Knowledge is not a destination, but a journey. Human knowledge is also imperfect. But don't despair, we know enough to come to firm conclusions. A 'fact' can only mean 'confirmed to such a degree that it would be perverse to withhold provisional assent.' I suppose that apples might start to rise tomorrow, but the possibility does not merit equal time in physics classrooms. Work with what you can know, not what you can imagine.
 It is what it is whether or not you exist.
 Our lives and the way we live them are human constructs of what we think is the best way to live. It is littered with over 6000 years of myth, superstition, and dogma. Don't confuse the truth with the things you do to survive. Society doesn't, and very often won't make sense.
 You will be able to separate the noise of language and society from the true sound of yourself. Define for yourself what brings meaning to your existence. Your meaning will be different from everyone else. You will know your life is meaningful because you will not fear death, getting old,or the various travails all of us encounter. Your destiny, your reason for being here will be apparent every waking hour. Contentment and bliss will follow.
 Start to see life in a bigger picture and know that the small things you do now fits into the bigger picture. For example if you want to save some amount of money, all you have to do is break down to how much you want to save in a day, one day at a time and in a number of years, you will save the money you wanted.

