 These can be prescribed by your physician. These medications mainly act by inhibiting the DNA polymerase of the herpes virus, preventing its multiplication.These medications are generally given for the first outbreak and to control subsequent outbreaks.Only really severe cases of oral herpes will require these medications.Zovirax is available in many dosage forms, such as tablets, syrups, injections, and as topical creams for the skin and eye. Each form should be used according to the patient’s medical condition and age. Creams can be applied directly to the blisters whether being in the mouth or on the genitals.
Acyclovir, for example, is prescribed as 800 mg 5 times a day for 7-10 days.
Ophthalmic cream is useful in case of herpes keratitis (herpes affecting the eye causing itching and discharge) to be applied once at bedtime.
Tablets and injections are more useful when the systemic route is wanted. In severe cases, tablets are taken twice daily.
The most common side effects with these medications are nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, headache, fatigue, dizziness and muscle aches.
 Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can be taken to reduce the irritation and inflammation at the affected site. They act by blocking the two enzymes responsible for prostaglandin production, COX-I and COX-II. Prostaglandin is involved in the inflammation process and in producing pain. NSAIDs have analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and antipyretic properties that can help relieve fever. You can usually relieve pain from a herpes outbreak with over-the-counter NSAIDs.Examples are Cataflam (Diclofenac salt) and Brufen (Ibuprofen) to be taken as tablets, syrups, effervescent sachets, suppositories, or topical creams. A typical adult dose can be one 50 mg cataflam tablet taken twice daily after meals.
NSAIDs have some side effects, mostly gastrointestinal disorders like nausea, vomiting, peptic or gastric ulcers. Patients with renal or hepatic disorders should ask their doctor first before taking these medications.
Take the lowest possible dosage to relieve your pain. Do not take NSAIDs for longer than two weeks without consulting your doctor. Chronic use of NSAIDs is linked to the formation of gastric ulcers and other health conditions., This medication can be taken for the same types of pain as NSAIDs, but has fewer anti-inflammatory properties. That being said, it still has anti-pain and anti-fever effects, relieving some of the symptoms.


Paracetamol is available as Tylenol or Panadol and can be taken as tablets, syrups, or suppositories. A typical adult dose can be two 500mg tablets to be taken up to four times daily after meals.
Take the lowest possible dose to relieve your pain. Acetaminophen overdose can cause liver damage.It may also be linked to kidney disease., A local anesthetic can be applied directly on the blisters especially on the genitals or the rectum to ease the irritation and itch sensation. A common example is Xylocaine (lidocaine) in gel form. It is well absorbed through the mucous membrane to create a numbness at the skin site.


Xylocaine can be applied twice daily.
Wear gloves or use a cotton swab to apply lidocaine to avoid numbing your fingers.

