 Before you start applying for jobs in the field you’re interested in, you have to understand its requirements. Do you need to complete a portfolio, a cover letter, a resume, or a writing sample? You need to know what these materials should look like and how you can emphasize your experience and skills through their form. Do you know a professional who works in this field? Their advice can really help you understand what a good application takes.;
, You cannot submit a resume that’s full of grammar and punctuation mistakes. All your application materials have to be perfect and free of errors, so, if possible, it’s best to rely on a professional editing services if you are not confident in your writing skills.
 When looking for a job, you should activate your network and tell many people that you’re hunting for a job in a particular field. People know people, so you never know what a simple conversation may lead to. If you are directly recommended by a respected professor, you will usually get an advantage over the other candidates for the job.
 There is probably a professional organization associated to the industry you want to work in, and you should definitely join it. Read the provided materials, go to all seminars and attend the meetings – that’s the best way to make valuable connections.
 Job searching is rarely a sprint; it’s a marathon for most recent graduates. Make sure to stay focused on your goals and keep searching through the ads. Bookmark Job-Hunt.org and check it regularly without losing hope! Moreover, do not lose confidence if your friend gets a job but you don't.
 In order to ask intelligent questions and provide all the right answers, you have to learn as much as possible about the employer. Get engaged in the conversation and don’t be rigid or shy.
 There are standards questions on all interviews, so try practicing their answers - out loud! You can do a mock interview with a friend or your parents. It may seem awkward at first, but you already know that communication skills are gained through practice.
 Security cameras may capture you right from the moment you enter the company’s parking lot. Get into the part and act gracefully from the start. Stay focused and be polite to everyone you meet there.
 You have to make a great first impression for the interviewer if you want to set the right course for the interview. Stand up straight and look friendly, but not overly enthusiastic. Your handshake is also very important, so make sure you make it firm and authoritative, but don’t crush the interviewer’s hand.
 Even if the interviewer is too serious, you shouldn’t allow their attitude to throw you off your game. Stay positive and confident, and don’t make elaborate explanation if the questions are meant to induce negative answers.

