 Low blood sugar, also known as hypoglycemia, can cause migraines. It is brought on by lack of nutrients or by eating too many refined carbohydrates, which turn to sugar in the blood. Small frequent meals are important if you want to control your blood sugar. Do not skip any meal throughout the day. Avoid refined carbohydrates like sugar and white bread. Whole grain breads should be fine.


For each of your small meals, choose options such as fresh fruits and vegetables with a protein like an egg or lean meats. This will help you keep your blood sugar steady throughout the day.;
, Tyramine is a substance that can release a chemical in your brain called norepinephrine, which can lead to headaches. There are many common foods containing tyramine or nitrites. Foods such as eggplant, potatoes, sausage, bacon, ham, spinach, sugar, aged cheese, beer, and red wine contain these compounds.


Other tyramine-containing foods include chocolate, fried food, bananas, plums, broad beans, tomatoes, and citrus fruit.
Foods with high levels of seasoning such as MSG or artificial additives might also contribute to triggering a migraine.
Soy products, particularly fermented ones, can contain high tyramine levels. Tofu, soy sauce, teriyaki sauce, and miso are examples of such soy products. , An allergy to a certain type of food can trigger a migraine in susceptible people. This is caused by the inflammation that happens with an allergic reaction. Try to avoid all foods that you are allergic to as well as those you think you might be allergic to.


If you find yourself with a migraine, list what foods you have had throughout the day. This way, you can keep track and start to pinpoint which foods are causing your allergies. You can also get allergy tested by your doctor.
Common food allergies include wheat, nuts, dairy, and certain grains.If you have established which foods seem to trigger your migraines, eliminate them from your diet. If you aren't sure, go without the food for a period of time to see how you feel and respond. Alternatively, you could ask your doctor about testing for food allergies.
Be aware that not everyone will have the same food triggers or responses. A food that triggers a migraine in someone else may not do the same for you.
 One of the major triggers of migraines is dehydration. Since the body needs so much water a day, the body responds to a lack of water by causing pain and discomfort. It causes other symptoms such as fatigue, muscle weakness, and dizziness.The best source of hydration is plain water. Other beverages that are low in (or free of) sugar or artificial sweeteners and caffeine-free can also help you stay hydrated.
 When trying to prevent migraines, you should avoid bright light. Certain colors of light can also trigger migraines in some people. This sensitivity is called photophobia. It happens when the light increases your headache pain. Nerve cells inside the eye called neurons are activated with bright light. When this happens, it can take 20-30 minutes of darkness to start to relieve the pain because the neurons are still active., Since bright or flashing lights can sometimes lead to migraines, you should wear sunglasses on sunny days or even bright winter days. The glare from snow, water, or buildings can trigger a migraine response. Sunglasses should contain good quality lenses with side panels if possible. Some migraine sufferers find that tinted lenses are helpful.Rest your eyes periodically when watching TV or using your computer. Adjust the brightness and contrast levels on computer screens and TV screens. If you're using a screen that reflects, decrease the reflection with filters, or by drawing blinds and curtains when the sun is shining.
Non-visual stimuli, such as strong scents, can also cause migraines in some people. Once you've been exposed to a certain scent that seems to trigger a migraine, try to avoid that scent., Migraines can be triggered by loud noises, especially when they are continuous. The reason for this is unclear, but some scientists think that migraine sufferers may not be able to suppress loud noises. Others suggests that the inner ear channel may be the cause., Changes in the weather or climate, which is linked to the barometric pressure, can trigger a migraine. A dry atmosphere or a warm, dry wind can have an effect on your body that causes a headache. This happens because of the imbalance of chemicals in your body due to the pressure change. 