 You need to figure out which room in your house has enough space, and get an idea what size treadmill will fit. Also consider who else might be using the room at the same time, as someone running on a treadmill may bother them.


Running on a treadmill can cause the room to shake sometimes, so you want to make sure the room you pick can sustain this.
When you have a finished or partially finished basement, this is typically the best option as it has the most sturdy floor and is often out of the way from the rest of the house.
You do have the option of a folding treadmill which saves space, but this is only a good option if you actually need the space it would take up. Otherwise, folding treadmills often lack the sturdiness of stationary ones.;
, As with most large purchases, your price limit will help determine what model of treadmill you can buy. It’s not mandatory, but you should plan to spend no less than $1000 if you want to get a model that is built well and will last.Higher quality models tend to cost between $1500 and $3000. Some models are available for lower than $1000 and may be a good option if you know you will only use the treadmill on occasion.
Your budget needs to account for potential shipping costs if you order online, or delivery costs from a store, and the price of a warranty, if you have to pay extra for one. It might also be good to budget for potential maintenance costs.
 You might generally think of treadmills that have a motor that moves the belt, but you also have the option of a treadmill whose belt only moves by foot power. These tend to be on an incline and the friction with your feet is what makes the belt move.


This is a cheaper option, and may be more durable, as there are less moving parts.
The primary setback of a manual treadmill is they can be harder to use. Since the belt only moves when you walk or run, this type can require more exertion on your part.
Another downside is that the steep incline may be too much for some users. You may not be comfortable, or capable, of walking or running on a steep incline for very long, which makes this type less useful to you.
 Not every treadmill brand makes the quality of treadmill you would want. Don’t look just at the price and certain features that you like. You want to choose a brand that has a good reputation and that people consistently speak highly of.


You can consult yearly buying guides which will list the best brands and also consumer guides which may review specific models.
Shopping sites like Amazon are a great place to look at product reviews. You can find reviews of multiple brands, and also of specific models of treadmill.
One thing to look for is whether or not a company has a return policy. If you order online and you end up not liking the model you choose, you want to know ahead of time if you have the option to return it. Even if you purchase in-store, you may find a reason to return it, too.
 With equipment like this, there’s no certainty it will run perfectly forever. Yet, you can pay attention to the likelihood of needing maintenance. This is something to look for in product reviews, and you can also find out from the manufacturer, or store personnel, about which models tend to need more maintenance than others.


If low maintenance is important to you, manual treadmill options may be your best bet. Having less parts tends to make them more reliable.
It’s important to remember there’s no guarantee, but if minimal maintenance is important to you, then make sure you keep it at the forefront when researching and selecting a model.
 Most treadmills will have a fairly high limit, but it is still worth paying attention to. If you are heavyset, you don’t want to end up buying a treadmill that isn’t sturdy enough to support you, especially if you will be running on it.This is something to look for when you research different models, but you can also ask the salesperson to check. If you can look at a manual or packaging for the treadmill, this information should be listed somewhere inside.
Online descriptions should include this, but you can also contact the manufacturer directly to gather this information.
 This stands for continuous horsepower, or continuous duty rating, and has to do with how hard the motor runs. The rating range is generally 1.5 to 3.0. If you will be running or using the treadmill frequently, you should get a treadmill rated closer to 2.5 or 3.0 CHP. This level of motor is better for running.If you know you will mainly be walking or only using the treadmill on occasion, you will probably be alright with a lower CHP rating.
 Treadmills offer a wide range of capabilities including programmed workouts, video input, audio input, heart rate monitoring, and fitness tracking. These should not be the highest concern, but they are important to pay attention to.It is said that boredom is one of the main things that keeps people from exercising, so you might put a high value on its video capacity.
Write up a list of features that you would like your treadmill to have, then prioritize which ones are the most important and which ones you’d be okay without. If you are planning a weight loss program, heart rate and fitness tracking may be more important than speakers for music.
 If you are a sprinter, you need to know that the treadmill can go as fast as you want it to. Conversely, if slow walkers will also use it, you need the lowest speed settings to be slow enough. If incline is important to you, make sure the treadmill can be made as steep as you want it.


If you don’t plan to run, you may not need the top speed to be very high. Similarly, if walking on a steep incline isn’t your forte, you don’t need that option either.
The specific needs of all the people who will use this treadmill are important to consider. If you have tall and short, heavy and light people, you need a treadmill with construction and settings that will cater to the whole range of people who will use it.
 Most modern treadmills are equipped with an automatic shut off, in case of emergencies. This is typically a clip you attach to your shirt so that if you fall, it pulls a string and stops the belt. This is especially helpful if you are elderly or have any balance problems.Some models may also have a button that is an emergency stop which is useful if you start to feel dizzy and can hit the button before you actually fall.
 You should not make a final decision on a treadmill without the chance to walk and run on it first. The details of the model and the specifications are good to know, but you need to check your own level of comfort using the treadmill. If it doesn’t feel right to you, don’t buy it.Some stores may not like the idea of you using the treadmill, but with a purchase of this size, you want to make sure that it feels right to you. They want to make the sale, so do your best to bargain with them to let you test it out.
Walk and run for at least 5 minutes.
If you plan to order online, you won’t have the option of testing it in the store. Be creative to find a way to test one out. Maybe a friend, a specific gym in town, or a hotel has the model you are looking at and would let you test it out.
 The controls should be intuitive when you first step on the treadmill, but they should also be easy to manipulate while you are in motion. While running, adjust the speed and incline settings to gauge the ease of use. Try other settings to see what you can change while you are running.


Some models may have buttons or switches that are great when you are standing still but are harder to use once you are moving. Since you are likely to operate the controls while you run, it’s important that you’re able to.
Also take note of the size of the buttons. If they are small or close together, you may have a hard time pushing them while you run. You don’t want to accidentally push the wrong button because of how they controls are set up.
If you can’t test it in the store, you could find a way to ask people online how they feel about the controls. Wherever you look at product reviews, discuss this and other aspects of the treadmill with an online community who owns the product.
 When you run on the treadmill, you want it to be sturdy and not shake or bounce with every step you take. Better treadmills tend to have solid construction that keeps them from bouncing too much. This may be called “shock absorption” in the description.


If the treadmill bounces a lot it may break down faster. It will also be less comfortable to run on and may cause pain in your knees or legs.
The treadmill’s shock absorption should fall in the middle of too spongy so that you bounce with every step, and too hard so that it feels like running on concrete. The treadmill should have a little bit of give, but still feel firm with each footfall.
 Different treadmill brands will have different warranty policies, which is another reason to find out about the brand before you buy. Make sure you are very clear on what the warranty covers and how long it lasts.Be skeptical about ones that only include a 90 day warranty, as this could be a sign that it’s not a high quality product. A 10 year warranty is a good indicator that the manufacturing company does not intend for the product to break down any time soon.
If the salesperson tells you a treadmill has a certain warranty, make sure they double check their information directly from the company. You don’t want to go on their word and find out later that they lied or were just wrong about the information.
When you order online, this might be something worth calling the manufacturer, or seller, directly to be sure you are clear on warranty options. You don’t want to miss something in the fine print.
 You need to know if the store you plan to buy from delivers, and whether or not they charge a fee for this. Depending on where you buy from, you may be required to transport the treadmill home yourself. If another store has free delivery, this may be a better option.


If you will be transporting the treadmill home yourself, make sure you have a truck or other vehicle that the treadmill can fit in.
Even if you order online, if the seller is somewhere near you, picking it up to save on shipping is probably still an option. Be sure to look into this.
 Besides transporting the treadmill, you need to know ahead of time if you have to put it together yourself or if there is an installation option available. If you feel comfortable putting it together, then you don’t have to worry, but you may prefer having someone with experience put it together.


This is another thing to check different stores for. One store may have free delivery while another has free installation. You need to decide which option is more valuable to you.

