 If you’d prefer a more methodical approach, you can follow a “starting distance” methodology with your cat. Begin by creating a safe space. Before any guests arrive, provide your cat with a safe area to go. This will be an area where the cat can completely avoid guests. Provide water, food, and a litter box. Place your cat in the safe space (but don’t lock him in) and let him remain there while guests arrive. This will help your cat to stop associating the presence of guests in the home with anxiety., When you have a particularly patient guest, ask them to help you find your cat’s starting distance. When you cat emerges from the safe area, have your guest come as close as they can to your cat before the cat displays any signs of anxiety or aggression. This is your cat’s approximate starting distance., The next time a guest comes over, remove your cat from the safe area, and place him at his approximate starting distance from the guest. Ask your guest to remain motionless (standing or sitting), and allow the cat to investigate them.If the cat remains calm, reward his behavior with treats, play, or petting and attention for a few minutes, then put him back in the safe area.
You can repeat this exercise a few times while your guest is visiting.
If the cat seems uncomfortable, move him further away until he is calm, and reward him as just outlined.
 Keep doing these sessions, each time watching your cat carefully. Have the guest move slowly and with gentle motions. Your guest doesn't need to say anything, but they may choose to speak in soothing tones. Eventually, the cat will be calm enough to remain within arm's reach of the guest.Anti-anxiety medication can help with this process also.
If your cat becomes anxious, simply increase the distance until he is calm.
 Once your cat is fairly comfortable approaching a guest that is still, see what happens if your guest moves around. Ask your guest to pace back and forth or make any movement that you want your cat to get accustomed to. (You may find that the starting distance is longer as some cats are more timid about movement.) Repeat the exercises with your guest moving so that your cat becomes desensitized.