 To make these clip-in extensions, you will need one full pack of hair wefts (human or synthetic), a pair of scissors, a needle and thread (in a color that resembles the color of the hair), a pack of extension clips (available in most beauty supply stores) and a tube of bonding glue.
 Take the hair weft and measure it against your head. You want it to stretch from just behind one ear to just behind the other, in a U-shaped pattern. Use your scissors to cut the hair weft to the correct width.
 Usually, a single layer of hair weft is not enough for people with normal to thick hair.


If you are using the extensions to make your hair look longer two layers will probably be enough, but if you want to make your hair look thicker you will need three layers.
As a result your will need to measure and cut one or two more hair wefts, identical to the first one. There will be enough hair in a single pack of hair wefts to do this.
You can either sew the layers together along the weft lines (by hand or using a sewing machine) or you can stick them together using bonding glue.
If you decide to use bonding glue (which is probably the easier option of you're not an experienced sewer), run a thick line of bonding glue just beneath the weft line on the first piece of hair, then stick the second piece on top, ridge side up.
Do the same with the third layer of hair (if using), then wait for the bonding glue to dry completely.
 Next, take your needle and thread and sew the extension clips to the weft line.


In terms of placement, you'll need to put one clip on either side of the extensions, right at the edge, and one in the middle to prevent the extensions from sagging.
Make sure to sew the clips to the side of the extensions with the rubber ridges and make sure to sew the extension clips with the comb side up -- otherwise you won't be able to put them in your hair!You don't need to use any fancy sewing techniques; just thread your needle (tying a knot at the end) and pass it through the first small hole on the extension clip and through the ridge of the hair weft.
Bring the needle and thread up over the top of the extensions and pass it through the second small hole. Continue in this manner until you reach the last hole on the clip. Pass the needle and thread through, then tie several small knots in the thread to secure before cutting off the rest.
 Now that you have your very own hair extensions, it's important to know how to apply them correctly.


Pin up all of the hair above your ears. Take a comb and tease (or backcomb) the hair at the roots, then spritz it with hairspray. This will give the extension clips something to hold onto.
Open the clips on your hair extensions and fasten them onto the exposed roots -- one behind each ear and one in the middle.If you decided to make a second set of extensions for added thickness, let down an extra inch of hair and repeat the process of teasing and hair spraying before applying the second set.
Let down the the top section of hair and brush or comb to combine your natural hair with the extensions. If your extensions are made from human hair, you can now style your hair as normal using a flat iron or curling tongs.

