 Chlamydiosis frequently produces respiratory problems in parakeets. Infected parakeets may suffer from sinus infection. Infected birds will also show a general shortness of breath accompanied by strained or labored breathing.Parakeets with Chlamydiosis may also display a “runny” nose, in which case a thin liquid will drip from their nostrils.;
, Chlamydiosis commonly attacks parakeets’ digestive systems, and moderate diarrhea is a common side effect. Note if your parakeet is eliminating waste more frequently than usual. Also note if the parakeet’s feces are an odd color: yellow, grayish, or green excrement can be a sign of Chlamydiosis., If you suspect your parakeet has contracted Chlamydiosis, watch to see if it produces excessive amounts of urine. Birds with Chlamydiosis often urinate an excessive amount.This condition, known as polyuria, can be a symptom of various types of bacterial infection, and does not by itself indicate a case of Chlamydiosis.
 Parakeets that have become infected from Chlamydiosis often feel poorly in general and act unwell. Infected birds may display lethargy, and are likely to listlessly sit around their cage. Infected parakeets may also lose their appetites (which may lead to weight loss) and their feathers may become unkempt and ruffled.Parakeets with Chlamydiosis may also produce discharge around one or both of their eyes. One or more of their eye-lids may also swell.
 Chlamydiosis can be a serious bacterial infection, and is not an illness that bird owners can cure at home. A veterinarian will be able to correctly diagnose your parakeet with Chlamydiosis by performing a fecal analysis or blood analysis, as well as possible oral swab testing.The vet will be able to prescribe the necessary medication in order to cure your bird. Never give a parakeet—or any other animal—an antibiotic or other medication without first receiving a diagnosis from a licensed veterinarian.
 Many cases of Chlamydiosis are treated with the antibiotic tetracycline. Medications that contain tetracycline include Vibramycin and Oxytetracycline.Doxycycline is another antibiotic which is commonly used in the treatment of Chlamydiosis.
While a parakeet—or any other bird—is being given tetracycline, do not give the bird any food or supplements containing calcium. Calcium will diminish the effectiveness of the antibiotic.
 Talk with the veterinarian and decide how the tetracycline (or other prescribed antibiotic) should be given to your sick parakeet. Depending on your and your veterinarian’s preferences, the tetracycline can be administered through an intramuscular or intravenous injection. Tetracycline can also be administered orally, or mixed into the parakeet’s food.Whichever treatment method you and your vet decide on, the antibiotic will likely need to be administered over the course of 45 days.
 Delivering an antibiotic via injection or force-feeding can be difficult for the owner and stressful for the infected parakeet. To avoid this problem, various companies manufacture medicated water, which your parakeet can drink to treat its Chlamydiosis. Ask your veterinarian if they recommend this course of treatment.Medicated water is used most often to treat mass outbreaks of Chlamydiosis, such as in an aviary.
 This is a common-sense rule, but your parakeet will have a much lower risk of illness (including Chlamydiosis) if its cage is kept clean. Remove all fecal matter, and make sure that your bird is kept in a well-ventilated environment.If your parakeet is being treated for a case of Chlamydiosis, it can re-catch the illness from bacteria within its cage. Fully clean the bird’s cage to prevent a second case of the disease.
 If you own or manage a pet store (specializing in birds) or an aviary, a Chlamydiosis outbreak presents a serious threat. To prevent this—and to keep your current birds safe—quarantine all new, incoming birds. Observe them for signs of Chlamydiosis, and ask a veterinarian or bird specialist to test the birds for the bacteria as well.Once a new bird has been diagnosed as free from Chlamydiosis, you can release it into the general bird-containment area.
 Birds already infected with Chlamydiosis will excrete the bacteria in their feces and liquid nasal discharge. The bacteria will then enter the air, at which point uninfected birds can inhale the bacteria and contract the illness.If your parakeet is kept away from infected birds, it will have a much lower likelihood of catching the disease.

Chlamydiosis can also be transmitted directly by beak-to-beak contact between two birds.

