 While it’s important to follow through on your commitments and fulfill your responsibilities, it’s also important to do things that you love. Carve out a portion of each day when you can participate in activities which make you laugh and feel happy, even if you can’t get school credit for them or put them on your college application. After all, time spent laughing doesn’t just cheer you up in the short-term: it also stimulates blood flow and oxygen levels, thus reducing physical and mental stress.If it feels like you can’t find a spare minute in the day, try to combine your recreational activities with things you have to do. For example, let yourself watch your favorite comedy while you run on the treadmill or make posters for your school club.
 Most people have a friend or two who stresses them out. Maybe they make every situation dramatic, or they demand tons of emotional energy from you, or they tend to say passive-aggressive things that make you feel insecure. Whatever the case, you can lower your stress levels significantly by cutting these people out of your life and spending time with those who make you happy, energized, and positive about life.If you know a friend makes you anxious or sad, but you don’t want to lose them entirely, try talking to them. Say something like, “I really value your friendship, but I get stressed out when you say mean things about our other friends. Could you tone it down so that we can continue to hang out in the future?”

, In general, it’s good to be busy. A full schedule helps you avoid boredom and fight depression, but it can also apply unhealthy amounts of stress on your life and mind. Ask yourself how many of your commitments make you feel good and rewarded, and if any of them seem to strain you more than the others. If one or more of your activities stress you out and keep you up at night, you should consider cutting them out of your life. This simplification will free up some time in your schedule to do something you love, as well as make you more productive and engaged in the activities you continue.This doesn’t have to be an all-or-nothing negotiation. For example, if you feel your babysitting workload or volunteering is taking up too much time but you still love it in principle, consider reducing your weekly hours. Ask a coach, parent, or boss to help you tweak your schedule to make it more manageable and rewarding.
 It might seem that physical exertion will sap your energy and make you feel even more exhausted, but in fact regular physical exercise will energize your body, increase your stamina, and positively impact your mood. Aim to get at least twenty minutes of aerobic exercise—for example, jogging, brisk walking, or cycling—a day in order to release natural endorphins, improve performance and brain power, and boost your immune system.If you already spend a lot of your time shut up alone in your room doing homework or studying, consider taking up a group physical activity such as rowing or yoga. This will give you all the physical benefits of running or cycling while also providing a valuable social stimulus.
 According to recent studies, teenagers are one of the most sleep-deprived demographics in society. This lack of sleep both reflects heightened stress levels and causes them.Not only does this nine hour downtime allow your brain and body some precious time to unplug from daily worries, it also enhances your performance in school and sports while brightening your overall mood.Some concrete ways to improve sleep include being more active during the day, limiting caffeine intake, and removing distractions such as laptops and television in the bedroom.If you’re feeling sleepy in the middle of the afternoon, don’t assume you have to fight through the drowsiness. Instead, take a twenty-minute nap to recharge your energy reserves and freshen your perspective on the task at hand.