 There are some core vaccinations that you cat should have early in life. Some common vaccinations include rabies, feline leukemia, and distemper.


If your cat does not commonly go outside or if she is not around other cats who may have it, your vet may decide not to give your cat the feline leukemia vaccine.;
, Every year when your cat is young, you should take your cat for a general checkup at the vet. This is when she will get her vaccinations, vaccination boosters, and tests for parasites. Once she turns seven, she should be taken twice a year to keep a check on her heart as well as other conditions that are common with ages.


When your cat in young, she will need to be dewormed. It is possible that the shelter or breeder where you got your cat will have records of her first deworming session, since it is supposed to be done before she is old enough to adopt.
If your vet finds internal parasites, such as worms, your vet will give you medications to kill these parasites. , Once your cat reaches six months of age, you should have her spayed (or neutered if your cat is male). This will help prevent your cat from having kittens if you don't want her to as well as cut down on aggressive or marking behavior in males and heat behavior in females.


Spaying or neutering your cat can also help prevent certain diseases, such as urinary tract infections or genital cancers., In general, American Shorthair cats are very healthy. However, they are prone to developing hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), which is a condition where the heart muscle thickens.When this disease first develops, there are no symptoms. However, as it progresses, you will notice:


Overall lethargy
Decreased activity
Weakness
Difficulty breathing
Fits of collapsing
Sudden death, If you are worried about your cat or you see signs of HCM, take your cat to the vet immediately. He will give your cat an echocardiogram to check for the disease.


If he finds that she does have HCM, he will prescribe her medication to help make the heart pump more efficiently.