 You need to be honest with yourself and accept the truth. Whether you want it to be true or not, the break up happened. Don't let yourself dwell on her coming back to you or calling you. Just accept that you are no longer with her. Take your time, but the sooner you accept it, the sooner you can move on with your life.


This may be easier or harder depending on how long you were with her. If you were together for years or if you lived together, it may take you a little longer to accept what has happened.;
, Don't let memories of her weigh you down. You don't want to hold on to your hurt, which can affect you and those around you. Let go of the anger and regret and don't dwell on what you could have done differently or better in the relationship. If you find yourself thinking about her, do something that gets your mind off of it, like reading a book or watching a movie. Once you divert your mind enough, you'll find yourself thinking about her less. This will help you start fresh once you are ready to date again., Whether you write out a pro/com list or just think about it, remember all the negative things about her. Remember all the reasons your relationship didn't work in the first place. Think about all the things that she did that got on your nerves or hurt your feelings. This will help you view her in a different light and take her off of the pedestal you have her on in your mind, helping you move past your feelings for her.Don't think that she is the best girl you will even date. Think about how there has to be someone better for you out there., Over the course of your relationship, you have more than likely amassed a lot of presents, pictures, and mementos that remind you of her. Put up the things that make you think of her, like a shirt of yours that she liked to wear or a CD that you listened to together a lot. Collect them all and put them away. This will help you compartmentalize all of your feelings for her and help you push them aside. Without reminders of her everywhere, you can start to move on.You may have an urge to throw them away, but don't. You may want to look back on those times at some point in the distant future when it doesn't hurt so much. You'll be upset that you threw those things away.
If you find yourself thinking about the items too much, pick one you don't have to keep and trash it. Rip it up or throw it out. It will help you disconnect from the memories you have and start helping you think about them as just objects again., As much as you might like to, make it a point to not see your ex. Cutting ties with her will help get her out of your mind and help you move on. Delete her number from your phone and don't call her. Talking to her will only make things worse and her responses can end up hurting you more than helping. Also delete her from all of your social media accounts. Seeing what she is doing without you can only make you hurt worse and make you hold on longer.Although the idea of being friends is appealing if you still care for her, avoid it at this early stage. The feelings are still too new and you don't want to run the risk of making your rebound process longer than it needs to be. You don't want to make it worse for you or her.Try to avoid her friends as well. If you share friends, make sure that she isn't going to be there when you hang out. And spending time with her group of friends will only remind you more of her., If you are hurting really bad, talk to your friends about it. Go out, have dinner, and get everything out of your system. Talk about the good times and the bad. Even cry if you need to. Keeping it in will not help you heal. But try to give yourself a time limit. You don't want this phase to go on too long. You'll end up hung up on her for too long and you'll never be able to move on with your life., Even if you're not ready to date yet, going out and socializing will keep your mind off of your ex. One of the reasons you might be missing your ex is because you're lonely. Meeting friends of your friends will expose you to new social circles and lessen your loneliness. It can also make you feel better by lightening your mood and helping you get out of your funk.


When you go out with these new people, try some new activity or go some place you've never been. You don't want to end up doing the same things you and your ex used to do, reminding you of her the whole time.