 Most pressure cookers will require a minimum amount of liquid to pressure cook correctly. Refer to your pressure cooker manual to see the minimum amount of water for your model.Typically, this means only an inch or two of water in your pressure cooker.;
, If you have a stovetop pressure cooker, place it over your burners. If you have an electric pressure cooker, you can use the switch to turn it on. Place the cans that you want to strip into the pressure cooker.If you are worried about cans being in your pressure cooker, you can line the inside of the cooker with a piece of tin foil by rolling out a sheet and applying it to the interior of your cooker.






The cans should have no adverse effect on the inside of your pressure cooker as long as you dispose of the water afterward.






Make sure that you cans are empty before placing them in the pressure cooker.
 Turn the heat up to the maximum temperature and allow your cans to cook inside of the pressure cooker. This process will not strip the paint off of your cans but will soften it, allowing acetone to then remove the paint from the surface of the aluminum. Electric pressure cookers will have a high-pressure setting, which is what you should set it to when cooking your cans., The cover lock, sometimes referred to an air vent, is a piece of metal that sticks out from your pressure cooker. This pin drops when the pressure inside of your cooker has dropped to safe levels, and you can open up your device.You can also look at the thermometer looking device on the lid of your pressure cooker, known as a pressure indicator, to find out when it's safe to open your lid.
 Open your pressure cooker carefully and avoid the steam that's released. Once the pressure has reduced, you can safely open your pressure cooker. Stand back to prevent steam from burning your face or body. Remove the lid to reveal your cans.
 Nail polish remover contains acetone which can strip the paint from metal surfaces. Use a throwaway cloth and saturate it with the solution before rubbing down the surface of your can. Continue to rub your can until all of the paint is off of the surface of the aluminum.


Your can should be shiny and metallic once you remove the paint.






Use gloves when using nail polish remover.
 Rinse your cans to remove the remaining acetone from their surface. If you don't do this, the acetone can affect the luster and look of your cans over time. Once you're done rinsing them under the sink, you can dry them off with a paper towel or rag and use them for whatever you need.


Wash your hands after you're done.







