 Before you decide to ask him out, you can try and test the waters between you two. Hang out with him one on one if possible to see what it is like when the two of you are alone. You want to make sure you have the chemistry needed to sustain a romantic relationship.


If you are bold, try joking around about dating to gauge his reaction. If he seems open to the idea, you may feel better about asking him out., Before you change the status of your relationship, you should spend more time together. This will prime your relationship for the transition to dating if that is where it goes. This will also give you time to test how comfortable you are with him.


If you decide that you were misreading how you were feeling around him at this point and realize you want to stay just friends, there is no harm done., There are ways to tell if your guy friend is interested in you based on the way he acts and his body language. If he constantly gives you high fives and side hugs, he may see you as just a friend. If he hugs you longer than some of your other friends when he hugs you or finds ways to touch your arm or hand when you talk, he may be interested in more.If you want to test to see if he is just treating you like a friend so as to not make you uncomfortable, you can try to elevate your body language around him to see if it shifts his.
Try touching his arm more when you talk or sitting closer to him when you are on a couch next to one another. Then see if his body language and behavior towards you change. If it does, he may be interested.
 There are some verbal signs that he may or may not be interested in you. If he tells you that you look nice or he says he likes hanging out with you, he may be open for more. If her often tells you about his love life and describes you as “like a sister,” he probably doesn’t look at you like a possible romantic partner. If he asks you a lot of personal questions, such as what you did this weekend and with who, he might be trying to gauge your social life to see if you’re dating anyone.These signs don’t always point to this, but his phrasing when talking to you is a good indicator. If he seems interested, go for it.
If he seems like he wants to keep it platonic, give it time. You may need to assess your relationship some more or try transitioning your friendship before you are ready to date.

