 This version will soften and moisturize your skin more than the standard variety. For this recipe, you will need:


8 oz (225 g) cornstarch
4 oz (112 g) baking soda
4 oz (112 g) citric acid
3 oz (85 g) cocoa or shea butter
3 tablespoons (45 ml) almond oil
3 tablespoons (45 ml) coconut oil
Essential oils for the scent (up to 6 -10 drops)
Food coloring for appearance

, Stir together cornstarch, baking soda, and citric acid powder until well mixed. Use your hands or a whisk/beater to do this for larger batches.

Your hands will work best if you're working with the amounts specified, but if you double the recipe or make an even larger batch, using a utensil like a whisk or beater set on low might be easier.
 Pour the cocoa or shea butter, almond oil, and coconut oil into the mixture. Combine all the ingredients until a dough-like substance has been formed.

Note that coconut oil is solid at room temperature. You can gently heat it in the microwave for a few seconds to melt it before adding it to the mixture, or you can use fractionated coconut oil that comes in liquid form at room temperature.
 To make your bath bombs extra luxurious, add in your favorite essential oil (up to 6 to 10 drops). Feel free to mix multiple scents together to create a unique combination. Add several drops of food coloring to change the color of your bath bombs, and stir the mixture well to combine thoroughly.

Consider using lavender, chamomile, or lilac for a scent that's both luxurious and relaxing. You can also use pre-made or homemade oil blends of your own preference for something unique.
 Use domed molds or any mold that lacks corners, and press the bath bomb mixture into the mold. Pack the mixture firmly so that the finished bomb won’t have cracks or crumble apart.

Small silicone molds, like those used in candy making or for small baked goods, are another option worth considering as long as you don't plan on reusing them for food later on.
 Set the mold with the bath bombs in a cool, dry area for at least 24 hours to ensure that all moisture has evaporated. If necessary, you can pop the bath bombs from the molds after the first 8 hours and place them in a dry towel to expedite the process.
 When the bombs feel dry to the touch, remove them from their molds or drying towel and place them in an airtight container. Keep them away from moisture until they are ready to use. Enjoy your new bath bombs in a relaxing bath!Try to use or gift your new bath bombs within a few months to enjoy them before they fall apart or otherwise decrease in quality.








