 Tap the App Store on your iPad to launch it.;
, Type in HP All-in-One Printer Remote on the search field.
 Locate the correct app and download it. Tap the “Install” button beside the app.


This app is free.
 Locate the app on your iPad. Its icon has an HP logo on it with a printer and a tablet. Tap on it to launch it.
 On the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app, tap the gear icon for Settings on the left panel toolbar then tap the HP ePrint menu.
 Enter your email address and tap the “Send” button. HP ePrint will validate your email address by sending you a PIN code.
 Go to your email account and look for the email from HP ePrint.
 The email from HP ePrint will contain an activation link and a PIN code. Click on the link to activate your account.


If you can’t click on the link, copy the PIN code and enter this on the app where you left off. Tap the “Send” button to complete your registration.
 Make sure the printer is powered on and connected to a Wi-Fi network.


Make sure also that the printer has been registered with HP ePrint. Refer to your printer’s user manual and HP ePrint for more details on registering with HP ePrint.
 On the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app, tap the printer icon for My Printer on the left panel toolbar. Tap the right arrowhead beside the printer icon near the top of the screen, and then tap “HP ePrint.” It will search for HP ePrint-capable printers within the network.
 Tap the printer you’d like to add. The app will link with the printer and retrieve its information. If the app cannot find the printer, you can search for it using its HP ePrint email address.


The HP ePrint email address of your printer is assigned when you registered the printer with HP ePrint from Step 1.
 Once the link is successful, you will be able to see the printer model, its network connections, and the ink levels of the cartridges inside it. Tap the printer icon for MY Printer on the left panel toolbar to view this information.
 If the printer has gone to sleep, wake it up or turn it back on. Make sure it’s still connected to a Wi-Fi network.
 Lift the lid of the printer to reveal the flatbed scanner.
 Lay the document or photo you will be copying facing down on the scanner. Close the lid.
 On the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app, tap the Copy menu on the left panel toolbar. You will see a blank sheet on the screen.
 Before you do the actual copying, you can do a preview of what the output will look like. Tap the “Preview” button on the bottom of the screen. The app will link with the printer and process the request.
 On the bottom right part of the screen is a field for Copies with a plus and a minus sign. Tap the plus and minus buttons to increase or decrease the number of copies to be processed.
 Right beside the Copies field is the Start box with two buttons, one for “Black” and one for “Color.” If you want your copies to be colored, tap the “Color” button. Otherwise, tap the Black button to have the copies in black-and-white.
 Make sure you have enough papers in your printer. Once the printer receives your instructions, it will immediately make the copies and print them out.