 Acknowledging your parents' sacrifices and efforts to give you a good life is a great way to treat your parents well.Try to thank your parents when they do something small or large for you.


For example, you might thank your parents for buying you some new clothes or for attending one of your soccer games on a weeknight.
You can say something simple to thank your parents, such as, "Thanks for dinner! It was really good!"

, Become a good daughter by talking to them and treating them with respect. Being respectful shows your parents how mature you are and that you appreciate them. It also shows them that they raised you the right way.Don’t be dismissive or rude to them in public or in front of others (or even at home in private).
Although you might have to help your parents as they age, you should still avoid patronizing them or being disrespectful. It makes them feel embarrassed and demeaned, or like they have no independence., Some things will take your parents longer to do or learn to do. Becoming a good daughter means being patient with them. Don’t rush them or get frustrated with them when they are trying to do something.Give them the time, respect, and help that they need.


For example, instead of saying, “Gosh, mom! All you have to do is swipe right here!” Try saying, “I know it can be frustrating at first. Try swiping one finger across from left to right.”
Remember that they were patient with you when you were a child.
 Give them a hug or a pat on the back. Hold their hand like you did as child. Being affectionate with your parents is one great way to become a good daughter because most everyone likes the comfort and closeness provided by physical contact., You can become a good daughter by helping your parents and doing small things to make them smile.If your mother is washing the dishes after returning from an exhausting day at the office, the least you can do is scrub the grease off the dishes.
Give them a ‘thinking of you’ card for no reason other than just because you are thinking of them.
Offer to drop the donation box off at the collection center.
 Sometimes parents can be abusive or simply toxic. If your parents call you names, ridicule you, or lower your self-esteem you should set boundaries. You can be a good daughter and treat your parents well and, at the same time, say that some things are not okay.


It’s okay to respectfully ask your parents to talk to you with respect. For example, you could say, “Dad, it hurts my feelings when you say I’m nothing but trouble. Please don’t say that to me.”
There is a difference between discipline and abuse. Calling you names, physically hurting you, and things like that cross the boundaries of acceptable parent behavior.
Understand that if your parents are asking you to do something that you know is wrong or that will hurt you, you don’t have to do it. In this case you should tell someone you trust.
 We often spend a lot of time emphasizing the differences between us and our parents. Become a good daughter by letting your parents know that you recognize the ways that you are alike.It makes them feel good and strengthens your bond.


Show your mom that you get your love of baking from her by making her a homemade cake.
Remind your dad that you tug your ear when you’re thinking, just like he does.
Remember, though, that you are still your own person. Just because your mom has a hot temper, doesn’t mean you have to also.
 Knowing that you have good relationships with your grandparents, siblings, cousins will make your parents feel that you are a good daughter. They will feel that you value and appreciate your family.If your parents are abusing you with their words (or otherwise) your family members can also help you deal with this situation.

