 Leg cramps are a sudden tightening of the muscles, which can cause intense pain. Stretching has been shown to be one of the most reliable ways of preventing or relieving leg cramping. Focus on stretches for your calves and feet, and make sure to stretch before bed, as well as before and after exercise. Avoid any stretches that require you to lay on your back. Try some of the following basic leg stretches:


Seated calf stretch: Gather 2 chairs and a scarf or towel. Sit down on 1 chair and place a foot on the second. Wrap the towel or scarf around the ball of your foot. Begin pulling the towel or scarf towards you. You should feel the stretch in the muscles of your calf and in your foot. Stay in this position 30 seconds and switch legs.
Standing calf stretch: Stand on a flat surface wearing shoes with a firm grip, about 2 to 3 feet (.61 to .91 m) in front of a wall. Lift your arms in front of you and set your hands on the wall. Slowly lean forward until you feel the stretch in your calf muscles. To finish the stretch, walk your hands back up the wall until you are standing straight.;
, Light exercise can help improve your circulation and reduce leg cramps as well as help you improve your core strength, tone your muscles and prepare for labor.The ideal exercise in pregnancy gets your heart pumping and keeps you supple, without causing you or your baby too much physical stress.Many exercises can be done in or around your house. An easy 30 minute walk is a great way to get outside. Walking keeps you fit without jarring your knees and ankles, and gives your heart a workout if you walk briskly. It is safe throughout your pregnancy and can be built into your every-day routine.Strength building exercises, such as squats, push-ups, or leg lifts can be easy to perform in the living room or bedroom.Athletic centers often offer specially designed programs for pregnant women, such as water aerobics or prenatal yoga. These activities can help to maintain muscle tone and flexibility and are kinder to your joints than more vigorous types of exercise.Make sure to consult a health care provider before starting any exercise program.
 Alternate periods of activity with periods of rest. Make sure to take frequent breaks to walk or stretch if you have a desk job.Elevate your feet as often as possible.Putting your feet up can help to dispel the accumulation of fluid in your legs.Use breaks to sit and elevate your legs if you must stand throughout the day.Rotate your ankles and wiggle your toes when you sit, eat dinner, or watch TV., Choose shoes with comfort, support, and utility in mind. Also consider support or compression stockings. Stockings help reduce swelling, increase blood circulation in the legs and ankles, and can help prevent leg cramps.It might help to wear shoes with a long counter — the firm part of the shoe that surrounds the heel.
Wear support stockings to bed to alleviate night cramps.