 From the home screen of your phone, tap the Settings icon. This will open the Settings menu of your iOS device.;
, Scroll through the list in the Settings menu and tap “Mail, Contacts, and Calendars.” The “Mail, Contacts, Calendars” menu will enable you to add accounts.
, Begin by tapping the “Google” option. Then enter your name in the first text box and Google email address on the second text box, and then enter your password to the account into the third text box. You can also enter a description of your Gmail account on the last textbox, but this is not mandatory.


If you have already added your Gmail account, then instead of tapping “Add Account,” choose “Gmail” from the account list. Tap “Next” after entering all the required information in the text boxes.
 These services are found on the Accounts section, and they include mail, calendar, and contacts. Toggle their icons to the right side to switch them on. These icons will turn to blue once they are switched on, meaning they are enabled. Syncing will start when you next open the individual apps on your iOS device.
 Open a browser in your iOS device and go to google.com/calendar/iphoneselect. Tap “Add Account” in the middle of the browser page, and log in using your Google account details. Tap “OK” to view a list of all your calendars.


Tap the checkbox next to the calendars you want to sync with your iOS device. It’s important to note that shared calendars need to be selected individually, and the default setting is “Off.” This means when a new calendar is shared, you must repeat these last few steps to ensure it syncs with your iOS device.
When you’re done selecting calendars, tap the save icon at the bottom right corner of the browser, and then open the Calendars app on your iPhone or iPad, and wait for it to sync. Once done, you will be able to view the Google Calendars you selected earlier.
 Open a browser in your iOS device and go to “google.com/contacts/iphoneselect.” Log into your Google account, and you will see all of your Google contacts.
 Tap the checkbox next to the “Contact name” option to have your Google Contacts synchronized. If you want to select all contacts, use the “Select all” option at the top of the screen.


After selecting the contacts, tap the save icon at the bottom right corner of the browser. This will start syncing Google Contacts to your device. When you open your phonebook, your Google contacts will be synced to the list.
 Open the Email app on your phone and wait for a few minutes as emails are synchronized to your phone. When done, you will be able to view your Google emails on your mobile device.

