 Make sure you are signed in to your Instagram account. When you open the Instagram app, you will be taken to your Feed.;
, You can comment on your own photos or any photos from users that you are following. Tap on the photo to open it.
 The Comment button is located below the photo, next to the “Like” button. This will open the comment interface. Your keyboard will open and you can begin typing your comment.
 Once you are happy with your comment, tap the green “Send” button. Your comment will be added to the list of comments.
 You can only delete your own comments on other pictures, or other’s comments on your own pictures.
 A red trash can icon will appear on the right side of the comment. Tap the trash can icon to start deleting a comment.
 If the comment was spam or offensive, you can report the comment as well as delete it. This is useful if creepy people keep commenting on your pictures. Tap “Delete & Report Abuse” to report the comment. If you’d rather just delete it, tap “Delete” instead.


You will only be given the “Delete” option when deleting your own comments.
 Although you won’t have access to as many features, you can log in to Instagram using your computer. You can add comments to photos and delete comments that you don’t want.
 Find a photo that you want to comment on. You can comment on photos in your Feed, or photos that you have taken. If you’re commenting on a photo in your Feed, you can add the comment in the field directly beneath the photo. If you are commenting on other photos, click the photo to open it and then add your comment in the field to the right of the image.
 Open the photo that you want to delete a comment from. You can only delete your own comments on other pictures, or other’s comments on your own pictures.


Once you’ve found the comment that you want to delete, hover your cursor over it. An “X” icon will appear at the top-left corner of the comment.
Click the “X” icon. A menu will appear with the “Delete” option. Click this to delete the image.

