 If you're using propane, lay the steak on the grate so that it is right above the flames. Once you've set it down, try not to move it much. If you want nice charred grill lines you'll need to leave the steak place.


If you want the classic criss-cross grill lines, turn the steak 45-degrees with a pair of tongs halfway through cooking.
 For a thinner steak, flip around the low end of the following times. For a thicker steak, turn at the higher end. If the steak is pink when you turn it then the grill is not hot enough -- raise the heat and leave it flipped over.



Rare: grilled for roughly 3 minutes a side (raise the heat 25-50 degrees before beginning)Medium rare: grilled for roughly 5 minutes a side.

Medium steaks: grilled for roughly 7 minutes a side.

Well done steaks: grilled for 10 minutes each side, then removed to indirect heat to finish cooking.
 You shouldn't cut a steak until 4-5 minutes after it comes off the heat, as the juices inside re-absorb in the meat as it cools, leading to a juicier cut. So how do you test the insides? The trick is literally in the palm of your hand. Hold your hand open, then touch the tip of your thumb to the tip of your index finger. With your other hand, touch the fleshy part of your palm under your thumb -- this feels just like a medium rare steak. Each finger combination mimics a certain cook temperature:



Rare: Don't touch any fingers -- it feels just like the fleshy part under your thumb. (Internal Temp: 130-135°F)

Medium Rare: Touch your index finger to your thumb. (Internal Temp: 130-135°F)

Medium: Touch your middle finger to your thumb. (Internal Temp: 140°F)

Medium Well: Touch your ring finger to your thumb. (Internal Temp: 155°F)

Well Done: Touch your pinky to your thumb. (Internal Temp: 165°F°), Move the steaks away from the flame, burner, or hot coals. If you have a higher rack on your grill, place the meat up here. Cover the grill and let the heat slowly cook the steak without allowing the outsides to burn.


You shouldn't have to leave the steak for more than 1-2 more minutes unless you want it well done.
Be sure to flip the steak halfway through cooking, even when cooking indirectly., This is called letting the meat "stand." As it cooks, steak releases juices that keep it tender and delicious. As it cools, the meat reabsorbs these juices. However, if you cut the meat right after it comes off the grill the juices will spill out, lost forever. Instead, cover lightly with aluminum foil and let the beef sit.


When you do cut the steak, try to cut with the grain. This means along with the small, strands of meat you can see running up and down the steak.

