 Bacteria, especially staphylococcus or “staph” bacteria, are often the culprit behind styes.Rubbing your eyes can cause irritation and can transfer bacteria from your hands to your eyes.


If you absolutely have to touch your eyes, make sure to wash your hands thoroughly with an anti-bacterial soap first.
 Old or expired makeup, especially liquid-based makeup, can be a breeding ground for bacteria. Avoid sharing eye makeup or tools with others. Always remove eye makeup before going to sleep at night.


Replace mascara and liquid eyeliners every 2-3 months.Foundation can also support the growth of bacteria, including staphylococcus, one of the culprits that causes styes. Replace liquid foundation every 6-12 months., Clean your makeup tools and applicators after every few uses to keep germs away. Tools like eyelash curlers and eyeshadow brushes should be cleaned and disinfected regularly.Wash metal tools such as eyelash curlers and tweezers with antibacterial soap and hot water. Wipe them down with a cotton ball soaked in rubbing alcohol to disinfect.
Rinse brushes with baby shampoo and warm water. Disinfect them by soaking them in a solution of 2 parts water and 1 part white vinegar.
Do not pump your mascara wand in and out of the bottle. Rinse your mascara wand in eye makeup cleaner and allow it to dry before putting it back in the bottle., Dirt and small objects can get trapped beneath the eyelid and cause infection. Protect your eyes whenever necessary by wearing safety goggles or sunglasses.For example, you should protect your eyes when you are dusting. Wear eye protection when doing outside work, such as raking or mowing the lawn, or when doing shop work at home.
If you are in a job that requires safety glasses, wear them! Eye injuries are a leading cause of workplace injury., Some people have higher levels of oil build-up on their eyelids. This makes them more prone to styes. Regular lid scrubs can help prevent styes by removing excess bacteria and dead skin cells. They can also help reduce reinfection if you’ve already had a stye.Make your own scrub solution with baby shampoo and warm water. Put a few drops of baby shampoo into a small cup and add warm water. Stir. Use a cotton swab or clean washcloth to rub the solution across your eyelids. Gently rub back and forth, as it is the rubbing motion that removes buildup.
Commercial lid scrubs are available at most drug stores. Find one that will not irritate your eyes., Although styes are very common and they can affect anyone, there are certain conditions which might make you more susceptible to getting one:People with chronic conditions such as diabetes, seborrhea and blepharitis are more likely to develop styes, along with people with chronic debilitating diseases.
People who have acne, rosacea, or seborrheic dermatitis are more likely to experience meibomian gland dysfunction, which can cause chalazions to develop.People with high levels of blood lipids are at increased risk. Their oil glands are more likely to become blocked, which can cause styes.People with high levels of stress may be more likely to develop styes.