 Take time to reconnect with what you like to do on your own. At this time, you don’t have to compromise your interests to accommodate your friend, so take the opportunity to see the movie you want to see, or eat at your favorite restaurant.
 As more time passes from the time of your “breakup,” you’ll start to think fondly about the good times that you had with your friend. It’s much healthier for you to think about why you became friends in the first place. You can still acknowledge the bad times and the reasons why you aren’t friends anymore. But use these instances as starting points for thinking about how you’ve grown, rather than the entire focus of your friendship.
 If it’s been upsetting to end your friendship, talk it over with someone who can give you some perspective and help you figure out ways to move on. For example, you might talk with a family member or even a counselor.


Refrain from talking with someone who is still friends with the other person. This might draw them into the middle of things, which is an uncomfortable role to place another friend in. You might risk losing another friend in the process.
 If you live near your former friend, chances are you might run into her again. Plan out ahead of time what you might say to her in this situation. Above all, be cordial and mature when you see her. You don’t have to like her, especially if she hurt you.


Make it clear that you are not interested in restarting your friendship. Say something like, “It’s nice to see you. I wish you the best.” This statement tells her that you have closed the door on the friendship.
 If you miss your friend and you are ready to forgive her, or you decide that it’s worth the trouble to stay in touch even though you live 3,000 miles (5,000 km) from each other, then go for it. If your friendship has been strong in the past, you might have something to build on.Acknowledge that both of you have changed and you have different lives now. Don’t force the friendship back to being exactly what you had before. You have both evolved as people, and your friendship should evolve as well.
Don’t become friends again if the friendship was toxic for you.

