 There are two types of insurance policies that are purchased by individuals. While the claim procedure will be similar, each type of policy has different considerations. If you have any questions or concerns, contact the insurer or agent who wrote the policy.One type of policy is term life. This is the most economical life insurance. The benefits are fixed for a set time, usually between ten and 20 years. When you find the policy documents, verify that the policy has not expired. The other types are universal- and whole-life insurance. This type of insurance has a fixed or flexible benefit and may have accrued interest and other earnings during the life of the policy. This type of insurance also had loan options. If the deceased had an open loan on the policy, the benefit will be reduced by the balance of the loan. ;
, Many employer-based, group-insurance plans have a life insurance benefit. There may not be policy documents in the deceased's files other than a line or two in a health insurance policy. Contact the employer's human resources department to ask about any life insurance in effect, and, if necessary, get a copy of the policy and the claim procedure. , This type of insurance may be offered on a bank account, through a professional organization, or with specialized plans like burial insurance. Payouts are generally small but should be investigated. Contact banks and membership organizations. The deceased's mail may give you some hints on whom to contact to investigate possible life insurance policies. , Although not traditional life insurance, some of the deceased's accounts may have a death benefit. The most common are mortgage, credit card, and auto-loan benefits that pay off debt upon the death of an account holder. Taking the time to research these benefits could preserve a house or other valuable assets. , Not everyone dies with his or her papers in perfect order. You might believe that your loved one had life insurance but can't find the paperwork. After you have contacted the employer, financial institutions, and other obvious sources, there are other steps you can take to investigate the possibility. Contact the state treasurer in the states where the deceased lived. Each state has an unclaimed-property office that is the repository of unclaimed funds from insurance, bonds, tax refunds, and other payouts. You must be authorized to speak for the deceased's estate in order to contact these agencies.
Avoid scams. Any agency asking for a fee or a percentage of a recovery should be regarded with suspicion. State agencies will work with you at no charge.
 The first step in filing a life insurance claim is to get copies of the death certificate. In general, completing and filing the death certificate is the responsibility of the funeral director. Depending on the cause of death and whether an autopsy is performed, it can take up to 12 weeks for the final death certificate to be ready.


The funeral home will give you up to ten copies at no charge. If you need more copies, you can order them directly from the state. There may be a charge for this service., Once you have the policy information and death certificates, contact each insurance company to find out the appropriate claim procedure. If the insurance was purchased through an agent, s/he can help you deal with a life insurance company.


Life insurance policies can be in effect for decades before the death of the insured. Over time companies may be bought and sold or merged. If you find insurance documents, but the contact information is no longer valid, contact the state Insurance Commission. They can help you research which company is responsible for the policy and give you up-to-date contact information., Each insurance company will have its own rules and methods. Some may accept online claims. Many will require that you fill out and submit a hard-copy claim.


It is critical that you follow the claims instructions carefully. Submit all requested information and attachments. As the beneficiary, you may be required to submit proof of your identity. Failure to follow established procedures may lead to delays or rejection of your claim.
If the cause of death was violence (such as suicide or homicide), the claim may be delayed pending completion of a police investigation. , Depending on the type of policy and amount of the death benefit, you may have several options for receiving the payout. For substantial payouts consider consulting with an investment adviser to maximize your benefits.


You can take a lump-sum payment. For most smaller policies this may be your only option.
For larger benefits you may be able to negotiate a structured settlement that gives you a steady income from the principal and interest on the policy.
For large-income-earning policies, the payout can be interest only with the body of the death benefit remaining intact.
 As a rule, proceeds from a life insurance policy are not counted as taxable income to the beneficiary. However, if part of the benefit is interest earned on the value of the policy, you may be required to report it as taxable interest. If the death benefit is from a whole- or universal-life insurance policy, consider consulting with a tax professional to determine the best way to structure the payout to minimize your tax burden. , In a lump-sum distribution, you will receive a single check made payable to you. In structured settlements, you may receive a number of checks or electronic funds transfers.


Typical claims-processing takes 30 to 60 days after the application is complete. Some states have time limits as short as 30 days. Contact the insurance company if you have not received an update on your claim 30 days after all information was submitted. , Payouts are rarely disputed, but in such cases you don't have to take "no" for an answer. There are several common reasons a claim may be denied.


If the premiums were not paid as required by the contract, the policy may not have been in effect at the time of death. This is one flaw you may not be able to fix. The policy was either paid up or it wasn't. Ask to see proof that the policy was in default.
The insured lied on his/her application. If the policy was issued based on faulty health data or omissions from the insured's medical history, the company may either deny the claim or reduce the payout.
The manner of death was not covered by the policy. This could apply in the case of suicide or a death occurring while the deceased was committing a crime.
The paperwork was incomplete. In most states the insurance company must inform you within 30 to 60 days if the claim package is missing any required forms, certificates, or other information.
If you receive a rejection, file an immediate objection. There is a statute of limitations, usually two years. Ask in writing for details regarding the rejection. If the insurance company does not reply in a reasonable time (usually 30 days), do not hesitate to call the state insurance commission for assistance.

