 Another way to grow prickly pear is to use a cutting from an established plant. Ask friends and neighbors if you can take a cutting from one of their plants if you don’t have any established prickly pears of your own.


To propagate prickly pear from existing plants, you use cuttings from the pads of the plants, which are actually modified stems or branches.The pads are the flat, green, fleshy parts that make up the majority of the plant.
 Select a healthy pad that’s medium or large in size, and between one and three years old. Ideally, look for a pad that’s free of damage, specks, or any deformities.To take a cutting, hold the top of the pad with a gloved hand and slice the pad above the joint where it attaches to the rest of the plant.Don’t cut the pad below the joint, because this can cause infection and the plant will rot.
 To prevent infection and rotting, you must let the cactus pad cutting form a callous where it was cut before you can plant it. Lay the pad on a bed of soil or sandy soil for one to two weeks, until the cut has healed.Leave the pad in a shaded area while you're waiting for the callous to form.
 Fill the bottom of a medium planting pot with stones to allow for drainage. Fill the rest of the pot with sandy or loamy soil, which will also allow for good drainage.


The ideal soil will be a half-and-half mixture of soil and sand or pumice., Make a one- to two-inch hole in the soil with your finger. Place the pad upright in the garden pot, with the cut end in the soil. Bury the end. Do not bury the end more than one or two inches deep, otherwise it could rot.If the pad is having trouble standing, surround it with a few rocks to prop it up.
 Water the plant only when the soil looks dry, about once or twice per week., Unlike prickly pear seeds, pads need plenty of direct sunlight. However, the pads can sunburn in hot sun, so it’s important to protect the pad from direct sunlight between the hours of 11 a.m. and 1 p.m., when the sun is strongest.To avoid having to move the prickly pear constantly, you can position the plant so the broad sides of the pad are facing east and west, so the thinner sides of the pad are facing the sun when it’s at its hottest.
This will protect it from sunburn so that you don’t have to move it out of the sun every afternoon.
Once the cutting has established roots it will be ready for full sun exposure.

