 When you're blinded by jealousy, it's impossible to see things objectively and to understand how fortunate you truly are. Remind yourself that you're lucky just to have running water, food to eat whenever you want it, good health, and even access to a computer. Here's how you do it:


Understand how fortunate you are compared to most people in the world. Remind yourself that many people in the world do not have many basic things that you take for granted. It's likely that you've never had to deal with real hunger, that you're healthy and can see a doctor fairly easily, that you have enough clothes to stay warm, and that you don't feel oppressed in the place where you live. This is more than many people can say.
Understand that you have many things people would be jealous of. Make a list of at least twenty things you have that people would want. It could be as basic as "running water" or more elaborate, like "the ability to talk to make anyone laugh."
Understand that anyone you're jealous of doesn't have a perfect life. Be realistic about the people you are jealous of. Make a list of all the things they have that you are jealous of, and then ask yourself if you have anything they would want. For example, you may be jealous of your friend's amazing relationship, but she could be wishing that she had two loving, doting parents like you have. You may be jealous of your friend's new promotion, while she could be wishing that she was a talented artist like you are.
 If you spend more time helping others, you will not only feel better about yourself for being more generous, but you will have a better understanding of what you have that others would be grateful for.


Volunteer in your community. To get a concrete sense of how fortunate you are, you can volunteer in your community to help people learn English, read, or get enough food at a soup kitchen. Being around people whose basic needs may not be met will remind you how fortunate your own life is.
Help out the people you know. Help a friend who is going through a relationship issue, or motivate your friend who is struggling in his classes to finish school. Understanding the hardships of others will make you see that everyone is struggling in some way, and that you're not the only person who wants to improve your life.
Do the little things for someone you love. Help a friend who is going through a hard time do her laundry, or give a ride to a friend whose car broke down. You'll feel like a more helpful person and will appreciate what you have even more.

