


Technical schools offer hands-on truck driving courses that teach students how to drive.
Vocational colleges offer training classes that focus on driving in highway traffic and driving large trucks.
Driving schools are private and offer courses such as inspecting trucks and training in truck driving.;
,


Identify what type of vehicle do you want to drive and the class of license required for that vehicle. There are three defined classes of commercial motor vehicle namely A, B and C. Along with it find out if any other endorsements are required with it too?Check with trucking companies in your area. Find out what schools their employees graduated from and what schools provide the best training.
Check whether that school offers training for your class or not.
Contact organizations like the Professional Truck Driver Institute (PTDI) to make sure the truck driving schools and colleges actually are certified, meet industry standards and/or the U.S. Federal Highway Administration's regulations.
Pick the truck driving school that has the best training for your career goals.
Apply and complete courses. Usually commercial truck driving training takes approximately 4 to 6 weeks or longer.



Prepare for the Knowledge test which tests your knowledge of laws and regulations for operating commercial vehicles.
After qualifying Knowledge test, a learner’s permit is provided to the driver using which, one can practice operating a commercial vehicle prior to driving test. Go and practice at your driving school.
When you become confident and comfortable in driving the commercial vehicle, schedule an appointment for the driving test and qualify it to finally receive your CDL.
 Your employer may require that you complete its training program.


Take the employer's training that consists of 1 to 2 days of classroom instruction covering important information like company policies and loading trucks.
Ride along with more experienced drivers until you receive your own assignments.
Complete training.

