 Sure, you don't think of it as squirrel food, but if squirrels are overrunning your property it's because they're finding a lot of things they like to eat.


Rake up nuts, berries, and acorns from trees in your yard that drop them. These are squirrels' main sources of food.
Buy sealable outdoor trashcans. If your trashcan is easy for squirrels to get into, replace it with one that has a tight-sealing lid. Make sure you keep it closed at all times.;
, Squirrels are unbelievably crafty when it comes to eating from feeders. Use these methods to keep them from eating the birdseed before the birds have the chance to find it:









Buy squirrel guard to attach to your feeder that prevents squirrels from being able to get a grip on them.
Don't place feeders close to trees or your home. Squirrels will be able to bypass the guard by leaping from the branches or your home's eaves to the bird feeder.
Keep the area under the bird feeder clean. It may be a pain, but picking up stray seeds that have been dropped by birds will keep squirrels from hanging out near your feeder.
Fill your bird feeder with safflower seeds. Birds are happy to eat these seeds, but squirrels find them bitter.
 Squirrels will dig up bulbs and tear off vegetables if you don't take measures to protect the garden. Use a wire fence and make sure it is buried about a foot into the ground, so the squirrels can't dig under it.
 Several products are available at hardware and home and garden stores. They're typically made with natural ingredients that cause squirrels to stay away.


Some repellents are made with cayenne or black pepper, which repels squirrels but doesn't bother birds. These repellents can be added directly to the bird feeder.
Some repellents are made with the urine of squirrels' predators. These are meant to be sprayed around gardens to keep squirrels away.
 Instead of trying to drive the squirrels away, consider feeding them to keep them out of your bird feeder and garden. Scatter squirrel feed around your yard, or buy a feeder and place it well away from your bird feeder and garden.
 These will spray squirrels when they get too close, with the added benefit of watering your lawn.








