 Brainstorm ideas about the ways you can reuse the content you've already created and the steps you can take to make new content.


Can you repurpose any news coverage you’ve received and share it on social media?
Can your photographer take new shots about an upcoming event and post the images on Instagram or Snapchat?
Can your graphic designer make branded graphics?
Can you create posts that address your customers' problems, interests and concerns that are relevant to you?
Can you post sneak-peeks behind the scenes, ways your product or business is helpful in the real world, and showcase client stories, and how you helped them succeed?

, Using social media for business, you need a good mixture of self-promotion, testimonials and/or reviews, and randomness, as well as unique content that has nothing to do with you.


Self-promotion includes hyperlinks that lead to your website, photos of peeks behind the scenes, and major or minor news about your business.
Testimonials are reviews (pulled from Yelp, or another website reviewer), an email, or a blog or article promoting your product.
Randomness can include funny photos, memes, holiday wishes, quotes that relate to your business, shared articles and other content that is interesting and relevant

, You have to use social media to win at social media. The good news is that in social media land, it’s OK to swipe from other people.—it’s called sharing, and you should do it often. At least ten minutes each day, try to take a peek your feeds. Regardless of what network you use, you should be actively following experts in your industry


Retweet the experts' articles
Like their posts
Share their updates
Comment on their blogs
Link to content created by them.
 If hashtags are not used, your posts will reach very few viewers, Use hashtags relevant to your brand. In addition, add trending hashtags like #tbt, and #stylechat.


For example, if you sell ice-skates, use #Winter, #Hockey, #Iceskates, #Winteriscoming.
If you sell pizza, use #Pizza, #Stayathome, #SaturdayNight, #Lazy #Delicious.
If you sell clothes, use #Fashion, #Clothes, #{Item of clothing} #{Material}. and #stylechat

, Memes, when used right, can promote your business and connect with your viewers. But if used wrong, memes can make you seem gimmicky.


If you sell ice-skates, use the "Socially Awkward Penguin" meme, the "Meanwhile in Canada" meme, and the "Winter is Coming" meme.
If you sell pizza, consider using the "Me Gusta" meme, the "Rage Comics" memes,  the "Haters Gonna Hate" meme (sometimes appears as a GIF), "Yao Ming Face" meme, the "Doge" meme, and the "forever alone" meme.
If you sell clothes, use the "Overly Attached Girlfriend" meme, the "Bad Luck Brian" meme, "The Most Interesting Man in the World" meme, and the "Challenge Accepted" meme.
 Offer a shoutout, a follow, or other social media prize. Alternatively, offer a real prize through yourself or companies like Amazon. Encourage people to share your posts with a #CompanyNameContest2016, and pick one randomly, or by another method.


Share your expertise. Post little-known, fun facts in the form of questions with a special offer presented to the first person to answer correctly.
Tell people to like your next photo, and the first person to do so will win a prize. Do not tell them when you will be posting.
 While you could use tools that allow you to write one message and have it appear on a variety of social media outlets, you risk losing the genuine feeling behind the message. You can and should use similar language as you promote your offer on different sites; just be sure to change up the words while keeping in mind the tone of each network.
 While including fun posts that reflect your personality is a must, it’s important to create content that benefits your followers. That can mean posting tips on best practices, providing access to white papers, or offering special deals on products or services that only appear on your social media page.
 Many users of social media like sharing their opinions, so ask people who follow you to respond to topics that are related to your brand and they find interesting. .


For example, a gym or a fitness center may post a question asking followers to vote on their favorite sports for summer to be entered into a drawing to win a free personal trainer for a year.
Ben and Jerry's posted a photo of their "Everything but..." ice-cream with the question "What did we miss?" This got hundreds of replies and comments.
The questions you post should excite and engage follows and make them want to not only buy from you, but refer you to others.
 Depending on the network, this is usually around lunchtime when people are on their break, and in the evening, when people are relaxing at home. Not sure when your customers are most active? Ask. Otherwise, you may squander a lot of time skimming the surface of multiple social platforms with few results.

