 You want the mat to extend behind you. Your feet should be together, shoulders down, and spine straight. This is also known as Mountain Pose.









This tutorial is for a warrior pose with your left foot forward. To make it left-footed, simply reverse the "rights" and "lefts.";
, Your right toes will point diagonally and to your right, at a roughly 45-degree angle to your left foot, which stays in place and faces forward. You want to step back enough that your back leg is extended and your front knee is slightly bent. Both feet should be firmly planted on the floor.









You can angle the back foot further out (closer to 90-degrees) if you are flexible enough. However, it is more important to keep your whole foot planted.
You can also start with your legs spread wide, so that you face the long side of your mat instead of the front. If you do, rotate your feet into warrior pose (right foot at 45-degrees, left foot facing forward) instead of stepping back.
 Pull your hips slightly towards the floor, bending that front knee. You want the kneecap right over your ankle, keeping your lower leg in a straight line.









You may want to adjust the placement of your back leg to get comfortable. This back knee should be slightly bent, not fully extended.
 They should be in line with your front toes and pointing the same direction. Place your hands on your hips to help you rotate and get your torso "square," or facing directly forward.
 Your feet need to be firm and powerful on the mat. Think of them as trying to rip the mat in half, with each foot pulling the mat in a different direction. If you can't do this, make your stance a bit less wide so you can get your feet well-planted.
 On your next inhale, raise your arms above your head so your palms are facing each other, shoulder-width apart. Gaze straight ahead and focus on the power of the pose.
 As you exhale, relax your body just a bit lower and deeper into the pose. As you drop your tailbone down towards the floor, focus on opening the front of the hips and the pelvic abdomen. Lean your head back and gaze upwards at your fingertips. Stretch upwards through your middle back and arms so that you feel space in your spine, as if stretching it lightly out. Hold this pose for 5-10 breaths.
 While doing the pose, remember to focus on:









Deep, calm breathing
A straight, solid spine.
Shoulders back and chest open, allowing easy breathing.
Keeping your knee over your ankle, not to the sides or out in front.
Holding your chin up, parallel to the floor.
 Contract your muscles while inhaling slowly. Take your time "undoing" the pose bit by bit, moving with slow, methodical motions. Lower your arms and bring your legs together again to return to Mountain Pose. Repeat to the other side.








