 Would you like to learn the alphabet? Would you like to learn more about numbers? Would you like to learn about the 50 states? Would you like to learn about America? Once you have made your decision, move on to the next step.;
, For example, the English alphabet has been set to music. There are songs about numbers, such as "3 is a magic number" which was made famous on popular radio by a band called Blind Melon after they covered the original version from "School House Rock", which was a series of short fun cartoons geared towards teaching the listener something. School House Rock videos and all of these songs, can be found on YouTube, the library or ordered on eBay, Etsy, purchased via iTunes or at a record store. There is also a song about the 50 states and plenty of songs about America. Choose a few songs that you want to listen to.
 Use a CD walkman or play them on a loop as you're beginning to fall asleep. Listen to the songs a few times, let them enter your mind and cling themselves to your brain.
 You won't know all the words, but some will stick with you. If you're not sure what the words mean, Google them online or look them up at Dictionary.com or even in an actual dictionary! You can also find a dictionary app for free or cheap if you have a smart phone.
 Try singing as you're in your car, or as you're walking to or from work or public transportation. Sing them on a regular basis until they become memorized in your brain and you can sing them without any music to accompany you.
 Or, go to an open mic at a bar or library and ask if your audience will tell you if and when you are incorrect.
 It will go into your head and stick with you for all of your days. For example, if you want to remember an address, put it to a rhythm. If you want to remember some words for household items, write a little song. "Fork, spoon, knife and plate, these are items I use to eat", etc.
 It doesn't matter if your voice is good or not, as long as you're using the music to teach yourself the information you need to know. Best of luck!

