 There isn't a true method or action to hang someone per se, but to hang someone using this article's method, you will need the lasso. The lasso is a length of rope you can equip to hogtie victims, break in wild horses or subdue criminals. It is only available in the single-player game, and can only be unlocked during the quest "Wild Horses, Tamed Passions". Afterwards, you will be able to use it fully.;
, Simply draw, aim and fire the lasso as you would a normal weapon. The reticule will point where the lasso will fire, and if you are close enough, it will lasso the target. Beware, however, the lasso does cause some damage to the target and therefore will count as assault if you are spotted by lawmen, in addition to any counts of kidnapping you will incur. Practice on criminals or gang members instead.
 Unlike in real life, where a tree or gallows would be suitable, due to the game's mechanics, you will need to find a low bridge, cliff or balcony. There are several cliffs around the Red Dead Redemption world, although there are fewer bridges. A good choice for one would be the bridge to the Tumbleweed gang hideout - it is low enough to hang people from and easily accessible. Balconies or ledges can be found in most towns.
 Ideally, they should be close to the area you have picked so that by the time you reach it, they haven't been dragged so far that they die. Alternatively, if you are using the bridge to Tumbleweed, you merely have to wait for a victim to pass by underneath.
 With your previous practice, this should be easy. Now it is a matter of dragging the victim to the hanging spot, making sure not to accidentally let go of the rope before you reach it. Try not to go through too dense a bush, as it will kill your victim faster before you reach your destination. If you are using the Tumbleweed bridge or similar, again, you will not have to move far, or even be on your horse to lasso and hang the target; you can simply lasso and enjoy.
 This can be done by riding diagonally at the cliff or similar, and then turning and riding parallel to it. Your victim should swing off the cliff, and if you come to stop, they should be hanging in mid-air off the ledge. Make sure to keep the rope held firmly. This step can be skipped if you are using the Tumbleweed bridge method, as they will already be hanging as soon as you lasso them if you lasso them as they pass underneath.
 Whether you're bringing an outlaw to justice, or doing dastardly deeds, the outcome should be that the victim will struggle for a while on the lasso before the rope either breaks or they collapse, dead.

