 Take a 5 to 10 minute jog. (If at a baseball field, running from foul pole to foul pole a few times should do the trick);
,


Arm Circles Forward and Backward. Start slow and increase speed gradually, circling for 15-20 seconds in each direction.
Leg Swings forward and backward. Again start slow and increase speed. This stretch is easiest to do holding onto a wall, fence or a partner. Do for 15-20 seconds in each direction.
Lunges. It's best to do these in multiple directions. Imagine standing at the center of a clock and try to lunge in the direction of each quarter hour. Lunge with each leg one or two times in each direction.
Leg Curls. From a standing position, alternate kicking the heel of each of your feet up to your buttocks. Do for 20-30 seconds.
Back Rotations. Cross arms over chest and plant feet roughly shoulder width apart. Slowly turn at waist going as far as possible while keeping feet planted and facing forward. Do for 15-20 seconds.



Calf stretch. Using a wall, fence or partner, straighten one leg back from your stabilizing object and attempt to touch the heel of that foot to the ground or until resistance is felt. Then alternate legs. Hold each leg for 15 seconds
Groin stretch. Start by standing with feet close together then extend one leg outward to the side and lean your weight on that leg. Try to keep sole of other foot flat on the ground. Alternate legs and do at least 3 times with each leg.
Quadriceps stretch. Starting with feet together, bring one foot up to the butt-ox by bending at the knee and grasp that foot with your hand on that same side of the body. Pull foot tight to buttocks while leaning slightly forward. Hold for 15 seconds then alternate feet.
Hamstring stretch. Starting by standing with feet together, stick one leg out and rest heel of that foot on the ground. Slowly start to squat by bending at the knee of the opposite leg until slight resistance is felt and hold at that position for 15 seconds. Then alternate legs.
Hip Flexor stretch. Start by standing with feet together, move one leg out as if performing a lunge. Try to keep back leg straight while leaning your weight over the knee of your front leg. Alternate legs and do 3 times for each one.
Triceps stretch. Stand with feet together and bring one arm up and place behind back of head while grabbing that elbow with your opposite hand. Pull elbow gently until slight resistance is felt and hold there for 15 seconds. Switch arms and repeat
Posterior Shoulder stretch. Standing with feet together, bring one arm across the chest and grab that elbow with your opposite hand. Pull slightly until slight resistance is felt and hold there for 15 seconds. Switch arms and repeat.
Anterior Shoulder stretch. Standing with feet together, straighten arms behind back and lock hands while trying to lift up towards the back of the head until slight resistance is felt. Hold there for 10 seconds.
Forearm stretch. Standing with feet together, stick one arm out in front of your body with palm facing outward and fingers pointing straight up in the air. Use other had to pull fingers of that hand back towards body until slight resistance is felt. Hold there for 15 seconds
Pectoral stretch. Standing with feet together, stick one arm out to your side bending elbow at 900 angle so hand and forearm are pointing straight up in the air. Keeping feet planted, slowly move that arm toward back bending at the shoulder. Go until slight resistance is felt, then restart motion and redo 3 times for each arm.
, Now you’re ready to start playing catch and take batting practice before you hit the field!


Entire routine should take 25-30 minutes

