 If the "use by" date has expired, then that bacon is unsafe to use. Always use bacon within seven days of purchase ("sell by") or by the "use by" date listed by the manufacturer. You can also safely thaw and cook the bacon within four months of freezing bacon.


Take care not to confuse the "sell by" and "use by" dates. The first is the store's guidance, the latter is the manufacturer's expiration date. The "sell by" date signals that you need to get on with consuming the bacon sooner rather than later but the bacon is still safe to eat (provided no other signs of poor storage are revealed).;
, If you bought a package of bacon last week and didn't get around to using it, it's possible it's still good. The same wouldn't be said if you had opened it, taken a whiff, and put it back, but if it's still sealed, it should have a bit longer life.


Your bacon may last for up to two weeks upon purchased if you stored it properly and didn't open it.Open 'er up and do some of the following tests. If it seems like good bacon, your judgment call is probably accurate.
 Whether it's on a plate, or in its packet, it will have the same smell. If you aren't sure that the bacon is good, smell it carefully. If it smells like fresh meat, then it's not spoiled. If it smells weird, like rotting, sour or an offish odor, then it is probably spoiled.


You know what bacon smells like, right? That delicious, Ron-Swanson-is-on-his-way scent? That's the one. If there's even a semblance of a doubt that it smells as delicious as it should, don't risk it. The bacteria ain't worth it.
 Go to a room with a good light source and take a look at the bacon. Good, non-spoiled bacon, should have a fresh, pinkish color and be bright. Bacon is a pink meat with white fat, and sometimes yellowish. If you notice that the bacon has green dots all over, looks dull or that the flesh is turning a gray-brown, then it's not fresh bacon.


You may be thinking at this juncture, "It's bacon. It's always good. Bacon that exists is good bacon." Not true. The last thing you want is to have a bad bacon experience, conditioning you to never eat bacon again, right? Think of the long-term risks here.
 Bacon is usually not slimy. If you noticed that the bacon you are holding is slimy, then it's most likely spoiled. Again, throw it out.


And wash your hands afterwards. Just because you didn't eat the bacteria means you should leave it on your hands.
 After you have checked whether the bacon is spoiled, throw it out if necessary. Wrap it well and toss it into the garbage bin outdoors (so it doesn't smell up your indoor trash can). Then wash your hands well. Do not feed it to your pets –– they may be harmed by the bacteria too.

