 As a teenager, it can sometimes seem as if your parents’ rules are strict and unnecessary. To be a good daughter, however, it is essential to respect your parents. Follow even the rules you don’t agree with, and don’t complain about them. Rather, talk with your parents if you want them to consider changing those rules. Ask calmly for more privileges and don’t yell at your parents. Yelling will sound disrespectful, and you will appear immature.Ask your parents if you can periodically revisit rules on curfew, nights out, or driving privileges.
Say things like, “I understand you worry about me when I’m out, but I’d really like your permission to stay out until midnight sometimes,” or “I’ve really been working hard on my grades lately, is it okay if I go out an extra night this weekend to see my friends?”
Avoid the argument that your friends get to do certain things that you don’t get to do. Instead, focus on how responsible you have demonstrated you can be and identify potential ways you can earn privileges.;
, A family is a system that relies on each member performing their responsibilities to help things run smoothly. If you are in charge of cleaning the bathrooms or starting dinner on weeknights, be sure to keep on top of these. Your parents will appreciate the help, and your responsibility will be apparent to them.


Offer to help out even more when your parents are busy.
Perform your chores happily, without complaint. If you anticipate a reason why you cannot do this, try your best to talk to your parents about it ahead of time so alternative arrangements can be made.
 This will help you avoid peer pressure and the problem behavior that may come with it. If you feel pressured, talk with your parent or another trusted adult.Choose friends with similar values and perspectives to your own. Take time to formulate a list of what makes a friend a good influence, and see if your friends meet enough of these criteria. If you prioritize your involvement in school clubs and sports, hang out with friends from these groups.
Practice speaking up for yourself on relatively minor matters, like choices in restaurants or clothing stores. If you can confidently disagree with friends regarding your opinions on these somewhat unimportant topics, you will set yourself up for speaking your mind on larger topics.
When avoiding peer pressure, don’t make excuses. Rather, say things like, “I don’t want to lose control of how I act, that’s why I don’t want to drink,” or “I want to take care of myself and be healthy, so I choose not to smoke.”

