 You must learn to notice your flaws and become self-aware of how your actions and words affect others.;
, Do you think it is okay to hastily judge someone because of their appearance, ethnicity, sexuality, etc.? Do you think it is okay to be rude to someone because they are not like you or think differently from you?

, How do you speak? Are you obnoxiously loud? What do you say when you speak? Do you swear and use derogatory terms? Why do you speak? Do you speak to demean someone or gossip? Do you speak about yourself and gloat excessively?

, Do you ignore others when they clearly need help? Do you bump into someone and keep walking? Do you preach and not practice?

, Begin by realizing that not everyone in the world is going to like what you like, look how you look, think how you think, and believe what you believe. People are individuals; they aren't you. Being cruel to and thinking others shouldn't be treated nicely and with respect because they are different from you is absolutely not acceptable. From severely horrible ways of thinking such as, “He's black so he's inferior” or “She's a woman and only good as a sexual object” to things such as, “She doesn't have the newest phone so she's not cool” or “He dresses in all black so he must be a freak” are unacceptable ways to look at people. It is not okay to judge someone on their appearance, ethnicity, sexual orientation, etc. It is much more important to take a look at someone's actions.
 If you are loud, lower your voice. It is rude to those you are speaking to as well as those around you who are not in the conversation if you speak in a shouting voice. Make yourself appear more calm and collected with a low yet clear and confident voice. If you swear or use derogatory terms, stop it. Swearing a lot is a crutch. You must learn to replace swearing with more acceptable words. Also, cut out the derogatory terms completely. If you call someone, directly or indirectly, horrible names, it makes you seem ignorant, irrational, and mean. If you speak to gossip or talk about someone in a rude way, it is best that you do not speak at all. Someone who talks smack about others does not appear to be trustworthy.
 Say, “Thank you” when someone opens the door for you. Say “Excuse me” or “I'm sorry” if you bump into someone by accident. If someone drops some books or papers, help him pick them up. These are very simple, basic forms of etiquette. Open the door for others, offer the elderly or a pregnant woman your seat on the bus, and allow the person with one item in hand go ahead of you and your basket full of items at the cashier. Use your words to express gratitude and appreciation. Use your actions to make things easier for others.
 This is where you learn to listen. Get over yourself; you're not some divine gift for the world to marvel over, and no one wants to hear about every little thing that you do. Sit back, listen, and observe. You will notice a lot of things you have not noticed before, and learn some new things you would have not learned if you kept on yapping about yourself.
 It takes time to change and it takes patience. Simple changes, however, can lead to major transformations. When you catch yourself thinking, saying, or doing something you shouldn't, stop yourself. Habits are very hard to break but with time and practice, good habits will replace bad ones.
 If someone is talking rudely about another, you can stick up for that person or ignore the situation by not offering any encouragement by agreeing with the smack talker or laughing. If you show that you are disinterested or offended by how someone is behaving, she might take the hint. If you make it clear to, say, a friend, that you do not feel comfortable with how he acts and he ignores it, move on. He is not worth the time. There are plenty of other people who are nice that you can befriend. Surround yourself with good influences and your quest to becoming a better person will be easier, supported, and encouraged.
 It may be easy to fall off the wagon and back into old habits. This may be because it is easy to look around and see people acting mean or completely apathetic. You can see this in person or even more especially, on the Internet. Don't allow yourself to fall victim to the bad influences around you. Remember, you may not be able to change others but you can change yourself. If you act like a good person, you can at least influence someone.
 It takes a lot of work to be a good person which is why when you begin to see bad habits change to good habits, you need to congratulate yourself. It is only difficult to be a good person if you have allowed yourself to wallow in bad behavior. Be confident that you can become a better person, more and more so as time goes on. Keep your demeanor. There will always be people who are ignorant and selfish. They will try to discourage you and attack you for being who you are. Those are the kind of people that make the world a horrible place. Do you want to be one of them? Imagine how much nicer the world would be if people could just use some etiquette, show their appreciation for others, and offer a helping hand when one is needed. Imagine that world and strive for it. This will help you stay on track.
 These people are your support. True friends and loving family should be shown how much they mean to you. You should show them often that you appreciate them. Give them meaningful cards and gifts for special days, such as holidays and birthdays. Do something nice for them and help them out throughout the year and tell them that you love them and care for them through words or through actions.
 It is very easy to look at things in a pessimistic way. It is okay to feel sad, depressed, or disappointed every once in a while. If you find yourself in this situation, allow yourself to cry or express some grief, but pick yourself back up. You are human and you will have pitfalls, however, you must remind yourself of what you have in your life that makes you happy. Be grateful that you have family and friends who love you or that you have a roof over your head. Be grateful that you got your fancy coffee this morning or that the store had that one box of Twinkies and YOU got them. Be grateful for the small and larger things in life. This is positive reinforcement for when you are down.

