 Add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of vegetable oil to a Dutch oven or large soup pot. Heat it on medium heat for 3 to 5 minutes, and then add 1 chopped medium green pepper, 2 chopped medium onions, and ½ cup (115 g) of chopped celery to the pot. Cook the vegetables until they are tender, which should take approximately 5 minutes. Stir the veggies frequently to prevent them from sticking.You can substitute olive or canola oil for the vegetable if you prefer.;
, After you’ve sauteed the vegetables for several minutes, add 2 pounds (907 g) of ground beef to the pot. Allow the mixture to cook until the beef is completely browned, which should take 5 to 10 minutes. Drain off the excess fat when the meat is finished cooking.For the best results, use extra-lean ground beef.
You can substitute another ground meat, such as ground turkey or chicken, for the beef if you prefer. Just make sure that the meat is cooked through before moving onto the next step.
 Once the meat is browned and you’ve drained the fat from the pan, add two 28-ounce (794 g) cans of diced tomatoes with the juice, an 8-ounce (227 g) can of tomato sauce, 1 cup (237 ml) of water, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of Worcestershire sauce, 1 to 2 tablespoons (8 to 16 g) of chili powder, 1 teaspoon (3 g) of garlic powder, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of ground oregano, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of ground cumin, 1 teaspoon (6 g) of salt, and ½ teaspoon (1 g) of pepper to the pot. Mix the ingredients well to ensure that they’re fully incorporated.You can adjust the amount of the chili powder depending on your personal tastes.
Instead of using the individual spices, you can also use a premixed chili seasoning packet from the grocery store, which typically contains chili powder, garlic powder, oregano, cumin, and other spices.
 After you’ve mixed all of the ingredients together, raise the heat to medium-high. Allow the mixture to come to a boil, which should take approximately 5 to 10 minutes.Leave the pot uncovered as you bring it to a boil.
Stir the pot regularly as you heat it to ensure that none of the ingredients stick to the bottom or sides.
 When the pot reaches a boil, lower the heat to medium-low or low. Place the lid on the pot, and let it simmer for an hour and a half.If you don’t have a lid for your pot, you can cover it with a piece of foil or a flat baking sheet.
Stir the mixture periodically to ensure that it’s cooking evenly.
 Once the mixture has simmered for an hour and a half, pour 2 15.5-ounce (439 g) cans of kidney beans that have been rinsed and drained to the pot. Mix them into the chili well, and let it simmer for another 10 minutes.Don’t cover the pot when you simmer the chili with the beans added.
 When the chili has been simmered for another 10 minutes with the beans, remove it from the heat. Use a ladle to place it into individual bowls and serve.Classic chili is often served with toppings such as shredded cheddar cheese, sour cream, chopped onions, and tortilla chips.
Store any uneaten chili in the refrigerator. It should keep for 3 to 4 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze the chili if you don’t eat all of it. Place it in freezer-safe containers, such as plastic freezer bags, in individual serving sizes after it’s cooled completely. It will usually keep for 4 to 6 months in the freezer.

