 Make an effort to be present so that your child will have the chance to approach you, if needed. Ask your child questions about their life and do so on a regular basis. Resist the urge to try to fix all of their problems and instead just be a good listener and a resource for help, if needed.If you discover that your child is upset, you might say, “When you are ready to talk, I’m here and will help you figure everything out if I can.”

, Recognize and acknowledge the mental pressures that your child will face. They will likely be offered drugs, alcohol, or be pressured to engage in sexual activity at some point. It is important to open a dialogue with your child about these issues. Encourage them to ask questions without receiving negative consequences. A single question could prevent them from making a harmful choice.It is best to initiate these conversations prior to your child reaching their teen years. Most parents open up this subject before their child is ten years old, if not earlier.
You could role play various scenarios with your child to get them used to saying “no” and sticking with it. You might say, “What is a good way to respond if someone offers you a beer at a party?”
Don’t rely on school sex ed to fully inform your child. Take responsibility for their well-being and ask them what they know, what they’d like to know, and what concerns they have. Tell them your concerns as well.
 This also reassures them that they are safe and protected. This will also provide the groundwork for them to have healthy and happy adult relationships later on. They will be able to more fully express their feelings to future partners.Never use words of affection as a way to control or manipulate your child. Only say them when you truly mean them in the way that they are intended. For example, you can unintentionally manipulate your child if you say, "I'll love you even more if you clean your room."

, Your child’s teachers spend a great deal of time with them and can give you a heads up regarding their mental state. At parent meetings, make sure to inquire not only about grades but about how your child is doing interacting with others and coping with any life changes that are occurring., If your child seems consistently tired, agitated, angry, irritable, or negative, you may want to seek professional help, perhaps with counseling. Other signs of possible depression or other mental concerns include slipping grades, lack of communication, poor hygiene or eating habits, and overall antisocial behavior.Talk to your child's doctor if you have concerns about their physical or emotional health.

