 After you decide to consider induction, get out a piece of paper and make a list of any concerns or questions that come to mind. Look it over and identify your ‘top five’ must-ask questions for your next doctor’s visit.


For example, you might ask, “What are the possible dangers of trying nipple stimulation prior to my due date?”;
, When you see your healthcare professional talk to them about whether they think nipple stimulation is an option for you. Be sure to listen carefully to their advice. In the majority of situations, your doctor will advise you to wait until you are at least 40 weeks before trying stimulation.


You might say, "At what point would it be a good idea to consider natural induction methods?" Or, you could ask, "Have you read any encouraging research about nipple stimulation?"
Remember that you can always make an additional appointment too, if you need extra time.
There are a few situations when your doctor or midwife may recommend nipple stimulation (along with other induction methods) for the good of the fetus. For example,nipple stimulation may be recommended if you are beyond 42 weeks and your placenta is being less efficient at providing nutrients, or if you have a complication, such as preeclampsia, which may be putting your baby at risk., Nipple stimulation generally works best on women who are showing the early signs of labor, such as a thinning cervix. You can ask your doctor or midwife to examine you and give you feedback about your odds of success.


Even if your doctor says it’s okay, watch your body for cues as to how to proceed. If at any point you feel uncomfortable with the process, stop and give it a rest.
For some high risk patients their bodies may feel ready, but their babies can’t necessarily withstand the stresses of induced labor. For example, nipple stimulation can cause abnormal fetal heart rates in some circumstances. If you have a high-risk pregnancy, proceed very cautiously., To boost the odds of success, question your health professional about attempting multiple induction methods simultaneously. Some non-drug induction options include: walking, sex, castor oil, herbal mixtures, and enemas.Be aware that some of these methods have tentative medical approval with a healthy pregnancy (i.e. sexual intercourse) while others (castor oil) are more frowned upon.
You can also ask your doctor about membrane stripping, which would need to be performed by your doctor or another qualified healthcare practitioner.
 Be prepared for your doctor or midwife to suggest some type of monitoring during your attempts at nipple stimulation. This may require you to hook up a fetal heartrate monitor while at your house or you may need to visit the clinic for you stimulation sessions.