 Sometimes, children experience feeling unfavored in school or activities. For example, your child may feel like they weren’t picked for a sports team or play because another child was favored over them. If your child comes to you feeling unfavored, console them and comfort them. Listen to their feelings and validate their disappointment or upset.While you may want to tell your child to “buckle up” and deal with life, offer comfort and support. Make sure to have a series of conversations over the course of your child's life about disappointment and how it is a part of life. It will take them a while to get used to this idea, but understanding that this will happen sometimes is very important for their emotional security as adults.
Encourage your child to ask questions such as “Why wasn’t I chosen as the school play lead?” Ask them to get feedback on their performance by saying, “I know I didn’t make the soccer team, but I’m wondering what I can do for next year.”

, If you’re a member of a family with favoritism, think about how your involvement may affect you and other people. You might start to feel stuck in the middle of their dispute or feel like you have to rescue the unfavorable person. You may want to make it very clear to all parties that you will not be in the middle of a conflict, or decide if one party is being grossly mistreated and whether or not it is worth getting involved. Siding with one party may jeopardize your favorability, so be clear about how you want to handle family conflicts and don’t put yourself in a difficult position.For example, your spouse, sibling, or child may feel unfavored. Do what you can to bring peace to the situation without escalating it further. This may mean encouraging all people to behave more civil or hearing both sides.
 If there’s a deep resentment in the family that affects favoritism, encourage your friend to address it. Whether it was a genuine wrongdoing, misunderstanding or other problem, say that it’s important to talk about it and put any problems away. While some families may not readily discuss conflicts and may instead avoid or ignore problems, encourage the person to confront these problems.It is important to try this to change the way a family communicates and deals with conflict. However, keep in mind that it might not always work, so you may have to alter your expectations.


If approaching family members is too scary, encourage the person to go to family therapy or use a therapist or mediator to help discuss the problems.

