 Sugar cookies are easy to make and require far fewer ingredients, making them easy to throw together at the last minute without having to run to the store. Sugar cookies are also basic enough to be enjoyed by everyone, avoiding strong preferences regarding individual flavors.
 Chocolate chip cookies are one of the most popular types of cookies across the world. These are another great basic to master. Take them up a notch by using fancy chocolate chips or other variations.
 Oatmeal cookies can provide a little extra dietary fiber, making them healthier than many of their cookie brethren. They're also easy to make and customize to suit your tastes or jazz up a bit.
 Peanut butter cookies are a favorite for many and can make a nice, filling treat that works great for a breakfast item. These are also more diabetic friendly than other recipes, if the sugar is significantly adjusted.
 Snickerdoodles are basically giant piles of buttery, sugary, cinnamon goodness. They won't be the first thing you reach for when looking for a healthy cookie, but they are a delightful indulgence.
 Whether you're setting up for Christmas or a summer picnic, ginger snaps make a great addition to any get together. They're widely liked and easy to make, so give these tasty cookies a try.
 Macaroons are a cookie that look hard but are actually really easy to make. If you've got someone to impress, try these deceptively fancy treats on for size. The coconut and chocolate will be just what you need to feel gourmet.
 Marzipan is a cooking ingredient usually limited to fancy Italian desserts. However, this sweet almond paste can make for a seriously tasty cookie and some nice Continental sophistication.
 Whether you're looking for a unique flavor or just want to take a party from last minute to black tie affair, try these foodie cookies. The mixture of flavors will surprise you and leave your guests wowed.
 Who goes by the book? Not you. Who defies expectations? Now we're talking. Make these cookies that not only taste great but will get everybody talking. Because why make plain chocolate chip when you can make something they'll never forget?