 You will need a standard roll of toilet paper, preferably toilet paper that is thick and durable. A thicker, more durable toilet paper will make it easier to curl and tie the toilet paper into your hair without the risk of tearing or ripping of the toilet paper.You can also use paper towels or paper napkins if you do not have access to toilet paper. You will need to tear the paper towels or napkins into thin strips, about as wide as a piece of toilet paper. This will make it much easier to curl and tie the towels or napkins into your hair.;
, You should also have a comb with a long handle close by, as you can use the comb to help you part and separate your hair into sections. Parting your hair into even sections will make it easier to curl and tie your hair with the toilet paper.If you do not have access to a comb with a long thin handle, you can use a chopstick or the tip side of a paintbrush to part and section off your hair. Make sure you do not scrap the chopstick or the paintbrush against your scalp as you do not want to damage your scalp when you are parting your hair.
 You should have a spray bottle of water prepared so you can dampen your hair before you curl it with the toilet paper. Having hair that is damp, but not soaking wet, will allow your hair to hold the curls more effectively.








You may not need a spray bottle of water if you plan on curling your hair once you have dried your hair so it is damp but not soaking wet. This item is only necessary if your hair is dry and needs to be dampened.
 You may also want to have hairspray close by so you can apply it once you have curled your hair with the toilet paper. This will help to keep the curls in place and ensure they look good for a day or several days.You should look for hairspray that has good holding power. You may want to test the hairspray on a piece of hair to ensure it does not get crunchy or greasy when it dries.
 Start by holding three squares of toilet paper and tearing them off the roll. Tear off as many strips of toilet paper, three squares each, as you need to curl your entire head. You may decide to tear the strips off as you go so you have enough toilet paper to curl all of your hair.








If you are using paper towels, you should tear it so it forms two to four equal strips that are about 2 inches wide. Then, repeat this until you have a stack of strips or tear the paper towels as you go so you have enough strips to curl all of your hair.
 Once you have the strips of toilet paper, you should fold them once length wise. This will create curls that are of an average size. This will also make the toilet paper stay in your hair more effectively and prevent you from tearing the toilet paper too much when you put it in your hair.








If you want to create wider curls, you should fold the strips once lengthwise and then fold them in half lengthwise again. This will create strips that are a little thicker, leading to thicker curls.
 You may want to gather most of your hair, except for the bottom layer, and clip it to the side so you can focus on one section at a time. Then, use the comb or chopstick to separate a 1-2 inch section of hair.If your hair is thick, you may use 1 inch sections so the toilet paper stays in place more effectively.
Once you have a section of hair, spritz it with water using the spray bottle. You just want it to be a little damp so it will hold the curl.
 Starting at the bottom of your hair, place the toilet paper strip on your hair and slowly roll your hair over the toilet paper. Continue wrapping your hair around the toilet paper strip until you reach your scalp.








If you only want curls at the bottom area of your hair, you may stop wrapping your hair midway up your hair. If you want full curls from the top to bottom of your hair, you would roll the toilet paper all the way up to your scalp.
 Once you have rolled your hair around the toilet paper, you will need to tie the toilet paper so your hair is secure. Take either ends of the toilet paper strip and loop them together so they form a loose knot. Try not to tie the strip too tight around your hair as this may cause the strip to tear or rip.








Tie the toilet paper more than once if you have enough paper to do so, but make sure the knot is still a little loose. The hair should hang down in a loose but secure roll.
 You can then repeat these same steps for the remaining sections of your hair, wrapping and tying the toilet paper strips into your hair in 1-2 inch sections. Make sure you tie the toilet paper strips so they are secure but not too tight.








If any of the toilet paper strips tear or rip while you are tying them, unroll your hair from the toilet paper and roll it again with a fresh strip. Try not to tug or pull too hard on the toilet paper as this could cause it to rip or tear.
 You should let your curled hair stay in overnight so the curls can set. You may need to sleep on your back so the side sections of your hair do not get messed up. You can also try sleeping on one side, carefully pushing the toilet paper rolls away from your face.If you are in a rush, you can also use a blow dryer to set the curls. You may need to blow dry your hair for 10 to 20 minutes, moving the dryer around your head, to make sure the curls stay in.
 In the morning, you can remove the toilet paper by gently untying them or by ripping them out with a few gentle tears. You should then have large curls that you can separate carefully with your fingers. Try not to touch your curls too much as this can create frizz.








You can set your curls by spritzing them with hairspray so they stay in place all day. You may also add hair accessories like decorative bobby pins, a paper flower, or a headband to give your curls a little something extra.

