 Ideally, children's lenses should be made of polycarbonate or Trivex. These materials are are less prone to damage from being dropped. They're also safer, since they’re less likely to shatter. Since they’re lightweight, they are great for strong prescriptions and make thick lenses more comfortable for kids.Generally, stronger prescriptions mean thicker lenses. Choosing smaller frames typically reduces the thickness of the lenses, making them more wearable and reducing blurriness in your child’s peripheral vision field.
Polycarbonate and Trivex lenses protect against potentially harmful ultraviolet (UV) rays.
Untreated polycarbonate lenses scratch easily, so make sure the lenses are specially coated by the factory to reduce scratching.
Glass lenses are rarely available for kids, and should not be selected for children's glasses. Not only is glass heavier, it is also a hazard since it can break easily. The sharp pieces of a broken glass lens can damage the eye.;
, Since they’re durable, less expensive, and lightweight, plastic frames are often considered more suitable for children; however, manufacturers are producing more and more metal frame options that are just as affordable and hardy. Sometimes, kids also enjoy the more mature look that metal offers, and some will opt for frames similar to their parents’ in order to look more like an adult.Other frame designs include flexible hinges or a memory metal which will bounce back to its original shape if bent or twisted. These can be especially good frames for kids who may not be as careful with their glasses.If your child has ever shown evidence of being allergic or sensitive to nickel or other metals, ask their optometrist about hypoallergenic materials.
 Considering fashion can be especially important when choosing materials and frame sizes for kids. Whether they have to wear their glasses at all times or only for certain activities, many kids get teased about their glasses. Function should take priority over fashion, but make sure your child is involved in the selection process.Extra cool features, such as photochromic lenses that darken automatically in the outdoors, might make your child want to regularly wear their glasses. There is an added benefit to these lenses, which is that they reduce exposure to harmful UV rays that can lead to cataracts or some cancers later in life.Don't go too far for coolness, however. Steer your kids away from frames that are too expensive, as kids are apt to break or lose their glasses.

