 You can start by thinking about the form or personality you want them to have. You don't have to choose a permanent form or personality for them, as it is very likely that they will deviate from what you originally planned.;
, You can plan out your tulpa's appearance by drawing if it helps, or just by visualizing them.


You should not create a tulpa based on any real humans, living or dead.
If you create a tulpa based off a fictional character, make sure to let your tulpa know that they are not that character, they just have their appearance.
 One way to think of a personality is simply list as many personality traits you want your tulpa to have. When you've thought about a form you can either read these traits to the tulpa, or meditate on them for a while, few minutes on each, to "install" them into your tulpa. Some people tend to skip the personality step, and that is fine, your tulpa will just develop their personality themselves. This can also deviate. But no worries, it is unlikely that their personality will deviate into something harmful.
 Sit down and close your eyes. Imagine your tulpa in your head; look at them from any possible angle you can think of. Try to visualize every detail of their appearance. Be patient, and take time visualizing them, and remember that some part can be very difficult such as a face. Also remember, you can do this any way you want, whatever suits you best. When you visualize, you could either just visualize your tulpa in an empty space, an imaginary place, or just the space in front of you.
 Try to feel their hair (if they have any) and the details on their body. When that step is complete, you will be able to feel your tulpa's form or surface by applying a little pressure, but you won't be able to touch them as if they were a solid, physical thing. Your hand will go through.
 If you want to, you can associate a scent with your tulpa a during this step. Make sure the same scent remains whenever you smell your tulpa.
 Imagine how your tulpa moves and walks. Think about the gestures they use. Work on their expressions last. Try to imagine a conversation with them, and think about what their reactions would be. Always remember, each of these steps take time, never rush it.
 If you want, you can create a place in your imagination, called a wonderland. This is a place where you can work on your tulpa, and this will be the place that your tulpa can live in. You can be there too, just imagine yourself there with your tulpa. You can do anything you like there, it's your own world. It can be very helpful because if you are in a busy place like in a crowd of people,or doing something like cycling somewhere, it can be difficult to visualize your tulpa anywhere, so they can rest in the wonderland until you are able to visualize them again.


Let your tulpa edit the wonderland. They can change it and anything with it whenever they want, just as you can.
 You can talk to them inside your mind or out loud. The subject doesn't matter at all. You can talk to them about weather, your day at work/school, your friends, a TV show you like... As long as you direct your talking to the tulpa, you'll do fine. The process is gradual and first contact from your tulpa can be difficult to discern; they won't necessarily jump into speaking full sentences right away.


This is completely optional, but you could use a method like 'parroting' or 'puppeting' though some people can find this controversial. But, many others believe that this can help a developing tulpa and encourage them to try to communicate. Sometimes if you are not sure if the answer you got was you parroting or your tulpa, always assume it was your tulpa.
This step can take a while. Be patient

, You can create a completely new voice in your head, but it may be easier to pick a voice you know well enough to imagine it saying anything.
 Close your eyes and tell your tulpa you're opening your mind to them. Imagine them walking through a door that leads into your subconsciousness. Your tulpa can now see your memories, how you feel and everything about you as a person. Don't do this right away, but wait until there's trust between you, so that your tulpa won't take this for granted. Signs of sentience:


Tulpa talks back to you with full sentences and has their own opinions. They may communicate with you in other ways as well, such as through emotions.
Tulpa does things you didn't expect them to do.
 Do this until it starts to feel natural. Make sure you remember the way they walk. In time you will learn to feel your tulpa's presence, even though you can't really see them. You can still feel where they are and what they're doing, and see them with your mind's eye.
 Read stories of the forum hosts and their tulpae. Learn more about creating and living with tulpae. There are many different guides and forums on the internet, some which contains FAQ's and Q&A's on tulpae, which you can find very useful if you have any concerns or questions.

