 Make sure that you use the right facial cleaner for your skin type. For example, if you have oily skin or acne, get something that contains salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide. If you have dry skin, use a gentle, moisturizing, fragrance-free face wash., Hot water is very damaging on skin; it strips it of its natural oils and dries it out.Use a mild soap while bathing. Many fragranced soaps are too harsh on the skin and can cause it to become sensitive and dry.
Pat your skin dry, don't rub it. Also, try to leave your skin somewhat damp. Your skin will soak in this extra moisture and remain soft.
 Always using a shaving cream or gel beforehand, and shave in the direction your hair is growing in—not against it. After you are done shaving, remember to use a mild, fragrance-free lotion to hydrate your skin., Remember to not only exfoliate your face, but your body too! Lastly, try to use something that is pH neutral so that it doesn't dry out your skin. If your lips are feeling dry, try a lip scrub!Use equal parts sugar and honey or coconut oil, and gently scrub your lips with it. Rinse it off with warm water when you are done.
 Using one will replace the moisture and natural minerals that you have washed away when washing your face. The best time to moisturize is just after you wash your face or step out of the shower. This will not only help seal in the moisture that is already on your skin, but it will also absorb more readily.To get the most out of your moisturizer, gently massage it into your skin using small, circular motions. This will help boost circulation to your skin.If you spend a lot of time outdoors, use a moisturizer that contains SPF.
Even those who have oily skin and acne can benefit from a moisturizer. Choose a gel-type that is intended for oily skin. If your skin becomes too dry, it will produce even more oil to compensate.
 Not everything will work the first time after you use is; sometimes, a new product may need a few weeks before you start seeing any results.. Finish a tube or bottle before judging it. Not everything works after the first time.The only time you should stop using a skincare product is if it causes an allergic reaction, such as redness, itching, or a rash.Everyone is different. What works great for your friend or sister may not work at all for you.
 When it comes to skincare, less is more. The more products you put on your skin, the more likely you are to get an allergic reaction. Some ingredients may also cancel each other out and render the product useless. When you use a ton of products, you increase the chances of that happening. Limit yourself to only one or two skincare products.Switching products as the seasons change is perfectly fine. For example, you can use a lighter moisturizer in the summer and a heavier one on the winter.
 This will make your skin soft and give it a healthy glow. It will also help prevent acne and breakouts. If you don't drink enough water, your skin will look dull and dry.


Aim to drink about 8 cups of water each day.
, This will help your skin retain its moisture, which will keep it looking young and hydrated. Flax seeds and walnuts are both rich in omega-3 fatty acid., Green tea is filled with antioxidants, which can reduce inflammation and puffiness in your skin.Chill the used tea bags in your fridge, then place them over your eyes for 10 to 15 minutes to reduce puffiness.Too much of a good thing can quickly turn into a bad thing. You should drink no more than 2 to 3 cups of green tea each day.
 In a blender, combine 1 cup (200 grams) of strawberries, 1 cup (250 grams) of yogurt, and 1½ tablespoons of honey. Drink it and use the spread the rest on your face for a creamy face mask. Leave it there for 8 minutes, then wash it off.Strawberries are filled with vitamin C, which is good for dry skin and anti-aging.The lactic acid in the yogurt will help exfoliate and brighten your skin.
Honey is naturally anti-bacterial and hydrating. It will moisturize and clarify your skin.
 In a blender, combine 2 cups (45o grams) of canned pumpkin, ¼ cup (65 grams) of plain or vanilla yogurt, ¼ cup (90 grams) of honey, and 1 teaspoon pumpkin pie spice. Drink it, and leave the rest on your face for 10 minutes. Rinse off with lukewarm water.Pumpkin is filled with vitamins C, E, and A. It also contains enzymes that help cleanse and soften the skin., The more stressed you are, the more likely you will suffer from acne and breakouts. Set reasonable limits and don't take on more than you can handle. This may include shortening your daily to-do list. Also, make sure that you save enough time each week for hobbies that you enjoy., Teenagers need around 8 to 10 hours, while adults need around 7 to 8 hours of sleep. Not getting enough sleep will make you feel tired throughout the day and will also give you bags under your eyes which won't make it a healthy looking skin.


Sleep on a silk or satin pillowcase. It will be much gentler on your skin and hair.If you cannot find a silk or satin pillowcase, use a cotton one with a high thread count.
Sleep on your back. Sleeping on your side may lead to creases and wrinkles—especially on the side you sleep on., Use something that has at least 30 SPF. If you will be outside for a long time, bring sunscreen with you and reapply it every 2 to 3 hours; as the day goes on, you will sweat the sunscreen off, making it less effective.Here are some more tips for protecting your skin in the sun:Wear long sleeves and pants, and wide-brimmed hats.
Wear clothes that are made from tightly-woven fabrics as well; thin fabrics, such as cotton, may not offer enough protection from the sun's harmful UV rays.
Avoid going outside into the sun between 10am and 2pm, as this is when the sun's rays are the strongest and most harmful.
 Not only is exercise good for your body, but it is also great for your skin as well. It helps boost oxygen and nutrients to the skin.Also, when you sweat, your body gets rid of toxins, which will help clarify your skin.
 Makeup can make your skin look pretty, but if you wear too much of it too often, it can lead to breakouts and acne. Never go to sleep while wearing makeup; always remove it using makeup remover and a gentle facial cleanser.


If you wear makeup often, make sure that you keep your brushes clean to prevent breakouts. Wash your eye makeup brushes twice a month, and all your other makeup brushes once a month., All of these things can dull and dry out your skin. Smoking can age your skin and increase the appearance of wrinkles. Smoking also damages the skin by decreasing blood flow and constricting blood vessels near your skin's surface. Smoking also damages collagen and elastin, which affects your skin's elasticity and strength. Do everything you can to quit smoking if you are a smoker.Coffee and alcohol are also very dehydrating and can lead to dry skin as well as wrinkles.Coffee is also acidic, which can mess up your hormone levels and skin's oil production. Too much of it can contribute to acne.Not all caffeine is bad, especially if it is taken in moderation. Black coffee, black tea, and green tea are all full of antioxidants, which are beneficial to the skin. Drink no more than 2 or 3 cups of coffee or tea a day, and remember to drink plenty of water.