 You will want a minimum of 15 people because there are three murderers. If you tried to play with just a few people, the game would be over within seconds.
 Whether you’re sitting on the floor or in chairs, arrange yourselves in a circle. You want to be able to see everybody’s faces.


This version of the game is a seated version so you don’t have to walk around.
Make sure you’re comfortable. You’ll be in this position for quite a while, especially if you play multiple rounds, so grab a pillow and get comfy.
 Use a deck of cards and pick three cards (like the Joker, the red Queen of Hearts, and the black Queen of Hearts) to represent who the murderers are. Everybody draws a card and whoever draws the “murderer cards” are the murderers.


One murderer will wink at you to kill you. The second murderer will look at you and twitch to kill you. The third murderer will look at you and pout to kill you.Make sure the deck of cards you pick from is the same amount of people playing. If you have 15 people playing and an entire deck of cards, it could take a couple times before the three murderer cards are drawn.
You could also use scraps of paper with three of them marked “twitch”, “wink”, and “pout” if you don’t have cards. Everybody picks three pieces of paper so with this version, one person could potentially be all three murderers!, While everybody is sitting in a circle, make light conversation. The entire group can be engaged in one conversation or you can talk amongst the people around you. Just remember to watch everybody’s faces while you chit chat.


Your conversations can be about anything. Chat about your plans for the week, where you’d like to go on vacation, or what you did that day. You can use even use fake accents to get everybody laughing.
 Everybody must make eye contact with each other and pay attention to each others faces. The murderers are trying to kill you by winking, twitching, and pouting so you have to pay attention to what everyone is doing with their face to try and catch them.
 It takes three murders to be killed in this game. You must be killed by twitching, winking, and pouting so if you’ve already been murdered twice, be very careful not to get hit a third time.


Raise your right hand. If the wink murderer kills you, die by raising your right arm. Keep your arm raised for the rest of the game or until you’re out.Raise your left hand. If the twitch murderer kills you, die by raising your left arm. Keep your arm raised for the rest of the game or until you’re out.Cross your legs. If the pouting murderer kills you, die by crossing your legs. Keep your legs crossed for the rest of the game or until you’re out., If there is a second, you yell the name of the person (or persons) you suspect and the person who seconded you yells the name of the person (or persons) they suspect. The accused must say “yes” (they are the murderer) or “no” (they are innocent).The seconder may guess a different person. In this instance, if you are guessing the first or second murderer, the seconder would be penalized if they guessed incorrectly. If you were guessing the last murderer, the seconder wouldn't be penalized because the game would be over.
If you guessed incorrectly but the seconder guesses correctly, you are out and the seconder stays in the game.
If nobody seconds you, you cannot guess. Wait a minute and try again until someone seconds you.
You can guess one murderer at a time or if you think you know them all, you can guess them all at once. Be careful though because if you guess two or three murderers and are incorrect about even one of them, you're out of the game.
If you were incorrect, you must leave the game as penalty and the game continues until the killers are identified. The seconder must also leave the game if they are incorrect.
If you were right about one murderer, that murderer leaves the game and everybody continues playing until all of the murderers have been caught. If you guessed them all correctly you can play another round!

