 If you're reasonably sure the door can be kicked down, but you aren't feeling any give, try kicking in a different spot, or use a different kicking style.
 This method offers a lot of force and more stability. Stand with your back to the door and kick backward, like a donkey. Make sure your foot lands flat just under the doorknob.


You can place your arms on the shoulders of a buddy standing in front of you (or use a table or anything that won't move and will support your weight) for further stability while you concentrate on landing your foot in the proper location.
Take a few practice "taps" to help prevent breaking your foot on the doorknob.
 Front kicking a door down will not offer as much force as a side or back kick, but you can aim your foot more precisely. Stand a few feet away from the door, with your dominant foot placed in the back. Use your dominant leg to front kick the area just below the doorknob quite hard (with a forward, pushing motion, not an upward swing).


Do not use the ball of your foot to perform this strike; instead, use your heel. Be careful not to strike your foot on the doorknob.
This kicking style increases the risk of injury dramatically, because the force used is not directly perpendicular to the door, and the toes of a foot may land on the knob or lock instead of the door, which may strain the ankle or break the tendons on the heel.
 You should not hammer away at a stubborn door too many times, because this may cause too much damage to the door or your body. Try to find another way in.


Make sure you've exhausted your other options. Is there any other way to get in? Have you considered breaking a small window that you can easily replace? Take stock of your situation, and if there's no other choice, go on to the next step.
As an alternate method, you can use a hammer, sledge or other suitable pounding device to strike the area below the doorknob. A crowbar can also help with heavier doors. This is suggested for people who are not physically able to deliver a good kick.

