


Turn on your Wii.
Click on the Wii Message Board button, located on the bottom right corner of the main menu. This is the icon that resembles a small envelope.
Click on the Create Message button, located on the bottom left corner of the page. This is the icon that resembles a sheet of paper with a pencil over it.
Click on the Address Book to the right side of the screen. Your address book should open to the first page. You should see your Wii's console number displayed here as a 16 digit number (e.g. 9999 9999 9999 9999).

Alternatively, you can click on the small arrow to the left side of the screen to flip to the cover page.


Write down this number. Give this number to your friend.;
, Have your friend follow the same steps as shown above to determine his or her number. You and your friend must both add each other to your consoles in order to send messages to each other and to exchange Miis.



Open the Address Book.
Click on Register. Here, you are given two options: register a friend's Wii number, or register another form of contact (e.g. an e-mail address).
Click on Wii, located to the left. A small screen will appear that reads "Enter a Wii Number". Click on this middle box to open a screen to enter your Wii number.
Enter your friend's 16 digit Wii console number. When you are finished, press OK. If done properly, the Wii console number should appear on the screen as you entered it.

If a message appears that says "This Wii number is incorrect", double check to see that you've entered the number correctly.


Click OK again. A window will appear asking to give a nickname for this Wii console number.
Click on this window to enter a nickname. It can be any name you choose—a good choice would simply be your friend's name. Press OK when you are done.
Add a Mii to your Wii console number. If you like, you can choose one of your currently existing Miis and attach it to this number to easily identify your friend with the number. Press OK when you are finished.

This step is optional.


Confirm that you've entered all of the correct information, and press OK to add your friend to your Wii Address Book.
 Follow the same steps, as shown above, using your own Wii console number.
 Once you and your friend have added each other to your Wii consoles, the Wii server must synchronize its information and confirm that you have both added each other. This should take from 30 minutes to an hour, at most - but it could possibly take a very long time.

