 Whether it is a hospital, a clinic, or a home, it is important to know details, such as who your bosses are. Know their names, what they look like, their contact information, and where you will be working.


Know the terrain of the hospital. Familiarize yourself with the layout of the hospital, such as where the relevant place are, such as the laboratories, the operating rooms, and the ERs.
Orient yourself to your specific wing, ward, or working area. That way you'll know where to get things from in a hurry.
Try to do this even before your first day on the job. Knowing what the area looks like will help ease some of the fear or anxiety you may be feeling.;
, Obtain a copy of the policies so you can refer to it as needed. You may get a booklet or manual for orientation that may have all this for you, but it is not a bad idea to be prepared. Policies you may come across can change from hospital to hospital.


For example, you may need to know how long to monitor someone who is in labor, how often to document certain things, and how often to do the patient’s vital signs.
Most policies are developed over the best practice and evidence based medicine, therefore they may change. Your hospital may list policies on its internet portal., Pack your lunch and make your breakfast for the morning so you are not rushed. Have your scrubs cleaned and ready to wear. Have your work bag packed with essential nurse tools like pens, highlighter, paper, and stethoscope. You can also take time to relax. Hangout with your friends, sit around and watch TV, or do whatever else you normally do to relax.


Go to bed early because just like when you were a kid, you will be anxious for your first day.
 Make this a habit. Knowing how busy the unit is will help you establish what kind of day you will have. Bring your breakfast to work so you can eat and be ready for whatever the shift may bring. Typically, there is a clock in nurse's station near the locker room. Change into your scrubs from your home clothes if your institution requires that. Get a pair of very comfortable nursing shoes, such as tennis shoes or clogs.


Make sure you take care of your feet. Typical nursing shifts are 12 hours, but usually last at least 13.
You may or may not get a set lunch time. Some days you will be lucky to use the bathroom, other days, you could have two lunch breaks.

