 While searching for an apartment in a smaller city or town may not require the help of a professional, you will need someone to help you in a large city, such as New York. In a large city, with a hot market with lots of competition, a rental agent can help you with the huge amount of work it takes to find an apartment. A rental agent should be hired if you need their assistance and their expertise.It may cost you quite a bit to hire a professional rental agent. Some agents may charge around 10% of the rent you will pay in one year on the apartment they find you. Some will simply charge you one month's rent.Don't forget to figure this into your budget!

, The Internet is one of the best resources for zeroing in on your dream apartment. It can give you a clear idea of what’s available before you actually go out looking for it. It can also give you an idea of the price range in your town or city.
 With the latest advancement in mobile devices you can use your phone's GPS to display apartments that are nearest to your location while walking around a neighborhood that you like. Download one of the apartment search applications available for your Smartphone and use it to search anywhere at anytime.
 Consider buying the newspaper in the morning. Low priced units rent fast so find the new ads quickly. Call the owners early in the morning. By being the first to look at the unit, many owners are more likely to rent to you and possibly you'll pay lower than market rent.
 This apartment will be your home, perhaps for years, so ensure peace of mind by comparing prices, options, and locations before taking the plunge. In a tight rental market you may have few options, but if your town has a lot of options, take your time to decide on what's right for you.


Many times you will be weighing different aspects of various apartments against one another. If you are having a hard time making a decision, try making a comparison graph. It could help you make a decision to see the pros and cons of each apartment next to each other.
 Dealing with a larger apartment management company has its advantages as well as drawbacks. One can find convenient solutions through larger companies, but one should also be careful about companies' claims regarding tenant needs, red tape, reliability, etc. Consider reviewing other renters' opinions on property management review sites (but, as with any review site, take any gripes with a grain of salt.)

, This is especially important if you are looking for an apartment in a city with lots of competition. You want to be the first to respond, so that the person in charge gives you first crack at the apartment.


However, if you are not first you still have a chance of getting an apartment. Don't skip applying for the perfect place just because you're not first!

