 Once you’ve made the preliminary decisions, you need to get to the business of actually forming the foundation, and determining the hierarchy and the rules of operation should be taken care of right away. If you are forming your foundation as a trust, use an attorney to formulate the rules of operation for the trust. While using an attorney to assist in the creation of an incorporated foundation is preferable but not mandatory, a trust is a different story. Since trusts are irrevocable, using an attorney is a necessity and not a luxury.
If you are forming the foundation as a nonprofit corporation, you can afford to be a little more experimental in formulating your bylaws. That’s because the board of directors can always change them later. There are numerous free resources offering sample bylaws for nonprofit corporations available on the web, and you can look at a great example at http://nonprofitally.com/start-a-nonprofit/nonprofit-bylaws.
It isn’t absolutely necessary to form bylaws before you select trustees and/or a board of directors, but it might be wise. That way, you’ll have a group of people who are basically committed to your vision, and not a group of people negotiating a vision.
 The board of directors or group of trustees ultimately have the final say on matters concerning the foundation. You should therefore give considerable thought to choosing its members, but don’t get too bogged down, and don’t create too many seats on your board. About a dozen members should be more than sufficient for even the largest foundations. Specific skill sets and connections are probably less important than energy and commitment to your vision. A good board of directors is generally a necessary but not sufficient condition for the foundation’s success. When selecting this group, weigh the following factors: Commitment to the foundation's goals and vision. Boards of directors and trustees choose priorities and overarching goals for the nonprofit. They need to all be pulling in the same direction.
Willingness and ability to fundraise. In addition to deciding which goals to pursue first and selecting corporate officers, members of the board are typically the group doing most of the fundraising on behalf of the nonprofit.
An understanding of when to step up or step back. The board of directors or group of trustees are the governing body of your foundation. Except in the smallest foundations, they aren’t the managers, and the managers need to be given the latitude to do their jobs.
 It’s necessary to write bylaws and choose a board of directors in order to register your foundation with the state, so once those two crucial steps are completed, go ahead and register your foundation with the secretary of state’s office in your state. The costs vary widely by state, from $8 in Kentucky to over $1000 in the District of Columbia, but $50-$400 is more typical.Find your secretary of state’s office at http://www.nass.org/about-nass/alt-roster-2016/.

