 Some prescription medications can cause constipation, such as opioid pain relievers. Your doctor may recommend changing your medication or adding a laxative to counter constipation. Your doctor may recommend either over-the-counter medicines or prescribe something stronger. See your doctor right away if you have:Rectal bleeding
Severe weight loss
Fatigue
Severe abdominal pain

, Consult your doctor to determine what the right dose is for you.Wait at least two hours after eating because it may prevent you from fully absorbing the nutrients.
It will work within the next six to eight hours.
Do not take it while lying in bed, because if you accidentally inhale some of it, it can cause pneumonia in your lungs. For this reason, do not give it to children younger than seven.
Do not take mineral oil if you are pregnant, as it may prevent the uptake of nutrients and cause bleeding in the newborn if taken for a long time.
 These medications take moisture out of the intestines and use it to make your stool wetter.Common ones include Colace and Surfak.
Drink an extra few glasses to water each day when you take them.
 These medications work by generating more liquid in your intestines. This will also stimulate your intestines to contract and move stool along, though it may take a few days. Common ones include:Milk of magnesia
Magnesium citrate
Lactulose
Polyethylene glycol (MiraLax)

, These are useful if your stool is soft enough to pass, but your intestines aren’t contracting to move it through. These medications stimulate contractions and should work within 12 hours. Common ones are:Senna
Bisacodyl
Sodium Picosulphate

, If your rectum is blocked with hard, dry stool, you can get relief from a suppository, enema, or manual disimpaction.A suppository is a capsule of medication that you put in your anus where it dissolves and is absorbed.
An enema is a liquid medication that is introduced into the large intestine via the anus. This should be done by the doctor.
Manual disimpaction requires your doctor or nurse to put on gloves and insert two lubricated fingers into the rectum to break up and remove impacted feces.