 This can be plain paper in any color of choice (white, pink, green, etc.) or it can be patterned paper. Some companies sell paper specifically for the purpose of making paper chains, with pretty designs such as children in olden day clothing, butterflies and bees, stripes or dots, etc—if you want pre-printed paper, check the craft store or online.


Choose paper that is strong and not flimsy. Construction paper is a good choice. More ideas are provided in Tips below.
Flimsy paper can be glued to thin card before making strips, to improve its strength.;
, Decide how large you want the rings to be. They can be any size you can manage but the standard size tends to be strips that are 2.5cm/1 inch wide and 20cm/8 inches long.


Cut out as many as you need; the more you have, the longer the chain will be.
 This creates a circle. Keep the circle shape in place with either a staple, tape or glue.
 Again, join the ends of the strip together with glue, tape, or staples.
 See the next section for turning the paper ring chains into decorations.
 As per the last step of Part 1, make a chain. Make several more in various difference colors. When they're made, join them all together for one really long chain. Get a helper to help you pin the long chain up against the wall, across the room, over a pergola, etc.


For an interesting effect, braid the differently colored chains. This will give them bulk and added interest.
 Paper chains can be stuck or pinned around household areas to highlight them or frame them. For example, pin a paper chain around your entrance door or around windows.


Frame your desktop computer with paper chains. This can be fun to jazz up a boring desk area.
 Use a wreath base. Wrap the paper ring chains around the wreath base without squashing them too much. Add a hanger and it's ready to hang on display.
 Trail paper chains across a paper for a party effect. Try to use colors that match the theme of the party or the season. For example, use red, white and blue for a July 4th party, green chains for a St. Patrick's Day party and red and green chains for the holiday season.
 If you're having an outdoor party, make the garden more interesting by covering items with paper chains. Drape the chains along fences, over sculptures and wherever you think the garden looks a little drab. You can also hang chains from tree to tree, from porch to fence, etc.


If it's winter, wrap paper ring chains around your snowman instead of a scarf. This will only last for the party though, as the chain will soak up the moisture fairly quickly and disintegrate.
 Make smaller versions to wear as necklaces and bracelets. Choose pretty patterned paper for a unique item or match plain paper color to your outfit for a complementary look.
 These chains can be used in place of tinsel and can be made in the color that complements your tree the best.


You can also make Advent paper chains; mark the date on each chain in consecutive order. The day that arrives must be torn away from the rest of the chain, until you reach the final date.

