 Your body uses CoQ10, or coenzyme Q10, for cell growth and maintenance. It is also an antioxidant. CoQ10 can also be found in organ meats, such as heart, liver and kidney.One study indicated that CoQ10 supplements could be helpful for some patients with a low serum level of CoQ10.
Try taking 100 mg three times a day., Ginkgo biloba is believed to increase blood flow to the brain and has been used to treat tinnitus with variable results. This is likely because tinnitus has many known and unknown causes.


A recent review concluded that there was insufficient evidence to support the use of ginkgo biloba to treat tinnitus.Another recent report, on the other hand, concluded that a standardized extract of ginkgo, EGb 761, was an effective treatment.EGb 761 is a “standardised extract of Ginkgo biloba leaves and has antioxidant properties as a free radical scavenger. A standardised extract of Ginkgo biloba leaves is a well-defined product and contains approximately 24% flavone glycosides (primarily quercetin, kaempferol and isorhamnetin) and 6% terpene lactones (2.8-3.4% ginkgolides A, B and C, and 2.6-3.2% bilobalide).” Commercially, this particular supplement is sold as Tebonin Egb 761.
Follow manufacturer’s instructions if taking this supplement.
 In one study, almost half of tinnitus patients improved with 50 milligrams (mg) of zinc daily for 2 months. This is actually a rather high dose of zinc. The recommended daily intake of adult males is 11 mg and for females, the recommended dose is 8 mg.


Don’t take this amount of zinc without talking to a knowledgeable healthcare professional first.
If you do take this high amount of zinc, don’t take it longer than 2 months.
Balance your intake of zinc with copper supplements. A high intake of zinc is associated with copper deficiency and copper-deficiency anemias and taking the extra copper will help prevent that.Take 2 mg of copper every day.
 Melatonin is a hormone that is involved in the sleep cycle. One study indicated that 3 mg of melatonin taken at night was most effective in men without a history of depression and those with tinnitus in both ears.