,, Make sure that you choose a strong password for your account because after all, you will surely want to give some opacity to your personal files.
 It will send you a confirmation e-mail on your given address. Go to inbox and click on the confirmation link to activate your account.
 Choose the free account option and you are ready to go.
 Keep all your stuff organised by making folders. Click on New folder option on your dashboard.


Name the folder as you wish and tap on Create. Then, open the folder.
 Tap on File upload or Folder Upload option on the dashboard. Choose the File Upload option to upload any single file or choose the Folder Upload option for uploading a folder.

To upload a folder, tap on Folder Upload option. It will show a dialogue box, choose your desired folder and click on 'OK'.






To upload a particular file, tap on File Upload option. A dialogue box will open, choose your desired file and then double-click on the file to upload it.
 Right-Click on the folder/file which you want to delete and select the Remove option.


You can see all your deleted files by clicking on Rubbish Bin tab located on the upper-right side of the screen.






You can restore your files/folders by going to Rubbish Bin, right clicking on the file/folder you want to restore and bringing the mouse pointer over Move.. and selecting Cloud Drive.
 Bring the mouse pointer over Download.
 Choose the one which suits you the best. Your download will start now. Commonly, one goes for a ZIP download for downloading a folder and for standard download for downloading individual files.
 A pop-up menu will appear containing options like Download, Favorite, Get Link, etc.
, MEGA ensures that sharing of files doesn't lead to any type of copyright infringement or anything which may land you in trouble. So, verify if you are all good if you share the files and then select agree to proceed.
 There are two ways through which you can share files in MEGA and each has its own importance so choose wisely and start sharing!



Link with a key. By sharing this link you'll add a layer of security to your files. The receiver can only download the files when he gets a decryption key from you. To get a decryption key for your file, select Decryption Key next to Link with Key from the same window and send it to them as well.

Link without a key. If you share this key, any person clicking on the link will directly be able to download the file without any further verification. Get this link by selecting Link without Key from the same window. Share this link only if you don't mind anyone to have access to that piece of information.

