 Rinse the fresh clams with cold running water to wash away any sand or grit. You may have to rub the shells with your fingers to get them completely clean.


Look over the clams before you cook them. If any of the shells are open while they are still raw, discard those; this means they are not fresh.
Some types of clams may take a little longer to cook. Gauge whether they are ready by checking their shells.;
, Bring 2 cups of water to a boil in a large soup pot or dutch oven. Add the clams and place a lid on the pot. Cook the clams for 5 minutes, uncover the pot and stir the clams, then replace the lid and cook for another 5 minutes. The clams are finished cooking when their shells are open.
 Remove the clams from the pot and set them aside in a bowl. Strain the broth that is left behind through a piece of cheesecloth or a fine-mesh strainer to remove any last bits of sand. You should be left with at least 2 1/2 cups of clam broth. If you need more, add water to bring it to that quantity.
 When the clams are cool, take them out of their shells. Lay them on a cutting board and roughly chop them until they are bite-sized. Set them aside to add to the chowder later.
 Place a large stockpot over medium high heat. Add the bacon pieces and cook until the fat is rendered and the bacon is crisp. Remove the bacon from the pot and set it aside. Remove all but 2 tablespoons of bacon fat from the pot.
 Reduce the heat under the stockpot to medium. Add the onions to the pot and cook until they are translucent, about five minutes. Sprinkle the flour over the onions and cook for one minute more, stirring so that the onions are coated in flour.
 Pour the broth over the onions. Stir the mixture with a wooden spoon. Increase the heat to medium high and let the broth come to a boil.
 Put the thyme, bay leaf, and potatoes in the pot, and bring the soup back to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium, cover the pot, and let the soup simmer until the potatoes are soft, about 1/2 hour.
 Stir the ingredients into the mixture. Cover the pot again and let the chowder heat to a simmer.
 Taste the soup to determine whether it needs salt and pepper, and add a few pinches until it reaches the level of saltiness and spice you desire.
 Remove the pot from heat, cover, and let the chowder rest for about 1/2 an hour. This gives the flavors time to completely meld without overcooking the vegetables or clams. Covering it with a lid will keep it hot enough to serve.
 Ladle the chowder into bowls. Serve with oyster crackers and traditional New England condiments like Tabasco sauce and Worcestershire sauce.