 A selfie, anything that will be a "special memory" to your iPad Mini. Don't take too many, though. Maybe three or four selfies and/or a video, but don't waste your memory on the first day!;
, Go on Safari (icon with compass) and type an image of what you want your wallpaper to be. Once you find your image, hold the home button and the power button at the same time. After the flash, let go. Go to Photos. Tap Edit on the photo, crop, save, and tap the box with an arrow pointing outward. Look on the bottom row and tap Use as Wallpaper. Then adjust the picture, and decide if you want it as your home screen (one with apps covering) or your lock screen (screen when you turn iPad on that says Slide to Unlock).


You can take a pic of you too, and do the same after "save,and" in the step above.
 By the way, FaceTime is just like Skype but for Apple. You see and hear the person you are calling on your iPad, and they see and hear you! iMessage is texting. Go on the Contacts app. Press the + at the top. Add the info of anyone you know with an iPad (any kind), iPod touch, or iPhone (any kind). Then press Done. Send them a message (text) and try to FaceTime them! Did it work? Keep adding!


You cannot send texts without Wifi. It will say !, Not Delivered. You cannot FaceTime either. It will say (contact) is unavailable. However, you can view texts without Wifi.
 If you have an iTunes gift card, go to the iTunes store. Scroll down and tap Redeem Gift Card. Type in the code (has to be scratched off), and the money is loaded on your account!

, Go to the App Store. Search a game or app you would like. Tap on it. You can see its reviews, its related apps, and its pictures from the game or app! If it looks fun, tap on its cost or Free. Tap again. Enter your password, and voila! It loads! It's there!


If the game or app costs, you have to have enough money loaded on your account for the app or game.
 Go to the iTunes store. Search a song or album you would like. Tap on the album picture, for a preview of the song. If you enjoy, tap on its cost. Tap again. Enter your password, and it loads, it's there! Go to the Music app and tap on the song. Sit and relax, or dance!


Again, you have to have enough money loaded on your account to get the song or album wanted.
 Now, this is meant for wacky selfies! The meaning of the song, Lemme Take A Selfie! Anyway, tap on the font wanted. Position the camera, and click! Your inner fun is just beginning!


Again, don't take too many! Keep your lovely storage space!

, Reply and/or go home. Check missed FaceTime calls. Again call and/or hang up and/or go home.
 Plug the charger into the wall and the other end on the bottom of your iPad.


If there's a lightning symbol next to the battery symbol in the top right corner of your iPad, it's plugged in.
 Go to a store and buy a cover for your iPad Mini. Make sure it says iPad Mini on the label, so it fits., Go on the Videos app and click store. Search the movie and/or TV show wanted, and do the same in steps 5 and 6.