 Take every opportunity you have to talk with your child and enhance her language skills. Tell her about your plans for the day, ask her questions, and discuss ideas you have with her (even if she doesn’t fully understand them). Be as detailed as possible when talking with her. You can also help her to understand what you are saying by pointing to the things you are talking about. Other ways that you can enhance her language skills include:


Reading books out loud together.
Singing together.
Saying rhymes.
 While it is important that to talk to your child, it is equally important that you listen to her. Encourage her to express her thoughts and feelings. If she’s happy about something, encourage her to talk about what made her happy; if she’s sad, tell her she can talk to you about what made her feel unhappy. Listening to your child helps her to understand that her opinion, thoughts and feelings are important to you and the rest of the family.


In line with this, encourage her to listen to you too when it’s your turn to speak. By doing this, you teach her that listening to others is also important.
 When you constantly ask your child questions, you challenge the way that she thinks. When she is a toddler, begin asking your child the difference between two things, how she felt about an event, or what she thinks about the story you just read. Doing this will help to prepare her for entering kindergarten; when she has practice answering questions, she will be more prepared to answer questions confidently in class.


To this end, you should also answer your child’s question—and there will be many of them. Children are very inquisitive, and answering your child’s questions will help her to gain the confidence she needs to display that inquisitiveness in class. When answering, keep in mind that your answer will be remembered; your answers do not necessarily need to be elaborate, but do take the time to give thoughtful answers.
You can also ask your child what she thinks the answer is, and to explain why she thinks that, before giving your own answer.
 As mentioned above, reading is a very important part of your child being ready for kindergarten. To help prepare her for kindergarten, you can read books about getting ready for school, or about life at school. This reading does not need to be limited to storybooks. It can include:


Magazines
Articles
Anything that you both will find interesting (instructions from a box of pancake, the ingredients of a fruit juice in a carton, signs along the road)

, Drawing, doodling, and scribbling all help your child to hone her motor skills. Encourage drawing and painting on blank sheets of paper to foster creativity, as well as using coloring books to practice coloring ‘inside the lines’.
 Don’t stop your counting practice at 10 or 20 or 30—continue beyond 100 and 1000. Introduce adding and subtracting (which you could also call ‘takeaways’) to her; even simple math problems will help develop problem solving skills.


Help her solve puzzles and gradually let her solve them independently.
 Take your child with you to fun and exciting, as well as regular and mundane, places. At each location, participate in activities that will help her to learn. For example, you could go to the zoo and create a scavenger hunt where she has to find three mammals, three reptiles, three fish, three amphibians, and three birds.


Other ideas include having your child help you add up costs of items at the grocery store.
Take your child to libraries, museums and art galleries.

