 If you are blonde, or any other shade of hair colour apart from dark brown, get it dyed by a professional hairdresser, although if you've read the books both Katherine and Elena are blonde. Try to grow your hair long like Katherine's. Whilst you're growing it try not to heat style it as this can damage your hair a lot and cause split ends while you're growing it. Also wash your hair at LEAST every second day because if you wash it everyday it will remove the natural oils from your hair. If you have a fringe or something, pin it back while you're growing it. If you want more instant result get hair extensions.;
, Katherine wears very natural make-up so if you want to pull this off you need to have a good base. Cleanse, tone and moisturize every morning and night. Scrub your face about three times a week and do a facial mask once a week. Also moisturize your arms, legs, front, back and your hands so your skin is super smooth. It might take up some time in the mornings and nights but it will be worth if after you start seeing results.
 It's important to keep your teeth super white. So go to the dentist to get them cleaned every 11 months and if you need it get a teeth whitener. To be a "vampire" you should have very white teeth.
 Also shave any unwanted hair on your legs, arms (if you need it), down there (Down there is optional..) and underarms. Hairy legs and underarms isn't very attractive so shave these areas at least every day or every second day.
 It can be liquid or powder, whatever you're more comfortable with. Apply foundation all over your face and make sure you blend it in on the edges so it looks natural and you don't have that horrible line. Next apply a thin layer of liquid eyeliner on your top lids as near to your lashes as possible. Curl your eyelashes and apply about 3 coats of clump-free mascara to them. For lipstick get a fairly natural colour or you could use lip gloss. If you want the masquerade look do the same for everything except give your liner a bit of a thicker line with a small wing and apply red lipstick.
 Use a deodorant that has really no smell but is an antiperspirant. This will stop you from sweating excessively. Next find a perfume that you like and that gives off a really nice and kind of sexy scent. If you're shopping for a perfume, sniff coffee beans in-between about every two perfumes so your smell doesn't get mixed up.
 Buy a couple of different tank tops in different colours. Make sure they're well fitted and hug your shape. Next buy a couple of different leather jackets and black tights along with dark wash jeans. For shoes high heeled boots will work best as this is what Katherine always wears. Soon you can add onto your wardrobe and get your own peaces that remind you of Katherine. For formal events get a nice little black dress of some sort and pumps. When buying your own pieces, look around the darker types of clothing.
 If you don't want to heat style it, there is a thing such as curling your hair with a sock. Youtube it, the results are great. But if you want a more instant result, buy a curling iron. Section off the top half of your hair and curl your hair away from your face. Then pull down the top half and do the same. If your hair is more thicker, you might need to pull down about 1 more part or so before you curl the top half of your hair. Remember to always curl away from your face.
 You don't always have to be serious with people unless you really need to be. Be sarcastic, and don't be afraid to be a little mean too. Katherine has never gone out of her way to be nice with anyone.
 If you really want something, don't be afraid to put them down for it. Make sure you have plans for everything that you want to achieve and even if that means pushing someone aside. Don't kill anyone like Katherine, this is murder and you can have serious charges. You just don't have to be nice. But be careful who you say what too, because if you threaten someone in any way they could press charges.
 Don't let anyone scare you, and at like nothing surprise you. Don't walk around sharp corners right near the wall, walk around corners far away from them so no one can jump out. Be very weary but don't look like you're scared or anything. You have to look powerful like nothing could phase you.
 It's not like Katherine to show any facial expression except for a flirty smile or evil smirk. So if you're up to something or have something on your mind smirk and if you're with a guy give them a flirty smile. Flirt with guys, even if they're in a relationship but don't swoop low, only flirt with really good looking guys. Play mind games with them, get close when you're flirting with them, not emotionally, just physically. Keep them guessing if you want a relationship or if you're just playing around.
 Not mysterious as in I'm a weird loner that goes weird places and does weird things that no one understands. But be mysterious as in, no one knows what you're really up too and what you're going to do. You can't be an open book. Always look like there is something you're sort of occupied on other then the situation you're in. Like you want something.
 Look like you're constantly focused on something even if you're not to people you're not really involved with.
 Giggle and make evil jokes in the wrong time. Just be very immature but not childish immature.
 Don't give out advise, and act like you don't care if someone is seeking for advise. You can be that fun mysterious girl that is really good to be around at parties and stuff but don't be close to anyone. Even family really, although you should have at least one good friend for support. They can be your partner in crime.
 Katherine knows exactly what she wants and isn't afraid to go for it. So make yourself clear what you want and always look at the bigger picture. Don't let your feelings get in your way. But you have to know what's worth it and what isn't, so you don't end up losing control.
 Katherine doesn't care whom she hurts as long as it's in her own interest. She would do anything to get what she wants, like manipulating people. So she is often described as cruel and self - centered.
 Katherine never does anything just because somebody told her to.
 Katherine always finds a way to have fun. She is very beautiful and uses her beauty and attraction to get what she wants. For example pretending to love or like somebody because he has something you want or can help you get it.She loves attention and wants to be in the centre of attention all the time.
 Katherine gets bored easily and often loses her temper if something doesn't work right away. Sometimes she acts impulsive but also knows how to reverse it.
 Never let anyone know what exactly you're up to. Katherine doesn't let someone peek into her cards as long as it's not necessary for her plans. If anyone asks just simply say "you'll see." and walk away.
 its simply being 'inspired' !