 In Hazard, the player who rolls the dice is called a caster instead of a shooter.
 This number is the main and determines which numbers win and which numbers lose when the dice are actually rolled.


In some versions of Hazard, notably French rules, the main is determined by a preliminary roll of the dice.Because 7 is the number most likely to be rolled on two dice (1 chance in every 6 rolls), most casters chose this number as their main, thus leading to the game of craps., The caster bets against the other players individually or as a group, or against a bank (the setter). Bets at this stage are whether or not the caster will roll the called main or a number that also wins if the main is called., The outcome of the first roll determines whether a bet wins, loses, or is carried over to the next roll.


If the caster rolled the called main, the caster wins (nicks).
If the caster rolled a 2 or 3, the caster loses (throws out).
If the caster called a main of 5 or 9, but rolled an 11 or 12, the caster throws out.
If the caster called a main of 6 or 8, but rolled a 12, the caster nicks.
If the caster called a main of 6 or 8, but rolled an 11, the caster throws out.
If the caster called a main of 7, but rolled an 11, the caster nicks.
If the caster called a main of 7, but rolled a 12, the caster throws out.
If the caster throws out at this stage, the caster has an opportunity to call a new main, bet, and roll again, unless this is the caster’s third consecutive loss, at which point the player to the caster’s left takes over as caster.
If the caster rolled a number other than the main called, but not one of the losing numbers, that number becomes the chance (point) number the caster must roll to win. , The caster and the other players can raise their original bets on whether the chance number will be rolled before the original main. Bets are given odds according to the likelihood of rolling the chance number before rolling the main.
 The outcome of the roll determines whether the caster wins, loses, or rolls again.


If the caster rolls the chance number, the caster wins.
If the caster rolls the main at this stage, the caster loses. If this is the caster’s third consecutive loss, the caster passes the dice to the next player to cast.
If the caster rolls any other number, the caster rolls again until rolling either the chance or main. 