 Your blog won't be a blog until you start writing, so you may as well get your introductory post up right away! You can worry about more detailed customization. To start writing, click the "Start blogging!" link underneath your blog's title, or click the orange Pencil button. This will take you to the post editor., At the top of the editor, you will see a "Post title" filed. This title will appear at the top of the post on your blog, and will show up at the top of the window when the post is selected. Make your title catchy, because it needs to draw the reader in.


Generally, your first post should be introductory in nature. Talk about yourself and your goals for the blog, or dive right in to the content you want to create.
 There are two main ways that you can create your blog post: composing the post using the built-in word processor, or writing the post in HTML. Use the buttons at the top-left corner of the editor to switch between the two modes.


If you are unfamiliar with HTML, the word processor will give you plenty of options for customizing the text of the post, and easily allows inserting links, images, videos, and more.
For more instructions on using HTML to create custom blog posts, see this guide.
 Use the toolbar at the top of the editor to adjust properties of the text. You can change the size, color, alignment, and more, much like a standard word processor.


The "Normal" drop-down menu allows you to change the formatting based on the type of content. You can choose between "Normal", "Heading", "Subheading", and "Minor heading". Not only will these affect the size of the text, but they will also factor into the way search engines process your page.
You should generally try to ensure that your heading formatting is correct and easy-to-read. Section titles or chapter breaks should get the "Heading" format, with smaller sections using the other two heading format styles. The content of your article should have the "Normal" format.
 Images help grab the reader's attention, and generally make posts more interesting to look at. You can quickly add images to your Blogger post by clicking the "Insert Image" button in the toolbar.


You will be given several options for adding pictures. You can upload them from the computer you are working on, link to other pictures already on your blog, link to pictures in any of your Picasa web albums, take a picture with your webcam, or link to the URL of a picture elsewhere on the internet.
If linking to an image from another site, be aware that if the picture is removed from that site it will not display on yours either. Some sites do not take kindly to links to their pictures either, as it costs them bandwidth every time it is loaded on your site.
 You will see a list of options in the menu on the right side of the post editor. These allow you to change the settings of the post before it is made public.


Labels - These are tags that are added to your posts, which allow posts of similar content to be grouped together. These are useful when you have a lot of posts, because it helps readers find similar posts on your blog. Tags also help search engines find content that matches a user's search. Make sure that your tags are accurate, short, and helpful.
Schedule - You can either have your post published immediately, or you can schedule it to be posted at a future time and date. This can be really useful if you are on a roll and are creating lots of content at once, but want to ensure that it is drip-fed to your audience.
Permalink - This allows you to set the address that links directly to your post. By default it will be based on the post title, but you can change it to whatever you'd like.
Location - This allows to to tag your post with a location. This is especially useful for travel blogs.
Options - You can adjust various other options for the post here, including whether or not readers can comment on the post and how the HTML code is interpreted.
 You should preview every post you make to ensure that the formatting looks correct and that all your content is displayed how you want. Click the "Preview" in the upper-right corner to get a sneak-peek.


Proofread your blog post and then proofread it again. Grammatical errors will quickly turn away readers, so male sure that the post is error-free.
 If you need to leave before you finish writing your post, click the Save button to save a draft that you can easily return to later. it is always wise to save your work often in case something unforeseen happens.
 You've written the post, perfected the formatting, proofread for errors (twice!), and added the labels. Now it's time to send it out into the wild. Click the "Publish" button at the top of the editor. You will be taken to your Posts page, and the post will appear at the top of the list. Congratulations! Now it's really time to get to work.

