 There are tons of different reticles (the crosshairs you look through on the scope) out there, each with subtle enhancements meant to teach you more about your target on the fly. While many of them have benefits, they are only as useful as the shooter who uses them. If you understand the uses and functions of a reticle, then you're likely informed enough to use it well. If you're new or unsure, just stick to the classic "duplex" reticle -- the basic plus sign markers -- or the one you feel most comfortable looking through.Mil-dots: A dotted crosshair that lets you estimate the target's distance, so long as you know how big the object is.

BDC: Stands for "Bullet Drop Compensator. It has a set or horizontal lines on the lower half of the crosshairs, helping you adjust for distance at great distances., Very few scopes come working right out of the bag. They need to be adjusted, and you'll need to keep adjusting them as you shoot potentially. There are two systems, each with their differences, illustrated below. If this seems too complicated, talk to the sales staff about your shooting history to find the right system for you.



MOA: Roughly, 1 MOA will correspond to 1 inch when shooting at 100 yards. So, if you miss by 1 inch, you can simply adjust with 1 click. Typically has smaller adjustments, leading to more precise zeroing. They are the most common for a variety of shooters. However, much harder to adjust when at distances not 100 yards.

MRAD: A little more complicated, 1 MRAD is roughly 3.6 inches (9.1 cm) at 100 yards. However, you can adjust right to the scope -- if you miss by one MRAD, simply adjust the scope by one MRAD. Favored by long-range shooters, but often bulky and expensive.You should also think of where these knobs are -- if you're hunting in the brush and moving around a lot, will they get banged up and twisted accidentally? Many companies make low-profile knobs to avoid this., This is key -- how much light does the scope let in so you can see your shot. Super high-end scopes offer higher light transmission, but with significantly higher costs. Theoretically, the highest a scope can go is 98%, but very few make it past 95%. Most are around 90%. While important, you should ask yourself if spending an extra $500 is worth it for an extra percentage point.


Note, the longer-range the shot, the more helpful high light transmission will be., Coatings provide you fog-proofing and waterproofing, and significantly affect cost. While coatings vary wildly, you should use the following guide to help you cut through the marketing baloney and know what you're buying. In order of effectiveness, and cost, with the weakest, cheapest scope first, includes:



Coated: Simply means that a least one lens surface has at least one layer coating it.

Fully Coated: A single coating layer covers all air-to-glass surfaces.

Multicoated: Multiple layers on at least one surface.

Fully Multi-coated: Multiple layers on all air-to-glass surfaces.

Hydrophilic and hydrophobic coatings are meant to shed water from the glass on you lens.