 Leave the bag of mangos on the kitchen counter overnight and check for ripeness in the morning. Mangos wrapped in a paper bag will release ethylene, which is an odourless gas that speeds up the ripening process.Remove and use the mango when it gives off a fruity scent and yields to soft pressure, usually about a day (or less).


Alternatively, you could try ripening the mangoes by covering them with onions and hay in a warm place; this method of ripening was used for ages in India.
When wrapping mangos in a paper bag or newspaper, be sure not to close the bag completely. Some air and gas needs to escape or mold and mildew might start to form.Add an apple or banana to the bag to speed up the ripening even more. Adding more ethylene-emitting fruits will increase the ethylene in the bag, giving you an even juicier mango all the quicker.;
, This old wives trick hails from India, where industrious moms hid unripe mangos in bags of uncooked rice to speed up the ripening. In Mexico, the trick is much the same, except with uncooked popcorn kernels instead of rice. The ingredients are different, but the process and the results are the same: Instead of waiting three days for your mangos to ripen au naturel, they should be ripe within a day or two, maybe even less.


The reason behind the ripening here is the same as the paper bag method: Rice or popcorn helps trap ethylene gas around the mango, resulting in a much faster ripening process.
In fact, this method is so effective that you sometimes risk overripening the mango. Check every 6 or 12 hours for doneness. As long as you don't forget the mango inside the bowl of rice, you should have a wonderfully ripe mango at your disposal.
 You only need time and patience for this method. Mangos, like other fruits, may take several days to ripen, but this is the most natural way of getting your mango plump, juicy, and ready to eat. Use the mango when it is soft to the touch and has a strong fruity smell.
 Sniff the stem end of the mango. If it has a heavy, fruity, almost musky odour, it is ripe. It you're struggling to find an aroma, chances are your mango isn't quite there yet.
 Press the mango gently. If it is soft and gives slightly, it is ripe. A ripe mango feels similar to a ripe peach or ripe avocado. If the mango feels firm and unyielding, it is still unripe.
 Although most ripe mangos will also feature rich reds and burnt yellows more than soft greens, ripe mangos are not always red and yellow.So forget the look of mangos when determining ripeness. Instead, use smell and softness as your guide.
 Some people are scared away by mangos that have a few splotchy, black blemishes on them. These blemishes usually indicate the beginning of the end for mangos. While mangos are notoriously susceptible to spoilage, black blotches don't necessarily mean the mango is bad. In fact, it may mean the mango has more sugar content.If the black spots are especially soft, cut the mango open and look for translucent fruit. This is a sign of spoilage, and these mangos should be thrown away.
Use your senses if the mango in question has a few black spots: If it doesn't give too much, has a pleasant smell, and the skin is otherwise taut and richly-coloured, give the mango a go.
 No wrap or container is necessary to store the mango in the refrigerator. Keeping the mango in the refrigerator will slow down the speed at which the mango continues to ripen. Keep a whole ripe mango in the refrigerator for as long as five days.


Never store a mango in the refrigerator before it has ripened. Like all tropical fruits, mangos should not be stored in the fridge before they are ripe, as their fruit might be damaged by the cold temperature and the refrigeration will halt the ripening process.
 Place the chopped, ripe mango into an airtight container. Keep the container in the refrigerator for a few days. Keep chopped mango in an airtight container in the freezer for as long as 6 months.

