 By an international agreement in 1884, the Prime Meridian is the meridian that passes through Greenwich Observatory in Greenwich, England. Sometimes called the Greenwich Meridian, the Prime Meridian is designated as 0 degrees longitude., Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), formerly called Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), is the time at the Prime Meridian. Its time is broadcast on the hour on designated radio stations. The time signal you are looking to hear is that for noon Universal Time.You will likely have to have a radio that receives shortwave frequencies to receive GMT time broadcasts. One place on the dial that broadcasts UTC is Reykjavik, Iceland, which uses that time without correction for Daylight Saving Time., Local noon is the time at which the sun reaches its highest point in the sky at your location. It may be 12 noon your time, or it may be as much as a half hour before or a half hour after 12 noon by your timepiece.

You can find local noon with the help of two sticks on a north-south line; when the sticks cast a single shadow, that time is local noon. You can also find local noon by repeatedly sighting with a sextant; when the angle of elevation is greatest, it is local noon.
If you are making this observation in an area that observes Daylight Saving Time during the period which it is observed, you will have to convert the time back to Standard Time.
 If you reach local noon before UTC noon is broadcast on the radio, you are east of the Prime Meridian. If UTC noon is broadcast before you reach local noon, you are west of the Prime Meridian.

For each hour difference between local noon and UTC noon, you are 15 degrees away from the Prime Meridian. If you reach local noon 1 hour before you hear the UTC noon broadcast, you are at 15 degrees East longitude.
For each difference of 4 minutes between local noon and UTC noon, you are 1 degree away from the Prime Meridian. If you hear the UTC broadcast 4 minutes before you reach local noon, you are at 1 degree West longitude.
These differences can be added together and subtracted from as necessary to figure your longitude. If you hear the UTC broadcast 52 minutes before you reach local noon, you can first find how many units of 15 degrees you are away from the Prime Meridian. Because 52 minutes is less than 1 hour, you are less than 15 degrees west of the Prime Meridian. Subtracting 52 from 60 (60 minutes in an hour), leaves 8. Each 4 minutes represents 1 degree of longitude, as 4 x 2 = 8, you are 2 degrees east of the meridian for 15 degrees West longitude, or 15 – 2 = 13 degrees West longitude.