 Blood tests are run either if no specific reason for the vomiting is found on a physical exam, or to back up suspicions raised on the physical. The panel of bloods usually looks at biochemistry and hematology. Biochemistry gives a measure of organ function, such as whether the kidneys are working well.


Hematology gives information about the blood cells, such as whether the cat has a raised white cell count (fighting an infection) in which case antibiotic therapy is indicated, or is anemic (the result of some infections and cancer) which should prompt a search for the cause of the anemia.
 If there is still not explanation for the vomiting then radiography of the abdomen is appropriate. A plain x-ray is taken without the cat being given any contrast agent such as barium.


The information gained on plain x-ray is limited because the soft tissue structures of the abdomen are all of similar radiodensity which means the thickness of the stomach wall, or presence of ulcers, is almost impossible to see.
However, x-rays are useful when looking for a foreign body (something the cat has swallowed that she shouldn't have) that is causing a blockage. If an obstruction is found then the decision needs to be made about whether it needs surgical removal, or if there is a chance it will pass through of its own accord. Radiographies also can help look for tumors, and check the size of organs.
 Ultrasound uses high frequency waves to produce a grey-scale image of the objects in its path. Ultrasound is particularly useful for vomiting issues because the ultrasound can look into your cat’s stomach for growth and foreign bodies. The pattern of the contractions and movement of fluid within the bowel can also give clues about any blockages that may be causing your cat trouble.


With ultrasounds your vet can measure the thickness of the stomach and bowel wall, and look for craters that could indicate an ulcer. Ulcers are usually treatable with oral medications that protect the stomach lining and decrease acid production. It is also possible to see discrete lumps such as may suggest a tumor or cancer.

