 You do not need to remove the battery to assess it or to clean it. To simply access the battery, pop open the car hood and locate the battery. Check the general condition of your car battery. If your battery case has cracks you should replace the entire battery. If the battery appears fine continue to the next steps.;
, Lift up, and to the sides, the plastic/rubber covers on top of the battery. This will reveal the terminal/clamp interface. Examine the battery cables and clamps for excess wear or corrosion. Corrosion appears as a white, ashy deposit around one or both battery posts. If the damage is extensive, you may want to completely replace the cables and clamps to avoid future problems. If however, the cables and clamps look good, just a little buildup, follow the instructions below on how to clean them.
 Before starting you will need to disconnect the battery. To do this loosen the nuts on the clamps using a wrench. Once loosened remove the negative clamp, marked with a "-" first. It is very important the order. Only after the negative clamp is removed, remove the positive clamp, marked with a "+" .


The clamps may prove difficult to remove, especially if there is a lot of corrosion. You may need to use pliers to remove them. If you do need to use any metal tools, such as pliers, be careful not to touch the tool to the car frame (or anything else metal) and the battery while working. Doing so will short out the battery.
 Combine 2–3 tablespoons (29.6–44.4 ml) of baking soda with a tablespoons or so of water. Stir to make a paste.
 Apply the baking soda paste to the battery connections. Be careful, although baking soda is generally safe, you should take care not to get it on other car components or on your self. Once the baking soda is applied, you will see it bubble and foam, as it reacts with the corrosion.


How you decide to apply this paste is up to you. You may rub it on with an old toothbrush, a damp rag, or even your gloved hand.
 If your battery terminals have heavy deposits you may need to scrape them off. An old butter knife works well for this. After you have removed the major deposits use a wire brush or steel wool to remove any remaining deposits.


There are special "battery post" and "battery clamp" brushes available at most auto parts stores, but these are not necessary. A general steel brush works fine.
It is best if you wear vinyl (dishwashing) gloves while cleaning the terminals, especially with steel wool, as you will be coming in direct contact with potentially caustic agents.
 When the foaming stops and there are no major deposits left to be scraped off. You need to rinse your connections. To do this, just use a little water. Be careful not to rinse the the baking soda paste into the battery vents, as the baking soda can neutralize the battery's acid and shorten the battery's life.
 Wipe the terminals clean with a dry clean rag.
 Add something hydrophobic, such as petroleum jelly (vaseline) or grease to the now cleaned terminals. This will help slow future corrosion.
 Put on the positive clamp first, then the negative clamp. Use a wrench to tighten if needed. Once the clamps are on, replace the rubber or plastic shields covering the clamp/terminal junction.
