 Ultimately, the boundaries that will work for you must be determined based on your personal feelings. Stated otherwise: the better you can communicate how you feel, the more success you will have setting and maintaining boundaries.Consider examples of times that your emotional or mental limits have been pushed by family member's statements or behavior. These are areas in which you might want to articulate more specific boundaries.
When something that you are not comfortable occurs, voice your concern by saying something like, “I feel stressed when you stop by unannounced. Please respect our privacy by giving us a call before you come by.”

, Most of the time, people who know one another are able to tell how they ought to behave in each others company. However, sometimes specific boundaries needs to be discussed clearly and directly.For instance, maybe you enjoy seeing a particular family member as often as possible, but they often overstay their welcome.
In such a scenario, state a specific boundary as a clear request.
Say something like, “Jared, it’s great that we’re able to hang out a few times a week, but it’s important that I’m able to get to bed by eleven every night. I still want you to come over and spend time with us, but we’ll have to say our goodbyes a bit earlier in the evening moving forward.”

, Some family members may resist boundaries, perhaps even without realizing it. For example, you may ask a family member to respect a certain boundary. They comply most of the time, but still violate the boundary you requested from time to time. In these cases, it’s important to reiterate your request.Don’t allow yourself to feel guilty or doubt the validity of the boundary you want to see maintained. Repeat your request whenever necessary.
Sticking to the boundaries you request will keep you from feeling like you’re being taken advantage of or not begin listened to, and will help your relationships with the relevant family members positive.
 Establishing boundaries and maintaining them is a process. Especially in scenarios where there are a lot of things you want to see changed, it’s important to realize that other people’s behavior won’t change overnight.If you feel uncomfortable about requesting a certain boundary you’d like to see established, make a different, less stressful request first. This can help the other person realize that they need to be aware of your feelings and desires.
For instance, start by asking your cousin to stop parking in your driveway every time they come over, as they keep blocking the sidewalk and upsetting your neighbors.
Requests like this, with specific, simple reasons, are a great way to practice establishing boundaries.

