 If you make a tackle and regain possession of the ball, avoid passing the ball down the middle of the field. This can be very dangerous, because if they are intercepted, it could lead to a fast counterattack.


If your left and right defenders are correctly positioned, they should be ready to receive the ball from you on the sidelines. You may even have a side midfielder open further up the field to pass to.
If you cannot find a sideline teammate to pass to and you find yourself under a lot of pressure, hit the ball over the sideline anyways. This is the safest option. Even though it will be the other team’s free hit, at least it will buy your team time to set up to defend.
The only time you should hit the ball up the center of the field is if you have a wide open channel and an open teammate to pass to, with no risk of your pass being intercepted.
Never intentionally hit the ball over your back endline. This will be called as a foul against you, resulting in a short corner, a set play in which the offensive team has a very strong chance of scoring.
 As a center defender, your role is to be a distributor, not a dribbler. Never go sprinting up the field with the ball, because if you get it taken away you leave your team in trouble by being out of position on defense.Make sure your passes are hard so that they go fast and far up the field. You want to clear it as far as you can away from your defensive zone. Also make sure they are flat to the ground, as high balls will be called as a foul.
 As the center back, you will usually taking free hits at the top of the circle (16 yards from the endline) after the ball has gone over the endline off of the stick of an opposing player. This is like the equivalent of a “goal kick” in soccer.16 yard hits are a new opportunity to generate offensive plays from the back. Pass the ball mainly to your side defenders on the left and right of you using a hit, sweep, or a strong push. Then they can send it up the field.
Occasionally, you can feed the ball up to your midfielders, and on rare occasions, you may be able to pass the ball all the way up to your forwards using a strong hit or aerial (a very high pass in the air). Be cautious, however, and only use these longer passes when your teammates are wide open.
 Sometimes when you watch high-level field hockey, you will notice the ball being passed across from the left back to the center back to the right back, or vice versa. This is called a transfer because the ball is being transferred from one side of the field to another. As the deepest player on this transfer, you are the “pivot” player.


Transfers can happen just once or multiple times in a row. One transfer from the left to right, for example, gives your team a chance to attack from a different angle. Multiple transfers in a row allow your teammates upfield time to reset and find open spaces, and also tire out the opposing team’s forwards.
Keep passing the ball across to the other side using a strong hit or push. If you receive it from your right back, you will likely turn your body and pass it over to your left back.
Once your teammates up the field become open, only then should you or your other defenders hit it up to them. When transferring the ball, patience is key.

