 Go to Apple → Software Update... to check whether your operating system is up to date.
 You can purchase Parallels by buying a physical copy or by downloading it online.
 The manner of installation depends on whether you purchased a physical copy or downloaded a copy:


For downloaded copies: double-click the disk image file, which is most likely in your Downloads folder. This file has the extension ".dmg" behind it.
For store-bought copies: inset the installation disc.
, You have several options at this point:


Purchase and download a version of Windows online: select File → New → Buy Windows 7.

Tell Parallels whether you intend to use Windows "like a Mac" (with Windows applications alongside Mac applications, on you Mac OS desktop) or "like a PC" (with Windows applications appearing in a separate window from Mac OS applications).
Expect this process to take at least an hour. Your computer may reboot several times during this process.


Install Windows using an installation disc: insert the Windows installation disc and go to File → New → Install Windows from DVD or image file.

Tell Parallels whether you intend to use Windows "like a Mac" (with Windows applications alongside Mac applications, on you Mac OS desktop) or "like a PC" (with Windows applications appearing in a separate window from Mac OS applications).
, There are several ways that you can open a Windows program:


In the Windows Applications folder. If you opted to use Windows "Like a Mac" during the installation, you'll have a Windows Application folder in your Mac OS dock. As you install more Windows programs or applications, they go into this folder.
Using the Windows Start Menu. Simply click on the Parallels icon in the menu bar and select "Windows Start Menu." Select any program from the Windows Start Menu.
Using the Mac OS X Finder. Select the Windows volume on your desktop, then open the Program Files folder. Next, double-clicking the icon of the program you want to use in the Finder.
Using Spotlight. Navigate to the Spotlight icon in the top right of your screen and type in the name of the program you want to use.
 Download a file from the internet or insert an installation disc into your disc drive. The installation process should start without a hitch.

