 Although this article isn't about speech content, you should always start by thinking about the goal of your speech. Who is the audience? Is the speech for a formal or informal occasion? Is it for work, to educate or to entertain?;
, Don't use the built in Notes application for this purpose, it can be very hard to find your content quickly as it's not built to replicate cue cards.
 To organize your speaking notes one very useful app is iSpeechCards, an application specifically for creating and helping deliver speech material. Or you could start by using an outlining application, such as Outliner or Zeptoliner. Some outliners will be able to export in a format called OPML which iSpeechCards can use, so you aren't restricted to just one app.
 There is a large choice of voice and recording applications too which can be useful to record your speech before the event. Although most of these apps are designed for taking verbal notes, they can also be used for this purpose. Examples are iTalk Recorder or Record - Voice Recorder. Check that the app will be able to record at least as long as you'll need to be speaking. A good feature is the ability to pause and resume recording.
 If you use iSpeechCards it's easy to copy and reorder your note cards. Outliners are very good at reordering and reorganizing your text because that's exactly what they are designed for.
 It's essential to get the timing of your speech right. In iSpeechCards assign each of your cards a duration so it can track progress when it comes to delivering the speech.
 Write facts and figures, keep notes short. Write enough to jog your memory. Remember, you don't want to read your speech as though it's a novel. The iPhone and iPod makes it so easy to enter text that all these apps let you write your ideas down quickly and clearly. Having simple notes with legible text and bullet points really helps.
 Rehearse your speech! In iSpeechCards you can "play back" a speech. This lets you track progress against elapsed time. Be prepared to go back and adjust your speech several times to get the timings, content and general flow just right. It's essential to practise by speaking out loud. Going over notes in your head is not the real thing!

