 As much as you may want to stick to the "my way or the highway" approach, effective parenting often requires flexibility. What works for one child won't work for them all. Sometimes, good parenting means allowing others, including your friend with a different style, to help guide you. In addition, it also means listening to your children at times.


Rather than ruling with an iron fist, aim to consider the practices of others if they seem valuable. Take time every couple of months to re-evaluate your current parenting guidelines to add new methods and toss those that aren't working., A major aspect of learning from each other translates to being receptive to the suggestions of others. This doesn't mean that you have to implement each and every recommendation offered by your friend who has a drastically different style. However, it does mean that you should observe their style to see what works, and possibly consider adopting any useful strategies.Take the advice of a friend if their practices appear to be effective. For example, maybe your friend has this strange way of working her kids through a tantrum by asking them to draw a picture of what they are feeling, then explain it. You notice that however weird this seems, it works.
If you see strategies like this at play, be bold enough to admit that you don't know everything and consider trying it. A simple, "Wow! That was really effective! I might have to try that some time" can show your friend that you are watching and applauding her methods.
 Simply because you and your friend have radically different parenting styles doesn't mean you have to stay standing on one side of the fence or the other. In some cases, you may have helpful suggestions to offer. Be a friend and kindly share your advice.


You might say, "Have you tried using visual timers like calendars or doing countdowns to help Aimee transition from one activity to another? I've found that it really works with Ryan."
A polite suggestion every now and then will probably be well-received. Just refrain from chiming in with your comments on every parenting decision your friend makes. If you do this, you'll seem like a know-it-all, and even your practical suggestions might be ignored.