 Almost three quarters of employers use social media in the recruitment process. You’ll fall behind if you don’t create a LinkedIn profile.If you need help, then ask someone to help you.


Make sure you have a professional photo on the website. Don’t pick an old photo that makes you look younger, since any interviewer will be surprised when they meet you.
Look at how other professionals in your industry have set up their profile. Use what looks helpful.
After you create the profile, connect with professionals at businesses where you hope to work.
 If you haven’t searched for a job in a long time, you might not even have a resume. Alternately, you might have thrown something together without really understanding what you were doing. Use the following tips for pulling together an A+ resume:


Keep it short. Your resume shouldn’t be longer than two pages, since employers scan it for roughly 30 seconds.Too much text will confuse them.
Sell yourself. Don’t neutrally explain what you did at each job. Instead, highlight what made you exceptional. For example, you might have driven growth by 200% or improved customer satisfaction by 50%.
Proofread your resume. Have another person look at it so that you catch all typos.
 People generally hire people they know. Ideally, you will know someone at a company before you apply. Go through your email list and try to reestablish contact with former colleagues or former classmates.Tell them you’re looking for a job. Ask for advice.
 You need to get your foot in the door, especially if you’ve never worked in an industry. Volunteering is a great way to begin.You will begin to build relationships through your volunteer work, which can help you if a job becomes available in the industry.


Volunteering is critical if you’ve been laid off. You want to show employers that you’ve used your time off productively.
 No one is going to reach out to you. Instead, you need to put yourself out there and find job opportunities. Research employers thoroughly so you don’t apply to jobs you don’t really want and won’t be hired for.Take job descriptions with a grain of salt. You might think a job is below your current experience level. Nevertheless, the job description might be a general guide, and there could be room for the job to grow.
However, don’t throw resumes far and wide, which isn’t a productive strategy. Identify why you want to work for a business and why you’d be a good fit.
 You might think the employer would be lucky to have you with all of your experience. However, you need to prepare for the interview as if you were fresh out of college. Research the employer on Google and read recent press stories. Find their competitors and read up on the industry generally.Prepare for the interview by doing a mock interview with a friend. If you graduated from college, then your career center might work with alumni. Stop in and do a dry run of your interview. Take all feedback seriously so that you improve your performance.
Don’t over-prepare, however. For example, you shouldn’t prepare canned answers to questions. The key is to be yourself.

