 The ISO 55000 is a standardized document that details an effective system for creating a strategic asset management plan. The ISO 55000 can help an organization to develop a plan that is a great fit for that organization's unique needs.The ISO 55000 will take you through the entire process of creating your strategic asset management plan.
The ISO 55000 can help you meet regulatory laws and requirements that might be demanded from your organization.
The ISO 55000 meets international standards including the American National Standards Institute and ASTM International standards.The ISO 55000 is becoming a necessary standard when working with clients, insurers or investors.
 The ISO 55000 is a rigorous and highly specialized text. As a result there are many specific terms that are used to make the text an effective one. Learning how the ISO 55000 defines assets can be useful when studying its content.Assets are things of value that a company owns or is responsible for.
Asset systems are groups of assets that must function together.
 The ISO 55000 specifies the overview, concepts and terminology in asset management, the ISO 55001 defines the requirements for a management system, and the ISO 55002 provides interpretation and implementation guidance for the management system.The ISO 55000 offers a comprehensive plan that you can follow to build your own strategic asset management plan. The ISO 55000 achieves this goal by breaking the process down into certain stages and concepts. Understanding these concepts before you set out to utilize the ISO 55000 can help you navigate the process with less trouble. Review the following outline for a sample of what your plan might look like:Mission statement and introduction.
Information about your organization including the state of your business, needs of clients, and an asset portfolio.
A section that details the planning process that went into your strategic asset management plan.
Objectives for your asset management program.
Strategic plans that include targets, time-frames, priorities and who is responsible.
Lastly your strategic asset management plan should detail risks and end with a conclusion.
 The ISO 55000 offers some overall guidelines that your strategic asset management plan should have in its final form. Review some of the following key points to understand what qualities your strategic asset management plan should include:A planning process that is backed up by strong strategies suited to your organization.
Your plan should include both assets and asset systems.
Any objectives presented need to be included clearly and plainly.

