 Safety should be your top priority. It is absolutely crucial to purchase a car seat designed for your infant’s age and size. There are three basic models on the market: rear-facing infant-only car seats designed for babies under 35 pounds, infant-toddler combination seats that can be rear-facing for babies under 45 pounds and then turned around to face forward for toddlers, and booster seats made to position children over four years old for optimal seatbelt usage. If you have an infant, choose an appropriate seat.


If possible, buy a car seat before your baby is born. If you travel by car, you’ll need it to take your infant home from the hospital or birth center. And the sooner you familiarize yourself with the seat – and the manual, which you should read carefully – the easier it will be to use when the time comes.
If your family has two cars, consider purchasing a separate car seat for each. The added expense may be worth it: it will save you time in the future and prevent the rushed installation mistakes that sometimes occur when you hurry to move a car seat from one vehicle to another.;
, Car seats should be installed in the back seat of your car, and, if possible, in the middle seat. Double check the instructions in the user manual to be sure that you are installing the seat correctly. Make sure all belts and latches are secure. For infants, the seat should be rear-facing – this position is the safest for babies.


In many locations, you can go to a police or fire station (or sometimes other places) to have a professional check the installation of your car seat for safety. Check online for options in your area. One good site, which will let you search for locations in your zip code, (if applicable) is: http://www.safercar.gov/cpsApp/cps/index.htm.
 Car seat laws vary from state to state and country to country, so always check to make sure that your infant has safe, appropriate equipment.
 If you plan to drive a significant distance, take your car to the dealership or a mechanic before your trip. It’s better to find out about a problem before you leave than to run into unexpected car trouble in the middle of your trip. If necessary, repair or replace anything as needed.


Don’t neglect the heat and air conditioning. You’ll want to make sure that you can keep your car at a comfortable temperature for your baby.
 You don’t want your baby staring into direct sunlight, so buy sun shades to mount on the car windows. When you drive, you can watch to make sure that your baby’s face and eyes are shielded from the sun.
 Make sure there are no sharp objects in the vicinity of your infant’s car seat, whether the infant could reach them or not. If you brake suddenly, turn sharply, or get into an accident, these objects could be dangerous. Cover any metal objects in your baby’s reach, as they could heat up in the sun and burn your baby.
 It can be convenient to buy a portable mirror and set it up so that you can see your baby clearly from the front seat of the car. You’ll be able to check on your infant more easily, and he or she will also be able to see you.
 A few brightly colored removable images might keep your baby occupied during the trip. Just take care not to choose anything so large that it interferes with your ability to see. Safety is most important.
 If you will be traveling at night, consider bringing a source of soft light so that your baby doesn’t get scared. Choose a light that is not so bright as to interfere with your driving.
 Starting your trip with a full tank of fuel will save you an additional stop. In addition, you’ll expose your infant to fewer fumes from fuel evaporation.
 Always take more than you think you’ll need, as you don’t want to wind up stuck without diapers halfway through your trip.


Wet wipes are handy for more than just diaper changes: you can use them for quick hand washes and to cool and refresh your infant’s face.
 If your infant takes a bottle, take extras: your trip may take longer than planned, and you may not have an easy way to wash them. Make sure you have enough formula if that’s what your infant drinks. If your baby has started solid foods, take those supplies as well.
 If you are breastfeeding, you will need to eat regularly and drink plenty of water to keep yourself hydrated and fuel your milk production. Even if you are not breastfeeding, though, you’ll want to stay nourished and hydrated; this will make you a safer driver and keep you in a better mood.
 A baby blanket can be very handy on the road: you can use it to support your infant’s head in the car seat, to cover your infant while he or she is sleeping, and as an extra layer if your infant gets chilly. Towels are great for makeshift diaper changing surfaces; simply lay one down on the seat of the car to change your baby’s diaper (waterproof and/or disposable changing pads also work well for this purpose). You can also use the towels to wipe up any spit up or clean your baby off if he or she somehow gets dirty.


Don’t leave a blanket in your baby’s car seat if you cannot see your baby at all times. It’s important to be sure it does not fall over your baby’s face.
 Your baby may spill food, spit up, or otherwise make a mess, so it’s best to have a change of clothes for each of you.
 Keep a few garbage bags handy for diapers, trash, and food scraps. You’ll need somewhere to put it all until you get to a place to dispose of it.
 A few soft toys may keep your baby occupied for part of the trip. Activity bars made to attach above the car seat are a great investment for younger babies. You can also take music – something you know your baby likes, or something likely to help your baby fall asleep.


Don’t give your baby any hard toys; these can be dangerous when driving.
 Make sure you have phone numbers for your pediatrician and for emergency services stored in your phone and/or written down. You probably won’t need them, but just in case your baby gets sick or an emergency arises, it’s nice to have them.
 Make sure your car has a standard first aid kit. In addition, take a thermometer, temperature lowering medications, rash creams, and any other medications your baby might need.
 If you will be taking a very long trip, check in with your baby’s pediatrician first. He or she can check your baby’s health and give you tips for traveling.
 If you do not travel by car often, you may need to get your baby used to being in the car seat. Put your baby in the seat a few times before you go, and let him or her play and/or take a short nap there. This will reduce the likelihood of your baby protesting the car seat when you get on the road.
 Your baby’s health is important, but so is yours – make sure that you are healthy and feeling well before you leave, especially if you will be the only one driving.
 Remember that you will have to stop frequently to feed, change, and comfort your baby. If a trip usually takes you six hours, plan for at least eight or nine hours with a baby on board.


If delays become significant, and your trip is a long one, you may want to check in for the night at a roadside hotel. This will give you a chance to rest and recharge before tackling the rest of your journey.
 If it’s at all possible, try to have another adult with you on the trip. Having someone to keep you company and help entertain the baby will make the trip more enjoyable, and having someone to share the driving will make it less exhausting.
 Some parents find their car trips go more smoothly if they plan to leave at night or at naptime. This way, your baby may sleep for a significant portion of the journey.


Every baby is different, and you’ll have to think about what your baby will tolerate best. If you think it will be better to leave when your baby is usually awake and happy, you can try that too.
 Depending on the weather conditions, you’ll want to dress your baby in at least a few layers so that he or she does not get too warm or too cold. A onesie and socks can serve as the base layer, and you can add clothing as necessary., Take care of your baby’s basic needs before you start driving. If your baby is warm, dry, and fed, he or she will be more likely to tolerate the drive. Moreover, you’ll be able to get a good start and drive for awhile without having to stop prematurely.
 You and your baby will both do better if you stop to rest every few hours. Time these rests so that you can feed your baby and try not to disrupt his or her schedule.


When you stop briefly to feed your baby, be sure you allow enough time for burping. This will help ensure that your baby does not develop an upset stomach during the ride.
Even if your baby seems to be doing well, it’s good to stop periodically and get out of the car. Fresh air and a change of pace are good for both of you. Besides, it’s not good for your baby to sit constrained in a car seat for extended periods of time – especially if he or she is a newborn. Consider, especially, making unplanned stops if you see a park or another place that would be good for a walk.
 If your baby starts to get cranky, try singing. You do not have to be a good singer; your baby does not care. Your voice will be calming, and it’s a good way to let your baby know that you are there.
 Do not give your baby a bottle or any other food while the car is in motion, as your baby may choke, swallow too much air, or vomit. If your baby needs to eat, stop the car., Stop the car first if you need to take your baby out of the seat. It is unsafe (and illegal) to have your baby unbuckled while the car is moving.
 Make sure you park so that you have enough room to open the back doors of the car, and try to park so that the baby is on the side of the road away from moving vehicles.