 Two of the most apparent signs of a mental health break include changes in your sleep and eating patterns. You may notice yourself having trouble getting to sleep at night, or waking up often throughout the night. On the other hand, you may also sleep way more than usual and have trouble getting out of bed. Another indicator is a drastic reduction or increase in appetite., Relapse may result in a sudden change in your mood and emotions, also. You may feel irritable or become easily agitated. You might suffer from intense bouts of anxiety. Changes in mood may also involve feeling sad, blue, or depressed.

A clear sign of a mood change is no longer feeling happy or pleased by the things you once did. You may also have trouble laughing., Relapse occurs often due to trying times in life. People with mental illness are more susceptible to stress and its negative effects. While stressful events impact everyone, they may seriously affect your functioning if you are not currently in therapy or taking medication.Examples of stressful events include a job loss, a death in the family, a breakup, a serious illness in you or a loved one, and a failure such as the loss of a dream.
 Oftentimes mental health symptoms can sneak up on you unawares. You may simply notice yourself drinking, eating, or shopping more. In some situations, you may turn to drugs to help you numb any uncomfortable symptoms.

Know that self-medicating is not a solution to a mental health problem. Giving in to an addiction only worsens your symptoms and decreases your chances of a successful recovery. See a doctor right away if you notice yourself abusing drugs or alcohol., If you are living with a mental illness, you may have your share of guilt or shame. Resist the temptation to fall into a self-defeating spiral. Relapse is a part of recovery. A return or worsening of symptoms does not mean you did anything wrong. See it as an opportunity to refine your treatment and reaffirm your commitment to health and wellness.If this is a common pattern for you, then try writing down some of the warning signs that you may be falling into this pattern again, such as withdrawing from people or thinking certain thoughts. Keep a list of warning signs with you and look for ways to break the cycle. For example, if you notice that you tend to withdraw when you are having a relapse, then make a rule that you will make plans to go to coffee with a friend the next time you start withdrawing.

