 Any of the projects below can be used as fun demonstrations that can be explained by science. If you want to turn them into actual science experiments that test an idea, follow the included advice to try out several versions of them, record your results, and try to figure out how they work.


You can find out more about the process in the experiment section below.;
, Pour milk into a bowl. Squeeze a drop each of different colored food coloring onto the milk without stirring. Dip a cotton bud into liquid dishwashing soap, and touch the end of the cotton bud onto the surface of the milk. Watch what happens to the colors.


Turn this into an experiment by adding additional soap, one cotton bud at a time. At what point does the color become stable?

, Leave an egg in a jar of white vinegar for a full week. Put on gloves before handling it, then remove it and try bouncing it gently outside. To turn this into an experiment, soak a dozen eggs in separate jars of vinegar. Every day, take out one egg and try to bounce it outside. Drop it from one inch high (2.5 cm), then two inches (5 cm), and so on, until the egg breaks. Record how much "bouncier" the eggs get as they are left in vinegar.


For another experiment, boil the eggs for different amounts of time before letting them cool and putting them in vinegar. Label each jar with the number of seconds the egg inside was boiled.
 Mix salt or sugar into a jar of hot water, then suspend a string in the water by tying it to a pencil resting over the jar. Leave the jar alone for a couple days, and see what happens.


To turn this into an experiment, fill several jars, and use a different type of salt or sugar in each. Find out how table salt, sea salt, rock salt, Epsom salts, white sugar, powdered sugar, and brown sugar change the crystal growth pattern.
 Mix one spoonful of water into two spoonfuls of corn starch, then try to pick it up with your hands. This bizarre material, named after a Dr. Suess book, doesn't act like a liquid or a solid. Finding out more about these "non-Newtonian fluids" can require advanced math, but you might be able to figure out some of the "rules" that describe how it behaves.
 There are countless fun experiments you can do in your house or backyard. Look through wikiHow's Science for Kids category for a ton of ideas.

