 Having other positive people at the event to help support the person can make it easier to include a recovering alcoholic. All of the people at the event don’t have to be aware the person is overcoming a drinking problem, but it can be helpful to invite others that won’t be drinking or that know the person well enough to offer support and encouragement at the event.For instance, if you are going to a family reunion, you could invite other family members that choose not to drink.
Or, for example, if you are going to a dinner party where they’ll be serving wine, you might ask the person’s sibling to come along with you guys to help provide support.
 It will be hard for you to be supportive of a recovering alcoholic at an event with alcohol if you are inebriated yourself. Although you don’t have to completely abstain from alcohol at the event, make sure that you are monitoring how much you drink.It will make it easier for you to be supportive.


If you are consuming alcohol make sure that you are drinking water and limiting the amount of alcohol you drink.
You may want to consider not drinking if there’s a chance that you might have too much.
 Although you don’t need to follow the person around like their shadow, checking on them every now and then can give both of you peace of mind. It will let the person know that you care and will help you make sure that they aren’t drinking.


You can simply ask them, “Is everything going okay” rather than asking “How are you handling having alcohol around?”
Use your observation skills to notice if they seem like they may be drinking at the event. For example, if they are starting to act out of character, it might be a sign that they have had a drink.
 You may not want to expect or plan for something negative to occur, but it’s always good to have a plan in place in the event that it does. Talk with the recovering alcoholic about how you all will handle it if the alcohol at the event becomes an issue.Discussing this upfront will take stress off of you and allow you to have a better time at the event.


Talk about how to handle it if the person wants to drink. For instance, you might say, “What will be our plan if you feel you want a drink?”
Consider developing a code word to use if the person is feeling tempted and needs some support. For example, you could say, “Ok, if you say ‘I’m thirsty’, I’ll know it’s a sign that we might need to leave.”
Discuss what you should do if the person does drink. For example, “If you have a drink, we’ll call your sponsor and go meet him for coffee.”

