 As part of petitioning USCIS to admit a relative into the U.S., you must also financially sponsor your relative. This means that you agree to support your family member or agree to pay back the government if the family member needs public assistance (“welfare”). In order to qualify, you need to have income and assets at 125% of the federal poverty level for a family of your size.The assets you have must be easily convertible into cash and cannot cause undue hardship. Common assets include checking accounts, stocks and bonds, and property.However, you might not be able to count a sole retirement account, since cashing that out could cause an undue hardship.
 If your total income and assets fall short of the guidelines, then you can try to supplement your income and assets to get over the 125% threshold. You can rely on the following:You can rely on the immigrant’s own income or assets. For example, if your relative is already in the U.S. and working a job, then you could count the wages if he or she will continue working the job after getting a green card.
You can have another person in your household sign the petition if they also earn an income. For example, your husband could sign the petition if he has a job or gets retirement benefits.
You can find a joint sponsor who also earns income. The joint sponsor does not need to be related to you or to your relative. However, the sponsor must be a U.S. citizen, lawful permanent resident, or U.S. national who is at least 18 years of age., You need to provide financial documents that show your income and other assets. You should gather the following documents:a copy of your individual Federal income tax returns (including W-2s) for the most recent tax year, but you can include income tax returns for the past three years if you think they would help you qualify
a copy of each and every Form 1099 for the past year
a statement explaining why you were not required to file your taxes (if you didn’t file)
a copy of your Schedule C, D, E, or F for the most recent year if you are self-employed
proof that the immigrant’s current employment will continue and a copy of their federal income tax returns (if you need their income to qualify)
documentation of your assets that establishes their location, ownership, date you acquired them, and value
other documents explained in the instructions for Form I-864

, You must complete this “Affidavit of Support.” You do not submit this with your I-130. Instead, you submit it when your relative gets ready to actually immigrate.You can download the form from the USCIS website.


If you need a family member to also sponsor so that you can meet the income eligibility requirements, then he or she should complete Form I-864A, “Affidavit of Support Contract Between Sponsor and Household Member.”

, You should type the requested information into the form or write neatly using black ink.The form will generally ask for the following information:your name
information about the principal immigrant, including name, address, date of birth, and country of citizenship
information about other immigrants you are sponsoring (if more than one)
your mailing address and physical address
the size of your household
your employer and current income
information about your assets
information about the immigrant’s assets

, Generally, your relative is not immediately approved to move to the U.S. Instead, he or she gets in line. Eventually, they will move up to the front of the line. At that point, their visa will start being processed, and you will submit the Affidavit to the National Visa Center.


You will be also be invoiced $120 for submitting the Affidavit at that time.