 A house rabbit gets a good dose of both exercise and mental stimulation, especially if it is allowed out when you are home. Let the rabbit be free to follow you around and even watch TV with you!

, If you have an indoor rabbit, take it outside but be sure it cannot escape. If you have an outdoor rabbit, let it out into the yard once in a while.


Your outdoor hutch should have a run attached to it, so your rabbit can exercise when it wants, but you will get more interaction with it if you let the rabbit out in the yard to play with you and to get some training.
Never leave your rabbit alone outside. Birds could snatch away your precious bunny.
You can even purchase a rabbit harness and leash, so you can take your rabbit for a hop around the block.
 Do activities such as grooming or training or just spend time playing with it. Rabbits are slow learners but you can teach them simple tricks and they can be clicker trained., They love to be playful. Rabbits are also active and curious, and need a good or wide variety of toys to keep them occupied and out of mischief!.You can use cardboard boxes of all shapes and sizes as toys.


A great free toy is a toilet paper roll stuffed with hay (after the toilet paper has been used up, of course). Most rabbits love this toy. It gives them something to toss around, gnaw and a snack! It's also a great way to recycle!
Cat toys often make good rabbit toys. A small plastic ball with a bell inside is usually fun for them to push around. Another idea is the type of baby rattle made like a keyring. Rabbits love to toss them around and shake them.
Remember that rabbits will gnaw anything they can reach. Check toys every day and remove anything that seems like it might become unsafe. Most (unpainted, unvarnished) wood is safe for rabbits to chew, as are paper products, such as cardboard, but always use common sense. Check items for things which might cause problems, such as staples, glue, paint, varnish, glossy labels, etc and remove any plastic toys the rabbit has managed to gnaw small pieces from.

