 You should always start by listening carefully to what the customer has to say. You should never interrupt the customer or speak over them. Do not get defensive or angry when the customer speaks. Instead, show empathy and concern.Maintain open body language while the customer speaks, such as maintaining eye contact and positioning your body towards the customer. You also smile and nod at the customer to show them that you are listening and paying attention to what they have to say.
Once the customer has finished speaking, you should repeat back what they have said to you. You may say, “Thank you for sharing your concern. What I’m hearing is…” or “I believe you are saying that…”;
, You should always follow up your acknowledgement of the customer’s issue by asking questions that are thoughtful and show your concern. You should try to get as much information from the customer as you can, as this will allow you to better understand their perspective and work together to find a solution to the issue.For example, if a customer is complaining about poor service by a cashier, you should ask questions like, “Would you mind explaining exactly what happened?” and ask follow up questions like, “When did this occur?” or “What time did this occur?”

, You should always offer the customer a sincere apology for the issue, no matter the issue. The customer will appreciate the apology, even if they are upset or frustrated and often an apology can help to diffuse the situation.You should try to apologize without blaming anyone, including your employees, the customer, or your company’s policies. Instead, simply say, “I apologize for the inconvenience this issue has caused you” or “I am sorry that this incident occurred.”

, You should follow up your apology with action. Ask the customer, “What would be an acceptable solution to this issue for you?” Or, you can take the initiative and propose one to two solid solutions for the issue. Presenting at least two options will make the customer feel that they have control over the situation and are able to choose a solution that best suits them.For example, if a customer is complaining about a damaged item she purchased, you may propose two solutions. You may propose that she return the item for a full refund or that she replace the item with a non-damaged model, free of charge. You could ask which option she feels more comfortable with so she has options.
 You should always follow through on the solution that is accepted by the customer. This will show the customer that you take their complaint seriously and sincerely wish to make amends for the issue. You should try to follow through on the chosen solution right away so the customer can move on from the issue.


Avoid passing the customer off to a person who is higher on the chain of command, unless the customer requests this option. Moving complaints up the chain of command tends to slow down the process and make the customer more frustrated, especially if there is paperwork or phone calls to higher ups involved.
 Once the customer’s complaint has been addressed and a suitable solution has been found, you should thank the customer for their patience and understanding. You should also give them a contact that they can reach out to, such as your business card or the company’s customer service line, if they have any other issues or concerns in the future.If the customer complaint is a serious one, you may decide to follow up with the customer a few days after the issue has been addressed. You may ask the customer if they are okay with a follow up call before you initiate it. You should then make the call and confirm that the customer is satisfied with the solution to their issue.

