 A variety of products, from cosmetics to pharmaceutical drugs, are tested on animals. Animal rights advocates disagree with the use of such products for a variety of reasons. Testing causes painful physical side effects for animals, lab conditions are often cramped and unpleasant, and animals are often killed or die unintentionally during the process.Know what products are likely to be tested on animals and avoid such products.


Olay, one of the world's largest skin care companies, carries out 400,000 skin care safety tests each year, many of which are likely conducted on animals.Avon, a cosmetics company, does not conduct tests on animals as a company but many of their ingredients come from outside facilities known for animal testing.Garnier, known for shampoo and make-up, is one of the most well-known users of animal testing for their products.Neutrogena, a skin care company, claims they do not test their products on animals. However, their parent company Johnson and Johnson claims to minimize animal testing but acknowledges that they do sometimes engage in the practice.M.A.C cosmetics resumed animal testing in 2012 after previously having sworn off the practice.;
, Many products we buy at the local supermarket or department store contain ingredients that come from animals. It's not just the obvious culprits, like leather and fur, that you must avoid to end cruelty. Look for the following ingredients, which are frequently found in every day products like toothpaste, nail polish, perfume, shampoo, and conditioner.If you see one of the following listed on a label, you might want to reconsider your purchase.


Albumin, the protein component of egg whites, is found in many processed foods.Carmine, the red coloring made from a ground up insect, is found in packaged cookies and crackers, refried beans, tortillas, and ready made pie crusts.Casein, a milk protein, is found in many soy cheeses.Wood glue is the specific glue made from horses, and found in musical instruments and furniture.Keratin is protein from hooves, horns, and animal hairs and often found in shampoos.Plywood, used in a variety of wood-based products, uses a glue made from animal blood., The Leaping Bunny Program is an initiative lead by the Coalition for Consumer Information on Cosmetics (CCIC). It provides the best possible assurance that a product is free of animal testing.The Leaping Bunny does extensive investigation of cosmetic, skin care, household products, and hair care companies to assure no animal testing is used. The often find companies that claim to be "testing free" use ingredients from facilities that test on animals.The CCIC's website provides an ethical shopping guide, with listings of companies that do not animal test.The Leaping Bunny symbol is a black line drawing of a rabbit enveloped with two blue steaks and a couple of stars. Look for it on products to assure yourself they're animal safe.

