 If your lampshade is beveled, it likely has multiple sides or panels to it. This method will not work on this sort of lampshade. Instead, click here to learn how to cover your beveled lampshade., The best type of fabric to use would be something thin and lightweight so that the light can pass through it. If the fabric is too heavy, the light won't shine through, and will only come out the top and/or bottom of your lampshade.

Lightweight fabrics include cotton and silk. Heavy fabrics include satin, brocade, velvet, and canvas.
You can also use paper for this as well.
 If your lampshade is a very dark color and you are planning on using a lighter color of fabric, you might want to paint the lampshade white first. You can apply white acrylic primmer with a paintbrush or a foam brush. You can also spray the entire lampshade using a white primer spray paint., The paper should be taller than the lampshade, and wide enough for the lampshade to roll across it. You will be using this to make your template., If the lamp is wider at one end, place the lamp at a slight angle. If the lampshade is a perfect cylinder, then place it parallel to the edge of the paper., Stop when you reach the seam again., Use a ruler to make the lines even. If your lampshade is wider at one of the ends, you will end up with something that looks like an arch. If your lampshade is the same width at the top and bottom, you will end up with something that looks like a rectangle., It does not matter which side of the fabric you are pinning it to. What you do want to keep in mind, however, is the pattern and grain of the fabric.

The fabric must be smooth. If there are any wrinkles in it, you must iron them out.
 You need this extra space, because you will be folding it over into the lampshade., You can use regular fabric scissors or pinking shears., Use straight, even strokes. Try to overlap each stroke by a little to prevent any gaps., Make sure that one of the cut straight edges is lining up with the seam of the lampshade. There should be ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) of extra fabric above and below the lampshade. You need this extra fabric because you will be folding it over later on., Keep rolling until you have 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of fabric left over., Fold the edge in by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Press it down onto the lampshade. It should overlap the raw edge by a little., Place a line of glue inside the lampshade, just beneath the wire rim. Carefully fold the top and bottom seam over the edge of the lampshade, and onto the inside. Run your finger along the fabric to seal it.

You may notice that your lampshade has metal bars either on the top or bottom. You fabric will lay across those bars instead of laying smoothly across the lampshade. To prevent this from happening, take your scissors and cut a slit into the seam. Press the fabric down to either side of the metal bar., You can also use hem tape. Try to use a color that matches your fabric color, or the inside of the lampshade. Place a line of glue all the way around inside the lampshade, right on top of the fabric hem. Press the ribbon or hem tape onto the fabric. If you come across a metal bar, then try to slide the ribbon under the bar, instead of over it.