 You may be angry, and you have every right to be. However, especially if you are alone, swearing, yelling, or otherwise venting your anger could provoke an unstable assailant to attack you. Take deep breaths, tell yourself "this person does not matter to me," and get away as soon as you can., Someone who has previously stalked you or crossed your boundaries may claim to have reformed. They may call and write you emails begging for a response or for the chance to see you one last time, just to apologize. Refuse this, as they may be plotting something worse. If they really wanted to make it up to you, they would leave you alone.Do not reply to any correspondence if you are being stalked. Make sure to save the texts or missed calls, as they will be evidence if the situation continues to worsen.
 Save any letters, emails, voicemails, or other correspondence you receive from your aggressor. Take notes after any interactions, noting the time, place, and what was said and done. Photograph any alterations to your physical environment, such as roses left on your doorstep, broken windows, or creepy notes. If you need to build an HR case or a case for a restraining order, this will be of great help. , Predators sometimes resort to spiking drinks with drugs to render victims disoriented and amenable. If you are at a bar or other social event and someone offers you an open drink, especially someone who hit on you, refuse it. If you feel unsafe refusing it, take it politely and dispose of it discretely.Watch your glass. If anyone passes a hand over it, don't drink it.
If you feel disoriented, can't remember how you got from one point to another, or are otherwise feeling confused while out on the town, get your friends to take you home immediately.
Don't let a stranger help you. Ask for help from a bartender, a friend, or a family member.
 Go out with people you trust, and make a plan for the evening. Stay in touch throughout the night, and make sure you have a point person in charge of getting everyone safely home.


It can be hard for drunk people, especially those who have been drugged, to communicate what they want or need. Some people might end up in dangerous situations that look consensual.
Make sure you or your group's point person checks in with anyone who is going home with a stranger.

