 It's a yellow app sporting a white ghost.;
, Do so by using the larger, round button in the bottom-center of the screen.


Tap the button for a photo Snap.
Hold the button for a video Snap up to 10-seconds long.
 The screen displaying your Snap offers many options for customizing your photo or video before you send it.


Swipe left or right to scroll through the available filters, like temperature, location, and tints.
Use the tools along the top of the screen to add a caption, stickers, or to draw on your Snap.
Tap the Save icon in the lower-left to save your creation to your device or Snapchat Memories before sending it.
 It's the blue arrow button in the lower-right corner.
 Tap on the display names of the friends who you'd like to send your Snap to.


To add your Snap to your Story, tap My Story at the top of the screen.
If there is an available public Story in the area, it will appear below My Story. You can add your Snap to the public Story by tapping Our Story if it appears.
 Doing so sends your Snap and returns you to the Chat screen.
 Your Snap will be listed on Chat screen in chronological order with other Snaps you've sent and received.


If it's unopened, a solid-colored arrow will appear to the left of the Snap. The word "Delivered" will appear beneath the Snap, along with the day it was sent.
If it has been opened, the colored arrow will be an outline. The word "Opened" or "Received" (for Chats) will appear below the Snap, along with the time it was opened.
If a Snap has been replayed, the symbol will change from an arrow to a circular arrow, and the word "Replayed" will appear beneath the Snap.
If your friend took a screenshot of the Snap, the symbol will become two arrows, pointed in opposite directions, overlaying one another. The word "Screenshotted" will appear beneath the Snap.
If you leave the Chat screen, you can get back to it and check the status of your sent Snaps by swiping right on the camera screen.
Photo Snaps are red, video Snaps are purple, and Chats are blue.

