 If you don’t have extensive volunteer work to pull from, you will likely need a master’s degree from an accredited institution in order to find a career in humanitarian work. It can be an extremely competitive field to find work, so having an advanced degree in a field that is of particular benefit to the organization you want to work for can help.Advanced degrees in engineering, accounting, or other in demand fields are always sought after.
A master’s degree or higher in humanitarian related fields such as food security is a great way to get in the door.
 You will need to apply to a position within a humanitarian organization just like any other job, so the first step should be to make sure you have an updated and well put together résumé. Make sure to highlight your skills and experiences that make you a valuable addition to a non-government organization’s team.


Make sure to list any volunteer experience you have in humanitarian endeavors.
Create a cover letter that speaks to your passion about the organization you apply to, as well as the cause they support.
 You can find careers in the humanitarian industry on most traditional job boards like Indeed.com or Monster.com, but there are also specialized job boards you can visit that allow people to post only positions in non-government, humanitarian organizations. You may also want to create a LinkedIn account to help you look for positions.Try visiting Reliefweb.int, Trust.org or DevNetJobs.org for international humanitarian job postings.
If there is a particular organization you have in mind, look on their website for open positions.
 Once you are able to get an interview to work for the humanitarian organization of your choice, make sure to prepare beforehand. You should do research on the organization and prepare yourself to answer questions about your qualifications and goals, as well as about the organization you are interviewing with.


Make sure to dress appropriately for your interview. You should wear a suit or a suit with a skirt and have good hygiene.
Be professional and confident in order to leave a a good impression with the interviewer.
 Like any other organization, humanitarian non-government entities need people in all sorts of positions in order to be successful. Once you’re offered a position, it may not be exactly what you were hoping for. Many humanitarian organizations will require that you work in their home office for a year or so before doing field work. Embrace this opportunity to get to know the organization and do your best to help from the position you’re in.Take the opportunity to network with people within the organization and better understand how it goes about its humanitarian work.
Remember that every person counts in terms of helping the cause. After time, you may be able to transfer to field work.

