 Fragrances and perfumes are personal choices and you should pick one that you like, but researchers have found that males are often attracted to a few specific scents, so you might consider a perfume that contains these notes:Vanilla.
Orange.
Lavender.
Green apples.
Don’t be afraid to ask a member of the opposite sex what smells good to him. This is probably the most effective way to ensure you smell good to someone else.
 Applying too much or too little perfume or fragrance can be off-putting to boys. Keep these guidelines in mind to make sure you are applying perfume correctly:For a more even application that isn’t overwhelming, spray once into the air above you and then walk through the mist.To keep fragrances from dissipating, apply to a few pulse points and areas that give off heat. These include behind the ears, on the wrists, on the collarbone, inside the elbows, and behind the knees.You can also lightly spray your hairbrush with perfume before brushing your hair.
A quick way to tell if you’ve applied too much perfume to an area is to wait a few seconds after applying and then touch a tissue to the area. If the tissue sticks, it’s a good indicator you over-applied the product.If you accidentally put on too much perfume or body spray, rub a cotton ball soaked with rubbing alcohol to the spot., When you want to smell good for boys, scented lotions can have more staying power than perfumes and are usually less expensive. These products also often have moisturizing skin benefits that perfumes don’t offer.


Be careful when using scented lotions and perfumes because they might be too strong or cloying when mixed.
 Scented bath products are also an easy and inexpensive way to improve the way you smell to boys since they are often more affordable than perfumes.


If you are planning to use a strong-smelling perfume or lotion, a lighter smelling body wash or shower gel might be a better choice so these scents are not overwhelming., When you use multiple scented products, it’s important to consider what the combined smell might be like. You want to choose products that go together and compliment each other rather than creating an off-putting combination that might be too strong and end up repelling boys.


Choose products in the same family so they go better together. For example, if you use a citrus-based perfume, choose a citrus-based shower gel or lotion.Products with vanilla, amber, and coconut tend to layer better and go well with more products.For an objective opinion, ask your friends or family how these products smell together when you are wearing them.

