 One way to keep a positive mindset in the moment is to reduce the noise surrounding you. Turn down the radio if you are in the car. Turn off the television if you are in the house. Silence your phone if it is ringing. Get away from anything that is adding additional loudness to your already loud surroundings.


This is one way to keep a peaceful environment even while your toddler is throwing a fit.;
, A way to feel calmer and more positive almost immediately is to simply breathe deeply. Take a deep breath, inhaling in through your nose, and then exhale slowly through your mouth. This will help release some of the tension in your body and keep you from getting worked up.Practice this deep breathing until you feel completely calm or ready to address your child’s tantrum.
 Avoid thinking negatively about yourself during this tantrum. Remember that toddlers at this age often act out in this way because they do not understand and are unable to handle their emotions. These tantrums are a way of them figuring this out as well as developing coping mechanisms. In your head, try repeating things like:Everything will be okay.
I am a good parent.
This is only temporary. The tantrum will end soon.
 Often times, the stress from these tantrums can affect more than your mind, but your body as well. Tension is likely building in your body, but you can release this and stay calm more easily if you relax your body. Do some simple stretches like reaching up to the ceiling and then down at your feet. Lie flat on your back and completely relax your body into the bed or floor., When you are in the middle of your child’s tantrum, laughter might be the furthest thing from your mind. However, you can inject humor into any situation by taking a moment to revisit a funny text you received recently or to even get on social media searching for funny memes or statuses. Perhaps there is a comedian you find hilarious; search for some short clips from their stand-up and watch them to induce laughter.You should never laugh at your child, however. This will confuse them and likely only intensify the tantrum.
 Know that anger begets more anger. Speaking to them calmly will help reinforce calm behavior in you. Yelling will only intensify the situation and will often escalate your toddler’s tantrum.You might say something like “Jessica, I know you are upset. But I need you to calm down right now so that you can have your dinner.”

, A countdown can not only help your child calm down, it can also help you as well. This will be the signal to your child for them to end their tantrum before being punished. Count slowly and deliberately from 1 to 5 and breathe deeply while doing so.If your child still does not calm down by the end of the countdown, step away for a moment.

