 All good rooms have a theme- it ties the room together. There are so many different possibilities when it comes to themes, so you're sure to find one that you like. Some ideas for themes are:


Retro
Plaid
Your favorite color
Your favorite band
Paris (or another city)
Japan (or another country)
Music
Your favorite movie (Harry Potter, etc.)
Animals
Your favorite book (Percy Jackson, etc.)

If you don't like these themes, think up your own. Be creative and make it something that you love! After all, it is your room. Make it lazy capable. Make it into the room of your dreams!

;
, If you like the colour that your room is right now, keep it. If not, paint it! If your room theme is a colour, paint your room that colour. If your room theme is Paris, for example, paint a mural on your wall of the Eiffel tower (or hire a pro to do it for you). You could also use wallpaper on your walls, but it can be really hard to remove.
 Try to make this match your theme. If you have a plaid theme, buy a plaid bedspread. If your theme is Justin Bieber, buy a bedspread with his face on it. You may not be able to find the bedspread that you want, but be creative. Not everything in your room has to fit with your room exactly. Just make sure that the colour of your bedspread complements the other colours of your room.
 These are super cool and really make your room look comfortable and cool. Pile toss pillows on your bed to add to the cozy atmosphere. Get some that match the theme of your room, or some that are in your favorite colors or shapes! This will make your bed really cozy and cool!

, This way, your friends can flop down into a chair rather than crisscross applesauce on the floor! Put a toss pillow or two on your chairs to make them seem comfier!

, Buy a lamp or two so that you have some light in your room. Buy some cool lampshades that complement the colours/theme of your room. You can also hang some white fairy lights around your room if you want to add a glamorous touch, or hang up some lanterns for a modern look.
 Get ones in your favorite colours. You can buy a couple different ones and put them in different spots in your room!

, Since you're a teenager, you're going to need a place to do homework on, so get yourself a desk. Desks can actually be a decoration of its own! Frame pictures of you and your friends/family/boyfriend, etc. and put them on your desk. Buy a jewelry holder and display your earrings on your desk. Put some candles on your desk too. Use it to display your mementos, trophies, pens...basically anything you want.
 This is a great way to add personality to your room. Display it on your wall and create a collage to go with your theme. Add photos, posters, drawings, pictures, anything you want! These are also really great as you can pin stuff up without damaging your wall.
 Got an iPod or MP3 player? Turn it up and crank up the tunes! Or bring out your CD player and find a place to display your CD collection!

, Scarves and feather boas are great for framing a mirror, bulletin board, or photo. Beaded curtains can be put in doorways, and can also make cool curtains on your window! Be creative, but don't go too crazy and clutter up your room.
 Another good idea is to hang up artwork in your room. If you want something modern and cool, hang up some pop-art. If you want something soft and classy, hang up a picture of a flower.
 See something that you like in a magazine that is too expensive? Try to create it yourself. Make picture frames, lampshades, bulletin boards, blankets, etc. This way it is you, and it matches your room.

