 The first step in estimating your systolic blood pressure is to locate your pulse. Your pulse will give you basic information you need to estimate if your systolic blood pressure is relatively normal. Keep in mind this is a very rough estimate and really only tells you if your systolic blood pressure is not low — it doesn't indicate high blood pressure.


Take two fingers, preferably your index and middle fingers, and place them just below the wrist creases on the thumb side of your hand.
Don't use your thumb, as your thumb has a strong enough pulse to interfere with this process.;
, Once you’ve got your two fingers in the general area, see if you can feel your radial pulse – the shockwave generated by the beating of your heart. If you feel your pulse, this indicates that your systolic measurement is at least 80 mmHg, which is normal. This does not, however, give you any information as to whether or not your blood pressure is high. If you don’t feel your pulse, your systolic is likely below 80 mmHg, which is still normal.


The reason this indicates your blood pressure is at least 80 mmHg is because your radial artery (the artery in your wrist) is small and your blood pressure has to be at least 80 mmHg for a pulse to reach it.Not feeling your pulse does not indicate health problems.
Estimating your blood pressure without a cuff will give you no information about your diastolic pressure.
Some studies have questioned the efficacy of estimating systolic pressure using your pulse., You should recheck your pulse later in the day to get an idea of how your pulse increases after some activity. This will give you more information to determine whether your blood pressure is low, high, or normal.


If you don’t have a detectable pulse after moderate activity, there is a chance you could have low blood pressured.
Consult your doctor if you suspect any irregularities., While these apps are a great idea, the unfortunate news is that they do not work.It is considered a "recreational" medical device and is not a legitimate medical instrument that records your blood pressure. Do not use one of these apps and assume that the information provided is accurate or valid.


Researchers are currently pioneering new technology that will allow physicians to take your blood pressure without a cuff. However, this technology is still in development., Make sure to visit the appropriate app store for your phone and operating system. At the app store, you’ll find a wide range of mobile health-monitoring applications that offer many functions.


Type in “blood pressure monitor”
View the different results.
Pick a few, select them, and read user reviews. When reading reviews, focus on ease of use and people’s general happiness with the app. If users have rated the app with 3 stars or below, look for another., After you’ve read some reviews about a couple of apps, you need to select one and download it. In order to download the app:


Press the “download” button on your smartphone. This button may vary based on your operating system.
Be patient while the program downloads.
Download speeds may vary based on your internet connection speed. To increase the speed, make sure to connect your phone to a wireless network. This will also help you save potential fees associated with data usage., Now that you’ve downloaded the app, you need to click on the icon that represents it. That will open the app. You’ll then want to use the app to measure your blood pressure.


If the app offers more diagnostics than blood pressure, select the blood pressure diagnostic option.
Read the directions.
Make sure your index finger is covering the camera on the back of the phone. The application will use photoelectric pulse wave signal stability information to calculate your blood pressure. This technology essentially analyzes your pulse, heart rate, and other information to arrive at health statistics.
Hold your finger on the camera until the app tells you that its measurement is complete.
Record the results., Perhaps the most important thing you need to know when measuring your blood pressure are key target levels. Without knowing your target levels, blood pressure results won’t tell you anything.


120/80 and below are normal blood pressures for most people.
Between 120 – 139/80 – 89 indicates prehypertension. If you fall here, you should put more effort into adopting a healthy lifestyle.
Between 140 – 159/90 – 99 indicates stage 1 hypertension. If you fall here, you and your doctor need to consider a plan to lower your blood pressure. That plan may include medication.
160/100 or higher indicates stage 2 hypertension. If you fall here, you will almost certainly need to take blood pressure medication., Since cuffless technology is in its infancy, you should take a reading of your blood pressure with a cuff before you start taking readings at home without a cuff.


Have your blood pressure read at your annual or semi-annual physical.
Visit a drugstore or other location that has a blood pressure reading machine available for public use.
Compare any measurements you take at home with your baseline measurement.
Record your baseline measurements and home measurements so you have a record of your blood pressure over time., If you have any concerns about your blood pressure level, you should contact and consult your physician. Your physician will be able to make recommendations about how you can improve your blood pressure or treat high or low blood pressure.


If your blood pressure is high, your doctor will probably prescribe blood pressure lowering medication.
Your doctor may recommend a diet or exercise routine.
 One of the best ways to improve your blood pressure is to exercise regularly. By exercising regularly, you’ll improve your cardiovascular system and get your heart in better shape.


Focus on cardio activities like cycling, running, or power walking.
Make sure not to overexert yourself.
Consult your doctor before adopting any serious exercise regimen, especially if you have blood pressure problems., If you struggle with high blood pressure, you can make certain modifications to your diet to help.


Lower your sodium intake. Make sure to keep your sodium intake below 2,300 milligrams a day.
Eat six to eight servings a day of whole grains. Whole grains have a lot of fiber and can help lower your blood pressure.
Eat four to five servings of fruits and vegetables a day to lower your blood pressure.
Eliminate fatty meats and limit dairy consumption to lower your blood pressure.
For lower blood pressure, limit your sugar intake to five servings a week or less.
 Make a few adjustments to your diet to help raise your blood pressure into a healthy range.


Increase your sodium intake, if your blood pressure is low. Try to consume at least 2,000 milligrams of sodium per day.
Drink more water if your blood pressure is low.