 You can find any product of the same type to your fancy, budget and body/skin type. Most body and face products can be found pretty much anywhere - supermarkets, department stores, drug stores, anywhere. To perfect this intensive pampering treatment, try out different products and see which one works best for you.;
, Try lighting candles or burning incense as well to add to the atmosphere. Even bath salts can help. I also suggest unplugging the phone and not answering the door. Shave anywhere that needs shaving and wash your hair. Consider using a hair mask or oil afterwards for extra "oomph". Cleanse yourself thoroughly. Whilst in the bath, use a bar of soap or sugar scrub on your entire body, concentrating on areas that really need some work, such as tops of arms, your buttocks, elbows, knees and feet. Wash it off and get out of the bath.
 Warm water is best for opening up pores and giving a deep cleanse, while cold water is used for closing pores after cleansing, so keep this in mind.
 Give your face a really good scrub and don't worry about hurting yourself as the more it does, the better. This doesn't mean you have to scrub your face raw; it wouldn't work like that. It just needs a bit of elbow grease to really get it going. Take care to not get the sugar scrub in your eyes, nose or mouth and wash it off in the sink.
 Rub it in and wash it off, like in step 4. Pat your face dry.
 For dry skin, use a face mask for dry skin and a thick, rich moisturiser like Nivea.
 These brushes are specially designed to get your blood going and can also prevent and reduce stretchmarks and cellulite by stimulating your body, blood and circulation. Whether you buy or have a handled or hand held body brush is up to you. Start body brushing your arms or legs in circular motions leading up to your heart. Don't rush it, spend some time on it. If you body brush every day, you should notice some amazingly soft skin, good circulation, exfoliation and a nice glow to your skin in no time. From arms or legs, do the latter, then your stomach, breasts (take care around the nipples), chest, bum and back.
 Make sure you rub it in very nicely, as your skin should feel soft but not wet, sticky or damp.
, For stubborn skin, do this once a week, but for gentler skin, try it once a fortnight to a month.

