 Before you ever take your pet for a ride, let them gradually get used to the vehicle. This can be done a number of ways, but one of the simplest is to discover the point at which your dog gets anxious. This can be inches or feet from the car. Whatever the distance, work with your dog to gradually get closer without showing fear or anxiety, by offering them positive feedback, treats, and affection.


Stop your dog at the point closest to the car where they are still calm. Give them a treat, pet them, and go back inside. Every day, repeat this process slightly closer to the car.
When your dog reaches the car, let them sit inside for a few minutes. Repeat this for a few days in a row.
Try turning the car on. After a few days of letting your dog sit in the car with the engine running, take a short trip around the block. Continue this process and gradually extend the length of the trips., Your pet’s safety during travel is important, and much like always remembering to wear your own seatbelt, your dog should be restrained with a harness, net, or crate during any car ride. However, if your dog isn’t used to the restraint, this can be an added form of stress. Take time, weeks or months, to allow your dog to get used to the restraint before using it in the car.If your dog is used to the restraint, seeing the familiar item in the car may actually relieve stress.
Crates and pet carriers are an especially useful travel tool for anxious dogs. Leave the crate in the house with the door open, and over the course of weeks or months, encourage your dog to treat the crate like home.
If you decide to use a net to keep your dog in one part of the car, set the net up in the home for a few days to allow your dog to get used to it. Netting the dog into or out of a hallway is a simple way to do this.
If you want to use a harness, sometimes called a dog seatbelt, to keep your dog safe in the car, let the dog wear the harness for several days without associating it with the car. Build positive associations with the harness.You can give your dog a treat when they wear it, take your dog for a walk with the harness on, or play while your dog is wearing the harness.
 Once you’ve increased the duration of your trips past a few minutes, you may want to start having someone else in the car. This second person will be there to pet the dog, talk to them, play with them, and otherwise soothe your dog during car rides. This should be someone your dog is used to, or someone your dog is always very excited to see.
 If your dog learns a new trick, say, “Yay. You’re such a good dog. Let’s go for a trip.” Then, take your dog for short ride in the car. If your dog is being extra snuggly and lovey, say, “You’re such a sweet dog. Let’s go for a trip.” You get the idea. The key is to use a happy, positive tone of voice and take the dog somewhere fun like a park.

