 Filing late opens you up to trouble in two ways. For one, you might be charged late fees and penalties. Since taxes are due on the same day every year, that makes being late bad enough. Another thing it opens a person up to is uncovering a hidden tax liability.For example, if a person makes a good living but files for an extension every other year, it makes them seem sloppy. Sloppy people make mistakes, and people who make mistakes get audited.
 It should go without saying, but reporting all of your income is the best financial habit to get into. A lot of people think they only have to claim income from a job where they get a W-2, but that’s not the case. If you fail to declare income from a 1099 job, the IRS most likely knows about it anyway, because there’s no reason for the employer to conceal it.You also need to report income from odd jobs or under-the-table ventures, especially if you’re the type to make a lot of itemized deductions anyway. If there’s any discrepancy between lifestyle and tax liability, it will be pursued.
 If there’s paperwork that’s missing or mathematical errors (that come off in the filer’s favor), it makes your taxes an immediate candidate to get flagged for review by the IRS. That’s not necessarily an audit, but it’s a step on the way to an audit. , Almost any issue that can trigger an audit can be explained if there are legitimate records to back it up. There’s not an option to avoid paying taxes, but it is an option to avoid tax problems, and recordkeeping does that. It shows you did what you said on your tax records. You can reduce your preparation time significantly if you organize your records and receipts. Good organization can also help you monitor the progress of your business, prepare your financial statements, identify the source of receipts, keep track of deductible expenses and support items reported on your return.


Don’t wait until the last minute to prepare your tax returns. Procrastination can be a killer. If you wait, you may get in a rush and make some mistakes you wouldn’t normally make. If you think your return is going to be complicated, get help along the way.
 If your taxes are too complicated, enlist the help of a tax preparer or CPA. Give this special consideration if you have a lot of complicated declarations or deductions, or if you are filing on behalf of a business or organization.


The IRS also offers free help if you get stuck on any given point. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program is available to filers who make less than $54,000 per year. If you are eligible, the IRS' volunteer tax preparers will complete your taxes free of charge. Find a VITA site near you at http://irs.treasury.gov/freetaxprep/.
In addition, the IRS offers a tool called the Interactive Tax Assistant that can answer most questions you have. Access it at https://www.irs.gov/uac/interactive-tax-assistant-ita-1.

