 Brace yourself for the high cost of lingerie, but don’t let it dissuade you. The price-tag usually reflects the quality of materials and support, so if you can’t afford the good stuff right away, be patient. Set aside money when you can. Impress your girlfriend with quality, long-lasting items that feel good to the touch, rather than waste your money on something so cheap that it quickly falls apart, irritates her skin, and/or just looks blah.For a safe, minimal guesstimate, plan to spend around $100 on a matching top-&-bottom set., Draw inspiration from what you found in her underwear drawer. Consider what she already owns and think of how you can vary her collection without straying too far from her preferences. Sort through different colors, materials, and cuts that will give her more options, while still adhering to what you know she likes. For example:Are most of her pieces solid black? Then find other pieces in black, only with some detail that spices it up, like a red or white bow, trim, or ribbing.
Does she have a wide variety of colors, but the pieces themselves are pretty plain and merely functional? Find items in similar colors, only with more intricate and/or racy designs.
 If “bras” and “panties” are the only items you can identify by name, expand your terminology if you wish to dress your lady in more than just those. Peruse websites for online retailers to learn the various categories of other lingerie. If you have a specific item in mind but can’t find a label that identifies it, print the image to bring with you to the store, rather than try to describe it in vague terms to the salesperson.Popular styles include babydolls, bustiers, chemises, corsets, garter belts, and teddies., Take her own body issues into consideration, whether or not you feel they are warranted. Be sure that, whatever you end up buying her, she will feel comfortable wearing it.Browse items that show off or highlight those areas of her body that she is most proud of. Steer clear of pieces that call attention to areas that make her feel embarrassed.


For example, if your girlfriend complains about having a big butt, nix the thong. If she feels self-conscious about her tummy, opt for a loose babydoll instead of a tight-fitting camisole.
 If this is a gift meant for a holiday like Christmas or Hanukkah, keep your picks exciting, but still well within the conservative realm. Prioritize elegance over raciness to avoid offending her in case she takes the spirit of the season very seriously. Do the same with her birthday to make sure she knows this is a gift for her and not for you. But for occasions like Valentine’s day, anniversaries, or even just the hell of it, feel free to be more daring and surprise her with something naughty., Resist the temptation to dress your girl up solely according to your own fantasies and preferences. When you come across items you like, imagine that she is shopping with you. Anticipate her reactions before you spend money on something that, had you thought about it first, you should have known would never, ever be worn by her.Does she tend to keep her inner child on full display? Stick to bright, playful colors and designs with polkadots and bows.
Is she more of a lady with a capital L? Choose a garter belt and stockings to match a fancy top-&-bottom set, or go with an elegant charmeuse.
 If you are male, shopping online may seem like an easy way to avoid feeling like a creep in the lingerie aisle, but rest assured: sales staff are well accustomed to helping husbands and boyfriends select items for their special ladies. Rely on their experience and advice to improve the odds of making your girl happy.Also, the image of a certain item might look enticing online, but not so much when it arrives in the mail.


Give the salesperson your list of sizes that you found in your girl’s underwear drawer if there are any discrepancies between brands.
Show them pictures of your girl so they have an idea of her body-type, skin-tone, preference in makeup, and overall sense of style. This way, they can give you more informed recommendations if you are uncertain of what to get.

