 Leotards should be washed regularly. Do not use bleach or detergent. Leotards should be hand washed only using cold water. They should be turned inside out before washing. You only need to wash them to freshen up the smell slightly and remove any obvious stains. Do as little scrubbing and rubbing as possible when cleaning leotards to prevent them from wearing down too fast.Always read the manufacturer's instructions before washing a leotard. This will give the best advice on how to wash yours.
All leotards wear down over time, even with correct washing. Do not feel like you've failed if, after a few months, leotards start to lose some of their elasticity and color. Unfortunately, leotards do not last forever and need to be replaced regularly.
 Never put a leotard in the dryer. Leotards should be either be laid down flat to dry or hung on a clothes hanger. Never use clothespins or similar devices on a leotard, as they can leave pressure marks.You should consult manufacturer's instructions before drying your leotards. Very delicate leotards may come with specific instructions for drying.
 If you notice a run, have your children carefully put on their tights. Then, take some clear nail polish. Gently paint both ends of the run using clear colored nail polish. Have your children wear the tights until the nail polish dries. This should seal the run and prevent the tights from splitting further.If you get nail polish on your child's skin, dab the area with an acetone-free nail polish remover. Then, wash the area in soap and water., If you wash tights in the washing machine, use the gentlest cycle possible and put them in a mesh bag prior to washing. You can also hand wash tights in the sink or bath using cold water. Use only a small amount of mild detergent to wash tights, if you use detergent at all. After washing the tights, allow them to air dry. Tights should never go in the dryer.Consult the manufacturer's instructions prior to washing tights. Some tights may be hand wash only and some may require a special type of detergent.
 Tutus should be spot cleaned only. Dab cool water onto the stain using a clean rag to remove it. After spot cleaning tutus, hang them up to air dry.Consult your manufacturer's instructions before attempting to clean a tutu.
If a tutu is very stained, have it professionally dry cleaned. Tutus are very delicate and you should not risk damaging them by attempting to clean them yourself.
 Tutus wrinkle over time. To remove wrinkles, fill a spray bottle with water and mix in a tablespoon of fabric softener. Shake the bottle well and then lightly mist the tutus. Always allow tutus to air dry. They should never be placed in the dryer.Always refer to manufacturer's instructions before using any products on your tutus.

