 It stands for "There Ain't No Such Thing As A Fair Fight". There isn't. If you are being confronted by multiple opponents, and they want to hurt you, here is a list of techniques outlawed in rings that are perfectly acceptable in a confrontation such as this.


Headbutts
Gouging
Biting
Hair pulling
Groin-kicking/punching/grabbing-and-pulling
Stomping the knees
Stomping the instep
Punching the kidneys
Punching the neck
Kicking a downed opponent
Small-joint manipulation;
,,

Spread your weight evenly between your feet, and stay on the balls of your feet.






Move your off-foot forward(if you're right handed, the left foot goes in front) by about six-twelve inches.
Bend your knees so they are at an angle in between 170-160 degrees, more if you train that way or feel more comfortable that way.






Keep your hands up at a level a fraction of an inch lower than your eyes, elbows tucked in slightly. An alternative guard is this:






Put your strong hand beside your chin, with your elbow tucked in, so your forearm points straight up. Put your other hand out about a foot or so in front of the other hand, the forearm at a slightly steeper angle than your strong hand.
 For purposes of this article, it is assumed you are using the first guard.


If your opponents are unarmed, deflect punches with your elbows. Twist your torso while keeping your guard tight, and your elbows will swing into any incoming strike. An adjustment of height will be required for other blocks.






If your opponents are armed, wait until they swing. While preparing, unclench your fists. If they swing or slash, make your arms into the shape of a triangle, and change forward. One elbow should make contact with the arm that has the weapon, the other elbow with their neck. From here, knee them in the groin, stomp their knee, or swing a hard back elbow into their jaw.






To block kicks at below your waist, pick up your shin and swing it into the oncoming kick. This will hurt, but it's better than getting kicked in the knee.
 Rush forward and attack. Shout or scream, forcing your breath out of your lungs by clenching your abs. A loud battle cry can shock your opponent for just long enough to land a groin-kick, knee, or elbow.
 The knuckles are far easier to injure than the heel of the palm, unless you've been training for multiple years with bare-knuckle board breaks, Muay Thai bags, etc.
 Throw the strike in as straight a line as possible. There are many ideal targets.


Jaw/ chin
Neck
Solar plexus(right below the sternum)
Groin
Inside of the arm, in between the bicep and tricep
Floating ribs
Kidneys
Knee
Instep

, If you get tangled into a grappling match, your opponent's friends can easily stomp your head and kill you. If you knock someone down while there are multiple opponents, don't follow them, but use your feet to finish them. Don't stomp their head, because that will kill them, but anything else goes. The stomach, the groin, arm, etc.
 Don't try to finish them all off if an opportunity to escape presents itself.

