 Search for fully matured buds on branches that are still actively growing on the outside of the original plant’s canopy. Look for buds that appear fat and healthy in the crooks where leaf stems grow from the branches. Cut the branch from the original plant (or "scion") and then snip the leaf blades from their stem. The cut branch is now your "budstick."Do not cut the leaf stem from the branch. This way you will be able to hold your eventual "chip" without disturbing the bud itself.
Matured buds of one species of plant may look considerably different from another. Search online for images and descriptions for the particular plant that you are budding.
 Position your blade horizontally along the budstick, about a half-inch below the bud and leaf stem. Slice downward into the budstick at an angle of roughly 50 degrees. Make your cut an eighth of an inch deep. Perform your second cut by placing your knife about three-quarters of an inch above your first cut, with the bud and leaf stem between the two. Position it horizontally along the branch. Slice downward into the wood, angling the blade so that it connects with your first cut. Once the cut is made, pluck the chip out of the scion by its leaf stem.You may need to vary the depth and length between the two cuts according to the size of your plant and its buds.
 Choose a smooth area on the stem of the plant receiving the transplant (called a "root stock"). Perform the same cutting technique here to create a pocket to receive your chip. Try to make it as identical as possible in size and shape to your chip so that one fits into the other perfectly.Because you do not need to peel live bark to make your pocket, this technique can be used before and after summer, unlike T-budding.
 Insert the chip into the root stock’s pocket. Wind grafting tape around the graft. Cover the bud and stem as well as the whole graft. Seal it tightly to prevent loss of moisture, which is a greater risk with chip budding than it is with T-budding.Let the plant heal for two to three weeks, then remove the grafting tape. Trim the root stock above the chip to motivate growth from the scion bud.If the chip is smaller than the pocket, line up as many sides of the chips as possible with the corresponding edges of the pocket.
If it is too late in the season to expect growth immediately, wait until winter to trim the top of the root stock.

