 Submissive urination is a behavior common to puppies and younger dogs. The dog will respond to scolding or being greeted by urinating to show submission. The dog will usually show other signs of submissive behavior, such as:Cowering or crouching on the ground
Tucking tail between back legs
Exposing belly or rolling over
Whining or yelping;
, While it is tempting to try to get your puppy to understand that urinating when greeted is wrong by scolding it, this will only reinforce the behavior. Remember that your puppy is urinating in order to show that it wants to obey you, and allow you to be dominant.You should also avoid praising or encouraging your puppy when they display submissive urination, as this can also reinforce the behavior. Simply ignore the behavior and clean up the mess.
 Many common gestures of greeting, such as petting a dog on the head, may be interpreted as gestures of dominance by your dog. Here are some suggestions for how to make your greetings less dominant:Speak softly and calmly, rather than in high pitched or excited tones.
Move slowly and gently, giving the dog time to see everything you do.
Let the puppy approach you, rather than reaching for them.
Look at the puppy's back or tail rather than looking into their eyes.
Pet the dog under the chin rather than on top of the head.
Greet the dog at their level by squatting, rather than leaning over them.
Approach from the side, rather than the front.
Greet your dog outdoors, whenever possible.
 Whenever your puppy greets you calmly, either sitting or standing, let them know you approve by praising them, scratching their chin, or offering them a treat. Remember to keep your response low-key to avoid frightening them, or confusing them into thinking they are being scolded., This will keep their bladder empty, making it less likely that they will display submissive urination. Don't fuss over or praise your dog while they are doing their business, but simply let them "do their thing". Praising a dog for urinating can be confusing for them, and may encourage submissive urination., A dog displaying submissive urination is very insecure, and will often be frightened if they are suddenly confronted with something new. Be mindful of this, and allow your puppy to explore at their own pace whenever possible. This will help build their confidence, reducing their insecurity and potentially reducing their submissive urination.Encourage your friends and family to avoid dominant behaviors when greeting your puppy.
Avoid crowds, loud noise or other confusing, intense activity until your puppy has grown up a little and is more confident.
 Don't feel the need to constantly speak to, pet or play with your puppy, but instead simply sit with them and "chill out". This will let your puppy know that you are comfortable with them being around you. You should also spend plenty of time in positive, engaging activities with your dog, such as walking outdoors, obedience training, and simple games such as fetch., Remember that your puppy is trying to communicate submissiveness to you, but doesn't yet know what the rules are. Give them an alternative to urination, such as simple commands like "sit", "shake" or "roll over". When you greet your dog, give them the command you have trained, then reward their obedience. This will allow them to display their submissiveness to you without urinating.If you have trouble training your dog, or just don't have time, consulting a professional dog trainer is a great option.
 If your puppy continues to urinate when greeted, your vet can determine if some medical condition is contributing to the problem. They will also be able to suggest training classes, medications, and supplements which may help.