 Most likely the appropriate paper size will be set as default in whichever program you use. The two most likely paper sizes are 8.5” by 11” used in North America and A4 used in most of Europe, Africa, Asia, Oceania and South America.


If you are applying for a job outside of your country, it is important to verify which paper size in standard. If you are using Microsoft Word you can change your paper size under the “Page Layout” tab.
 Next, you must set your margins. Your margin default may be set to 1”, but you can reduce this size to as little as .25”.


When choosing margins smaller than 1”, it is important to be sure all information will be printed on the page.
 Simple and easily readable fonts are a good choice for a resume. The most recommended fonts to choose from are Arial, Calibri, Times New Roman or Verdana. Once you have chosen your font, you must keep it the same throughout your resume. It is also important to choose a font size that is not too small to read or too big and takes up unnecessary space.


Try to choose a font size that is between 10 and 12 point (pt) for the main parts of your resume and 14 or 16 pt for your name and resume title. Using different font sizes to distinguish titles and headings will help the reader recognize the different parts of your resume. For example the heading “Education” can be 1 to 2 pts larger than the information provided under that heading.
 While still under the “Page Layout” tab, you can adjust your spacing throughout your resume by selecting a section of your resume and adjusting the “Before” and “After” spacing. Try to set the spacing between lines in the same paragraph or between bullet points to single or 0 pt but no more than 1.5.


For spacing between sections or headings, it is recommended to stay between 4 and 8 pt so the section breaks and headings are easily noticeable.
 When defining your sections and headers, placing a boarder in that area will further help each section stand out. Borders can be chosen to go either above, below or around the heading (whichever you feel looks best). There are also multiple styles, colors, and thickness of lines to choose from. Feel free to try a few out before committing.


Remember to use the same border throughout your resume.
 It is important to add page numbers to your resume so the recruiter or hiring manager knows they are looking at the full document. Since you will have a header on top of the page with your personal information, the page number will stand out well in a footer section.


There are various ways to note the page number and you can feel free to choose one that fits your personal preferences. However, it is recommended that you specify how many pages there are total, for instance “Page 1 of 3”.

