 In order to effectively build your toddler’s wardrobe, you need to assess both what you have and what you need. This is the first step in creating a “capsule wardrobe,” or a set of staple items that form the center of your toddler’s wardrobe. For instance, you might need 7-8 shirts, 3-4 sweaters, 5-6 pants, 10 pairs of socks, one hat, and one jacket.Determine how many bottoms, tops, socks, and outerwear your child goes through each week. You can set aside a laundry basket for just their clothes and see what you come up with after one week.;
, Carefully sort through everything your toddler has, sorting items by type (tops, bottoms, dressy clothes). Then separate clothing items into three piles: keep, save for the future, and discard. Try your best to be honest and practical! Holding on to items you don’t like (or don’t use) does not help boost your toddler’s wardrobe. Keep in mind that solid color items are easiest to mix and match.You can give your unwanted clothes to friends and family, donate them to local thrift stores, or sell them on Ebay or ThredUp.
 As a general rule, most kids can get by with about 5-6 pairs of pants. Depending on how many pairs of pants you already have, you might need to pick some up!Purchase kids pants that are:


Sturdy.
Neutral in color.
Low-maintenance/easy to wash.
Up to one size larger than you need (so that they will last longer).
 When it comes to shirts, it is good to have a few extra on hand. Most kids can get by with about 7-8 shirts. Shirts can be very personal items, so seek your child's feedback when you select shirts for them to wear.Look for shirts that:


Fit a certain color scheme, such as pastel colors, stripes, blue and grays, etc.
Are not too flashy or trendy (as these go out of style quickly).
Are low maintenance/easy to wash.
 Think about what other “specialty” items your toddler may need. These are items they'll use occasionally and include dressy outfits (2-4), extra outerwear (raincoat), or clothing for specific activities (swimsuit).
 Flashy items--such as fancy dresses, bow ties, frilly jackets, or trendy accessories--are fun to buy. But more often than not, these items get used once, and then left in the closet gathering dust. Keep your purchases of these items to a minimum. Instead, focus on practical items you can easily mix and match.