;
, Take away the stairs, ladders, rafts, toys and other items and store them properly.
 If you have an above-ground pool, you likely can thoroughly drain your pump and store it in a protected shelter. Remove the flexible water hoses and cap the water line openings to prevent drainage.
 Starting the winter with the proper chemicals helps to protect your pool from scale (hard water buildup) and corrosion. Test and adjust the pH, calcium hardness, chlorine and total alkalinity levels as necessary.
 Add a shock product, following the product instructions to determine the proper amount according to the pool size. Shocking raises the chlorine levels.
 Allow the pump and filter to run for several hours – a minimum of eight to 12 if possible.
 Specially packaged pool chemicals for winter closing make it simple to add the included items according to the pool size. Broadcast these chemicals from the deep end or by walking around the pool.
 Wipe down or brush the sides first and then the pool floor to loosen dirt, algae and other contaminants. Skim the surface of the water and vacuum the floor to remove the debris. When left in your pool, algae and other contaminants can stain the surfaces and leave lasting damage.
 Remove remaining chlorine from the chlorinator. Clean out the skimmer basket. Backwash or clean the filter to type: Both cartridge filters and D.E. grids – filters made with diatomaceous earth – can be flushed thoroughly with a garden hose fitted with a sprayer nozzle to create enough water pressure to remove contaminants. Sand filters, on the other hand, require backwashing according to the manufacturer’s instructions.
 With above-ground pools, you must lower the water to allow you to remove the pump. Drain to below the return line, but never more than 18 inches (45.7 cm) to prevent stress on the pool cover. To prevent structural damage, never completely empty your above-ground pool. It is important to keep about 1–3 inches (3–8 cm) of water on top of the winter cover to prevent damages caused by wind. You can help secure your liner in place by using “quick clips”; as they are called; in order to hold your cover to the pool frame.
 Snow and ice, if allowed to weigh on the pool's cover, will eventually damage it. As most pool covers are kept on by a cord that runs around the pool; excessive weight will cause the cover to stretch and the cord to tighten further. Don’t let the pool cover get heavy. Depending on whether your pool is above-ground or below-ground, the damage caused by winter ice and snow accumulating on the surface differs:


With an above ground swimming pool, the weight of snow or rain weighs down on the cover essentially pulling the walls of the pool in towards the center, potentially causing damage to the walls and / or top rails of your swimming pool.
If you have an in-ground swimming pool, heavy snow or an excessive amount of rainwater can cause the safety cover anchors to pop out or damage the pools coping.
 When it begins to accumulate, do either of the following:


Immediately remove excess water from the top of your pool cover with a small electric pool-cover pump. You can use a Frisbee to keep the pump from sucking up leaves and other junk. It is also a good idea to keep leaves and other debris from weighing down your cover further. Remove them whenever necessary.
If the accumulation of snow gets to a point where it might be too heavy for the cord to hold; simply cut the cord and let the cover fall. This is your last-step-scenario, of course. However, cleaning the pool from debris is easier than dealing with insurance companies.
 Pool damage will occur when weight is added and allowing this to happen can displace water, thereby mixing non-chemically treated water in your pool.
 During the winter months, water displacement is a huge concern.


Double check on the water level; especially before heavy snow events.
Look under the cover and record the water level. If the level is lower than when you closed the pool then you will need to do some snow removal.
Do not add water to a frozen pool. Getting the snow off the top is the best thing that you can do to save your pool.
 A frozen pool is better left alone. Unless it gets covered with a fresh layer of snow, in which case this is the best time to remove (see above). With the ice below, it should be easier to remove most of the snow. However, use utmost caution when getting snow off your pool.


Do not risk walking atop the ice.
To remove snow, gently use a long broom to push snow off the cover. Do not use anything with sharp edges such as a shovel, as this can cause damage to the winter pool cover.
Use a roof rake to pull the snow off the top. If the snow is lightweight, even a leaf blower will serve the purpose.
 Remove snow from inside and on top of the drain, to keep it from cracking.
 For in-ground pools, either use pool antifreeze (not car antifreeze!) or blow out all valves and water lines with either a powerful reverse vacuum or an air compressor. You can also use both in combination, first blowing and then cycling antifreeze through the lines.


To add antifreeze: Add the product as instructed and circulate at least two minutes or as directed.
Plug all lines with special winterizing plugs.
Finally, blow out the drain underneath the pool from the opposite end before capping. When bubbles appear, immediately cap the drain line. The vapor lock caused will prevent the drain from gathering water and freezing in harsh climates.

