 Sure, you read it before and passed the test, but the big test is coming up: your driving examination. Every rule or procedure you flub is a checkmark in the wrong column, so take the time to really study the material.
 In order to save time, call your local Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) office and make an appointment.


Some DMV's do this, some don't. If they don't, ask when would be the best time to come for the practical test. They'll be happy to have you come when it's most convenient for them—which means a shorter waiting time for you.
 It's vital that you feel confident in your driving abilities before testing, since you are liable for any property damage you may inflict during your test. You'll most likely be required to sign a statement assuming financial responsibility before you test.Bring the necessary documentation with you or you may not be able to test. This documentation generally includes:


Your permit. They'll check your driving record and make sure you've not been suspended, which is what happens when you've had any traffic citations during your permit time.
Proof of driving time. In most states you are required to clock a certain number of driving hours, many of which must also have been driven at night.
Proof of identity, address, and legal residence. As listed above, bring the required documents to prove you are who you say you are.
Proof that you're of legal age. Legal age for a restricted license is usually 16 years old, though some states go as low as 14 or as high as 17. (A state-issued birth certificate will do nicely here.)

, You must have a parent or guardian sign this, though this requirement may be waived if you are married or are an emancipated minor.
 This may or may not be required by your state and may be waived if you have a valid permit. You did read the manual again, right?

, It will be just like the last one. Unless your vision changed drastically since you got your permit, you can expect the same results.
 This is it—make or break time! You've studied the books, practiced many hours, and are generally well-prepared, so don't be nervous. Be confident, be safe, and treat your tester with respect.


To take the driving test, you'll need to bring your own vehicle. It must be in safe operating condition, and you must show proof of insurance in order to test.
Bring a licensed driver to the DMV with you, in case you do not pass.

