 HIV is a disease of the immune system, meaning that your body is no longer as strong or capable at fighting off other illnesses.It is not HIV itself that is the problem, so to speak, but rather the other illness you can catch when you are HIV-positive because of your weakened immune system.


This is why preventative measures are key, because if you take good care of your health overall, you are less likely to contract other illnesses despite having a weakened immune system.Eating well, maintaining an exercise routine, and quitting smoking are all healthy lifestyle choices that can improve your overall health while living with HIV.
 Getting vaccinated for the flu each year will help to reduce your chances of catching any strains of the flu. One shot will protect you from several strains of the flu virus. For someone with a weakened immune system, this can mean the difference between getting very sick or being flu-free.


You may also be eligible for other vaccines depending upon the severity of your illness. Your doctor can provide you with additional details if you are eligible for more.
Since HIV is specifically a disease of the immune system, boosting your immunity through vaccines is an excellent preventative measure to avoid unnecessary infections.
 If you are infected with HIV but take your antiretroviral medications regularly, your blood tests may show that HIV is "undetectable." Note that this does not mean there is zero HIV virus in your body; it simply means that the levels are too low to be detected by the medical test.If this is the case for you, the likelihood of transmitting it to your sexual partner is extremely low, but not impossible.


To be safe, it is recommended to use condoms as added protection during sexual intercourse.
Another option is for your partner to prophylactically (preventatively) take antiretroviral medications as well, so that if any of the HIV virus is transmitted to them they are able to fight it off.
Note that, for anyone who has had sex with someone diagnosed with HIV (or even suspected of having HIV), it is important to have a blood test to see if you have contracted the virus. Knowing about it sooner rather than later is very important for effective treatment.

