 Having your child diagnosed with Crohn's can be very difficult. You might be nervous and you might be confused. It is normal to feel these, and other emotions.Your doctor is one of your most important resources. They can help you figure out how to best feed your child. They also might refer you to a gastrointestinal specialist, who could be helpful, too.
Your doctor can offer recommendations based on your child's age and specific symptoms. Tell your doctor you would like advice on how to best meet your child's nutritional needs.
If your doctor is not patient or thorough, consider finding a new health care provider. It is important that your doctor makes you feel comfortable and confident.
 Don't be afraid to ask your doctor a lot of questions. You should ask specific questions whenever you take your child for an office visit. You can also ask the office questions over the phone or via e-mail.Be specific. Try saying, "Can you tell me some of the best foods to feed my child? What are some foods I should avoid?"
Clarify when necessary. You can say, "I don't understand that term. Would you mind rephrasing that for me?"
Take notes. Write down what your doctor tells you so that you can easily recall the information later.
 A nutritionist is someone who specializes in advising people about food and how it impacts overall health. In addition to seeking advice from your doctor, consider consulting a nutritionist. Your doctor should be able to provide you with a recommendation. Look for a nutritionist who has prior experience helping people with Crohn's. You should also ask if they regularly treat children.
Arrange for a consultation. You want to make sure that any potential nutritionist understands your needs and feels confident that they can help.
Ask the nutritionist to help you come up with a meal plan. You can say, "Can you help me come up with a weekly schedule of meals for my child?"

, Remember to respect the advice of the experts your consult. If your doctor or nutritionist gives you specific directions, make sure to follow them. It will likely be in your child's best interest. Consult your doctor before making changes to your child's diet. You want to make sure that you are still giving your child the nutrients necessary to grow.
Ask your doctor before giving your child supplements. He may want to recommend a specific dosage.

