 If you have another account such as a savings account or a checking account at a different bank, you should transfer money from it into your overdrawn account. Transfer enough to bring the overdrawn account back into the black or, in other words, to a positive sum., You should try to pay back the debt on your account before you are reported to a collections agency. If you don’t pay it back in time, the agency will report you to one of the big debt organizations. This will have a negative impact on your credit rating., Your bank may charge you every time it pays for an item on your overdrawn account. The fees can accumulate to a significant amount. Make a plan to pay back the amount and use the fees as motivation to keep your account in the black.Depending on your account, you may also have a limit on the number of items that your bank will pay for on your overdrawn account. It may pay for the largest sums first., You will be paying interest on the amount you have gone over on your account. See how much interest has accumulated since you overdrew the account, and make a plan to pay it back., Give your bank a ring and make an appointment to speak with a financial advisor. At your meeting, ask whether it is possible to make a payment plan that will allow you to meet your other financial obligations while paying back the overdrawn account in due time. You could say:“I want to pay back my overdrawn account. At the moment, I have a number of existing financial obligations to meet while I pay it back. Can you help me put together a payment plan?”

, If your account is linked to a credit card, overdrawing on it may lead to a high amount of credit card debt and impact your credit score. You will be charged a high interest rate from the credit card company for any money they put into your overdrawn account. If you don’t deal with it in a timely manner, the interest will add up pretty quickly and may impact your credit score.You can see if your credit score has been impacted by talking to your bank or looking at your credit rating on an online ratings service.
You can find out your annual credit rating by going to the following website run by the three big credit rating agencies: http://www.annualcreditreport.com.You can also get your annual credit report by phoning the following number: 1-877-322-8228.