 It's easy to keep the fantasy of some kind of relationship alive with the idea of staying friends. You may be able to be friends in the long run, but it's best to focus on yourself for a while and allow your feelings to die down before trying to have any kind of friendship with your ex. Trying to stay in contact can make the breakup worse if you aren't really over him or if he still has residual feelings for you.It may also be really hard to see him with the new girl. Protect yourself from that emotional pain by keeping your distance, at least for a little while.
Avoid interacting or seeing him on social media and avoid texting or calling. You may also want to get rid of anything that reminds you of him such as photos or gifts.;
, Breakups are painful but sometimes necessary. Trying to get back together will only extend the grieving process, and if he's with someone new, it'll likely just be you trying to repair the relationship, which puts you in a bad position where it's easy to continue getting hurt.If he tries to keep something going while talking to the new girl, avoid this messy situation. Show him and everyone around you that you have the maturity to maintain a clean break, even if he doesn't.
 Try to take the higher road and avoid gossiping about what he did. You may feel like you need to vent, but this can create problems if you have mutual friends. Framing situations positively is better for your own mental health than venting in a negative way.Try to understand his position. He may be doing what he thinks is best for his life. If he wasn't interested in trying to salvage your relationship, then either way, it's the best case scenario long-term for you to have broken up.
If someone asks about the breakup, you can say "It's been a difficult experience for me, but I wish him the best regardless."

, You may not like it, and you don't have to, but try to understand that the decision has been made and the best thing for you to do is move on, as painful as that can be. Even if you invested a lot of time and energy into the relationship, if it's over then the best thing you can do is try to move forward.You can say to him, "I respect your decision even though I don't like it or agree with it.
 You may be tempted to attack the girl he leaves you for, but it's not her fault, and being rude to her will only make it harder for you to move on. Appreciate the positive side of another person being involved: it will make it easier for a clean break to happen, because you won't keep orbiting each other as each of you tries to cope with the pain of the situation.If she tries to talk to you or gossips about you to other people, maintain your integrity by not responding to her bitterness.
If you do want to respond to something she says, keep it simple and friendly. You can say "It wasn't meant to be for us, but I hope it works out between the two of you."
If she's a friend or if you have mutual friends, be extra cautious about not being resentful. You may want to be friends with her again in the future, or you may not want to poison your social circles by disrespecting her. If you need to vent, talk to a friend who isn't close to her (or the guy).

