 In order to backup your game discs to your computer, you'll need a modded Xbox. This requires the proper exploit, an exploitable game, and an Action Replay device to connect your Xbox memory card to your computer. You'll find an overview of the process below, but for detailed instructions click here.Download an All-In-One exploit for your Xbox. You can find these by simply searching for "all-in-one xbox exploit" in Google, but they can't be linked here. There may be different versions of the exploit for different exploitable games.
Get an original copy of a game that can be exploited. Common exploitable games include "007: Agent Under Fire", "Mech Assault", and "Splinter Cell". These games have errors in them that allow the mod process to install itself. You may need to download a specific All-In-One exploit depending on the game you get.
Connect the Action Replay to your computer and plug in your Xbox memory card. Copy the All-In-One exploit onto the memory card, and then copy it from the memory card to your Xbox's hard drive.
Start up the exploitable game and load the saved game that you copied over. This will start the flashing process. Select "Backup eeprom" from the menu that appears.
Select "Install softmod" or "Basic install". The option will vary depending on the exploit and version you are using. After the mod is finished, you'll be asked to select the dashboard you want to use.;
, You'll need a few different free tools when creating backups on your computer to archive or burn:

An FTP client to connect to the Xbox's hard drive. The most popular free, open-source option is FileZilla, available at filezilla-project.org

An xISO creation program, such as Qwix, CloneXB, or Craxtion.
An ISO burning program such as ImgBurn or Alcohol 120%.
 A direct connection will allow you to quickly grab the files from your Xbox's disk drive. You'll need a cross-over cable in order to properly connect., Open your Network Connections window and right-click on your Ethernet adapter. Select "Properties" from the menu that appears.Select "Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IP) from the list and click "Properties".
Select "Use the following IP address" and enter 192.168.0.1 for "IP address" and "255.255.255.0" for the "Subnet mask".
Set your Xbox IP to "Static" in the Xbox's Network Settings menu.
 The original disc will need to be inserted in order to create the backup., Create a new connection in your FTP program, labeled "Xbox" or something similar. Enter 192.168.0.3 as the IP address for the new connection. For the username and password, enter xbox into each field. Open the connection after entering the details, and after a moment you should see several folders appear., This will display the contents of the game disc in the FTP program. It may take a minute or so for this folder to appear if you just inserted the disc., Use the right frame in the FTP program to create a folder that will store the game backup files., Drag the files from the left frame to the right frame and drop them into the folder you just created. Wait as the data is transferred from the Xbox to your computer., Select the "Create ISO" or "Create New" option in your xISO file and select the files that you've copied to your computer. Wait as the program converts the files into an xISO file that you can burn to a DVD., The DVD-R format will provide the best results when burning your backup copies to disc. Try to use a high-quality brand like Verbatim or Memorex., When the program loads, browse for the xISO file that you just created., Find the Write Speed controls in the burning program interface. Lower it to 2X or 4X to reduce the possibility of errors while burning., Burn the xISO image file to your blank DVD. This will create a working backup of your game that you can play on your modded Xbox. Make sure that you don't try to play online, as this could get your account banned.