 Choose to sit next to someone in class who seems nice and friendly and is friends with the popular crowd. Forming a friendship with a popular classmate may open up the way for you to join the entire group. Start friendly conversations with them and try to build a friendship with them. Ask them if they want to study with you or do something with you after school.


If you don’t feel a friendship with them forming, don’t force it. You either genuinely click with someone or you don’t.;
, Once you have established a firm friendship with one of the popular people, gradually begin to approach them when they are all together. An easy first step is to say hi to your friend when they are with their group of friends. Eventually you can start to be more friendly with all of them them, and slowly start to form relationships with the popular group.
 You should not change who you are or what you enjoy, but if you want to get noticed by popular people you might consider trying a new activity. Many popular people play sports, do dance, or are cheerleaders, but everyone is different. Consider trying a new activity that the popular people are involved in. They might notice you if you are involved in the same activities as them.
 A great way to get noticed at school is to join leadership or student government. Running for a class position and being involved in spirit activities is a great way to become well known at school. The popular kids are likely to notice you if are planning school functions, spirit assemblies, and making speeches in front of the school.
 When you are in class, participate. You should not try to be a teacher’s pet and suck up to the teacher. However, sometimes you should raise your hand and answer and ask questions. This is a good way for other kids, including popular kids, to notice you.
 It will not only bring you good attention but also capture the eyes of the popular groups. You could be the intelligent student who wins awards, or the jock that excels in sports. Find an activity that you are good at, and do it. Being successful will get you noticed and respected.

