 Remove the sausage stuffer from the freezer and set it up on your clean work surface. Lift the sausage casings from the bowl of water and run warm water through them from the faucet to open them up. Drape them over the rim of the bowl of water so the first part of the casing is ready to use and the tail continues to soak. Set up a cold platter where you can place the stuffed sausages, then remove the meat from the freezer.


Make sure none of the casings have a rip in them. A hole in the casing will ruin the sausage.
Don't take the meat from the freezer until you are ready to start stuffing.
 Take a casing and fit its entire length onto the tube, leaving a tail of 8–12 inches (20.3–30.5 cm) hanging off the end. This will be knotted later, but for now, it should remain open. Each casing is several feet long, so you may only need one for an entire batch of sausage.
 Fill the machine with the meat. If you have any left over, place it in a bowl on ice. Begin cranking the machine so the sausage begins moving into the casing. As the meat fills the casing, use one hand to help guide the casing from the tube so it doesn't rip. Use the other hand to begin coiling the sausage on the platter.


Don't let the machine work too quickly if this is your first time making sausage. You can easily go too fast and accidentally rip the sausage.
If you need to move on to a second casing, stop the machine and remove the end of the first casing, then fit a new casing on the stuffing tube.
 When you're finished stuffing, check the sausages for air bubbles. If you see any, use a sterilized needle to prick the casing so it lies flat against the meat.
 Tie off the casings at the front end, leaving the end with the long tail open for now. Measure six inches from the knot and pinch the sausage with your thumb and forefinger. Use your hands to twist the two pieces on either side of the pinch toward yourself three times. Measure another six inches down the coil and repeat, twisting away from you three times this time. Continue until you have reached the end of the sausage, and then knot the end tightly against the meat.

