 Use a sharp blade to cut the bottom of the scion at a slant. The exposed surface should measure between 1 and 2 inches (2.5 and 5 cm) from the lowest to highest point.


This method is a little more difficult than cleft and bark grafting, but it is still fairly simple and works best when you're dealing with young, thing vines.
Note that the scion diameter should roughly match the diameter of the rootstock vine you plan to use.
 Use a saw or sharp blade to cut the top of the rootstock at an angle and length that matches the cut of the scion.


This process is best done on vines that are only one or two years in age. The vines must be no greater than 3/4 inch (1.9 cm) in diameter, making this method ideal for vines that are too small to be grafted using cleft or bark grafting.
 Position the scion over the rootstock. Arrange them so that the cambium layers of vine meet.


The cambium is a single layer of active plant cells found just beneath the bark of the vine. The two vines must be connected at their cambium layers if they are to join into one vine.
If the rootstock is wider than the scion, you may need to settle for matching the cambium layer on one side of the graft only.
 Slice into the rootstock with a sharp blade, then mirror this slice in the scion. The two sliced portions of wood should be able to fit together.


Both cuts should start roughly one-quarter of the way down from the point of sloped cut on both the scion and the stock.
These tongues help hold the graft together more securely and keep the structure a little more rigid.
 Wrap the grafted area of the vine with heavy-duty tape or similar material, then apply a generous layer of grafting compound over all of the exposed vine.


Sealing is important with all methods, but it is especially important with this one. Make sure that you are using thick grafting rubber tape or electrical tape when wrapping the grafted area.
Apply a generous amount of asphalt grafting compound with a stiff paintbrush and add a coat of interior latex paint over the grafting compound once it dries.

