 Its the icon that says "Internet".;
, This will bring you to the Google homepage. You'll see a white screen with a search bar in the center with "Google" written above it in colorful writing.
 You could search "how to find a job" or "best restaurant in Oakland," for example.
 You can also click on the blue magnifying glass for the same result. This will present you with a list of options that should match your search.
 Scroll down to look through all of the options. If you don't see anything that matches what you want on the first page, you can scroll all the way down and press "Next" to be brought to the next list of options.
 If you've found an article that looks like what you want, you can click on it. You'll be brought to a new web page. If you're done reading the article but would like to read more on this topic, you can press the left arrow on the top left-hand screen of your browser to be brought back to the search page.


You can continue to browse your options for as long as you like.
 You can go back to the Google search bar to refine your search. To refine your search, you can make it more specific, focusing on the year or a different detail. For example, instead of searching "best restaurant in Oakland," which may overwhelm you with responses, you can search "best Chinese food in Oakland 2013," which will narrow your search.


You may also need to refine your search if it's too specific. If your search phrase is too long or too specific, you may not find any good matches and will have to go back and try searching something a little more general.
 In addition to refining your search by changing the words you've used, you can also try these search tips:


Common words are usually overlooked during a Google search, so if a common word like "how" or "the" is essential to your search, put a "+" in front of it.
If a set of words belongs together in a phrase, you should put quotes around those words or dashes in between them. This is great for when you know a few lyrics to a song and want to search them to find the song's name. For example:

The-girl-in-the-mirror or "the girl in the mirror"


You can place a minus sign in front a word that you want to omit from your search results. For example, if you want to search "nano" and don't want results for the iPod Nano to show up you can type "nano - iPod."
If you're searching for a price range of an item, type the lowest range after a dollar sign and then type "..." followed by another dollar sign and the highest price in the range. For example: "Mattress $250...$400."

, Instead of searching through the Google search bar when you first pull up Google's home page, you can make your search more specific depending on whether you want to search Google's images, news, or maps. To select one of these options, you can just click on the option on the top left hand side of the Google search bar. Here's what you can do:


Select "images." It's the third option from the left on the top of the toolbar. This option will run your search only through images. For example, if you wanted to have images of a celebrity or a fashion style, Google images will be a great resource.
Select "news." This option is the fifth option from the right on the top of the toolbar. This is a great option if you just want to search something that's in the news, instead of the term in general.
Once you enter Google news, you can select which country's version of the news you'd like by selecting the arrow under the current edition of the news ("U.S. edition" if you're in the U.S.) and choosing the country you want. This option appears just under your search bar.
Select "Maps." This brings you to Google Maps, where you can find directions from one place to another.

