 With a weight in each hand, stand with your arms at your sides and your feet shoulder-width apart. Curl your left arm to your shoulder and then raise your hand straight overhead. While you raise your hand, simultaneously lift your right leg up and forward until your thigh is parallel to the floor. Return to your starting position before repeating the same exercise with the sides in reverse to complete one repetition. Repeat for a total of 20 repetitions and rest for 30 seconds before moving on to the next exercise.


Use hand weights that are two to five pounds for all of these exercises. If you're a beginner, start with two-pound weights and work your way up to five as you build strength.If you don't have a set of hand weights, you can use any two objects of equal weight that you are able to grip firmly.
 Start in a partial squatting position with your knees bent and feet splayed to the side. Hold a weight in each hand and leave your arms hanging in front of you. From this position, slowly stand up, simultaneously raising your arms up and in line with your shoulders. Continue upwards, standing on your toes with your heels about two inches off the ground. To complete one repetition, return to your starting position with these motions in reverse. Do a total of 25 repetitions and then rest for 30 seconds.Time how long it takes you to do 25 repetitions at the beginning. As your strength improves, keep this exercise at the same time, but try increasing your repetitions.
If you have trouble gripping hand weights for this exercise, you can try using velcro wrist weights instead.
 Stand with your legs apart, heels slightly raised off the ground. While holding your hand weights, throw a jab with your right hand towards your left side. Return to your starting position and throw a jab with your left hand towards your right side. Doing one jab for each side is one repetition. Do a set of a total of 20 repetitions before resting for 30 seconds.As you practice try to increase the number of repetitions you can do in a roughly two minute span of time.
Heavy wrist weights are also effective for this exercise and may be less ungainly for throwing punches.
 Lie on a flat surface with your knees bent and your feet flat on the floor. Hold the weights in your hands with your arms lining up straight with your shoulders and flat against the ground. Using your core muscles, raise your hips and lower abdomen until your trunk makes a straight line with your thighs. While raising your hips, simultaneously bring your hands together over your chest, holding your arms straight up. Keep your upper back on the floor at all times. Slowly return to your starting position to complete one repetition. Do a total of 25 repetitions to finish your workout.To prevent injury or discomfort, do this exercise on a soft but firm surface like a yoga mat or carpeting.
When you're first starting out, doing this combination may be especially difficult. Although not as efficient, consider splitting the bridge and chest fly into two separate exercises.

