 One important and often heartbreaking task is planning a funeral or memorial service for the deceased. Offer your assistance in any way that you can on such a difficult task. Even if you don't make any decisions, your presence may comfort your friend.
 Immediately after a devastating loss, everyone your friend knows may be trying to contact him. Volunteer to act as a gatekeeper, relaying certain information to the outside world of extended family, friends, and co-workers. Doing this can shelter your friend from some of those overly optimistic platitudes while giving the family privacy., If your friend lives alone, or the loss left her home alone, offer to stay with him. He might feel uncomfortable sleeping in his home alone or may just be comforted knowing there is someone there to talk to.
 Ask your loved one what chores or errands need to be completed. Make a checklist and get started ticking off items.


Common chores might be paying bills, picking up groceries, sending off or bringing in mail, and cleaning up the home. Just be sure to check first. Your loved one may not want certain personal items touched or rooms disturbed. He or she may want things left how they were before the person died.
 A great way to help out your friend and her whole household is to coordinate with other friends or relatives to set up a meal train. Doing this minimizes the need to have to prepare meals during this time of grief. Below are a few tips to organizing a meal train:Ask your friend if it's okay for you and others to prepare some meals for her
Find out about any food allergies or intolerances
Ask everyone involved to be specific in what they will be preparing/bringing
Offer suggestions to others who are involved, such as buying a restaurant gift card or picking up groceries that include easy-to-fix frozen meals or sandwich/salad ingredients

, Offer to look after them by picking up the children from school, helping with homework, and making sure they get a warm meal. Take any dog(s) out for a walk and feed the pets as needed.

