 If you have played the game before, you can select the "Skip Tutorial" option. However, the best choice for new players is to follow the instructions and master the basic parts of the game. You start out in the spa at your house. Simply follow the instructions in the tutorial to continue to the next part of the game. It will show you how to use your car, go to the spa, and move to different areas.;
, Each of the six areas (except for the Kiosk) has a different mini game. Every victory will earn you a new item. Each one can be played 12 times. You can still play them for fun after completing them, but you won't win any new items.
 To go to a new area, select your car at your house. This will bring you to the map. Click on an area to travel there. The areas of the game include the Spa (which can be found in your home), the Library, the Conservatory, the Boat, and the Wok and Sushi restaurant.


You can tell which buildings on the map are the areas you can travel to by looking for moving parts. If it is moving, you can go there.
 In each area, you will see three pink icons in the upper right corner. They are a puzzle piece, a change purse, and a camera. Choose the puzzle piece to play that area's mini game. The change purse will show you several different options to change your avatar's pose, what she is holding, etc. You get more of these options by unlocking trophies. The camera option allows you to save your creation to your computer or print it.
 The majority of the trophies come from winning rewards from mini games. Some of them come from completing your collections of clothes, makeup, hairstyles, etc. Two come from uploading a creation to your album and setting Avie as your game avatar (you can do this by going to an area and choosing the camera option). Four of them are won by entering the game multiple times: first by coming back a second time, then five times, ten times, and finally 25 times. You win the last trophy by collecting all the other trophies.


View your trophies in the Kiosk which can be found on the map. It is the smallest building with the spinning pink sphere on top of it. Trophies unlock new poses and things your avatar can hold.
 In this game, you will be shown a series of notes played on a piano. Remember them, as you will be asked to repeat the sequence back to the computer. If you play an incorrect pattern, you'll have to start the mini game over.
 At the start of the mini game, you will be asked to collect the required ingredients (usually 12 of one type and 9 of another type). In the bottom corners of the mini game screen you can see how many of each you collected so far and how many more you need. To collect the ingredients, you must play a Match 3 game (just like in games such as Bejeweled and Candy Crush Saga) to win the ones you need.
 You must play a simple game of memory to win a reward. The specific item you will unlock by winning the mini game is hidden behind all the matching pairs. Finding them all will reveal the reward and unlock it for you to customize your avatar.
 In this game you have to collect 40 treasures by moving your mouse to prevent them from falling past the seashell. You must collect all 40 of the without running out of lives (if a treasure falls before you collect it, you lose a life). You have a total of 10 lives to complete the task.
 You can still play mini games after collecting all 12 available rewards, but you won't earn any more after that. The games also become more challenging after this point.

