 If your kitchen does not have any obvious pantry space built in or is short on overall storage, see if a bookcase nearby (perhaps in a coat closet) or other movable storage could work.


Try to find a space that is clean, dry, cool, and dark for your pantry. The cabinet just over your stove may not be the best choice.;
, This means that you will acquire the items in your pantry gradually (thus avoiding any major, up-front expenses) and it also means that you will buy only those things you are prepared to use.


Consider bringing some things from home to get you off to a "free" and easier start. Get your parents' permission first, though.
 Spaghetti sauce in jars and boxed pasta are easy staples to start with. Even when you move on to slightly more sophisticated meals, they'll be handy things to keep around for that day when things get especially busy.
 Rice, flour, oatmeal, and potatoes are all starches that will keep for a good long while in the pantry. While you most likely will not eat these foods alone, they are all good for extending other meals.


Store flour, rice, oatmeal, and the like in airtight (and bug-tight) canisters or jars. If you don't have dedicated canisters yet, you can save large jars from items you buy.
 There's generally no need to refrigerate either, so long as the space is relatively cool and dry and has good air circulation. A basket or bin with holes in it will help.


Potatoes should be stored away from a light source, to discourage sprouting.
 It's generally healthier and far cheaper to use fresh vegetables and make your own soups, but having a few cans on hand for the busy moments doesn't hurt. You can also stock cans of things like tomato sauce, beans, and mushrooms, if you like to use those in cooking.
 You can buy regular bread, or you can buy food like pitas or tortillas. Some tortilla chips can also go well with food like tacos and chili.
 If you intend to bake, you will need baking staples like flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt.
 Frozen meats are very convenient, especially if you have a microwave in which to defrost them. (Otherwise, defrost in the fridge a day in advance.) Frozen vegetables may not be quite as good as fresh ones, but you may find that they are easier to keep on hand than fresh.


If you love smoothies, you might consider getting frozen fruit, too, or freezing your own fruit. You can also learn how to freeze cooked foods and ready-to-cook foods for yourself, for quick meals later.
 These are herbs and spices, as well as the ubiquitous salt and pepper, and include condiments like soy sauce, ketchup, and vinegar.


Seasonings add flavors to your cooking. Some can be fairly expensive, so start with one jar of spices at a time.
You don't need every spice; just the ones you use. Find out what your recipes call for and just buy that.
Look for a few seasoning mixes, or mix your own. Italian seasoning is generally just a mix of oregano, basil, rosemary and parsley. A jar of chili powder or taco seasoning can dress up some basic meat and veggies so they'll taste good in a tortilla. Do watch for added salt in seasoning mixes, though.
Some grocery and health food stores may provide samples of spice mixes for free. This is a good opportunity to get a sample package or two spice mixes.
Look around for a source of spices in bulk or in packets, rather than in little, glass jars. You may want to buy spices the first time in those glass jars, but refill them with spices in less expensive packaging.
 If you plan a bit, you may be able to keep these trips to about once per week.
 All foods will eventually spoil, but some things will last longer than others. Buy your quantities according to how quickly you use each item.
 As you use something up, or get close, put it on your shopping list, as long as it is something you use regularly. Keep a shopping list pad near the pantry with a pencil, so that's it's really easy to update missing ingredients.
 Spaghetti and tacos are two fairly easy choices.

