 Is your tree bearing fruit, but they are not ripening? Lemon trees need plenty of sunlight and lots of water. They also need to be pruned to allow for better air circulation. Without these, the fruit won't ripen. This section will give you some tips on how to get your tree's fruit to ripen. It will also tell you when you can expect the lemons to ripen.
 Plan to pick lemons at least four months after the flowers bloom.Some lemons may take up to nine months to ripen. Once a lemon is ripe, however, it can stay on the tree for several weeks.Lemon trees need to mature before they can bear ripe fruit. Some lemon trees may bear fruit sooner, but the fruit won't be ripe. In general, lemon trees produce ripe fruit after they are three years old.If your tree is bearing fruit, but they never ripen, check the tree's age.
Expect lemons to be ripe between late November and mid-January. Try to harvest your crop before mid-January, or you will risk hampering the following year's harvest., Not only does the tree need sunlight to grow, but the fruit need sunlight to turn yellow. If you are growing your tree indoors, consider keeping next to a window, ideally a south-facing one. Lemon trees need six to eight hours of sunlight each day.Lemon trees also need warmth, and grow best when temperatures average at 70째F (21째C) during the day and 55째F (13째C) at night. Keep in mind that they will usually go into dormancy when temperatures fall below 55 F. (13 C.), Lemon trees love water, but they do not like to stand in it. Make sure that the soil is well-drained. You can also plant the tree on a slight mount. This will prevent water logging., If the lemons have been green for a long time, it could be a sign that the tree is not healthy. Check the pH using a pH testing kit, which you can purchase from your local nursery or gardening shop. Lemon trees need a soil that has a pH of 6.0 to 7.5., Avoid over-watering the tree, and do not let it sit in water. This could encourage rot, mold, and disease.For the same reasons, do not mulch lemon (or any citrus) trees. Mulch will only hold moisture against the roots, increasing the probability of root rot. Most home citrus gardeners also keep the area under the drip line of the tree free of weeds and grass to promote better evaporation of any standing water.
 Choose a plant food made specifically for citrus trees, as it will have all the necessary nutrients. Lemon trees use up a lot of energy to grow and to produce leaves, flowers, and fruit. An under-nourished lemon tree won't have the energy to produce healthy fruit, which could prevent the tree from ripening.


Lemon trees need a lot of nitrogen to grow. The fertilizer should contain more nitrogen than phosphorus or potassium., Lemon trees growing outside get pollinated by birds and insects. A tree growing in your home won't have that opportunity, and it may not produce ripe fruit, if any at all. To pollinate your indoor lemon tree, use a Q-tip to move pollen from one flower to the next one., If your tree's lemons just aren't ripening, you might want to check your tree for other signs of stress or disease. Check the tree for any signs of dead leaves or branches. Also, check the leaves for any signs of fungus or mold; they usually appear as black or white blotches. Another sign of disease is yellow blotches on the leaves.

