 You need a final wipe to remove any excess dirt or dust from the wheels. The wax and grease remover also removes any oils left from your hands or skin while working with the wheel. Use a clean paper towel to wipe the surface dry instead of letting the cleaner evaporate., The primer provides the ideal surface for your paint to adhere and helps in rust prevention. It also provides an even color across the paint surface and allows the paint to look the same across your wheel. You will need to spray on two to three coats of primer. Read the instructions on your primer and wait the recommended amount of time in between coats. This will help prevent running.You will need a self etching primer at the very least. This will protect the metal from rusting. Depending on the quality of paint job you want, there are also primers that are specifically formulated to go with certain paints. Talk to your parts/paint dealer about which primer you should use.
 After priming you will be able to see any blemishes that you may have missed when getting the wheel to this point. If you see any, you will have to sand down the primer, fix the imperfection, and prime again. This is your last opportunity to make your wheels perfect before the paint goes on.Paint goes on in very thin coats. While some very minor imperfections may be overlooked, paint does not hide imperfections well.
 As with the primer, the paint will need to be applied in several (usually three) even coats. You should allow the paint to sit for the recommended time before applying the next coat. Spray back and forth across the paint surface at an even pace. Do not get too close to the surface or move too slowly or else you’ll run your paint. If you move too quickly, you won’t get good coverage.
 This is only necessary if you are using a base coat/clear coat paint. If your paint is single stage, you can skip this step. Clear coat will be a applied the same way as paint and primer - three even coats with time in between. Allow the paint job to sit for 24 hours before buffing or reinstalling your wheels.Be warned that clear coat runs easier than base coat or primer.

