 If your overnight babysitter does not have all the relevant information pertaining to your child’s health, your child will not get the care they need. Be clear about any medication or special health needs your child has., If your child needs to eat or nap at a certain time, let your babysitter know. This will provide minimum disruption for your child and minimal irritation for your overnight babysitter.If your kids are older, they might have a more active schedule. Let your babysitter know when, for instance, your kids need to be driven to school or to a sporting event.Let your overnight babysitter know how much time your child is allowed to spend watching TV and/or using the computer. If you only allow your child TV or computer use after homework or other chores have been accomplished, inform your babysitter of these rules, too.
Information pertaining to your child’s schedule should also include instructions regarding their bedtime and wakeup time.
 No matter your child’s age, they should have rules for playing safe. If your child is young, remind your overnight babysitter that your child is not to play with plastic bags, small toys with breakable or detachable parts, latex balloons, coins, batteries, or other small objects that could prevent a choking hazard.No matter your child’s age, let your babysitter know that your child is not to run or play near stairs or windows, and to ensure that electrical outlets remain covered in the area the child is playing.
If your child is older, you might have rules pertaining to whether your child is allowed to play before or after completing their homework. Share these rules with your overnight babysitter to ensure continuity of rules while you’re away.
 If your overnight babysitter is tending a baby, let them know where you keep your bottled milk, formula, or baby food. If your children are a bit older, show your babysitter what you want them to eat (as well as what you don’t want them to eat).Make a healthy dinner ahead of time so all your overnight babysitter needs to do is warm it up.
Make it clear to your overnight babysitter if your child has any food sensitivities or allergies.If your child is under 4 years old, instruct your babysitter not to feed them any hard candy, raw carrots, nuts, popcorn, or anything else that could cause them to choke. Hot dogs and grapes, for instance, should be cut into small bits rather than served whole., Every parent has a certain way they do things. Sometimes it’s not enough to just say, “Give the kids dinner at 7:00.” Sometimes you have to include more in-depth information about your particular methods. Share the specifics of your childcare system with your overnight babysitter.For instance, part of your system might be to tuck your kid in at night, pulling the blankets up to their chin, rather than just saying “Goodnight” and switching off the light. Share this or similar information with your overnight babysitter will help them and your kids have a good experience.
If you show your overnight babysitter how you do things in your house, the whole process will proceed much more smoothly and your kids will experience less disruption., In addition to detailed verbal explanations of where everything is and how you want things done, you should also leave notes and lists behind about how you want your overnight babysitter to proceed. Written directions can help your overnight babysitter avoid confusion that might arise if they’re trying to recall something they heard during their crash course to your family and home.When writing notes and lists, put one page with the most important information your overnight babysitter needs to know on top.
For instance, if your child needs to take their medication promptly at 7:00, write directions regarding the administration of the medication (where the medication is, how much is needed, and so on) in bold on the front page of the sheaf of notes you leave behind.
 Let your overnight babysitter know how you want diapering problems solved. For instance, if your babysitter detects diaper rash, what should they do? Provide details on this and similar diapering complications.Different babies respond differently to various diaper rash cures. For instance, your baby might benefit from a wash and air-dry, or from the application of baby powder, or from a combination thereof. Whatever works for you and your baby, let your overnight babysitter know in both verbal and written directions.
If you use cloth diapers, provide your overnight babysitter with directions for their disposal.
 If your overnight babysitter has a question you didn’t answer in either your verbal preparation or your written notes, your babysitter should have some way to get ahold of you. Leave your phone number or email address behind so that you can answer questions.