 A wall or fence along the border of your property is one of the simplest ways to keep other people out, as well as putting would-be intruders on notice that the land within is private property.If you live in a suburban community, make sure the type of fence you want to build is allowed before you begin construction.
You also may want to have a survey done to establish the exact boundaries of your property as set forth in your deed. 
Talk to any adjoining property owners before you construct a fence or a wall. Many state laws and local ordinances require neighbors to share the responsibilities of maintaining a fence between properties.
If your property sits next to a road or other property, you also should check state laws and ordinances to determine what set-off is required.;
, Although warning signs won't keep anyone off your property in and of themselves, they can serve as a deterrent and put people on notice as to the consequences if they trespass on your property.Security company signs or window stickers can serve as a deterrent even if you don't have an alarm system installed. Theft often is a crime of opportunity, and these notices send the message that your property is not an easy target.
You also can get signs that say "Beware of Dog" or similar at most home improvement stores. Other gadgets can be used to simulate the presence of a guard dog or security guard on the premises.
 Even if you live on the property, you can't personally monitor it all the time. Perimeter alarms and motion-detection systems can alert you to intruders on your property so you can take action. Many alarm systems also automatically contact authorities.Get terms and estimates from several alarm companies before you choose which one you want to buy.
Read the contract carefully and make sure you understand what is covered and what isn't. Pay particular attention to early-termination clauses, so you know what you'll have to pay if you decide to cancel your service for some reason.
You might also consider exterior lights with motion sensors, which can help defend your property from intruders as well as provide well-lit pathways if you're walking the property at night.
 As soon as new security technology is released, there will be intruders who figure out how to get around it. Stay ahead of the curve by updating your system when you learn of potential vulnerabilities.Run tests to check for weaknesses, such as attempting to enter the property with all security in place. If you have an alarm system, let your alarm company know ahead of time that you're conducting a test so they don't send a false alarm to the police.
Police precincts often do home inspections as a service to local residents. A law enforcement officer will walk your property with you and identify weak points in your security.
If you have a fence, check it regularly for holes or other damage. You also should check any locks on gates or doors and make sure they function properly.
 Each state has its own laws regarding the use of force to protect your home or private property. Typically these laws require an evaluation of all the circumstances of the situation to determine whether the amount of force used was reasonable.State law is particularly important if you've hired a security guard to patrol a large parcel of land. Use of force may differ depending on whether there is a home or the property is undeveloped.
Each state has laws that fall under the legal theory known as the "castle doctrine" (following the adage that a man's home is his castle), which permits use of deadly force to defend your home and property.
However, castle doctrine laws typically don't apply to undeveloped land, or to a significant expanse of property far removed from your home.
In most cases, you must be able to prove the force used was immediately necessary to stop or prevent illegal actions. Deadly force typically is only justified if immediately necessary to protect a life – not to protect property alone. #*No state permits you to set up mechanical devices or booby traps to stop intruders on your property.

