 If you don’t already have an extra colander on hand, you can find one for a dollar or two at a local thrift store. You’ll want to make it presentable enough to command attention at the center of your table. If you like its color or design as it is, just give it a wash and dry it well. You can also add a couple coats of spray paint to give your tablescape a pop of color.Get a spray paint primer and give your colander a priming coat first. Let it dry for at least an hour, and sand away any drip marks or imperfections if necessary.
Then, add a coat of your favorite color. Spray on a second coat if necessary, and give it a full day to dry before putting anything in it.;
, You can try adding one kind of fruit in a color that will complement the room’s decor. Consider going with green apples or bright oranges for a fresh pop of color.Alternatively, you could choose many different kinds of a particular fruit to show off how it can vary. For example, you can choose red delicious, golden delicious, granny Smith, gala, and green apples to show how one fruit can vary in beautiful ways.
You can also arrange different kinds of oranges, tangerines, and clementines for an arrangement with a uniform color but lots of size varieties.
 Try using strawberries, apples, and grapes in similar shades of red for a uniform color palette with lots of sizes and textures. You can place them in a colander painted in a complementary color, like green or light blue, to make your red fruits stand out even more.


You could also go with bright green apples and grapes, or fruits with earthier tones like pineapples and kiwis.
 Try gathering an assortment that resembles a traditional cornucopia. Think about composition and form when you’re positioning the fruit. Imagine your fruit bowl as the subject of a classic still life painting.


Depending on the size of the colander, use two or three apples and a couple of oranges to provide the foundation of your assortment.
Next, use two or three bananas and place them on one side. Try to use bananas that are still attached to each other at their stems.
Add a bunch of grapes, or even a few small fruits like kiwi, to add more variety and complete the look.
 Try placing a mason jar filled about halfway with lukewarm water in the center of the colander. Create a fall harvest look by placing apples, small gourds, or a mix of the two around the jar. Cut a bouquet of sunflowers so their blooms will sit just above the jar and elegantly spill out over the fruit and gourds.For a fuller floral look, you can find a bouquet of inexpensive clearance greens or wheat at your supermarket or florist, cut them to size, and add them to your sunflowers bunch.

