 Choose a room for the litter box. Usually the best place for a litter box is the bathroom. Set up the litter box with one to two inches of litter and place it near the corner if you can.Get your cat an uncovered litter box so they feel comfortable using the litter box instead of having accidents in your home., Before you bring them home, get your cat food, water, and toys. You can find these at any pet store. Get your cat many different types of toys so they have variety. Buy the same type of food the cat is used to if you can.


Cats often don’t eat very much when they first are brought to a new home., Buy a covered cat bed or make a space for your cat with cardboard. Turn a cardboard box upside down. Cut two “doors” in the box because cats like feeling like they have an escape route. Make sure the box is big enough for the cat to stand, lay, and move in comfortably. Place the cat’s haven where they can see the door to the room from inside the box.


Put the cardboard box or covered bed near a cleared off shelf that the cat can perch on.
Place a scratching post next to the cardboard or covered bed.Put a blanket or bed under the cardboard box., They need to be able to jump to survey their surroundings. Clear off any items off of shelves that they can break until your cat is comfortable in the house.


Cats also need to scratch their nails, so place a scratching post or pad in every room., Treat your new cat like you would a toddler and “cat-proof” your home. Block off any dangerous nooks and crannies where your cat could get stuck. Clear away anything breakable. Make sure to hide any cords that your cat could chew through., It might be tempting to reach for the cat immediately and try to interact with them, but that could scare the cat. Your cat will likely not be immediately ready to get too close. Wait for the cat to come to you. You can use your hand or a toy, such as a fishing pole toy, to show your cat you are approachable., Start your cat off in “their room.” This is the room where their safe haven is. Once your cat seems comfortable in that room, start introducing them to more rooms. If you live in a large house, make sure to let them explore slowly and only a little at a time. You don’t want to overwhelm your cat., You don’t want to overwhelm your new cat with too many people. You can slowly introduce people one-on-one to your new cat. If your cat seems too overwhelmed, stop introducing them to new people and give them space. 