 People rely on GPS to get them everywhere. This eliminates the need to make your own mental map, learn shortcuts, or rely on your instincts or sense of space. People also will believe a GPS instead of road signs or direction markers. Try getting around town or a new city without GPS. Even if you get lost, your brain starts making a map of the area.Try taking a new route somewhere. See if you can find a shortcut, or go down a road you haven’t driven down before. Changing the path you drive somewhere engages your brain in a way that mindlessly following GPS doesn’t.
You can also do this when walking, hiking, cycling, running, or taking public transit.
 Reading a map is a skill. However, many people can’t read a map because they only rely on GPS. Next time you are planning a road trip somewhere or are walking around a city, pull out a map instead of your phone.By doing this, you not only work on your map reading skills, but engage your sense of direction and work on memorization.
 One thing people believe technology is doing is separating people from each other. They spend more time on their phones or talking to people via text or social media than interacting with people in person. Meeting new people, learning new things, and listening to new ideas and viewpoints helps stretch and stimulate your mind.Try to find people to interact with in your life. This may be through work, school, friends, or family.
Consider going places where you will interact with those different than you. This may include an organization meeting, a volunteer opportunity, book club, public talk, or even a social meetup.
 Choose one day a week to completely disengage yourself from all technology and electronic programs. This includes smartphones, computers, video games, and TV. Leave your phone at home, and try to explore the world without any form of electronic communication.

Be sure to let family, friends, and coworkers know which day of the week you are planning on doing this so that they do not become worried if they can't get in touch with you.

