 You can't expect your body to look anywhere near as good as you'd like if you're not investing enough hours a day towards giving it the proper rest it needs. While you've no doubt heard before you should be sleeping around 8 hours a night, you should try to get at least 6 if your daily schedule won't permit setting aside a third for slumber. It's equally as important that you get to sleep at the same time each evening. This way, your body will get accustomed to falling into REM sleep much more effectively than if you're falling asleep at erratic hours. Exercise some discipline and set a time to sleep at every night. If you stick to a consistent pattern, you should find yourself feeling better rested than before, even if the amount you sleep remains the same.
 Again, you can't expect to look your best if you don't attend to the basics of proper health. If you adhere to a healthy, whole foods-based diet, your body will thank you by looking better than ever before. While a whole foods-based vegan diet is vastly preferable over anything else, you should customize your new diet to suit your life. Even cutting out basic things like soda pop and other 'empty calories' will help reduce excess strain on your body.
 Yoga is a wonderful way to reduce stress and increase health. More specifically, it has a great toning effect on your legs, as much of the exercise will seek to stretch and work your leg muscles. There are lots of yoga clubs around, and you may find it more enjoyable to partake with a group.
 Exercises like the leg lift and lunge are specifically designed to improve the look, function and feel of your legs.If you have already committed to an exercise regimen, try working more of these leg-focused exercises into your routine. If your legs have a pleasant burning sensation afterwards, you know you've done your part for the day towards getting the legs you want. , While this cardio-heavy exercise is primarily meant to trim fat, the workout it will give your legs will manifest itself as lean muscle. Whether by yourself or with a partner, running is a perfect way to start your morning off right.


If you have much excess weight on you, going running will help trim down your legs.

