 Having a means of transportation to New Orleans doesn't do you any good unless you have a place to stay once you arrive.


Because Mardi Gras is so popular, plan on booking your hotel well in advance.
Call a local travel agent to help you make the booking if you would like expert advice on arrangements to, from and in New Orleans.
Use websites such as Expedia.com or Travelocity to find a hotel room that meets your quality and price standard as well as has dates available for when you want to be in town for the celebration. Search by dates, price and/or hotel name to find the right lodging for you.
Consider a bed and breakfast as another alternative to a hotel or motel. You may have to search for them on the web using the phrase "New Orleans Bed and Breakfast" because many are not listed on the major travel sites.;
, Sign up for your rental car, or start looking into your flight options to New Orleans.


Sites like Expedia.com or Travelocity let you book your hotel, flight and rental car, or just your rental car and hotel as packages. So consider booking everything at one time to save money when traveling to New Orleans for Mardi Gras.
Consider using frequent flier miles to save money on your flight.



Use sites like http://www.10best.com/destinations/louisiana/new-orleans/ to find fun things to do during the daytime hours prior to your nights of partying.
Check out http://www.mardigrasneworleans.com/ to help you find detailed parade routes, schedules, facts and tips to help you make the most of your trip to New Orleans for Mardi Gras.
The weekend that falls before Fat Tuesday is the weekend that Endymion and Bacchus occur. These are two of the largest parades of the season. Both Saturday and Sunday of that weekend will be full of parade watchers.
There will also be another large parade called Orpheus that takes place the following Monday, and the Zulu Lundi Gras festival takes place all day that day. Fat Tuesday is another fun experience because in the French Quarter people will be wearing masks and costumes all day.

