 Write down a list of your favorite memories with the couple. Try to think of stories that involve both partners.Come up with at least ten memories. When you are writing your speech, you can choose one or two these to include. You may think about:


How did you meet the couple?
Did you have any fun adventures together?
What is the funniest thing that ever happened to you while you were with them?
What is the most meaningful memory you have together?;
, To find inspiration, you can look at old pictures you have together. Find pictures where you are with the couple. Think about how you felt during these memories. You may want to write down a brief note about what each of these photos means to you.


If there will be a slideshow at the wedding, you can use some of these pictures as a backdrop to your speech.
You can also look through the couples' social media accounts to see what you two were up to in the past. Find posts where both of you are tagged, and see if that helps you remember any meaningful or funny events.
 Toasts don’t just have to be speeches. You may find a poem or a song that you want to perform. You can lead the audience in a song to the couple. Maybe you even have a short video that can be shown on a projection screen. Consider what kind of venue you will be giving the speech at and whether or not a non-traditional toast would be appropriate for the wedding. You may want to ask the couple if a non-traditional toast is acceptable before you start., Quotes can be a good way of expressing what you mean in an eloquent way. Keep quotes short and meaningful. You can begin or end a speech with the quote, but be sure to state how it relates to the couple.You can find quotes on the internet or in wedding planning books. You can also look to your favorite romance novels, romantic comedies, or historical figures for inspiration.
If your friend or the couple has a favorite quote, this might be a perfect choice.
 The best toasts are held together by a common theme or tone. Think about what kind of reaction you want to get from the crowd. Are you looking to be funny? Do you want to inspire tears of joy? Do you want something fun and hip?


Humor is a great way to keep the attention of your audience. If you're having difficulty coming up with your own jokes, find funny quotes from famous comedians or writers.
A sweet and sentimental speech will include stories about how much the couple means to you. Tell a story about a time when they were there for you.
If you want to go a non-traditional route, you can try incorporating pop culture references into your speech. Instead of quoting philosophers, you can quote sitcoms or pop songs.
 Begin by introducing yourself to the crowd, and state how you know the couple. This part should be brief. You don’t need to spend more than two or three sentences explaining your relationship.You can say, “For those of you who don’t know me, I’m Laura. I’ve known the bride since middle school. We first met in Mrs. Johnson’s class, and we’ve been best friends ever since.”

, You should thank the wedding planners, couple, or the couple’s parents for hosting the wedding. You may also state how grateful and happy you are to be there.


For example, you can say, “First, I just want to say what a lovely wedding this is. Thank you so much to Mr. and Mrs. Smith for throwing this wedding for these two wonderful people, and I am so honored to be able to speak here.”

, From your list of memories, choose one or two to share in the speech. This should be a story that everyone can enjoy and understand. This story can be a funny anecdote or a time when the couple had been there for you. You do not want to make fun of the couple, but you may lightly tease them.Be careful not to cross the line between gentle ribbing and being rude. Use your best judgment and your knowledge of the couple to decide what is appropriate.
Avoid choosing memories that might be embarrassing for the couple, and try not to include any inside jokes that might only be funny to a few people in the crowd.End the story with how it shows the best qualities of the couple or how it represents their future marriage. For example, you can end with “I think what this story shows is how Mark and Anna are truly meant for each other. At the end of the day, they’re both incredibly generous people who will always look out for each other.”

, If you want to go a different route than a funny story, you can create a list of memories and advice to the new bride and groom.Come up with at least five different pieces of advice. Add a brief two or three sentence explanation to each step. These can be funny, sentimental, witty, or topical. Choose a theme that is appropriate to the couple. Some ideas include:


"Five things you can learn about love from pop music"
"Ten reasons the couple was meant to be"
"Five things to remember as you begin married life"

, When you are writing your speech, finish on a happy note. Wish the couple luck in their future marriage. Write down how happy you are for them.


You can say, "I hope and wish for the best for both of you. You two are meant for each other, and I know that your love will be an inspiration to us all."
This is a good time to include a quote if you found one that you liked.
Save your best material for last. If you have a great joke or a witty line, say it at the end. This is an effective strategy that will make your toast stick in the minds of your listeners., Try to keep the speech under three minutes long.By getting straight to the point, you will write a speech that is far more memorable than a long one.This means that the toast should not be longer than one page written.
 Practice the speech again and again before the wedding. Ask your family and friends to listen as you give the speech. They can give you feedback and constructive criticism to help you improve.


You may even choose to record yourself on your phone or computer. Recite the speech into the microphone. Rewind and listen to yourself. Are there parts that you are stumbling over?Think about whether or not you can have visual aids. If you will have a projector, you may choose to use a few pictures. If you're looking to be funny, you might include a meme made about the couple.
 Either the wedding planner or the couple should inform you ahead of time when you will be giving the speech. If you are uncertain, ask them when you will give the toast. Knowing what to expect can help you prepare.


Traditionally, the maid of honor speaks after the best man, but you will want to double-check the order with the couple., You may or may not have a microphone during your speech. Regardless, speak loud enough for everyone to hear. Say your words slowly. Enunciate all of your words, and take a breath between each sentence.If you start to cry, stop and take a deep breath. Dab away your tears, and begin again when your voice is steady. While crying is natural at a wedding, it can make you difficult to understand while speaking.
Avoid drinking too much before your speech. You do not want to slur your words, and it may mess up your careful practice. Limit yourself to one drink before the speech., If you need notes during the speech, write them down on a notecard or a piece of paper. Do not cover your face with your notes. Instead, hold them below your neck level. Glance down occasionally for guidance throughout your speech. You should try to look up as much as you can during your speech.
 While you are speaking in front of a crowd, you are really talking to the couple. Face them as you give the speech, and make contact with each of them. Remember to smile.
 After you have ended your prepared remarks, make a toast to the couple. Raise your glass, and instruct everyone to take a sip. A toast can be as simple as “To the couple!” or more elaborate, such as, “To my best friends, may you forever be joined in love and affection.”Remember to drink afterwards!


If you want an unusual toast, try to come up with a joke for a toast. For example, you can say, "Here's to the couple. May you share everything in life--including the housework!"

