 Make sure you are using raw honey that has not been treated and is unpasteurized. You can find raw honey at health food stores, farmer’s markets, and online. Using raw honey, as opposed to the bottled honey you get in grocery stores, will ensure it is natural and toxin free. You will also reap more of the medicinal benefits of the honey by using it in raw form.Before you use honey on your skin, you want to make sure you are not allergic to honey. You can do this by getting an allergy test done at your doctor’s office.
You can also do a spot test on your skin to ensure you do not have an allergic reaction. Place a small amount of honey on your hand or a section of your skin that can be covered up. Wait one hour. If you do not have an allergic reaction, such as itchiness, redness, or swelling, you can likely proceed with the honey and sugar scrub.;
, Add more if you’d like to use the scrub/mask on your neck as well. , Make sure it is not too thick.


You can also use brown sugar. The crystals in fine baking and brown sugar are softer than regular table sugar., This is an optional step. Make sure you use a fresh lemon as older lemons have added ascorbic acid which can cause more harm than help., The mixture should be thick enough that it falls off your finger "very" slowly. If it slides off quickly, it will slide off your face quickly as well. Add more sugar if the mixture is runny. If the mix is too thick, add more honey.
 Gently massage in circles around your face for 45 seconds. Leave the scrub on your face for at least 5 minutes. For a mask, leave the scrub on your face for 10 minutes.Gently massage it onto your lips to exfoliate dry, cracked lips., Make sure you don’t leave any honey or sugar residue on your face. You may end up leaving a sticky mess if you don’t rinse it off thoroughly.Your face will appear slightly red afterwards, but the redness should fade., Never rub your face with towel as it can damage your skin and cause irritation. Take the towel, and gently pat the moisture off of your face.
 Use a moisturizer with sunscreen to protect against sun damage.


Add lip balm if you exfoliated your lips., If you have sensitive or dry skin, use the sugar and honey scrub to exfoliate the dead skin off your face 1-2 times a week. If you have combination or oily skin, you can use this scrub 2-3 times a week., Egg whites have been shown to help remove dead skin and improve oily skin. You can add egg whites to your honey and sugar scrub to get a more tightening effect on your skin. Add one egg white per 1 ½ tablespoon of honey.Keep in mind using raw egg in your scrub increases your chances of salmonella. Be careful when using egg whites and do not put it near your mouth to reduce your risk of swallowing raw egg., If you are struggling with acne, you may want to try using just pure honey as a mask on your skin. Dry skin, oily skin, and sensitive skin may all benefit from using a honey mask.Spread raw honey all over your face with clean fingers. Let the honey mask sit on your face and dry for ten to fifteen minutes. Then, wash the mask off with lukewarm water. Pat your face dry with a towel.
 Oats are full of natural cleansers and are great for removing dirt and oil from your skin. Mixing oats with honey and lemon will help to leave your skin feeling moisturized and clear.Mix ¾ cup oatmeal (whole grain steel cut oats), ¼ cup honey, and ¼ cup lemon juice. Stir all the ingredients together in a bowl, pouring ¼ cup water in the bowl as you stir. If you want to soften the oats, you can run them through a coffee grinder.
Use clean fingers to apply the scrub to your face and gently massage the scrub in a circular motion. Rinse off the scrub after one minute with lukewarm water. Pat your face dry with a towel.

