 External wipes and creams will not help internal hemorrhoids, but there are some suppositories available that can help. Make sure that you check with your doctor first and follow the manufacturer’s instructions for use as well. You can find hemorrhoid suppositories in most drug stores. Some available suppositories include:


Calmol. This suppository contains cocoa butter, zinc oxide, and an astringent to help soothe and shrink hemorrhoids.Preparation H. This suppository contains phenylephrine to help constrict and shrink the veins in your anus.;
, An ice pack can help to relieve pain and swelling associated with hemorrhoids. Try applying a towel-wrapped ice pack to your anal region to help relieve any pain and swelling., Taking a Sitz bath after you have a bowel movement may help to relieve the pain and discomfort of hemorrhoids and prevent them from becoming larger. To take a Sitz bath, fill a tub with a few inches of warm water and about a cup of Epsom salts. Then sit in the tub for about 20 minutes. Repeat this treatment after every bowel movement., Avoid stimulant laxatives because these are harsh on your system and may make hemorrhoids worse or lead to chronic constipation.If you do find that you need to take a laxative, then try taking a gentle stool softener such as docusate.
 Taking magnesium citrate supplements may help to soften your bowel movements and prevent hemorrhoids from becoming worse. Start with 100 mg and increase the dose up to about 300 mg per day.It is important to start with a low dose and gradually increase the dosage because magnesium can cause diarrhea.


Talk to your doctor before trying magnesium citrate supplements.
 Internal hemorrhoids are generally painless, but if you do experience discomfort, take an NSAID to decrease the inflammation associated with hemorrhoids and therefore decrease the pain (ibuprofen, naproxen).


Read and follow the manufacturer’s instructions before taking any over-the-counter medicines. Talk to your doctor if you are not sure what dosage is right for you.
 If you do not notice an improvement in your hemorrhoids within three to four days, then call your doctor. You may need to get treatment for your hemorrhoids, such as an injection to shrink the hemorrhoid or heat therapy to shrink the hemorrhoid.