 This trick is easiest to teach if the bird is hand tame and already comfortable with sitting on its owners finger.;
, With the bird on your finger of one hand, take his favorite treat (such as a slice of apple or a small piece of millet) in the other hand and hold it in front of him so that he can see it but where it is just out of his reach.
 Keep the treat in front of him so that he can see it. At the same time, say a short command word like "Spin". 


If the bird is interested in the treat, he will likely follow the treat and spin in place. Moving your hand in a circle around him will become the visual cue and the command word will be the audio cue for the trick.
 After he makes his spin, reward him with the treat and reinforce his good behavior by praising him in a cheery voice. Say: "Good bird!".
 Reward when the bird does the trick successfully. It's best to train in short periods. Repetition is key with consistent praise. If the bird loses interest or isn't making progress, it's best to stop and try again at another time. Be patient and positive.
 After several successful training sessions with the bird consistently performing the trick, try giving the visual cue and audio cue without holding the treat. If the bird does the trick successfully, reward him with the treat after he finishes. The bird will learn to associate the trick with the visual and audio cues.
 Once the parrot has learned this trick, you can try to teach more complicated but similar tricks. By moving the treat in a circle underneath your finger, the bird has to follow the treat as it goes underneath him and flip like a gymnast on a high bar.  Remember to give an audio cue such as "Flip!", reward the bird with a treat and give verbal praise. "Good Bird!"

, Soon the bird will understand the difference between the visual/audio cue for a spin and a visual/audio cue for a flip and will perform on command. Very smart birds who learn this trick can perform it when they are sitting on a perch or spin while standing on a flat surface!

