 Turn your lighter upside down. There will be a small hole in the bottom with a slit leading to a small hole. Insert a push pin into the hole, flip the lighter so the pin is resting against your work surface, and press down on the lighter firmly.You should feel and hear a small "pop" as the pin pushes a metal beebee out of place. This beebee seals the release valve and must be pushed out of the way.
To verify the beebee seal has been removed, with the push pin still inserted, shake the lighter. You should be able to hear the beebee rattle around.;
, This should only be done with empty lighters. Point the lighter away from your face and remove the push pin. You should hear a puff of air when the pin pulls free.Attempting to purge a lighter that has fuel remaining inside will cause fuel to be sprayed out of the refill valve.
To prevent fuel from getting on your work surface, lay down a cover, like newspaper or a drop cloth.
Wipe down any areas exposed to fuel with a water dampened rag. Also, your hands may have gotten fuel on them. Wash them with soapy water.
 It isn't likely that your butane applicator will fit perfectly into the lighters refill valve. This can cause gas to leak. Slip three rubber grommets that fit snugly onto the applicator.

The rubber of the final grommet should extend just slightly beyond the tip of the butane spray applicator.
Circular rubber grommets can be purchased at your local hardware store in variety packs in the hardware section., Turn the lighter upside down so its bottom faces upwards and its top rests on your work surface. Insert the grommet covered tip of the applicator into the refill valve. Press down on the bottle to disengage the refill bottle's release valve.Because of the seal formed by the rubber grommets, you shouldn't hear any noise as the lighter refills.
The lighter should refill completely in about five seconds. When finished, release pressure on the refill bottle but keep the applicator inserted in the refill valve., Remove the applicator from the refill valve and quickly seal the valve with your thumb. Hold the valve tightly with your thumb and pick up the push pin with your free hand. Quick as you can, remove your thumb and plug the hole with the push pin.

You may hear some hissing when your thumb is plugging the refill valve. Hold your thumb firmly to reduce the escape of fuel.
This part of refilling a disposable lighter can be difficult at first. Move quickly to prevent freshly replenished fuel from escaping., If you've used a push pin with a contoured plastic end, this may get caught on something and pull the pin out. Cut the contoured plastic at its base with clippers and file down any jagged edges with a metal file.