 One type of treatment is similar to the over-the-counter drugs. That is, you apply these drugs to your face as a topical treatment. The difference is the active ingredients are not the same as over-the-counter drugs.One type is retinoids, which keeps hair follicles clear. You start by applying 3 times a week at night. You'll eventually move up to daily.
Another type is dapsone, which is usually combined with a retinoid.
 For more severe acne, your doctor may recommend an oral medication. These are medications that you take by mouth, so they work systematically rather than directly on your skin.Oral contraceptives (a combined type) are used for women, which can help balance hormones.
Anti-adrogen agents also work on hormones, but they block a hormone's effects on certain glands. This treatment is also for women.
Another option is isotretinoin, which is used as a last resort. It's effective, but it can have severe side effects, such as depression, ulcerative colitis, and birth defects.
 Antibiotics help reduce bacteria on the skin. They also can reduce inflammation and redness, making your skin clearer. Antibiotics may be prescribed as a topical cream that you leave on your skin or as an oral medication.Usually, the doctor will want to get you off oral antibiotics as soon as possible. If you take these medications too often, your body can develop a resistance.
 Dermatologists use chemical peels to help remove certain types of acne. Blackheads and papules are the main forms that benefit from this treatment, and it may result in smoother skin for you. Ask your dermatologist if this option is a good one for you., Another option from your dermatologist is the use of lasers. These treatments can help lower the amount of bacteria on your face, which in turn can reduce your acne. Ask if this treatment is right for you., If your face has been scarred by acne, your dermatologist may be able to help smooth out your face. Chemical peels and laser treatments can help, but other options are available, too.Ask about skin fillers, where the dermatologist will inject a filler under the skin to help smooth it out.
Another option is skin abrasion, which basically involves sanding your skin down with a brush.
A more extreme option is skin surgery, where the surgeon physically cuts out the scars, then repairs the holes left behind.

