 Intracranial pressure can be high or low. Low intracranial pressure can be caused due to low volume of the cerebrospinal fluid inside the ventricles. This can happen due to a leakage of the cerebrospinal fluid from the ventricles through the meningeal membrane.;
, Other causes of low intracranial pressure besides leakage include surgery, which can break the integrity of the ventricular walls. In addition, it can occur as a result of lumbar puncture of the spinal cord for withdrawing some amount of the cerebrospinal fluid for examination of a neurological disease. The clinical picture of low intracranial pressure is a headache with cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea.


Intracranial pressure can be due to a tumor in the choroid plexus of the ventricles which is a rare condition This tumor can obstruct the flow of the cerebrospinal fluid between the ventricles. Congenital obstruction to the foramina between the ventricles can cause also an obstruction to the flow of the cerebrospinal fluid. This type of obstruction is called non-communicating hydrocephalus. It can lead to high intracranial pressure.
Remember that other causes of high intracranial pressure include hydrocephalus or dilatation of the brain ventricles. Dilatation of the brain ventricles due to excessive amount of the cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles can be due to an obstruction to the flow of the cerebrospinal fluid between the ventricles.
The other cause to the dilatation of the ventricles is called communicating hydrocephalus. This type of hydrocephalus is caused by impaired re-absorption of the cerebrospinal fluid in the sagittal sinus of the brain. This can be so due to damage to the arachnoid villi where the re-absorption takes place by chemicals in the cerebrospinal fluid.

This type of hydrocephalus is called communicating obstruction to the flow of the cerebrospinal fluid between the ventricles. It can in turn cause ventricles dilatation and subsequently lead to high intracranial pressure.
 It can happen as a result of several reasons:


One reason is intracranial tumour or mass such as glioma or it may be due to subdural hematoma.
Liver failure can predispose to intracranial swelling with accompanying intracranial pressure.
In addition, hypertensive encephalopathy can cause intracranial pressure.
 Between the two hemispheres of the brain, there is a membrane that separates them and which is called the cerebral falx. A herniation of part of the brain can occur through this membrane in the direction of the other part. This can happen in the case of intracranial pressure which has a source either as a mass or a tumour or due to hydrocephalus.


Between the cerebellum and the cerebrum there is another membrane which separates these structures from each other. This membrane is called the cerebellar tentorium. The temporal lobe of the brain can herniate through this membrane through the cerebellar falx. This can compress the other structures in the brain. The most affected parts of the brain due to this compression are cranial nerve III or the oculomotor nerve. This nerve supplies parasympathetic innervation to the several structures. One of them is the pupil of the eyes. Its dysfunction leads to abnormal dilatation of the pupils of the eyes. It compresses in addition the mid-brain leading to coma due to involvement of the reticular formation of the brain stem which is responsible for maintaining consciousness. The posterior cerebral artery is also compressed by this type of herniation leading to ischemia and infarction.
Herniation can also occur through the foramen magnum which is the passage of the spinal cord. It is a rare condition which involves compression of the respiratory center in the medulla. This can lead to pain in the cervical region in addition to abnormal breathing patterns and to coma.
 The treatment to this type of intracranial pressure is by surgery to remove the mass or tumor or by drainage of the cerebrospinal fluid in the case of hydrocephalus. High intracranial pressure is a medical emergency. It presents with headache and ataxia due to the involvement of the cerebellum. In addition it presents with coma and confusion and also papilledema.

