 Hermann’s tortoises can be kept either indoors or outdoors, as long as the weather permits. Tortoises need to regularly bask in the heat of the sun or a lamp. Consider the positive and negative consequences of each option: it might be easier to find space for your tortoises outside the house, but an indoor environment may be easier to maintain. This particular kind of tortoise has a specific temperature range, so it may not be feasible to keep a tortoise outside if you live in a cold region.;
, To start, build a box out of plywood or a plastic container. Build the enclosure at least four by three feet or eight times longer than your tortoise; adults are usually 6-8 inches long.Bear in mind that these are absolute minimum values. If possible, your enclosure should be even larger on all sides.


If you build the enclosure out of wood, be careful not to use cedar or pine. The acids in the wood can harm your tortoises.
Make sure to build a floor into the enclosure. Coat the floor with sand and soil to give the tortoises a place to dig. If you use an indoor habitat, it should mimic the outdoors as much as possible.
 There are different kinds of indoor pens, but a “tortoise table” is a simple and cost-effective solution. Start with a bookcase (or a wardrobe with the doors removed) laid on its back. Sink a tray for water into the wood. The tray should be large enough for the tortoise to stand in, but not deep enough to submerge its head. Lay a substrate of mixed compost and sand to a depth of about 10cm.
 Choose a warm, dry area that gets a lot of sun. As always, the more roaming space the better. Put a fence around the area so that your tortoise(s) cannot escape. Other animals may hurt your tortoises if they wander too far and get lost.


It's much easier to house a tortoise outside if where you live gets to around 65-80 degrees Fahrenheit or 18-26 degrees Celsius, but if you don't live in a tropical or subtropical region, you must build an indoor enclosure.
Hermann’s tortoises love to dig, so be sure to put your fence deep into the ground. Try building your enclosure atop something solid that the tortoises cannot dig through. This might be concrete, brick, or wood. For a cheap and effective barrier, try laying down chicken wire beneath a few inches of soil.
Consider which direction your garden faces – the direction from which it gets most of its sun. If you have a north-facing garden, prepare the tortoise for hibernation by late September. Otherwise, your tortoises may stay out until late October, if it stays warm and dry enough.
 Make sure to use a filling with a fine grain. It is very important that the surface of the soil is dry: damp environments can cause tortoises to develop "shell-rot" or dermatitis before developing into respiratory disease if the tortoise is unable to completely dry off daily.Do not use bedding that can be a habitat for mold or fungus such as bark chips.
Newspaper, pellets, and sand couldn't hold enough moisture, they're not appropriate burrowing material either.
Avoid clay-type soil, as this type of earth tend to hold much more moisture than regular soil.
You can mix different types of substrates to create a suitable bedding, one of the most common combination is topsoil with play sand.

