 Cats who have liver shunts tend to have stunted growth, where they are too small or skinny for their age and breed. Notice if your cat seems to have a small stature or does not seem to be developing as it gets older. A cat with liver shunts may also be underweight, partly due to a lack of appetite.You may need to compare your cat’s weight and size to the standard weight and size of its breed. You can also bring your cat into the vet to determine if it has stunted growth, possibly due to liver shunts.;
, Another common physical symptom of liver shunts is seizures and swaying around. Your cat may sway around as if drunk or imbalanced, often after eating its food. It may also circle, pace, or stumble around when it walks. These are all possible signs of liver shunts.A cat who has liver shunts may stare vacantly and appear disoriented and lethargic.
 If your cat has liver shunts, it may not be able to urinate at all or strain to urinate. Alternatively, it may urinate and defecate too often. If your cat is urinating, you may notice blood in its urine. This is a possible sign of liver shunts.You may also notice that your cat has diarrhea and seems unable to control its bowel movements. This could be a sign of liver shunts.
 If your cat has liver shunts, it may show no interest in its food or stop eating altogether. This lack of appetite may be due to a general feeling of illness or nausea due to liver shunts., Cats who have liver shunts tend to press their heads on objects, such as the floor, the wall, or an item of furniture. This is likely done to help reduce feelings of nausea, anxiety, and illness due to liver shunts., If you notice any physical or behavioral symptoms of liver shunts in your cat, bring it to your vet right away. Your vet will run a series of tests on your cat to determine if it has liver shunts, including a physical exam, a blood test, a urine test, a liver function test, and an x-ray.Most of these tests can be done during your appointment with the vet and are non invasive.
Liver function tests may require your cat to fast overnight or for several hours so your cat’s bile acids can be measured properly.
 Your vet may recommend a low impact treatment like an adjustment of your cat’s diet. Giving your cat a low-protein diet can help to reduce some of the symptoms of liver shunts. Feed your cat high quality food that is low in protein, such as cat food made of all natural ingredients.Your vet should be able to recommend cat food brands that would be ideal for the treatment of liver shunts.
Sometimes adjusting your cat’s diet will be recommended in addition to other treatments like medication or surgery.
 Your vet may suggest medication to treat liver shunts in your cat. Antibiotics can help to alter the bacteria in your cat’s intestines, which can then reduce the toxins in your cat’s blood. Lactulose medication can also help to reduce the toxins in your cat’s blood. Speak to your vet about the proper dosage for these medications.If your cat is experiencing seizures, your vet may recommend anti-seizure medication for your cat.
 If your cat’s condition is severe, your vet may recommend surgery to address the liver shunts. Surgery is a permanent solution to your cat’s issue but it can be expensive. During the surgery, blood flow will be redirected to your cat’s liver. This will help your cat’s liver work properly and prevent liver shunts in the future.The surgery can be performed in your vet’s office by your vet.
Your cat will be given a general anesthesia during the surgery.
 Post surgery, your cat will be on medication to help your cat’s body adjust to a working liver. Give your cat the required medications so your cat’s liver can regenerate and work properly again. Often, the prognosis for a cat who recovers well after the surgery is good, as the liver shunts rarely return.If your cat shows any signs of hypertension after surgery, such as vomiting, diarrhea, or difficulty breathing, bring it to the vet right away. The vet will then address the issue and check that your cat is healing properly post surgery.

