 E-books are becoming a popular option for writers tired of rejection who still want to see their work published. But e-books are just that: books published on an online platform. So the author will not be able to hold a physical copy of the book in their hands or see a physical copy of the book in a bookstore.Some genres, like thriller, romance, or erotica, have a large online audience of readers. Check if it is common for authors in your genre to release e-books. If digital only publishers exist in your genre, this is a good sign there are online readers for your genre.
An author who is successful at self-publishing should have an entrepreneurial spirit. They should also have an active online presence and an established author website.
Unlike traditional publishing, self publishing sales will snowball or grow over time. So it’s important to be patient and be willing to promote your work online all the time.
 This means e-publishers take no responsibility for the quality of your work, but they also do not own any rights to your work.


If a traditional publisher shows interest after you have published as an e-book, you can still sell the rights to your work.
This also means you have to find an audience for your work on your own. You are also responsible for all aspects of publishing a book, from editing to design to marketing.
 Most distributors will offer easy to use options to customize the look of your book, from font size to cover art. You can also create your own cover art in Photoshop.The self publisher will send you a book proof within a few weeks.
Even after you publish the book, you can make changes to the cover and the text by submitting new PDFs to the distributor. Most distributors charge a fee of $25-$50 for uploading a new cover or new interior.
 Though the e-publishing process may take no more than a few days to complete, you likely won't earn a lot of money on sales. There is a continual stream of new self published titles available online every day, many of which are low quality.In fact, the average self published book sells about 100-150 copies.
 Now that you’re a published author online, it’s important you promote your work as much as possible. Write posts about your book on forums, on social media, and on your blog.


Remember, you will have to act as your own marketing guru. You will need to commit to growing your readership and drawing attention to your work.

