 If you need a court to grant you a divorce, award custody, visitation, or child support, or establish paternity, you will need to get an order from the family court in the state where you live. Every state has different rules and requirements for filing an action in family court, so if possible, you should consult an attorney before taking any action.


Family court orders are almost always from the family court in the state where the parties reside. If a child is involved, the action is usually filed in the state where the child lives.
Matters that deal with “family issues,” are almost never filed in federal court. Therefore, if you file for divorce, custody, visitation or paternity, you will file your action in state court.
 Men are not automatically guaranteed parental rights when a child is born out of wedlock. Additionally, paternity must be established in order to handle issues such as child support, and even custody and visitation. In many cases, paternity can be established without a court order if both the mother of the child and the alleged father agree on paternity. However, if the alleged father does not admit to paternity, you may need a court order. The procedure will differ depending on your state, but usually, the person who wants to establish paternity will file a “Complaint to Establish Paternity.”


In most cases, the only people who can file in court to establish paternity are the child, the child’s mother, and the alleged father.
Usually, the court will order a DNA test to determine whether the “father” in the complaint (whether he filed the complaint was named by someone else) is actually the child’s biological father.
Because paternity cases can be extremely complicated, you should call your local family court to see if there is any help available to help you through the process.
 A divorce is a permanent ending of a marital union. All states allow a “no-fault” divorce, which is a divorce where the spouse asking for a divorce does not have to prove that the other spouse did something wrong. To get a no fault divorce, one spouse must simply state a reason for the divorce that is recognized by the state. In most states, it's enough to declare that the couple cannot get along.


While it is possible to file for divorce yourself, it is often useful to acquire help during the process. Depending on the state you and your spouse live in, you may be able to get help from a “domestic relations clinic” at your courthouse, a low cost attorney, or a legal clinic at a local law school.
Most state court websites have links to the forms you need to file for divorce. These forms have the legal language in place with space where you can fill in details for yourself and your spouse.
To get more information on filing for divorce yourself, visit wikiHow’s guide on Filing for Divorce Without an Attorney.
 Child support and child custody refer to the financial and physical aspects of taking care of a child's needs. Custody and support are responsibilities of both parents, regardless of the couple's relationship status. If you and your spouse/partner cannot come to an agreement on the amount of child support or the custody of your children, the court will enter an order telling both of you what to do.


If you are in the middle of your divorce, then you likely have a case number or court file already. Therefore, you will not need to file anything extra to get an order regarding custody and support.
If you are married and have not yet filed for divorce, you will need to file for divorce in order to get a hearing for child custody and support.
If you have filed for divorce, or are not currently married to your child’s other parent, call the local court clerk (either in the county where you live, or where you filed for divorce) and ask to schedule a hearing for child custody and support.

