 To make a thick barbell, go to a home improvement store and buy two lengths of pipes (the gripping length of pipe would be 1 3/4 inch thick and the longer pipe would be 1 1/8 inch thick).


Slide the thicker pipe over the 1 1⁄8 inch (2.9 cm) pipe and permanently secure this with two inner, wrench fastened collars.
Outside of these inner collars are the plates; these plates are kept on by collars that are hand fastened. The hollow (1 1/8 inch) pipe by will bend at about 200# but with a sleeve over it, this device will not bend unless you are superman. If the plates are too snug on the bar, sand the holes of the plates with sandpaper rolled around a dowel. The sleeve can be a size or two (for big hands) thicker than 1 3/4" in diameter.



Keep some space between the inner and outer collars (in the space you will load, on each end, your weight plates).
Have some space between the outer collars and the ends of the pipe. In calculating the amount of space to put on plates on a thick bar, decrease your poundage from a standard grip (1 1/16") by 20%.
 Do chin ups or timed holds on a thicker bar. A number of outdoor gyms have bars thicker than 1 1/16" because they are more durable, so you could get your upper back and grip work together. An example of a timed hold: Grasp a thick-bar barbell, stand up, and time the amount you hold it.


If you must do bench pressing with a thick bar, use a solid, seven feet bar, as the inside bar, instead of a pipe because serious bench pressing should be done with spotting devices and most spotting devices are made for seven feet bars. The grip also gets taxed in pressing movements, so you could do bench pressing with a thick bar for your grip work. Let the sleeve rotate by not making the inside collars tight against the sleeve.
When cleaning a barbell, having the sleeve rotate, even just a little, makes it easier.
 With these timed holds, gradually increase the time of the holds and the amount held. Pinch gripping works the thumb better than thick bar lifting, however, pinch gripping works mostly the grip. Thick bar lifting works the overall grip and other muscles.
 The position of a lever bar is like using a hammer. The lever bar lifts can be done with motion at the wrist (radial flexing) or static (isometric). A thick, long hollow pipe or a sledgehammer can also be used as a lever bar instead a short, plate loaded lever bar.

Strengthen forearm rotators: Strengthen your forearm rotators and especially the supinators. Forearm supination work will make the initial break in the phone book easier (making that initial break in the phone book is the difficult part).

Strengthen biceps: You could also strengthen the biceps and supinators by doing dumbbell curls with unbalanced dumbbell. At the start position have the hand in the neutral position (palms facing the body) and at the top position the palms are facing up.
 Strength gains are quite rapid, in the beginning, when doing new exercises and your phone book ripping will be easier. (This effort is suitable when you have just a small supply of phone books to rip.)

, As with the thin books, try to get a nice clean rip, when ripping the thick books. Ripping thick books is not just a decision based on your ability to do so, but whether the thick book is within the range of ability of your hand size. Grasping objects that are too big can cause acute pain at the base of the thumb, and it does not reflect a lack of strength.
 Have enough rest between sessions and record your rep, set, and poundage scheme. After you are satisfied with your progress with phone book ripping, give it up, and move on to another exercise or stunt. When doing the new stunt, start from a moderate (or moderate/easy) intensity and cycle up from there. Let your mind and body have some much needed rest, at these lower levels.

