 Many variables factor into where you may want to hold a dive, such as:

Attraction - There are many sights under the water including coral reefs, shipwrecks, caves, and any assortment of plants and animals. Coral reefs are found mainly in tropical climates. Shipwrecks and caves can be found almost anywhere.
Visibility - Under the water, visibility can vary from as little as 2 feet (0.6 m). to over 100 feet (30.5 m). This depends mainly on sea conditions, but can be affected by weather as well. In the Northern Pacific and Northern Atlantic, you will find visibility to be very limited, while in tropical climates, you can see the sun from over 100 feet (30.5 m) down!
Depth - Recreational divers should not dive below 130 feet (39.6 m) without advanced training and equipment. The deeper you dive, the higher the risks for injury. As you go deeper, less light can penetrate the water and the ocean becomes darker. Also, the deeper you go, your risk increases of getting Decompression Illness. These conditions may be very stressful for a beginning diver. It's recommended that you dive no deeper than 60 feet (18.3 m) until you become more comfortable with scuba diving situations. Additionally, due to the compression of air at depth, you use a greater percentage of air with each breath, thus reducing your total dive time.
Temperature - Scuba divers often wear wet suits to protect themselves from the cold. In most parts of the ocean, there is a temperature gap where in a change of depth of 1 foot (0.3 m), there may exist a 10 degree decrease in temperature, this is called a Thermocline. In some circumstances, in tropical climates you will need only a bathing suit.
Water Conditions - Surf and current are the basic sea conditions you need to know. Currents can be very strong in some areas and can carry a diver away. Even many popular dive sites have very strong current areas suitable only for experienced divers. Be sure you know how strong and in which direction the current is flowing. The current can also be part of the experience; a "drift dive" is a dive that is designed to have you be carried by the current. A boat must be present and the skipper will follow you on the surface by watching for surfacing bubbles. Surf can affect the boat and how safe it is getting in and out of the water.
Wildlife - Observing the local wildlife can be the most rewarding experience of an underwater dive, but it can also be quite dangerous. Every geographical location on Earth has its own unique species. You should know the basic fish and plant life you are likely to encounter and if there are any precautions for dealing with any. Just about all of them are harmless and are more scared of you than you are of them.;
, Thorough research is needed to select the best location for you. While objective research such as charts and diagrams can be helpful, there is no substitute for professional advice and experience. Any location with good diving has one or more dive shops. These local professionals know the sites and dangers better than anyone. Always seek local advice including information about currents, tides, visibility, depths and hazards. Before you go, you should know the local weather. Some important questions to know are "Does it storm regularly?" or "How fast do storms arise in this location?" On your first dives it is better to go with a dive operator. They have dove the area hundreds of times and will know which sites are best for beginners. Make sure the dive master knows it is your first dive. That way he can keep an eye on you and offer any help if you need it. Before the dive, the dive master will (or should) tell you where you are entering in relation to the site, where you will be going, how long you will be under, what the max depth will be, what signals you will use, what to do if you need to leave the dive early, what sites you will see and how long a safety stop you will do (it should be at least 3 minutes). So listen up and ask any questions now.
 Selecting and ensuring the proper operation of scuba gear for the water conditions is critical to the success and safety of a dive:


The wetsuit - The thickness of wetsuit you use should depend on the temperature of the water. Selections may include 3mm, 5mm, or 7mm thicknesses. The colder the water, the thicker the material on your wetsuit should be. The same is true for the hoodie, gloves and booties. The wetsuit not only provides cold-water protection, but also protection from stings and abrasions from underwater animals or other inanimate objects. Be sure to select a neoprene suit that fits you well and provides ample flexibility, as an improper fit can cause comfort and mobility issues.


Fins, or swim fins - Purchase fins with wide channels, as scuba divers require these to overcome water resistance with more equipment, and to generally travel more efficiently. The most commonly used fins contain a strap that fits snugly above the heel, although in some warm water conditions, a shoe enclosure type fin will be ample. The difference between a full-foot and open heel fin can be drastic-- so be prepared with whatever you choose.


Buoyancy compensator device(BCD) - This equipment allows the diver to achieve neutral buoyancy underwater as well as provides assistance in ascending or descending. Ensure proper operation of the BC before any dive, as this is a primary piece of safety equipment.
Weight belt - These will counteract the overall buoyancy of the diving equipment. Select a weight belt based on the buoyancy of both the equipment and yourself, which should be determined before attempting a dive. Ensure that the weights on the belt are secure and that the releases on the nylon belt are not jammed. Some newer BCDs have integrated weight systems. Always remember when you are wearing weight, whether a belt or integrated into a BC, that you need a one hand release-- almost always a right hand release. Before every dive, make sure you can release the belt easily with your right hand.
Scuba tanks, or diving cylinders - Select a tank tailored to your dive plan. For shorter dives in warm water with good visibility, generally only one aluminum tank filled to 80 cubic feet of air will be suitable. Some divers prefer steel tanks as the buoyancy between a full and empty tank varies less than an aluminum tank, but the weight is greater. Specialized dives may require two tanks, high-PSI tanks, or Nitrox; but these are more geared toward advanced divers.
Regulator - These are designed to let the air out of the tanks in a controlled manner. Make sure yours has been serviced properly. Remember-- regulators are designed, if they fail, to fail open, causing a lot of air to come out. You can breath that-- you will not just be cut off. If this does occur surface as soon as safely possible.
Mask and snorkel - Be sure to use a mask that has been tempered for pressure and contains a nose enclosure. Ensure that the mask fits properly and is watertight to your face. A purge valve on the snorkel is a welcome feature.
Knife or shears - Although optional, you should carry a knife or pair of shears in case of snags in fishing nets while underwater. Knives can be handy for other uses, such as prying rocks, while shears are more efficient for cutting fishing line.
 Once you have prepared all of your equipment, you must now prepare yourself. Ensuring proper hydration is a key step to diving safety, as dehydration can be detrimental to your underwater health. Also, maintain a positive attitude and a clear mind in case problems occur while diving. Most of all, do not panic if something goes wrong!

, There are generally two ways of entering the water for a dive: from a boat (giant stride or roll into the water) or simply by walking in from the beach. If you are walking in from the beach, ensure that you know the local sandbars and/or any coral or rock formations near your location. If you are entering from a boat, you can roll in backwards from the side, or jump in off of the rear of the boat. Remember to be careful when lowering the anchor because you do not want to damage coral or have it get tangled in a shipwreck.

