 "I love you," is a serious thing to say, and it can completely change the dynamic of a relationship. Once you've decided to tell her that you love her, be on the lookout for intimate, meaningful moments. This might happen during a beautiful sunset after a perfect day together, or when "your song" comes on during a big school dance, or when you're both laughing together, wildly happy simply to be with one another. The moment might be sweepingly dramatic, or it might be wonderfully simple. Say it when you feel truly inspired.


Watch romantic scenes in movies and shows for inspiration. The "right moment" might feel powerful and almost cinematic – like the scene when the guy gets the girl, and they tell each other how they feel.
 Don't just blurt it out the next time that you see her. If you love her, and she loves you, then you will have plenty of time to say it – and to say it again, and again! It's normal to feel a sense of urgency to confess your love. However, it's good to be tactful, and the moment may make for a better memory if you wait for something special.
 Don't say "I love you" for the first time while either of you is tipsy or otherwise intoxicated. Avoid saying it directly after sex – in the midst of the post-coital endorphin rush, it is easy to say or agree to things that you don't mean.Let the moment be simple, pure, and real.
 Don't throw out your first "I love you," when she is distracted with something else, or when she is worried about something, or when she is preparing to leave. The words will be more powerful if you're gazing into each other's eyes. If you're having a special moment together, it shouldn't be hard to bring her in close. Consider saying "I love you" after a hug or a kiss, in a simple moment.


Sometimes, admittedly, there will be no "right time." You can get her attention by saying, "I need to tell you something important."
Not all attention is good attention. Do not say "I love you" to placate her when she's angry, or when she's trying to tell you something else that's important.
 If you're really trying to say "I love you," it may come out when it comes out, regardless of your planning. It may be best, however, to say the words when you're both in a great mood. A sincere "I love you" can certainly cheer a girl up when she's sad or feeling inadequate – but a first admission of love might be a bit much in one of these moments.
 If she loves you back, it won't really matter how you say it. If she doesn't love you back, then you've learned a valuable lesson about love. Either way: life is too short to bottle up these feelings, to let love lay in hiding when it could soar. Be brave, and be true, and follow your heart. It will be okay.


If you need to calm your nerves, try taking deep breaths. Inhale, slowly, for as long as possible, and then gradually exhale in a measured flow. Focus only on the act of breathing: on the in-and-out of your breath.

