
Internet port: connect cable or DSL modem.
USB: can be used to connect a USB flash drive.
Reset button: restore the router to its default settings.
Power receptor port: connect supplied power adapter.;
, Turn the power off on your router (D-Link-DIR635) and modem (cable or DSL). Plug an Ethernet cable into the Internet port on the router, and plug the other end into the Ethernet port on your modem.Plug another Ethernet cable into one of the four LAN ports on the router, and plug the other end into the Ethernet port on your computer. Turn on the power on router and modem

, Open Internet Explorer and input the IP address of your router. In the login window, select admin as user name and leave password blank by default. Press log in to enter the web-based configuration utility.
 In the configuration utility, click the SETUP menu on the top, and the INTERNET menu on the left. Then click Internet Connection Setup Wizard to configure internet connection for router.


Set a new password for Admin user.






Select appropriate time zone for your location.






Select internet connection type. Here select DHCP Connection (Dynamic IP Address).






Clone Your PC’s MAC Address.






Save settings and reboot the router.After rebooting, the router should be able to access the internet.
 Log into configuration utility again.Click the SETUP menu on the top, and the WIRELESS SETTING menu on the left,then click Manual Wireless Network Setup. The wireless setting window will appear.
 After this step, the router will be ready for wireless client to connect.

Wireless network name (SSID): enter a name for the wireless network. This name will be used in wireless client to connect the router.
Security mode: select WPA-personal.






WPA mode: select Auto (WPA or WPA2).
Cipher type: select AES.
Pre-shared key: create a key for wireless client to connect the router.
Leave other settings by default and click Save Settings.
 In the computer which needs to access internet by the wireless network, create a wireless connection by scanning the name (SSID) of the wireless network and setting its connection properties. For example, in Windows 7, select Start menu->Control Panel->Network and Internet->Network and Sharing Center->Connect to a network.


Security type: select WPA2-Personal.
Encryption type: AES.
Network security key: enter the pre-shared key.
Click OK.
