 In general, most pastels should be removed from your winter wardrobe, especially the light pinks, yellows and blues. However, bright whites are neutral enough and many associate white with winter clothing.Traditionally, stark neutrals like black, dark grey, dark brown and deep navy blue are preferred in the coldest months. Don’t abolish all of your fall neutrals – keep colors like deep maroon, olive green and even pumpkin in your wardrobe during the transition.


Repurpose a few of your favorite light-colored items, especially shirts, if they can be easily paired with dark neutrals.
For example, you could make a pink shirt work in winter if you pair it with black slacks or skinny jeans. A black cashmere cardigan, black shoes and dark accessories will complete the look.
 Not everyone wears floral prints, but those that do may want to consider retiring most of them until spring. If you do want to keep a few of your floral prints, stick to the ones that feature more austere colors like wine red, royal purple and navy blue. Floral prints on darker backgrounds can also work in winter. Wear only one floral piece at a time and pair it with other garments of dark colors.


For instance, a toned down floral shirt paired with a black skirt or dark-wash jeans would be suitable winter attire.
The same general rules apply to other kinds of prints and patterns – for example, simple plaids in dark colors are very winter-appropriate. Stripes also work well., Suede, leather, cashmere, velvet, corduroy, wool and shearling are all popular winter clothing materials that can keep you warm as the temperatures go down. Start adding heavy knit sweaters to your wardrobe and use them as layering pieces. Knit sweater dresses also transition well. Introduce thicker fabrics for pants and trousers, such as wool and corduroy.Opt for flannel button-down shirts or cashmere hoodies to create a casual look.


Consider warmer jackets and shoes made of suede or leather. There are plenty of vegan options out there, as well, especially for shoes.
Don’t forget smaller items – you could incorporate wool socks into your wardrobe, for instance., Summer and fall silhouettes tend to be softer and more casual than winter cuts. Opt for structured silhouettes, tailored pieces and sharper lines. Snappy blazers, pencil skirts, tailored trousers, fitted coats and dresses made of thicker, stiffer fabric all work well. During the transition you can easily pair structured items like these with warm-weather garments like t-shirts.Retire softer silhouettes like baby doll dresses and caftans.

