 When we finally get to hear the character speak at length, it should come as no surprise to hear the voice the character uses and the way that they speak. If you're exploring their voice as you write, don't explore it in a long and important monologue, explore it elsewhere in the script.Alternatively, as a freewrite, consider allowing your character to spout off about any number of subjects to develop their voice. Bret Easton Ellis's novel American Psycho features many short exposition chapters in which the main character, Patrick, monologues about various aspects of consumer culture: stereo equipment, pop music, and clothes. Supposedly, Ellis wrote these as character sketches and ended up using them in the novel proper.
Consider filling out a questionnaire for your character, or a character profile. Giving thought to the character in terms of things that won't necessarily be in the script (like your character's room decorating choices, their music playlists, their morning routines, etc.).
 A monologue that starts in one place and ends up somewhere entirely different will make the tension more dramatic, the characters more compelling, and your script much better. A good monologue should be alternatively funny, harrowing, and touching, pointing on no one emotion or no one state by itself.


In the film Good Will Hunting, Matt Damon's character has a great monologue in which he takes a snarky Harvard student down a notch in a bar. While there's humor and triumph in the monologue, there's also a deep sadness and anger that's palpable in his words.
 Monologues can be a great opportunity to pause the main plot of the story and allow a main character to reveal something in their past, to tell an anecdote or a bit of "background" about themselves. When done well and at the appropriate moment, an illuminating or surprising story provides color and texture to the main story, giving us another way of seeing the plot at hand.


Quint's story about surviving the USS Indianapolis disaster provides us deep layers into his character. He doesn't wear a life vest because it reminds him of the trauma. The story doesn't necessarily move the plot forward, but it adds tremendous depth and pathos to Quint, who was basically a macho archetype up until that point in the story., Don't mistake drama and tension for "screaming." No one wants to see a play or a film in which everyone screams at each other all the time, so learning to work up to the emotional pitch of dramatic moments is the real trick to creating tension and avoiding the shrillness of inexperienced writers writing fights.


Real fights are a roller coaster. People get tired and can't yell their innermost turmoil for much more than a sentence. Use restraint and the tension will be even more palpable if we suspect someone might boil over, but they don't.
 It can be tempting for writers who're just starting out to over-write. To create drama, it's often tempting to add too many characters, too many scenes, and too many words. Practice stepping back and allowing only the most essential components of speech to come into play, especially in a monologue. What's going unsaid?


Look at some of the monologue sermons from the play/film Doubt. When the priest sermonizes about "gossip," there's a lot of particular details that are left out because he's in front of a whole congregation of people. The message delivered to the nun he's in conflict with, however, is pointed and palpable.

