 Find an agreeable space for both you and your children. This can be a neutral zone such as a living room or kitchen. Find a snug place to sit. You both want to be as relaxed as possible before talking about a topic that can sometimes be viewed as controversial, taboo, or awkward.;
, Your children look at you as an authority figure. When you first broach the subject, they may feel like they have done something wrong.They may be scared. Avoid this problem by reassuring them that you just want to talk and provide information. You may want to start off by saying something like:


”Hey there do you have a minute or two to talk? You’ve been doing great lately on . I wanted to talk to you about some health stuff.”

, It is not a good idea to just randomly start talking about sex.Instead, find an appropriate moment to sit down with your children and talk to them. This could be when you are alone, or both have open free time to have a serious chat.
 If your child is middle-school aged, your conversation may be about safe sex or sexual health. If you're speaking to younger children, such as grade-school, your discussion may be more of a general health talk. If you're speaking to an older child, you may want to give specific details on sex such as prophylactic use.


You have to be the judge on when it is the right time to talk to your children. You might notice they are starting to have interests in a relationship with another person. You might want to talk to them before they hit puberty. Pick the type of conversation you want to have based on your child's needs, interests, and age.
 You want to provide a sympathetic and knowledgeable ear to your children. You should show support for the questions that they have or what their concerns may be.By doing this, your children may feel more comfortable coming to you for future problems. Perhaps use some of these phrases:


”And know you can always come to me with questions or concerns. You will not get in trouble for asking questions. I just want you to be healthy.”
”Your decisions about your sexuality are your own. I love you and support you no matter what.”
”Your safety and health are really important to me. I would appreciate it if you came to me with any concerns you may have.”

, Children may feel awkward asking you direct questions. Provide materials like brochures from a doctor’s office to give them something to read and think about when you two are finished.
 There are many reputable resources available for teenagers who want to learn more about teenage pregnancies or to support pregnant teenagers. National institutions, such as the Center for Disease Control (CDC), provide easy-to-read guides for both parents and kids., Don’t let this conversation be forgotten. If you are supportive and listen to your children, it may foster a healthier relationship. Open communication between parent and child can be very beneficial. Say things like:


”I am here for you no matter what.”
”Know that you can always come to me with questions.”
”I love you and want to help as much as possible.”

