 When Windows XP has not been activated, this icon will usually appear in the System Tray. Clicking it will start the Activate Windows wizard. If the icon is not here, it usually means XP has been activated, but you can move on to the next step to double-check.;
, You can find this in the Start menu, or you can press ⊞ Win+R.
 This will start the Activate Windows tool., If Windows has been successfully activated, you'll see the message "Windows is already activated." If Windows hasn't been activated, you can start the activation process.
 You can check your activation status using the System Information window. If you're not activated, this window will show you how many days you have left until you are forced to activate Windows.Click the Start menu and select "All Programs" → "Accessories" → "System Tools" → "System Information".
Select the "System Summary" option in the left frame. This is usually selected by default.
Find the "Activation Status" entry. The list will not be alphabetical. If your copy of Windows is activated, it will say "activated" or the entry won't appear at all. If you haven't activated, the "Activation Status" entry will display teh number of days you have left to activate.
 The quickest way to start this is to press ⊞ Win+R and type oobe/msoobe /a.
 If you haven't activated yet, you'll likely be prompted to enter your 25-character product key. You can find this key with your Windows XP disc or on a sticker affixed to your computer's case.
 If you have an active internet connection, activating online is the quickest way. You can also activate using a dial-up modem.


If you've used this XP key on a different computer in the past, you may have to contact Microsoft by phone to activate Windows XP.
 If you don't have an internet connection, you can activate Windows XP by calling the Microsoft activation center. Give the support rep the installation ID that is displayed in the activation wizard, and then enter in the code that the support rep gives to you. After entering the code, Windows XP should activate.

