 If it’s new, the curtain’s length will be listed on the packaging. Otherwise, you’ll need to measure it yourself using a tape measure. The standard shower curtain size is 74 inches x 74 inches – a perfect square., There should be 2 inches of space between the floor and the shower curtain. To effectively contain moisture, the curtain needs to hang at least 5 inches below the edge of the bathtub.The two inches of space between the curtain and floor prevents the bottom of the curtain from collecting too much moisture and dirt.
 This will give you a rough installation height for the curtain rod. You may need to adjust up or down slightly to meet your individual needs, but in general adding 4 inches onto the curtain length should give you a proper placement.
 Determine the spot on each shower wall where the rod should be suspended by using a tape measure. Mark the spot on each side by making a small dot with a sharpie. These dots are where the ends of the rod will be placed.
 Tension rods are made of two interlocking shafts. Find the point where the two shafts fit together and place one hand on either side of this point. Twist counterclockwise to lengthen the rod.


A tension rod is not fixed permanently to the walls. It is held in place by a strong spring inside the rod, which applies enough pressure on the walls to hold it in place.Twisting clockwise will shorten the curtain rod.
 Continue expanding the length of the rod by twisting counterclockwise until both ends meet the shower wall. Adjust the placement of the ends until they are exactly where you want them. Then expand the rod a little more until the tension creates a stable hold on both sides of the shower.


In general, tension rods can be adjusted to fit the width of most spaces without requiring any measurement beforehand.If you do want to measure beforehand, the rod’s final length should be approximately 1 inch longer than the space it will occupy to maintain a snug fit., Double check the tension by twisting clockwise to shorten the rod back into its original position, then repeat the process again. Confirm that the rod feels firmly affixed in place after repeating the process.


The more you have to lengthen the tension rod to fit in place, the less stable its hold will be.
If your rod is unable to maintain a strong hold, you probably need to get a longer tension rod.
 Take a level and hold it horizontally. Place the flat top of the level directly against the rod in the center. The tiny bubble will tell you if the rod is straight or crook.


Tweak slightly to make it straight, if necessary.
 Shower curtain rods meant to be permanently affixed to opposing walls will come with accompanying hardware. Every kit is different, but in general you should have 2 brackets and at least 8 screws to keep the brackets on the wall.
 After measuring and marking your installation height, follow the specific installation instructions that came with your rod to mount the brackets. In most cases, you’ll be using a drill to mount the brackets in the pre-measured spaces.


If you have dry wall you will need to use anchors with your brackets.Learn more about using dry wall anchors here.
 If any screws are loose, use your drill to tighten them to the wall.
 The standard number of shower curtain hooks needed is 12 and they are generally sold in sets by the dozen for convenience. If you’re using hooks that have some sort of decoration or embellishment, make sure the decoration side is facing out into the bathroom, not inward facing the shower.


These also come in ring form. The rings snap open and closed easily. Unsnap to open them, hang them on the rod, but do not snap them closed them yet.
Once you have the hooks/rings on the rod, make sure that they fit properly and slide easily along the curtain rod.
Most come in standard sizes that fit most curtain holes and rods, but if you’re using hooks/rings that are very large or very small, you may want to measure the size of the holes before you buy rings to make sure they will fit., Make sure the curtain is on top of the liner, closest to you. The liner will go beneath it. Find the holes on the top left edge of both pieces and line the holes up so that one ring can pass through both holes.


Liners are usually clear plastic and they act as a barrier between the shower and the curtain.
Liners aren’t required, but they are practical and commonly used, especially with shower curtains that are made of fabric that isn’t waterproof.
 Starting from the left side, thread one ring through the holes of both the curtain and the liner. Then move on to the next hole, repeating the same process. Continue threading until all 12 rings have been threaded through all 12 holes.


If you are using curtain rings, snap each ring closed after you thread it through.
Double check that the liner is on the wet side of the shower and the curtain is on the dry side, facing out into the bathroom.
 Arrange the curtain and liner as you normally would, and take a close look. Is the rod easily supporting their weight? Give a little tug, if necessary, to test the tension. Then slide the curtain open, testing that the hooks/rings move easily down the rod.


If the rod cannot support the weight, you may need to get a longer or more sturdily built tension rod.
If the curtain and liner aren’t sliding easily down the rod, you may need bigger hooks/rings to properly fit the rod.

