 The hair is the most important step. Make sure to get lots of layers and if your hair is short get some extensions. You don't have to wear them all the time, just for some of your pictures. Most scene queens on Facebook will have varying hair. You can dye your hair, preferably black or platinum blonde with a few bright coloured streaks. Or you can go all one crazy colour, the choice is yours. Also coontails look really cool. Be creative! You can keep your natural colour, you can still be just as scene as everyone else as long as the style is right. Remember there are many popular scene girls on Facebook with natural hair colours.;
, You should have specific clothes for taking photos. Make sure they are your best clothes. Look around at what your favourite scene girls are wearing. Your clothes for photos can be a little different to your usual. Some good clothing for scene photos are


Baggy band t-shirts. (They go great over shorts)
Long tops over cool tights
Cute, bright, fitted logo tops. (Anything Hello Kitty, Gir, #* Domo, or with dinosaurs saying "Rawr" is perfect)


Even if you don't usually wear high heels they can look great in scene photos when you are in cool poses







,, They are really good for photos. Get them in neon colours, animal print etc. Be unique with them though!

, Accessories are REALLY important when it comes to taking scene photos for your page. Hair bows, lots of beaded bracelets, head bands, cute necklaces, loads!

, But be creative, do what you want, just remember when taking photos you must look your best, so add some!

, Piercings are very scene. You don't have to get one but get a few fake ones just for some of your photos. They look great and are very scene.
 It's important to have a good camera for taking scene photos as the modeling sites look for high quality photos. You don't have to get something outrageously expensive, just one good enough for taking clear photos. Just don't use a bad phone camera.
 It's fairly straight forward.
 Use your scene name. If you already have an account, it's a good idea to make a new one specially for site modeling and adding other scene kids. Keep your old account for close family and friends.
 You should look your best in your profile photo. Make sure your hair and make-up is perfect and that you look great in it.


Use props in your photos. Anything cute is perfect. Cupcakes, stuffed toys, fruit (such as apples), lollipops etc.
If you have any food, put it in your mouth as if you are about to eat it
If you have a stuffed toy, hug it, kiss it or cuddle it. If you have a lollipop pose with it, don't just put it in your mouth. If it is large use tilt it upward to cover one of your eyes or purse your lips and press it to them.
Take cool original photos. Be unique! Take inspiration from other scene models but don't copy them! Gothic style photos can look great and be very scene most of the time. Have varying photos. Some very bright and happy, others darker and more mysterious.
Pose! Pose in lots of cool and unique ways. Blow kisses, text, put on huge sunglasses and play around with them, tousle your hair. Do whatever looks good!

, Don't worry if you don't get accepted, just send out lots of applications to different modeling sites (make sure they are looking for scene/emo models and you have all the requirements). Make sure you look really good in all your application photos and that you have one proof picture.
 Take as many photos as needed and enter competitions. Get known! Start adding other scene kids. If you don't know any of the scene kids personally don't give out any personal information! They might not be who they say they are!

, If you ever get bored you can just delete your second account, but you will lose all the hard work you put into the account!