 The drip method works best if your fish has been in its bag for a maximum of four to five hours or less. If your fish has been in its bag for longer than four to five hours, you'll want to use the floating method., Remember that bright lights can affect the temperature of a fish tank. If your fish was transported in a dark environment, being in a bright tank could also cause severe stress or trauma., Though most fish won't need to be in a totally dimmed room, your fish may need a dim room if it's been in a dark environment for a prolonged period of time. This is particularly common when fish are shipped through the mail inside a box or package., The easiest way to acclimate your fish to the tank's temperature is to let the transportation bag float in your aquarium. Do not open the bag yet; simply let the tank's temperature warm or cool your fish's transportation bag until they have equalized.15 minutes is typically a sufficient span of time for your fish's bag water to adjust to the aquarium's temperature.
 Open the bag and gently pour out the water and your fish into the bucket. There should not be any other water in the bucket at this time. If possible, try to use one designated bucket for nothing other than cleaning your tank and acclimating your fish.If the bag water does not sufficiently fill the bucket, you may have to tip the bucket at an angle to ensure that your fish remains completely submerged. Otherwise, your fish may be exposed to too much air, which could be fatal.
You can keep the bucket tipped by putting a sturdy block of wood, brick, or old book under one side of the bucket. Just be sure that the bucket will remain upright and not tip over.
 Use aquarium air line tubing to transfer water from your tank into the bucket. You'll need to regulate the flow of water to ensure that it doesn't siphon off too quickly. The ideal rate of flow of your aquarium's water into the bucket is three or four drops per second.You can control the flow of water by tying a loose knot into the tubing.
If you have an air control valve, this can help you regulate the flow of water more accurately. If not, simply tighten or loosen your tube knot as needed.
 One hour of steady dripping should be a sufficient span of time for your fish to acclimate to the aquarium's water. If you're using a small bucket and it fills up before one hour, pour off and discard some of the water in the bucket and continue the dripping process until one hour has passed., After an hour of dripping has passed, your fish will be ready to enter its new home. Carefully scoop up your fish using a fine-mesh net, then transfer it to the aquarium. Pour the bucket water back into your aquarium until it reaches your desired fill line. Discard any unused water from the bucket.