 If you believe your teen is depressed, take her to the doctor. The doctor can screen your teen and decide if she is actually depressed. You may have to ask your doctor to screen your teen for depression. Make sure to discuss it with your doctor if you are worried about your teen.Some mental health care professionals suggest taking your kid to the doctor once a year from ages 12 to 18.Depression screening is covered under the Affordable Care Act. This means that screening may be free under certain insurance plans., One screening method the physician may use is the Mood and Feelings Questionnaire (MFQ). It’s a 32-item questionnaire that gauges how your teen has felt over the previous couple of weeks. It only takes around half an hour to complete.Sample questions include whether the teen felt unhappy in the last two weeks, felt restless, felt grumpy, talked less, blamed herself, or hated herself.There are also MFQs for parents to complete. These include questions where you check if the action is true, sometimes true, or not true for your teen. Questions include if the teen felt unhappy, if she felt tired or did nothing, if she cried often, if she acted she hated herself, and if she felt nobody loved her., The Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) is used to screen, diagnose, and determine the severity of the depression. Your teen rates how often she feels certain problems. It is a brief tool that should only take minutes to complete.Examples of questions include if the teen has interest in things, if she feels depressed or hopeless, if she has little energy, if she has trouble sleeping, and if she has suicidal or self-harm thoughts., The MFQ and PHQ-9 are not the only two screening methods available. Those are both found online for free and easily accessible. However, there are other screening tests your doctor may use that are only available through a physician.


Two examples of other tools include the Beck Depression Inventory, which is a 21-item tool that takes about 10 minutes to complete. The Children’s Depression Inventory is a 28-item tool used specifically for children and adolescents, with questions that are geared specifically towards children. This takes 15 to 20 minutes to complete., After your doctor screens your child, he will discuss the results with you and your teen. Depending on the findings, whether it is mild depression or severe depression with suicidal thoughts, your doctor will discuss the next steps with you. Together, you, your teen, and your physician will decide how to monitor the symptoms and what further medical or mental health care is needed.Your doctor can help you find therapy and counseling services for your teen.If the depression is due to another health problem, your doctor will discuss treatment options for that.