 Wait until you get a pretty clear indication that he or she is ready for a little passionate smooching. If your kissing partner seems ambivalent to your advances or a little shy, now is not the time to try something as fierce as a lip bite. After all, even the gentlest of nibbles is still a bite.


Exact cues will vary by person, but in general, look for signs that suggest openness and a desire for intimacy. If your partner is snuggling against you, staring deeply into your eyes, or seductively licking his or her lips, you probably have the green light.;
, Once you get the green light, escalate the heat level between you and your kissing partner by reducing the amount of physical distance between the two of you. This technique will only work if you can create a steamy ambiance first, and you will not be able to do that if the two of you are standing apart at arm's length.


You do not need to be completely intertwined for this to work, but you should at least be touching in more places than only your lips.
Also keep in mind that you can narrow the space between you even more as the kiss intensifies.
 Your initial lip lock can be sweet or steamy, depending on how intense the mood between you already is. As a general rule of thumb, though, it is better to start off a little milder in your kisses before building up to a bite.
 The kisses between you and your kissing partner need to build to a highly sensual level. The keyword here is “build,” though. The most effective kiss will intensify to a passionate, steamy state gradually, rather than being rushed to that point.


If you really want to drag things out, you can begin with a closed mouth kiss before moving onto an open mouth kiss. You can also do a little French kissing, or you can gently suck on your partner's lower lip as the first hint that a bite might follow.
 Once you are ready to initiate a bite, part your lips slightly and let your teeth gently graze your kissing partner's bottom lip. Your teeth should only graze at this point and should not yet move in for a bite.


Grazing your teeth against your partner's lip foreshadows the bite itself. If your kissing partner is not comfortable with a bite, this signal lets him or her know that now is the time to redirect your efforts or pull back.
 Take your kissing partner's bottom lip in between your top and bottom teeth. Use light pressure to grab the lip and tug down on it just a bit.


Typically, you should aim for the bottom lip. You can experiment by nibbling on the upper lip, as well, but a light bite and tug on the bottom lip is usually considered to be more sensual.
 The idea behind biting someone's lip during a kiss is to give him or her a little thrill to heighten the passion and intimacy of the kiss. Do not make the bite itself the main feature of the kiss; instead, you should treat it as a little garnish to make the presentation all the more appealing.
 You can give your kissing partner a few gentle bites in this manner, but even if you use gentle nibbles, doing too much can quickly cause his or her lip to turn raw and bloody. This, of course, will probably be a major turn off, and you may find your kissing partner a little less eager to lean in for another smooch the next time around – if that time comes around at all.


If done right, your kissing partner will get chills from the biting, not pinches or stabs of pain.
Think of the experience as a sweet-and-spicy sort of deal. Kissing is sweeter while bites are a little on the spicier side. Combining the two “flavors” can lead to a more memorable experience.
 A good kiss will be good for both people involved. You might be enjoying yourself, but you need to make sure that the person you kiss can enjoy himself or herself, too.


A negative reaction could mean that you are biting down more than you realized or that your kissing partner has sensitive lips that are easily hurt by a little nibbling. Even if this is no the case, though, it is also possible that he or she just does not feel comfortable with the biting or does not consider it to be much of a turn on. No matter what the cause, though, the point to remember is that you should stop as soon as you get a negative response to the biting (or to any other trick you might try while making out, for that matter).Negative reactions are usually pretty obvious. If your partner jerks away, tries to redirect the kiss, pushes you away, or makes a verbal “ow” noise, he or she probably is not enjoying the biting. On the other hand, if your partner draws you closer, moans contentedly, or sighs blissfully, you are doing something right.
 You can make a bite to the lip even more sensual by simultaneously pressing your hips up against your kissing partner's hip when you nibble on his or her lower lip.


The most sexually intimate parts of your body are below the waist. Even if you do not plan on going any further than kissing, pressing your bodies together below the waist can trigger a greater level of physiological desire, which can make your make-out session even better than it already was.
 Instead of keeping your hands in one place, like at the back of your kissing partner's head or neck, you should let them roam over his or her body a bit. Exactly where you let your hands roam will depend on how intimate you and your partner are willing to get at this point, so keep that in mind as you figure out where to place your hands.


If you and your kissing partner are already at a fairly passionate level of intimacy, you can incorporate other subtle applications of aggressiveness. For instance, you can rake your fingers through your partner's hair or down the side of the neck and back. Just keep in mind that the idea is to heighten the sense of connection between you, not to cause pain or draw blood.
 Lip balm offers two benefits. The first benefit is that it makes your lips softer in the long run, thereby making them more enjoyable to kiss. The second benefit is that a flavored or scented lip balm can intensify the kiss for your partner by engaging more of his or her senses, especially if you choose the right flavor.


Sweet flavors and minty flavors are the best to choose from.Sweet flavors, like strawberry, can activate the taste buds toward the front of the tongue that respond to sweetness. As a result, when you kiss in between nibbles, your kissing partner's sense of taste will really kick in.
Similarly, the menthol in mint flavors can cause the body's cold receptors to kick in. When you combine this with the sensation of warm lips and warm breath, you can create a tingling sensation that can intensify the experience for both of you.
 You might not think about it much during the middle of a kiss, but good oral hygiene is important if you want someone to think of you as a really good kisser. Your mouth needs to be clean and your lips need to be soft and moist.


On the most basic level, brushing your teeth two to three times a day will keep them clean and help your breath stay fresh. You can also use a bit of mouthwash for extra freshness.
To make your lips softer, exfoliate with a lip exfoliate or non-toxic body scrub once a week. Apply lip balm with SPF after you get out of the shower and whenever your lips feel dry. For girls, you should also apply a layer of lip balm to your lips before layering on lip gloss or lipstick.

