 Since honey butter is made with so few ingredients, make sure each one is fresh and of fine quality. You might be able to find local honey at a farmer's market. Taste the honey before you decide to use it to make honey butter, since its strong flavor will dominate the spread.


Raw honey is a fine alternative to pasteurized honey. It has a deep, earthy taste and is often grainier in texture.
Choose either salted or unsalted butter. If you decide to use salted butter, you can leave out the salt when you're mixing the honey and butter.;
, Remove the butter from the refrigerator and set it out about an hour before you plan to mix up the honey butter. This will give it time to soften and become easier to work with.


Don't use melted butter to make honey butter. Be sure the butter is still stiff enough that it's spreadable. If it melts, it could separate, leaving you with a strangely-textured final spread.
To quickly bring butter to room temperature, set it in a warm, sunny window. You can also place it on the stove while something is baking in the oven - perhaps a batch of biscuits you plan to slather with honey butter.
 Once the butter is soft enough to work with, place it, the honey and a pinch of salt in a bowl. Beat the ingredients on high speed until the mixture becomes light, fluffy and pale yellow.


You can beat the ingredients with the whisk attachment on a stand mixer, or with a handheld mixer.The whisk attachment will make the honey butter fluffier. You could use a hand held wire whisk, but this will take longer.
 Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and put it in the refrigerator to firm up for about an hour, or until you're ready to serve it. The honey butter will keep for about 2 weeks.
 To make it look attractive in the bowl, you can sprinkle a little cinnamon on the top of the butter. Add a butter knife for spreading.
 Honey butter goes well with muffins and scones. It is good to serve with cornbread. Some people even like to eat honey butter from a spoon.

