 If you are planning to travel to the United States and would like to make international calls, you should bring an unlocked phone with you to your trip. You will likely need to ask your phone carrier to unlock the phone for you, as this will allow you to use a SIM card from a U.S. cellphone provider once you get into the country. A SIM card is a small information chip that you can insert into your phone to make calls within the U.S. and internationally.


You should contact your cellphone provider and find out how much their rates are for making international calls in the U.S. Some cellphone providers also charge more for calling a mobile phone versus a landline. You can ask your cellphone provider about their rates so you know how much the call is going to cost you if you use your cellphone.You should also ask your cellphone provider if there are certain SIM cards that will fit in your phone. Most standard cellphones will work with a standard SIM card. If you have an iPhones and smartphones, you will need to use a special micro or nano SIM card.Make sure you notify your cellphone carrier to let them know you will be travelling to the U.S. and using your phone in the U.S. with a different SIM card. Let them know the dates of your travel so your cellphone carrier does not suspend your service while you are away.;
, Go for an inexpensive phone, especially if you are staying in the U.S. for a short period of time. You may get a pay-as-you-go SIM card plan so you can make international calls from your U.S. number easily and cheaply.There are a number of major mobile providers in the United States, such as Verizon, AT&T, T-Mobile, Virgin, and Sprint. You should look for a cellphone provider that offers the best network coverage and the most affordable rates.You should always be aware of the rates for making international phone calls using your U.S. phone. You should also know the data usage rates for your cellphone, as this will allow you to use calling apps if you have a smartphone.
 You can also try making international calls from the U.S. using a landline. You should contact the landline service provider and find out their rates for international calls. You can also use a calling card to get lower rates for international calls through your landline.You can buy international calling cards at most grocery stores and convenience stores. Calling cards may offer lower rates than those offered by long distance providers. You can also pre-pay for the minutes on the calling card so you won’t be left with a large phone bill that you did not budget for. Make sure the pre-paid calling card does not have hidden fees before you use it.
You should buy a calling card that has a set amount of minutes on it. Then, put in the code on the calling card and use it to make the international call.
 You will need to start with the code for international calls. This is based on where you calling internationally, as certain international areas have different international calling codes.If you are calling Canada or a Caribbean nation like Jamaica or the Bahamas, you will dial 1 for the international code.
If you are calling any other country besides Canada or the Caribbean nations, you would dial 011 for the international code.
 The next digits you will dial are the country code of the country you are calling. Some countries have different country codes based on geography. The country code can also depend on whether you are calling the person on a mobile phone or a landline. The country code can vary from 1 to 3 digits.For example, if you are trying to call a mobile number in Mexico City, Mexico, you need to add a 1 to the country code. The country code for Mexico City is 52, so when you call a mobile phone number there it would become: 011-52-1.
If you are trying to call a landline in Mexico City, you would leave the country code as is: 011-52.
If you are calling a number in Canada or the Caribbean nations, you do not need to put in the country code.
Keep in mind that in some countries it is more expensive to call a mobile number than to call a landline. You should ask your U.S. service provider about the different rates and try to call a landline to save money.
You can find a complete list of country codes through the International Telecommunication Union.
 Next, you would put in the area or city code for the location you are calling. This number can be anywhere from 1 to 3 digits. For example, if you were trying to call a number in the city of Mexico City you would dial 55 for the city code.You can find a list of city codes or area codes for international locations at Allareacodes.com.
 Finish your dialling by putting in the local number you are trying to call. The local number should be seven digits long. Make sure you dial the international calling code-country code-area code-local number.For example, if you were trying to call the local mobile number 234-5678 in Mexico City, Mexico from the U.S., you would dial: 011(international calling code)-(country code)-(special code for international calls to mobiles)-(area code)-(local number). So you would dial: 011-52-1-55-234-5678.
If you were trying to call a landline in Mexico City, you would not dial the "1": 011-52-55-234-5678.
If you were trying to call a local mobile number in Canada or the Caribbean nations, you would dial: 1 (international calling code)-(area code)-(local number). For example, to call Calgary, Alberta in Canada from the U.S., you would dial: 1-403-234-5678.
 Some phone providers will offer the international callback option. This will allow the provider to offer you the cheapest carrier for your international call.Your phone provider will give you a unique access number. You will then dial this number and hang up, at no charge.
Your provider will call you back and ask you to put in your PIN number, followed by the international number you are trying to call. The provider will select the cheapest carrier for your call and you will be charged the cheapest rate.
The international callback method can help you save up to 80% on international calls so you should check to see if this option is available through your provider.
 If you have internet access and a computer handy, you can save money on international calls by using a web calling program like Skype. This calling program will allow you to connect to international numbers for a small charge. You will need to simply download the software to your computer or to your smartphone.


You will need to buy Skype credit and then use the credit to call the number. The rates for the Skype credit will depend on where the number you are calling is located.For Skype to work, the person you are calling must also download Skype to their smartphone or computer. You will both need to log into Skype with an active internet connection. You can then contact them via their Skype name.
 You can use calling apps like FaceTime, Google Hangouts, Viber, or WhatsApp on your smartphone or on your computer. All you need to do is download these apps for free and use them to make international calls. There may be a small fee for making international calls through the app.You will need to use an internet connection to make a call through the app for free or for a small fee. If you do not have an active internet connection, you can use data on your phone to make the call. You will be charged data usage charges when you do this.
 Get familiar with calling services and calling apps by trying them out before you travel to the U.S. This will make it easier for you to use the calling service once you are in the country and need to make international calls. Download the app or calling program to your smartphone or your computer and play around with it so you are familiar with it.


You should also have a pair of headphones ready for receiving and making calls on your cellphone or your computer, especially if you plan to make calls in public places like a coffee shop. Test your headphones before you use them so they work properly during your call.
You should also make sure the microphone on your phone works properly so the person on the other end of the line can hear you clearly and easily.
The call program may have a "Test Microphone" function that you can use to make sure your microphone is working properly.

