 You will need your string to be skinny enough to fit between the door and door frame, though you might be surprised at the thickness that can make it through the seam of your door. A shoelace is often convenient and is thick enough that it won't break while unlocking your car.






;
,, Make a loop and hold the point where the string crosses itself at the base between your pointer finger and thumb. With the extra string make another loop, which you will also hold where crossed at its base with your pointer finger and thumb.Then:









Insert your second string into your first loop.
Continue holding the crossed string at the base of your fist loop.
Pull your second loop gently through the first, while releasing your hold on the crossed base of the second loop.
Releasing the crossed base of the first loop while continuing to pull your second loop through.
 To prevent your knot from coming loose while forcing it through the seam of your car door, you'll need to pull tightly on the strings leading into and out of the knot. While doing this, also pull outward on the remaining loop that you have pulled through your first loop.Finish your slip knot by:









Holding the string firmly where it feeds into your first loop and where it emerges from your second loop.
Pull the loop and the start/end lines taut to tighten and finish your slip knot.
 This can take some time and patience, but move the string back and forth along the seam of your door, much like a piece of floss, until your string has made it inside.
 This will make it much easier for you to maneuver your string once you have gotten it beyond the seam of the door. Depending on the strength of your string, you may be able to pull on its ends after getting it through the seam to apply outward pressure to the door. Once you do so:









Get a finger-hold on the door, or have a friend do so, and pull lightly on it to relieve pressure and create a small gap between the door and car frame.
Professional locksmiths often use a plastic tool to pry the door open slightly. A rubber wedge is then slid between the door and frame of the car and inflated to keep the door/door seal from getting in the way.If you use a tool to try to pry your door free and make space for your string, this may cause damage to your paint or, if excessive force is used, could even damage your car door.
 Some recommend pulling the knot along the surface the lock is on until the loop catches around the lock.









Once you have lassoed the door lock, maintain even pressure on your string to tighten your slip knot around the lock. Loosening your grip might cause the knot to loosen, requiring you to lasso the lock again.
 Now that your slip knot is cinched tightly around the locking mechanism on the inside of your car, you should be able to disengage the lock by pulling upwards with even pressure.Remember to use steady pressure; a loose line can slip easily off the lock.








