 Get most of your work in the gym done through major compound lifts. These include the bench press, pull ups, rows, dips, etc. Compound movements target multiple muscle groups at once, rather than isolating a single muscle. They also help you become stronger, which will increase the amount of specialized arm training you can perform.A solid training program with compound exercises as its foundation will allow you to build a balanced, functional physique, rather than a merely aesthetic one.
A simple way to organize your workouts is the traditional bodybuilding split, in which you train two or three related muscle groups during a given workout (for example, a “push” split would focus on chest and triceps, while a “pull” split would utilize the lats, deltoids and biceps).;
, When it comes time to emphasize the biceps, pick one or two exercises to include at the end of your workouts. Some good choices are EZ bar curls, preacher/concentration curls and cable curls. The biceps are smaller muscles and only have a secondary function in the compound lifts, meaning they’ll need to be trained directly more often if you want them to grow.Wait until you’ve finished your strength-focused compound movements before getting into higher volume accessory exercises.
The biceps are stubborn when it comes to increasing their size. They require quite a bit of isolation work with high numbers of sets and repetitions.
 Following a grueling chest workout, dedicate some time to working your triceps. Lifts like skull crushers, overhead tricep extensions and close-grip pushups are efficient at singling out the triceps muscles, which serve to extend the arms. As a bonus, tricep-specific training will add pounds to your bench press and ratchet up the number of dips you can bang out.The triceps are the single largest muscle group in the upper arm, so developing your triceps goes a long way toward building massive arms.
Contraction of the triceps is key to all major pushing movements.
 What good are sculpted biceps and triceps if your forearms remain the same size? Luckily, it’s easy to benefit the lower arm muscles while doing compound exercises that challenge your grip, such as deadlifts, pull ups and farmer’s walks. Thick, powerful forearms complete the impressive appearance of a svelte physique.Any exercise that requires you to hold onto heavy weight for a lengthy period of time will be effective at building your forearms.
 There’s a lot of debate about whether it’s better to focus on strength or volume (the total amount of work you do) in order to build muscle, but in reality you need both. Build your strength levels by performing 3-4 sets of heavy compound lifts (bench press, weighted dips/pull up and row variations will all do the job), then switch your focus in the latter part of the workout to doing multiple sets of higher reps for your accessory work.Though training methods differ slightly, there is a close relationship between strength and size. Being able to lift more weight means you can lift heavier weights more times, driving up your total volume and, in turn, your mass-gaining potential.
 One core principle for building muscle mass that has stood the test of time is that of "progressive overload"—continuing to challenge yourself and see results by adding weight or volume (or both) over time. If you can perform an exercise for 10 reps with a given weight one week, set your sights on 12 reps the next, or stick with 10 reps while using a heavier weight. This way, you can program progress into your training by guaranteeing that you're always pushing yourself to do more.Progressive overload is most effective when you take small steps consistently: one extra rep here, a couple additional pounds there. Trying to add too much weight or volume at one time makes you more likely to fail, which can be discouraging and lead to plateaus.
Cycle between adding weight and adding volume to steadily maximize your growth potential., Sidestep the common pitfall of overtraining by dedicating only a single workout to training your arms during the week. On “arm day,” pick 2-4 lifts each for the biceps and triceps and do each lift for 2-3 sets of 8-12 reps. Many people make the mistake of trying to do too much. This means they’re just breaking down muscle without giving themselves time to rebuild it.A typical arm workout will consist mostly of bicep curl and tricep extension variations that hit the muscles at slightly different angles.
Schedule your dedicated arm session right before a rest day to give yourself at least 24 hours to recover.
 No matter what exercise you’re performing, always work through a full range of motion. Go from full extension to full contraction with each repetition, and make each part of the lift smooth and controlled. By using a greater range of motion, you put more strain on the muscle fibers. The physiological response to this stress is what causes muscles to grow.Studies have demonstrated that a full range of motion stimulates significantly more muscle growth than partial movements.Prevent injury to your joints by stopping just short of lockout (hyper-extension).
 As a general guideline, select a weight you can lift 8-15 times in a set while doing isolation exercises. With each contraction, blood will be forced into the muscle, causing it to become firm and engorged. This is commonly referred to as a “pump.” Not only will getting pumped make you look bigger, it also plays a role in muscle growth by transporting valuable nutrients to the muscles while moving waste products out.Squeeze the muscle tight at the end of each rep to pump as much blood into it as possible.
 Take one or two days off every week. Rest is integral to the muscle-building process because it gives your body a chance to catch up and repair itself. Get quality, restful sleep at night and do a little light cardio or stretching to help ease soreness. Once you’ve had some time to rest, you’ll be ready to hit it hard when you get back in the gym.In most cases, soreness is a good thing. It’s a sign that muscle tissue that has been broken down is being built back up.Get to bed on time. Most of the body’s growth and repair takes place while you’re asleep.
 Your diet should contain an ample amount of protein from lean, natural sources. Some foods that are high in protein include lean cuts of meat, fish, eggs, nuts, legumes, tofu and dairy products like milk and yogurt. The body takes whole proteins and breaks them down into amino acids, which are then used to construct new muscle tissue.Try to get somewhere around 1 gram of protein for every 2 pounds of your body weight (if you’re 160lbs, for example, that’s roughly 70-80g per day).Think of protein as the payment your muscles receive in return for all the work they perform.
 In addition to the protein you get from food, consider using protein shakes, bars or other supplements to increase the total amount you receive each day. It can sometimes be difficult to hit the numbers you need to grow, especially if you’re not all that hungry. A fast-absorbing whey protein shake will offer an extra 25-40 grams per serving, giving you a decisive edge when it comes to piling on size.Having a shake during or immediately after a workout provides much-needed protein to feed and replenish your muscles.Protein supplements can also work as meal replacement options when you’re in a pinch. Have a protein bar before you go to bed or during times when you know you won't be able to eat for a while to keep your muscles stocked with a steady supply of amino acids.
 In order to grow, you have to eat. This means going hard at the dinner table as well as in the gym. Aim to consume a moderately sized meal or protein-rich snack 4-5 times a day. Let all the major nutrients (proteins, carbohydrates, healthy fats, fiber) be represented in your daily intake. A lot of people trying to add muscle don’t get the results they're after because they simply don't eat enough.The exact number of calories you should ingest depends on many different factors, such as height, weight, body composition, metabolism, and activity level. Trust the expertise of a physician or nutritionist to recommend an optimal amount of calories to help you gain muscle.
Exercise is only half the battle. No matter how hard you’re working out, if you don’t get enough to eat, you won’t get any bigger.
 The amount of calories you receive is important, but what form they arrive in also makes a difference. Choose lean meats, fresh fruits and vegetables and whole grains over french fries and milkshakes. Not only do wholesome foods contain more vital nutrients, they’re also generally lower in calories, which means you can eat as often as you need to without having to worry about going hungry.Feasting on candy, fried food and other junk can cause you to exceed your ideal calorie threshold fast. Since these foods are so dense with calories, you can easily eat way too much of them before you feel satisfied.

