 In a full machine, the toys are packed tightly together, making it harder to grab one.;
, Count how many seconds they have after putting the money in. This will help you with your strategy later!

, Ask him/her to watch the sides of the machine to see if the claw is on the toy. In other words, one person uses the control to maneuver the claw while the other person spots and guides the controller to the item's destination. This method is a time saver and that's important - many claw machines run on 15 to 30 second timers. If you don't have anyone around to help, judge the claw's position by looking at the mirror inside the claw machine. The mirror can serve as your second person.
,


Four pronged claws are great for grabbing around the chest area of a stuffed animal. When you use this type of claw on a stuffed animal, try to maneuver the claw so that the four prongs are positioned both above and below the arms with the central part of the claw close to the neck or high chest area.
Three pronged claws: For stuffed animals, instead of positioning two of the prongs above the arms, position the prongs around the left or right arm. Have the claw at an angle so that it covers the whole chest area of a stuffed animal.
 This might rotate the claw on its way down, causing you to miss your basketball. If this is inevitable, try to bring it straight down as much as possible.


For best results, aim the center of the prongs in the radius center of the basketball. This technique draws a 60 to 70 percent chance of grabbing a basketball, but it is very difficult to center the claw in the middle of the basketball. But keep in mind that balls have a way higher catch rate than stuffed animals do. This means that you have more luck with that cute Super Mario plushy than the NBA Chicago Bulls basketball.
If the prong picks it up with ease but then drops it at the top, try going for the one closer to the chute.



If you have 15 seconds, spend the first 10 seconds maneuvering, then the last 5 checking all sides of the machine to make sure you're positioned well enough for a grab (if you are doing this on your own). *The claw sometimes automatically goes down after time has gone up, but sometimes it goes back over the drop area, so make sure you are perfectly over the item you want and press the button to lower the claw.






If you have 30 seconds, spend 10 seconds maneuvering, 10 seconds checking the boundaries of the claw (sometimes it won't go all the way to the corners) 5 seconds for perfecting, then the last 5 dropping the claw.






If you have 45 seconds, spend 5 seconds deciding (if you put the money in already), 10 seconds maneuvering, 10 seconds checking boundaries, 20 seconds perfecting, and 5 seconds to drop the claw







