 It is possible for you to age your guitar by playing it every day for several years. Signs of age will show on areas of the guitar that are used the most. The oils from your hands, how you hold your guitar, and how you store and transfer your guitar all contribute to the natural relicing process.


You should understand the important spots that age naturally before aging the body yourself. This could result in an apparent amateur relicing job.
Look at road worn guitars and notice areas like where your hand rests, where your arm rests during strumming, underneath the pickups, around the control buttons, and between the frets., You can use either sandpaper or steel wool as your abrasive. You’ll need to remove the thin coat of polyurethane lacquer or nitrocellulose for the paint to chip.You can also make your shiny gloss finish into a matte finish by scrubbing the body with sandpaper. Steel wool will also distress the metals on the guitar nicely.


Use light pressure. The lacquer is a thin layer that won’t take too much effort to remove.
Apply the abrasive in a circular pattern.
 If you live somewhere that is very hot or cold, you might be able to create natural paint chips from exposing the body outdoors. Another ideal way to expose your guitar is by putting it into a freezer if it’s big enough or in direct sunlight.


You must remove the protective lacquer before subjecting the body to these temperatures., For a crackled finish, you can use "dust-off" spray. Another spray that has the same chemicals is a chewing gum remover spray. These sprays contain a chemical that causes the spray to be cold. Apply an even, light layer to the body and neck of the guitar.If you do spray the neck, cover up the fretboard unless you know it has a layer of lacquer already on it.
Let the body dry before reapplying any chemicals.
 Another way to age the main body of the guitar is to use elements on the surface to create cracks in the paint job. Find areas that are cracked in the guitar's paint. Use a flat head screwdriver to dramatize the crack. Only use the screwdriver to accentuate cracks already found on the guitar. Chip away paint using a screwdriver.
 The plastic pickguard that comes standard on many electric guitars is an easy thing to wear in. You can use a sharp, small object to create scratches in the pickguard's surface.


Understand that by playing regularly with a pick will cause scratches on the pickguard. Try not to overdo it or else people will know it was self-induced.

