 Sunlight, or ultraviolet light, photo therapy is thought to be able to relieve skin itchiness. However, effects seem to vary according to each patient’s individual condition.Our bodies need natural sunlight to synthesize vitamin D in our skin. Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin. It is found in food, but also can be made by exposing your body to ultraviolet rays from the sun. The major biological function of vitamin D is to maintain normal blood levels of calcium and phosphorus (both of which can make you feel itchy).
 Getting at least some early morning direct sunlight is beneficial even, for people who are not undergoing dialysis. However, the highest levels of ultraviolet (UV) light occur between the hours of 9 AM and 3 PM; you should avoid getting direct sunlight without some form of skin protection during these hours. Because of this, you should aim to get sun exposure 10 minutes before 9 AM or in the late afternoon, after 5 PM.The amount of sunlight you need to make vitamin D depends on a range of factors such as the UV level, your skin type, and your lifestyle. For example, to obtain the same production of Vitamin D, the exposure to sunlight must be six times longer for a darker skinned compared to a fairer skinned person.
 The same UV light that helps to synthesize vitamin D can also lead to sunburn and other skin conditions. Because of this, try not to remain outdoors for longer than 15 minutes without sun protection, such as protective lotions. Wear sunscreen on areas that are not affected by itchiness.Use hypoallergenic lotions or creams without SPF content to keep your skin moisturized during sun exposure. Remember if the moisturizer you use has an SPF value, it will block UVB rays, which help to sensitize vitamin D in your skin, so only apply SPF cream to areas that are not affected.
 Lighter fabrics like cotton promote air circulation, and can help to absorb body moisture. They also work to draw heat away from your body.


At the same time, wearing loose clothes can help to prevent direct skin irritation caused by clothes rubbing against your skin.
 Since dialysis does not effectively remove phosphorus, a renal diet that limits foods high in phosphorous is prescribed. In addition to controlling how much phosphorus is in your renal diet, remember to take phosphorus binders with every meal (this is discussed in the next section). Foods rich in phosphorus include:


Dairy products like cheese, milk, and cream soups.
Protein like beef liver and oysters.
Baked, lima, and soy beans.

