 Use a tape measure or measuring stick to measure the width, depth, and height of the area you want to hide.


Measure the height of the space from floor to ceiling and the height of the water heater itself. Keep in mind that that divider you use must be at least as tall as the water heater but slightly shorter than the height of the ceiling. If the divider matches the height of the ceiling exactly, you won't be able to set it in place or move it around easily enough to be functional.
Measure how far the water heater extends out from the wall (depth) and how wide the water heater is from side to side (width). Add 4 inches (10 cm) to both measurements to provide a little extra space in between the heater and the divider.;
, There are multiple options you can consider. The best choice will depend on your budget and the dimensions of each option.


The simplest option would be a decorative folding screen. These can be expensive, however, so this option is not the most budget-friendly.Budget-friendly options include plain bi-fold doors, large standing wooden shutters, and hinged metal pegboard. You can leave these options as they are or decorate them so that they are more aesthetically pleasing.Regardless of the option you choose, make sure that the height of the divider is high enough to cover your water heater and that the divider can fold in a way that will cover both the width and depth of the water heater separately. You may need to buy more than one divider, depending on the total dimensions of your space.
 Open the dividers and arrange them around the water heater. Adjust the folds as needed to hide the water heater from sight.


With the divider standing straight, position one edge near the wall behind the heater. Extend the divider outward and bend it in so that one side of the heater is completely covered by one or more panels.
If necessary, bend the other edge of the divider back toward the wall, making sure that both the front and other side of the heater are hidden by one or more panels.
 If you are using bi-fold doors, wooden shutters, or plain wooden screens, you may want to paint the dividers to make them appear more decorative.


Place cardboard or plastic sheets underneath the divider before you paint.
You can save time by painting the divider after standing it in place around your water heater, but if you're afraid of splattering paint everywhere, you can remove it temporarily and paint the divider elsewhere.
Choose a latex paint that fits in with the rest of your décor. The paint can have either a gloss or matte finish.
Another option would be to use chalkboard paint on flat panels. Since you can write on surfaces painted with chalkboard paint, using it on your divider can make the structure more functional.
Use a roller to paint all flat parts of the divider. If there are separate slats along the front, you may need to use a brush to paint those.
Allow the paint to dry completely before touching or moving the divider again., Take a step back and look at your divider. Adjust it as desired to improve the overall appearance of the space.


Once you finish making your desired adjustments, the project is finished.

