 The first step to getting the product you want is to know what ingredients to look for. Common fermented ingredients include kombucha and yeast. Look for other ingredients like fermented black soy, sea kelp, ginseng, aloe, dandelion, chrysanthemum, rice, pyrus malus extract, chlorella vulgaris, and fermented hyaluronic acid., Fermented ingredients can be found in many different types of skin care products, including serums, creams, lotions, and gels. Even toners and essences are sporting fermented ingredients. Many products are “leave-in” products – those you apply and do not wash off – rather than cleansers., As the popularity of fermented skin care increases, you are more likely to find products containing fermented ingredients. However, some brands may be easier to find than others, and prices will vary. Look for some of these popular products at your local drug store, beauty supply store, or online:Avalon Organic, such as their Revitalizing Eye Gel
Murad
Marie Veronique Organics
Phillip B, such as the Chai Tea Latte Soul & Body Wash
EmerginC Kombucha Cleanser
Fresh Black Tea Instant Perfecting Mask
Juara Sweet Black Tea & Rice Facial Moisturizer
Organic Sea Kelp Facial Sheet MaskSnowise EX Brightening Mask
SU:M37 Gel Lotion

, If you have a specific product in mind, read product reviews online – hearing what others have to say about the product can help you choose one that’s right for you.


If you have any allergies, be sure to research your desired product to make sure it doesn’t contain something that will make you break out.
 If you have a friend who uses fermented products, ask which are their favorites and where you can get them. Check in with a beauty professional who you trust, such as someone who works in your favorite salon, spa, or makeup store – they may have personal or professional experience with these products.


Check with your doctor or dermatologist before starting a new skin care regimen, especially if you have sensitive skin or any allergies.
 Visit your beauty supply store and ask if they carry fermented skin care products. If they do, tell them you’ve never tried these products before and you’d like to test out a sample. Most stores should be happy to let you use a tester in the store, or give you a small sample to take home.
 Because more natural ingredients are being used in these products, some products may contain fewer preservatives. That means they might not last as long as other products. Unopened products will usually last 24 to 36 months, but once you open your beauty product you should use it within 6 to 12 months.Check each individual product for its shelf-life or expiration date, and throw away expired products.

