 Pour the oil into a large, heavy skillet with deep sides. Place the pan on the stove and heat over a medium setting.


For a slightly different effect, use butter, lard, or shortening. These options are a little less healthy, but they will give the dish a richer flavor.;
, Place the chopped onions in the hot oil and cook, stirring frequently, for 1 to 2 minutes or until the onion gets soft and turn slightly translucent.


Since the onions will continue cooking alongside the other vegetables, you should not allow them to brown yet. If the onions start to look brown before the designated amount of time has passed, quickly move onto the next step.
 Place these vegetables into the pan next. Continue cooking on medium, stirring frequently, for another 2 to 3 minutes. The vegetables should begin to soften during this time.


If you want to add salt, sprinkle it in after your vegetables have begun to soften.
 Add 1 cup (250 ml) warm water to the contents of the pan. Place a lid on on the pan and allow the mixture to reach a boil. Cook, still covered, for 5 more minutes or until the vegetables are tender-crisp.


Alternatively, if you prefer your vegetables to be a little more tender, you can cook the dish for a longer period of time. Test the vegetables every few minutes for tenderness by piercing them with a fork.
If you do decide to cook the vegetables for more than 5 minutes, stir the contents of the pan after the first 5 minutes and whenever you check on the vegetables.
 Remove the lid from you pan and stir the sprouts into the rest of the dish. Cook for another 1 to 2 minutes, just long enough to heat the sprouts through.


Bean sprouts do not take long to cook, and if you leave them in for too long, they can become mushy and unappetizing. As such, it is better to add them to the pan after the other vegetables are just about fully cooked.
 Combine the white vinegar, sugar, 2 Tbsp (30 ml) cold water, cornstarch, soy sauce, and ketchup in a small bowl, whisking until evenly blended.
 Pour the sauce into the skillet, stirring the contents of the pot thoroughly to coat all of the vegetables. Let the sauce boil and thicken.


It should take 1 to 2 minutes for the sauce to thicken. Once it thickens, cook the dish for another 1 minute to ensure that the cornstarch has fully broken down. Uncooked cornstarch can leave an aftertaste, but the extra cooking time can help prevent this.
 The vegetable chop suey is now finished. Serve it while still hot with a cooked rice or boiled noodles. If desired, sprinkle each portion with crispy fried noodles before enjoying.

