 The goal of treating keratosis pilaris is to soften the bumps. One of the best ways to do this is to apply a lotion or cream on a regular bases, one to two times a day.
 Oatmeal, when whole, is an exfoliant, and when used in soap it can soften skin. The fats and lactic acid in the goat's milk can help soften those pesky, scratchy bumps.
 Lactic acid has been proven to help break up the keratin that clogs up hair follicles, leaving those unsightly bumps. AmLactin and Lac-Hydrin are two brands that can be purchased without a prescription.


Try topical retinoids. These are lotions that use derivations of vitamin A, which aids in dry skin. Look for Retin-A, Isotrex, or Differin at your local drugstore.Use urea cream, which breaks down dead skin and keratin. Be careful with this, however, as it can damage healthy skin if used too much. Always wash your hands directly after applying, and apply only as much as the directions instruct. Find a moisturizer that uses glycolic acid. This helps to dissolve the dead skin and buildup in the hair follicles.If you are unable to purchase a specialized brand of moisturizer for your bumps, look for mild lotions advertised for sensitive skin. Some ingredients in regular lotions can worsen your keratosis pilaris.
 Similar to moisturizers and creams, oils work to soften skin and the keratin in it. Try rubbing a little oil once or twice a day on the affected area of your skin.


Try using coconut oil. Although this may be found in the cooking section, it has shown to work wonders on softening skin. Use it in the shower for a few minutes, or dab it onto your dry skin before you to go to bed at night.Rubbing pure vitamin E oil on your dry skin can soften it while supplementing your skin with nutrients it may be lacking. Vitamin E has shown to have a strong connection to healthy skin and gives promising results in cases of keratosis pilaris.
Sea Buckthorn is a type of plant that is made an oil used for skin ailments. Look for it at a local pharmacy or drugstore, and use it to rub onto your skin 1-2 times daily., Although softening skin is the best way to reduce keratosis pilaris, rubbing off some of the dead skin and buildup can help to improve the condition. Avoid anything too abrasive though, as this can cause damage to your skin in the long run.


Use a rough sponge to shower with to help slough off the dead skin. Avoid using a loofah though, as this may be too harsh.
Shower with an exfoliating soap. Many are available that contain small beads that work to rub off skin.
Use a sugar scrub. You can purchase these at many drugstores and beauty supply stores, or you can make your own. Mix sugar and honey to form a paste and then apply to your dry skin, rubbing in circles. Rinse with warm water afterwards.

