 Some people wish to have children so much that they actually run the risk of becoming depressed if they remain childless. If you want children and think you would be unhappy if you never had any, starting a family may be the right choice for you.If you are concerned about having biological children for medical reasons, consider adoption, which carries no risk of passing on depressive genes.
On the other hand, think about your partner's wishes when making this decision, too. Maybe you are depressed, but your partner is deeply committed to having children anyway. Are you willing to manage depression and parenting to make your partner happy? Or, is your partner willing to take on more of the burden of parenting when you are depressed?

, Some parents report having fewer depressive episodes or an easier time managing their depression after their children are born. Prioritizing the physical and emotional needs of kids helps some parents focus less on their own mood. Others experience a newfound sense of purpose and joy in raising their children.Everyone reacts differently to having kids. It’s not a good idea to have a baby in hopes your depression will go away. However, if you really want children, know that having them won’t necessarily make your depression worse.
 Perfect parents don’t exist, and neither does a perfect upbringing. Everyone faces issues of one kind or another during childhood, like financial hardship, illness in the family, or personal difficulties with school or friends. While it’s not ideal for a child to have a parent with depression, know that no other circumstance you could bring a child into would be perfectly ideal, either., The same genes that are linked to conditions like depression, anxiety, and addiction may also provide benefits like heightened emotional awareness and better memory. Mood disorders are also correlated with greater creative expression. Children with these genes who are raised in stable, healthy homes may experience these benefits without developing mental health problems.