, Rotate all 5 crosses counterclockwise with your pliers about 15 degrees so they will line up with the gaps below them You may have to overturn it a bit, so when released it will stop in the position you need. Make sure you do it on all 5 positions!,, Do not worry, NO VISIBLE DAMAGE WILL REMAIN! You will need to drill through a thin plastic layer, so do not use a powerful drill - an electric screwdriver with a drill bit will do the job quite easily. Locate the positions as show on the pictures below. If you did this job well, you will see the head of the torx screw through the hole. There are 4 holes located slightly above the LCD.,, Loosen up the little claws under the black cover in 2 places: where the screwdriver shows, and also where the little white arrow is. If you did the job, it will “click” and will lift a bit. Release the claws at the electrical connectors using a small screwdriver by levering the screwdriver Down the side and tilting up – all connectors have 4 on each corner., Be gentle,as it might stick to the panel, but with the small screwdriver you can loosen it up. Important: the 6 small connectors are NOT soldered. These are so called "press-fit" connectors, which means they were simply pressed into the panel, no soldering was applied. After removing the plastic stand, the original ribbon cable is still holding it. Now you need to peel it off nice and slowly. Do not worry, you do not need the original ribbon cable anymore!, This is just 5 clips to be released slowly. There are 3 clips where the ribbon cable is, and there are other 2 on the other side: Be Careful and do not break the LCD glass! From this point on you need to be very careful!, Simple peel it off. When cleaning the LCD, do not use acetone! You may use a credit card's corner, your fingernail, or a box cutter's blade. Panel: The best is to clean it with acetone and q-tips., This is quite important to make sure the pressure will be appropriate after the final assembly. Photo paper has optimal thickness for this purpose. 3 small to the 3 small silicone strips, and a 4th one under the long strip which is under the LCD., The panel's pads are already perfectly cleaned so now we need to place the new ribbon cable on it so that the pads of the cable very accurately meet the pads of the panel. To do so, put the cable on the edge of your desk exactly as the picture below shows, and put scotch tape on it. Put the cable onto the panel - make sure the pads of the panel accurately meet the pads of the cable.,, Place it against the plastic stand. Important: the adhesive side goes to the original silicone spacer, so it will stick to it, not the plastic!, The 2 clips on the bottom will click in quite easily, but the 3 additional ones on the other side of the frame will have to be pushed down with the flat head screwdriver. Push them down with the flat head screwdriver until they click and make a sound quite easy to hear and feel. Do not push the surface of the frame, only at the little holes located at the 2 arms of the frame.,