 Before trying to treat a migraine, you want to be sure you really do have a migraine and not another type of headache. Migraines generally occur as throbbing pain on one side of your head along with nausea or vomiting, and/or noise and light sensitivity, though it is possible to have a migraine and experience no head pain. You may experience forewarning signs an hour or two before the migraine, such as blind spots, auras, flashing lights, weakness, tingling, or even difficulty speaking.They usually last from four to 72 hours and feel worse when you’re being active. Know the basic features of other types of headaches, and consider whether your symptoms seem more like a migraine:Tension headaches feel like a tight band around your head or a weight on your head, often with neck and/or shoulder tension. They occur without throbbing, nausea, or vision changes. They are the most common type of headache, causing mild to moderate pain.

Cluster headaches cause extreme pain usually over one eye, temple, or forehead; pain tends to come on quickly, last five to 60 minutes, then disappears for a time before returning. Sometimes your eye will water or nose will run on the same side as the headache. These are the least common types of headache.;
, If you suffer from frequent or severe headaches, your family doctor can refer you to a specialist called a neurologist. This doctor can diagnose your headaches by doing a physical exam, talking to you about your symptoms, and discussing your family history. This is usually enough to diagnose migraines or other types of headaches. If your headaches are severe or abnormal, they may rarely have you do more testing such as:An MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) or CT (computerized tomography) to rule out tumors, bleeding, or other problems inside your brain
A blood test to check for toxins or infection in your body
A lumbar puncture (or spinal tap) to check the pressure in your skull and rule out other problems

, Even if you get migraines frequently, don’t ignore the warning signs of a more serious problem. Some types of headaches can indicate dangerous medical conditions. See your doctor right away or visit the emergency department if you experience any of these symptoms:A sudden “thunderclap” headaches that feels like the worst headache of your life
Headaches with stiff neck, fever, confusion, seizures, weakness, or difficulty speaking
A headache after you injure your head, especially if it worsens over time
A headache that doesn’t really go away and gets worse if you move quickly, cough, or strain
You develop headaches for the first time after age 50

