 Clubs, associations, societies, and organizations provide easy ways for you to find people with similar interests. If you are in school or university, you can look up your student union’s list of organizations to see if there is anything that matches your interests. If you are an adult outside of university, you can search meet-up websites or check out local web forums for information.Some ideas for clubs include:


Sports team
Improv group
Board game club
Fantasy sports league
Running group

, If your interests tend to be motivated by social justice, you should also consider volunteering. Non-profit organizations can often use extra help, and you will form many new networks with people who share the same beliefs.If you love animals, you can volunteer to walk dogs at the local shelter.
If you are religious, your place of worship probably offers many opportunities to help the local community alongside your fellow worshippers.
If you have strong political beliefs, you can join a local advocacy group. You can organize protests, campaign for a politician, or attend town hall meetings.
 Look up your city or town’s calendar of events to find out what is going on near you. If there is anything that sparks your interest, attend it. Going to events alone can be intimidating, but it allows you to meet new people who also enjoy the same kinds of events. Some good places to meet people include:


Sports game
Concert
Cultural festival
Art Fair
Comic book convention, More and more, people are meeting each other online instead of in real life.Using your social media account, you can connect with a local interest group. Write on their board, or make comments on their posts. If they organize a meet up, attend it. You may feel better having talked to these people online before meeting them in person.


If you don’t want to use your social media account, you can also be anonymous on forums that center around your interests. The friends you make may not be local, and you may not meet them in real life. That said, they can still be lasting friendships.
 If you are in school, what classes you take often determine who you meet. While you should be taking required classes for your area of study, you can also take courses in subjects you find interesting. This will connect you to other people who are also fascinated by these topics.

If you are no longer in school, you can still take classes at your local community college or public library., If all else fails—if there are no local clubs, no volunteering opportunities, no fun events—make your own opportunity. Other people with the same interests will find you instead. Do not assume that no one out there has the same interest. They may be interested, but they may not have the same initiative to start something.


Start your own club. You can advertise it online and in local coffee shops. Make a page for it on social media.
Plan an event. Research local artists, musicians, or vendors to see if they would be interested in helping you. You can contact your local town council to see if they will help you. Raise money through ticket sales.
Start a blog about your hobbies. People who are interested will come and comment on what you do. You may even form an online community around the activity.

