 Your kit should include everything you use during the morning for your makeup, but in smaller amounts with smaller sizes. Try to find mini eyeliners, mini mascara, sample size lip glosses, and so on. Don't forget a decent sized mirror, brushes, blending sponges, and some tissues.;
, Good places are in your locker or your tote bag. You could also just carry it from class to class.
 Decide how much time you need to spend and how much makeup you'll apply. If you need little time, simply use the bathroom before class begins. If you find that you need a little more time, excuse yourself from class. Your first period class is the best choice.


Note that your makeup may take a long time to apply. Tell the teacher you aren't feeling well.
 Your options are either a mirror at the sink or in a stall. Some girls don't like the idea of other girls seeing them applying makeup at the sink. Others don't care. It really is your choice.


If it is a stall, make sure you have a magnetic mirror.
 Apply your primer, concealer, foundation, power, and bronzer first, or whichever ones you use. Make sure to blend well! The teacher will know right away if you went to the bathroom to do makeup if there's a big tan line on your chin.
 If you don't absolutely need it, don't apply it! You don't have a lot of time. Skip the foundation and concealer if your skin is fine, or ignore the bronzer if you’re naturally tan.
 Make sure you use neutral colors for eyeshadows, like browns, tans, beige, and so on. Don't forget to curl your lashes if you do at home, and apply a little mascara, not so much that it's super dramatic. If you do eyeliner, only on the top, because it tends to be darker and noticeable on the bottom.
 Use a clear, matte lip gloss or chapstick. Apply your blush or whatever else you do.
 Any rough lines? Super bold colors? Smudged mascara? Blend whatever you need, or wipe away any makeup that looks odd.
, Wipe any spilled cosmetics off the sink or stalls, put all your makeup away, and wash your hands well.
 Leave the bathroom feeling beautiful. Tell your teacher you feel better or report to class with confidence!

