 The sense of smell is very sensitive to the aromas of food and other fragrances. Make something sweet in the morning and the nose will arouse the body to discover what smells so delicious.


Prepare scented tea or strong coffee in the morning. A whiff is sure to motivate them to get out of bed and enjoy a tasty cup-o-Joe or herbal tea.
Fill the room with one of their favorite scents. Try citrus smells or one of a variety of popular aerosols used for refreshing the smell of a room.
Bake or fry a sweet or bitter dish. Few people can resist the smell of home cooked food.
Deliver breakfast in bed. They might not get out of bed, but they will certainly wake up.;
, Whether you need to gently shake the bed, body, pillow, or have natural sunlight hit their face, the sense of touch is another good way to help a deaf or hard of hearing person get up in the morning.


A spouse, parent, child, or roommate can carry out this task if they are reliable. They should take seriously waking up a deaf/hard of hearing friend or family member.
Try flashing the bedroom lights on and off quickly to get their attention.
Pull back the drapes to let sunlight hit them in the face or on their body.
If all else fails, give them a light tap on the arm or gently shake their shoulder until they wake up.
Remember, just because you are performing this task as a favor, don’t be rude, insulting, or impatient with your responsibility. Refrain from splashing cold water on their face, whipping off their covers, or pushing them out of the bed. It will only cause resentment.
 You might be busy getting ready in the morning or perhaps your schedules don’t match up and you are unavailable to help out in the morning. In this case, consider getting a trained hearing dog to perform the duty of wake-up call. Hearing dogs are trained to assist deaf or hard of hearing people by physically alerting their partner to common sounds like an alarm clock.When the alarm sounds, the hearing dog will nudge their body until they wake up and shut off the alarm.
Hearing dogs can also be used by people who are hard of hearing, use sign language, or are non-verbal.

