 You want to get inspired before you film, but don't steal anyone's work. You want your work to be yours.;
, You need to have a script so you are not quiet trying to think of a name or trying to guess the next line.
 For a series you should have 5-8 LPS, for a movie or Halloween special you should have 4-7.
 Your characters should have names, so you need to write down their names. Ex: Brown cat: June Brown, White Great Dane: Josh Bell.
 Plots help you know what materials you need. Without a plot, you will just make things up and your movie will most likely turn out badly.

You can be as free as you wish. (How about a demon unleashed from the underworld?) Be sure to follow some of the general rules for good.
 Notes can help you with your movie. Scripts are more for the strict director, but notes let you be free with your plot.

Name the video. For example, LPS: Apocalypse or LPS: Haunted.
 Set up the kitchen or the bedroom. If you can, use the houses turned to look like walls to separate each room.
 You need to find a quiet room where you can focus. Tell you parents or if you have siblings to stay out of your room. After that you need a flat surface, like a desk or window seat. Do not film on the floor. Even if it is a hard wood floor don't, you want the film to look as professional as possible.
 You need to have your things all laid out. Have the LPS furniture all lined up and the houses all lined up so you can choose what you want.
 Scrapbook paper covering a binder can be a good background.
 For that scary look add some cobwebs or trash on the house or room. You want the video to be scary.

Make fake blood if needed. There are many ways to make LPS fake blood. Of course, you can just grab a red marker and scribble all over them, but there are more realistic ways people make fake blood. For instance, red food coloring and glue. Making realistic fake blood helps you in views.
 Use a lamp for extra lighting so people can see the video.
 Once all this is finished you can start filming, don't forget to follow the script.
 After you are all done you can edit. For a good looking video use a nice edit system, use back round music and have a title. For the scary part you want to add effects to make it sound like the doors are creaking and foot steps.
 It may seem like a lot of work but it is all worth it in the end.