 Some people like scarves wrapped just around their neck. Know how long it is. Some scarves look better some ways than others.
 First, twist a square scarf into a straight fold or bias band fold. Let the scarf hang around your neck equally on each shoulder. Take one end (A) and bring it towards the other (B). Let A pass under B. Bring A upwards to make a knot. Finally, adjust both the ends so that they hang equally downwards.
 Let the scarf hang around your neck with one end hanging longer than the other.Pull the longer end (A) up and around your neck and then bring it back to the front. Loop A through B to form a knot. Then, adjust both sides facing forward.
 Fold the scarf and let it dangle around your neck. Let one end pass from under the other. Finally, tuck the two ends underneath the undercoat.
 Fold the scarf into a triangle. Hold the two ends of the folded side, then wrap around the neck. Bring them forward from the opposite sides and tie a knot. Take one layer of the scarf beneath and toss it over the knot. Adjust a little to make the scarf even, and your neck wrap is all organized!

, Fold the square scarf according to triangle fold or bias band fold and let it hang around your neck equally on each side. Cross over both the sides. Give the sides another cross. Bring both the ends towards the back of the neck. Pass one end through the other as shown to tie a simple knot.
 Fold a square scarf along the bias to form a band. Suspend around the neck. Tie a fake knot. Pass one end (A) of the scarf from under the knot, heading upward. Leave A halfway through the knot to make a pouch.
 Fold a square scarf in half into the shape of a triangle. Take the broader end (A) and start rolling it towards the narrower end (B). Roll A halfway through the scarf. Take the scarf and hang it over your shoulders. Tie a simple knot to complete the look.
 Begin with a square scarf folded into a straight fold. Let the folded scarf dangle around your neck. Cross both ends over each other and let one end (A) pass from under the other (B) to form a kind of loop. Take A again and let it pass through the knot as illustrated to form the stylish knot.
 Fold an oblong scarf longways to your desired width. Center the scarf on your waist at the back, then bring the two ends forward. Tie the ends into a soft bow. You can leave the bow in the center or shift it to the side.
 Begin with a triangle fold on a square scarf. Position the scarf on the back with the two ends hanging in front. Cross one end over the other. Take the upper end around and behind the other. Pull through and tighten, then pull the sides over the shoulders. You can make the knot on the side of your body, or let it hang across your torso.
 Shake out the scarf a few times to un-wrinkle the folds. Then take scarf and bunch up between both hands with ends dangling downward. Bend forward at the waist, letting your hair fall towards the floor. Reach under your hair with the scarf in your hands. Bring the scarf up around your hair and tie it loosely. Add a vintage hat for a wonderful shabby chic look!


Try folding the scarf, then tying it around your hair like a '20's style headband. You can also tie the scarf around a bun, wrap it like a shawl, or use it to keep your hair out of your face.
 You can artfully knot the silk scarf around the wrist for a chic Parisian look. Use darker fabrics for a boyish, street-style aesthetic. Get creative by tying the scarf around the handle of your handbag, around your upper arm, or onto your luggage.

