 Square nails are good starting point for most nail shapes, but they might not look good on everyone. If you have short and








To get square tips, simple file the ends of your nails only. Keep filing until your acrylics are in a square shape. Then, round out the corners slightly so that you eliminate the sharp corners while keeping the square shape.
You can use a grinder or nail file to achieve this shape.
 Coffin shaped nails are long with a flat tip and tapered edges, similar to a coffin. If you want this shape, then start by getting your nails to your desired length and then file down the tips of your nails until they are flat and even.Use a file or a grinder to get a straight flat edge at the end of each of your nails. Doing this will create a square shape, but you can taper the edges to turn the squares into coffins.
Then, use a grinder or nail file to create the tapered edges and file away the sharp points at the corners of your nails.
 Nails that are called squround or squoval are simply square nails that have slightly rounded edges. It is up to you how much you want to round out the edges for this type of nail.To get squround or squoval nails, start with square tipped nails and then begin to round out the corners of your nail tips. File towards the center of the end of your nail using a round motion.
Do not file too close to the stress point of your nails. This is the area where the nail connects to your natural nail. This may increase the chances of breakage. Instead, just file along the free edge of the acrylics.You can use a grinder or a nail file to get this shape.
 If you like the rounded shape of squround or squoval nails, then you might even consider rounding out the tips a little more to create rounded or oval tips. Round tip nails have a shape that is similar to a half-circle, while oval nails have a tip that is similar to an egg.


Round nails are the most conservative and they look best if you keep them somewhat short.For round nails, use a circular or arc-like filing motion to make your nail tips resemble a half-circle. Keep filing in this way until your nail tips are round and even.
Oval nails are slightly more feminine, but still conservative.For oval nails, use a circular motion, but try to taper in the edges of your nails slightly as you do so. You can do this by applying a little more pressure on the outer edges of your nails as you file them.
Use a nail file or a grinder to achieve a round or oval look.
 Almond-shaped nails are elegant and rounded with slight points at the tips. This is a great look if you have short or heavy fingers and you want to elongate them. It is also a really feminine look.To get almond-shaped nails, begin by marking the center point of the tips of your nails with a small dot of nail polish. This will make it easier to get even almond shaped nails.
File towards the center point of your nails using a round motion. Do not file straight across. Try to move the file in a curved fashion.
Repeat the same filing motion on both sides of your nails until you have achieved the almond-shape.
You can use a nail file or grinder to do this.
 Stiletto nails are daring, but they have become a popular look. These pointy, claw-like nails are sexy and ultra-feminine, but they are also not your everyday nail look. If you are considering trying out the stiletto nail shape, then start by marking the center points of each of your nails with a small dot of nail polish.Start filing towards the center point. File straight towards the center point of your nail to create claw-like tips. Do this one both sides of your nail until you have a pointy tip.
Then, round out the tips slightly to eliminate the sharp edge. The tips should still be pointed, but not so sharp that you could scratch yourself or someone else with them.

