 Your choice will usually be based on the availability of materials needed by the method, the technical difficulty level of the method or the quality of PCB you desire to obtain. Here's a brief summary of the different methods and their main features that will help you decide:



Acid etching method: this method requires extreme safety measure, the availability of many materials such as the etchant and it is somewhat slow. The quality of PCB obtained varies according to the materials you use but generally, it is a good method for simple to intermediate levels of complexity circuits. Circuits involving more close wiring and tiny wires usually use other methods.

UV etching method: this method is used for transposition of your PCB layout onto your PCB board and requires more expensive materials that might not be available everywhere. However, the steps are relatively simple and can produce finer and more complicated circuit layouts.

Mechanical etching/routing method: this method requires special machines that will mechanically etch away unnecessary copper from the board or route empty separators between wires. It can be expensive if you intend to buy one of those machines and usually leasing them requires the availability of a workshop nearby. However, this method is good if you need to create many copies of the circuit and also can produce fine PCBs.

Laser etching method: this is usually used by large production companies, but can be found on some universities. The concept is similar to mechanical etching but LASER beams are used to etch the board. It is usually hard to access such machines, but if your local university is one of the lucky ones having such machine, you can use their facilities if they allow it.;
, For acid etching, you need to draw the circuitry using an etchant resistant material. Special markers can be found easily for this specific purpose if you intend to do the drawing by hand (not appropriate for medium to large circuits). Laser printers' ink is the most commonly used material however. This is usually done by converting your circuit's schematic diagram into a PCB layout using PCB layout software. There are many open source software packages for PCB layout creation and design, some are listed here to give you a head-start:


PCB
Liquid PCB
ShortCut

,, Print it out on a glossy paper, such as magazine paper. You should ensure the circuit is mirrored before doing that (most PCB layout programs have this as an option when printing). Once printed, make sure you don’t touch the ink part on the paper as it can get on your hands.
 Start up your iron. Set the iron on the cotton setting and wait until it heats up.
,, Be careful, the paper will be hot. The paper should be stuck to the circuit board, don’t rip it out.
 An alternative approach is to immerse the board and paper in hot water for a few minutes (up to 10 minutes).
 If certain areas seem particularly difficult to peel off, you can try soaking a bit more. If everything went well, you will have a copper board with your PCB pads and signal lines traced out in black toner.
 Get the big chunks of water off by softly wiping with a napkin or just letting them fall out. It shouldn’t take more than 30 seconds and it should not be vigorous or else the ink on to the circuit might come off.
 This process removes any unnecessary copper from the board leaving only wiring of the final circuit.
 Ferric chloride is a common choice for an etchant. However, you can use Ammonium Persulfate crystals or other chemical solutions. No matter what choice for the chemical etchant, it will always be a dangerous material, so besides following the general safety precautions mentioned in this article, you should also read and follow any additional safety instructions that come with the etchant.
 Depending on the acid etch that you choose, there might be additional instructions. For example, some crystallized acids require being dissolved in hot water, but other etchants are ready to use.
,,, There are special solvents available for almost all types of insulating drawing material used in drawing PCB layouts. However, if you don't have access to any of these materials, you can always use a sandpaper (a fine one).
 You may find the cards ready to use (they are covered with a black nylon sheet), or photosensitive spray to apply on the copper side of an ordinary blank PCB card. Take care to purchase also a photorevelator compatible with the photo spray or the PCB photosensitive coating.
,,, It will irradiate your board with the UV for the specified amount of time. Most of the UV insulators are equipped with an adjustable timer. Generally, 15 to 20 minutes will be widely sufficient.
 Clean the copper side of the card with the photorevelator, then gently rinse the revelated PCB card with distilled water prior to place it in its acid bath. The parts destroyed by the UV irradiation will be etched by the acid.
, Drilling machines used for that are usually custom machines designed specifically for this purpose. However, with some adjustments a usual drilling machine will do the job at home.
