 To bring in the most potential buyers, select three spots to place your ad. You could go all online or do a combination of websites and in-person methods, such as flyers. Make sure that you post the same information to all of these places to avoid any confusion.Be sure to update all of your postings and flyers if you choose to change your selling terms, such as lowering your asking price.;
, There are a number of websites that will allow you to post a used car ad, sometimes even with photos or video. Look into Craiglist, eBay, and AutoTrader for a start. Read over the terms closely to see if you will be charged a fee for posting, how long your post will run on the site, and other details.Be aware that some sites will clean out all ads on a weekly or bi-weekly basis. This just means that you will need to hop online again and re-post your listing every so often.
Some of the websites use a fairly straightforward classifieds format where you list all of the information and then wait for a response. Other sites, such as eBay Motors, go with an auction format. This means that your vehicle could be sold with a reserve price (a set minimum) or a fixed amount., Take a few good pictures of your vehicle and create posts in Facebook and Twitter to let your friends and family know that you are selling. Ask them to share your posts and to spread the information around. Be sure to watch your email and message windows after you post in case someone outside of your friends list contacts you.You can also network with your friends, family, and co-workers in person. Ask them if they know if anyone is looking to purchase a vehicle and give them the details in case they find someone., These sites often cater to people interested in a certain type of car, sometimes a specialty make or model. Beepi, Tred, and Zipflip are all examples of buyer-seller direct marketplaces. Be aware that these sites may require that a seller jump through more hoops by following return and warranty policies.If you are catering to buyers with more car expertise, then include additional details in your ad. You might write about any modifications you’ve made or the original dating of the parts.
A similar option is to post on an auto message board. Instead of a formal ad, you will likely need to put as much information as you can into an informal posting. Some boards will include a classified section just for this purpose.