 The simple experiment above showed how to get the salt from water, but what if you want to keep the salt-less water, too? Distillation is the answer. Distillation is the process of heating a liquid to separate it from other chemicals dissolved in it, then collecting the condensation, which should be relatively "pure". In this case, we'll start by making a few cups of saltwater (see above for directions) and heating it to a boil on the stove.
 Next, find a lid for your pot (it doesn't necessarily have to fit perfectly). Balance the lid on the pot so that part of it is hanging over the rim. Try to arrange the lid so that the portion hanging off of the edge is the lowest point on the lid. Watch as condensation forms on the bottom of the lid and starts to trickle down it.


As the saltwater boils, the water (minus the salt) will turn into steam and rise out of the pot. As it hits the lid, it will cool slightly and form liquid condensation (water) on the underside of the lid. This water doesn't contain salt, so all we need to do is gather it to have salt-free water.
 Since water runs downhill, the condensation on the underside of the lid will naturally gather at the lowest point of the lid. Once enough condensation gathers here, it will start to form drops and fall. Place a bowl under this spot to catch the drops of distilled water as they fall.


If you like, you can also run a long, skinny metal or glass object (like a stirring rod or thermometer) from the bowl up to the lowest point on the lid — the water should run down this object into the bowl.
 As the salt water in the pot boils, more and more distilled water should gather in your bowl. This water will have most of its salt removed. However, in some situations, a small amount of salt can remain. In this case, you may want to perform a double distillation — boiling the distilled water you gathered in the same way as you boiled the salt water to remove any lingering salt.


Technically, this water should be safe to drink. However, unless you're sure that both the lid for your pot and the bowl you collected the water in (and the skinny metal or glass rod, if you used one) are clean, you may not want to do this.

