 Change is often called impermanence which is the basic premise that covers two different aspects:
1. That not only everything changes and that those changes also have an effect, but it is the cause and effect behind physics and sciences. Use your own experiences and environment as a way to examine this concept. You can see it everywhere in the real world - changing weather, seasons, growth in plants and animals, erosion and wear in things around us, but most importantly within us. In such a short time things may seem the same but are different, similar to the analogy of being unable to cross the same river twice as it is dynamic and constantly changing. Another one to consider is that Rome wasn't built in a day, like many things have changed over a long period of time to become as we see it today.
2. Nothing lasts forever, this applies to all of our experiences so while pleasant experiences are fun they don't last, but the same applies to unhappy experiences. Things change and we can recover from unhappy times and ultimately train ourselves not to become unhappy or indulge in the the things that cause us to be unhappy.
The relevance is not only expanding your mind to consider that when things go out of our awareness, does not mean they have ceased to exist - like the cars on the road, when they take an exit and you can't see them anymore, they are still moving towards their own destination. But it is also about questioning why we mourn over things lost and become angry or unhappy when things change, when this change or loss was always going to come eventually. Eventually the mind recognizes the changing nature of time and the consumptive nature of decay and so does not become attached to things which allows us to let go of the things that make us unhappy.;
, This is a continuation of the first premise of impermanence, using the logic that because all things change against our will, our desires and plans are effectively impotent. If there is nothing that we can shape, direct, control or have forever asks the question what is there that is really ours or us? Ultimately it is recognizing that what we are as an identity is a collection of individual and impermanent processes, without a soul, self, entity or being - eternal or otherwise. It is often referred to as all things being void.


The premise is made because we change and this change is not always invited or always pleasant and it happens without our consent. We cannot prevent aging, getting injured or ill, or ultimately losing the people we love. When we can neither prevent, intervene or modify the change, the simple question comes as how can we claim ownership or "me, mine, what I am" etc in anything? Even when you get down further, we are all made of atoms and atoms not only can be divided until there is nothing but raw dynamic energy. This energy as well is without owner or entity as we notice it being used as electricity and other forms of energy such as kinetic energy and other types within physics.
We as human beings are an excellent source for study here when you break down the body into its components - arm, leg, intestines, brain etc or the physical nature like the parts that are solid or liquid, hot or cold and moving or being moved. Really any mental or physical actions that aren't pleasant by nature. There is virtually no one who has not felt empty which should not be possible.
The relevance is that when change afflicts us, the same question arises about the benefit of mourning over things lost and become angry or unhappy when things change, when this change or loss was always going to come eventually, but now adding in that because they are not ours or ever was ours why do we again feel anger, sorrow, despair and dissatisfaction with life? Because they were not ours, it is simply their nature and inevitable that they would change. A simple analogy is to consider the world we have changed so much, but as we are here such a short time, was it ever ours in the first place? Once there is understanding that nothing was ever ours except our inheritance as karma or properly speaking, more cause and effect.
 This premise also follows on from change and non-self or voidness. When things change without our consent, when they aren't truly ours, what is there that is secure and safe? All things in Buddhism are ultimately dubbed as non-dependable and unreliable are therefore stressful on a very subtle level. The happy events and the things that touch our hearts exist for so short a time, yet the unpleasant things are an unavoidable factor of life. The amount of unhappiness something may cause us is directly proportionate to how attached we are to them and how much we want them to be as we want them.


The relevance is all about accepting things are as they are. It can sound a frightening, pessimist and unhappy viewpoint, perhaps even irresponsible, but the moment you flip that perception over, you can see that is liberating and an endless source of happiness that things are as they are. Its all physics, biology etc at work in the real world. Because they are as they are and ultimately no one that we can plead to or blame, it becomes easier to let them go as becoming attached to them or claiming them as ours suddenly seems nonsensical. We can be happy with things as they are and not be upset when they change, because it was unavoidable, so it offers a solution and tools to improve our well-being.
 Eventually your mind starts to become more tolerant and happy with things as they are, but also more inclined to letting go of the things that can make us unhappy.

