 Take the string in both hands and hold it up to your ear, placing it where you want to put your cuff. Use your fingers to pinch off the string at the right width, then compare it to a ruler to know how long your wire will need to be.









Get this measurement as close as possible -- it determines how snugly it will attach to your ear.
You should measure the entire width you want to be cuffed -- basically, where is the cuff going to sit on the front and back of your ear.;
, Cut your first length of wire and then "sand" down and jagged edges with the file. When in doubt, give yourself a little longer wire to work with -- you can always cut it later.









More intricate designs may require longer wire.
You want roughly 22-guage wire, roughly 1-2mm thick in diameter.
 You should use needle-nose pliers (they taper into a point) for the greatest control. Bend the end into a small round hook, almost like a pin head.
 Take your ruler and measure down from the little bent circle of wire. If your measurement for the cuff was 1", then move 1" down. Think of making a "balloon" with a 1" string.
 Turn the wire back so that it is doubled up on itself (kinda like a paper clip). You'll have a U-shaped bend with the wire extending up on one side and the hook on the other.
 Take the long piece of wire and bend the whole thing into a "Z" shape. Keep bending the wire back and forth like this until you've made a complete zig-zag shape. You should have one free piece of wire hanging off the last curve.
 Right now, you have a long zig-zagging piece of wire, with a hook on one end and a free end of wire on the other. With the pliers, grab wire right at the last bend before the free end of wire, then use your fingers to rotate the wire around the pliers and create another hook.
 You'll have a little "W" when done, with hooks on the top of the letter. Cut the excess wire, and use your hands to mold both ends into little hooks if they've moved.
 To get the right curve, take the whole shape and bend it around a pen, or another cylindrical object. A normal permanent marker is usually perfect, as the "classic" Bic pens may be too thin to effectively round off the cuff.









Once you put the cuff in your ear, you can use your fingers to lightly mold it into place, helping it stick naturally in your ear.

