 Use your device’s Video Player to open the video that you want to upload. You can either upload a video that is already on your phone, or you can upload a video immediately after recording it.
 The Share feature is located in different places depending on the type of phone that you use:


In iOS 7, the Share button is located in the bottom-left corner of the video player. It looks like a box with an arrow coming out of the top.
On Android devices, the Share button may be visible in the video player, or you may have to press the Menu button for it to pop up.
 There will be a variety of sharing options when you press the Share button. Tap YouTube to upload the file directly to YouTube. You may have to scroll through the list to find it.


Sign in if necessary. Depending on your login preferences, you may be asked for your YouTube account name and password.
 If you took the video with your phone’s camera, the video most likely has a title with just the date and some numbers. Enter a title that is descriptive and attention-grabbing.
 Add a description to the video that viewers can read while they watch it. Explain anything that may be going on in the video. Provide an accurate description to make sure that YouTube keeps the video in relevant searches.
 Add tags to help your video appear in other viewers’ searches. Tags are words or short phrases that describe the video and help others find it on YouTube. Misleading tags can have a negative impact on your video's views, so be honest and creative to bring in lots of searches.
 You can choose to have the video uploaded publicly, privately, or unlisted. Public uploads can be searched for and viewed by anyone. Private videos can only be viewed by you or a channel that you have allowed to view the video. Unlisted videos can only be viewed by people with direct links to the video.
 Once you have your privacy settings and description set, click the Upload or Publish button to upload the video to your channel. Depending on the size of the video this could take a while.


Uploading your video using your data plan can take up a significant amount of your allotted data. Try uploading over WiFi to reduce your data costs.

