 If you have trouble urinating, you may just be dehydrated. Most people need about two liters of water on a daily basis, or eight eight-ounce cups worth.Drink more if you sweat a lot, work out, or live in a hot climate. Water, juice, and tea count towards your fluids.

If your urine is scarce and a dark yellow, you may be dehydrated.
If you’re dehydrated due to vomiting or diarrhea, don’t drink fruit juice or soda. These can worsen the problem.;
, The most common cause of low urine output is dehydration. It’s also the problem that’s easiest to fix! You can easily become dehydrated if you’ve had diarrhea, been vomiting, or have a high fever. It’s also easy to get dehydrated if you sweat a lot while working out, or are in a hot environment. If you’re dehydrated, your urine will be dark yellow or you won’t urinate much at all. Recognize if you have other symptoms of dehydration so you can treat it appropriately:Dry lips, tongue, and mouth
Feeling thirsty
Fast or irregular heartbeat
Dizziness, especially when going from sitting or lying to standing
Feeling shaky, restless, or irritable

, If your child has low urine production due to dehydration, it’s important to rehydrate them right away. This can occur because of diarrhea, vomiting, or a high fever. Give the child a rehydrating solution like Pedialyte or Hydralyte. Give them a teaspoon every 1-5 minutes at first, and increase the amount gradually.Talk to your pediatrician before giving your child rehydrating drinks. Some require precise dosing.
Use a syringe to give solution to very young children.
Older children can have diluted sports drinks to replenish fluids and electrolytes. Mix half Gatorade or other sports drink and half water.
You may also provide ice chips to children using a cup and spoon.
 Eating a high-salt diet can cause you to retain water, which limits how much you urinate. Decrease salt in your diet by avoiding fast food and processed food like chips and other snack-aisle items. Flavor your meals with herbs and spices instead of table salt., If you have a medical condition that makes your body hold onto extra water – like heart failure, for instance – your doctor can prescribe you a diuretic. That’s a medication that increases how much you urinate. Diuretics should only be used for specific conditions, so discuss your urinary trouble with your doctor and ask if a diuretic is right for you., If you’re severely dehydrated, visit the emergency department for intravenous (IV) fluids. You’ll be given a saline solution through a needle into your vein. This is an effective way to get hydrated, and you will begin urinating more soon afterwards.Signs of severe dehydration requiring IV fluids include:

Not urinating at all for hours, or very dark yellow urine
Dried up, shriveled skin
Confusion or delirium (quick onset of confusion or hallucinations)
Rapid breathing, fast heartbeat, or skipped heartbeats
Severe fatigue or listlessness
Unconsciousness
Fever

