 For a sustained, powerful aroma, make a custom candle. Choose a mason jar or other fire safe container. Go to a craft supplies store for some smokeless candle wicks and flaked soy wax, and make sure your kitchen is stocked with a tablespoon of vanilla extract, another of cinnamon, and ½ a tablespoon of ground clove.Use a microwave and start melting your wax by heating one cup on high for two minutes. Once the first cup is melted, add a bit of wax in one minute increments until you have sufficient melted wax for the container that will hold your candle. If you’re using a standard mason jar, you’ll need two cups of wax overall.
Once the wax is melted, add the vanilla and spices. Mix well, ideally by stirring with a disposable skewer.
Wrap the end of a candle wick that will be exposed around a thin item that can bridge the opening of your candle’s container. Allow the metal-tipped end to dangle to the bottom of the container.
Pour the melted wax into the candle container while adjusting the wick to keep it in the center of the wax. Allow the candle to sit at room temperature for at least 4 hours to set.
 You can make a spray that can instantly fill a room with the fall scent of your choosing. For an especially woodsy option, start with 3 tablespoons of either vodka, ethyl alcohol, or witch hazel. Add 10 drops each of the following oils; juniper, sage, bergamot, and cinnamon. Add these ingredients to an 8-ounce spray bottle and fill the bottle the rest of the way with water.


Always shake the bottle well before using.
For a similar option, but sweeter-smelling option, go with 10 drops each of cedar wood, rosemary, orange, and clove oils instead.
Avoid spraying your aromatic mist on anyone’s skin, or in front of anyone’s face.
 If you have an essential oil diffuser, there are several great blends you can make to produce fall aromas. For example, use 3 drops of cardamom and 1 drop each of clove, cassia, and ginger essential oils to make a spiced Chai-inspired scent. For a more cool-walk-in-the-woods approach, use 3 drops of eucalyptus, 2 drops of juniper berry, and a single drop of sage essential oil.To get the scent of apple pie emanating from your diffuser, add 2 drops each of clove, ginger, and cinnamon bark oils. Add a drop of nutmeg too, for an even sweeter aroma.
While classic cone or stick incense can provide fall-inspired aromas as well, essential oils are safer, healthier, and will better disperse aroma in your home.

