 When getting ready to photograph children, think beforehand about possible locations, backgrounds, poses or activities and props. Having a plan in advance will allow you to be able to move more quickly during the shoot and change direction with the children at a moment's notice. Choose locations that will not distract the kids' attention away from you.;
, A loner on the playground or a crazy sleepover party? Steel yourself for the problems you might face, especially with hyperactive children.
 Get down to their eye level. Children will feel more comfortable with you if you are not towering over them. Ask them questions. Get to know them a little. This will help you relate to them while you are taking the photos and will warm them up to you and your suggestions.
 This can help immensely, by reducing blurriness and shutter lag, and snapping the photo quicker. Find this mode and use it!

, Or at least let them be kids. Forcing children into structured poses that take a long time is probably not going to be the most successful approach to obtaining fabulous photographs. Make the time fun and fast-paced. Cater to what makes kids smile. Keep in mind that children, especially smaller ones, rebel against long periods of sitting still.
 Throw out a few jokes or funny actions that will make them laugh. If you have a knack for acting or have some goofy gimmicks you are known for, this is the time to pull them out and have them really work for you. This keeps their attention and provokes the smiles the parents are looking for in the photographs.


Make sitting down for a photo seem fun. In exchange for one nice photo, tell them they get one silly photo. This is a lot of fun for groups, where everyone smiles innocently in one photo and then goes crazy in the next.
 Harsh blue and white lights seem strange on kids. Go for soft, friendly colors that will put your kids (literally) in a better light.


Use props. A prop can attract the kids' attention to you. You can also use a prop to increase the kids' interest. A smaller child may also feel special if he or she gets to hold or stand near the prop in some of the photos. Because of this, you may want to coordinate props with parents beforehand.
 An effective tactic for photographing children is to bribe them--treats, candy, props or even being able to come view the photo in the viewfinder after a photo is taken. Just make sure this is approved by the parents ahead of time.
 Instead of announcing that you're about to take some photos, hide in the shadows. Take those funny pictures of your kids laughing hysterically with (they think!) no adults around. Watch Sarah blow bubbles in silence, or Joey observe the anthill in peace. Take pictures of them doing things they love, so the photo is genuine and not posed.
 If a kid refuses to pose for a photo, wait for the right moment, when she's not looking, and snap away. To convince them to pose- bribe, beg, or threaten. Tell them it won't hurt, it's just one snapshot, and you'll portray them in the best light possible.
 One of the great benefits of digital photography is that you can take some superfluous shots in order to get to the shots you have been wanting. If you sit and wait for the perfect moment, you are likely to miss it and many others. Keep your finger on the shutter button and you will be rewarded in the end with photographs you never imagined capturing.
 There are lots of different fun ways to photograph kids. Have them pretend to be dinosaurs or supermodels. Dress them up in funny clothes or have them make silly faces. The possibilities are endless!

