 Rinse the carrots under running water, scrubbing them gently with your fingers or a vegetable brush to remove any dirt.;
, Use a sharp knife to cut the carrots into 1-inch (2.5-cm) pieces and to slice the onions into thin rings.


To save time, you may use baby carrots or carrots pre-cut into "coins" instead of whole carrots. Substitute roughly 5 to 8 baby carrots or 1/2 cup (125 ml) pre-cut coins per regular whole carrot.
The onion can also be cut into quarters or minced. The flavor of the gravy will not be dramatically affected either way, so how you cut the onions is mainly a matter of aesthetic taste.
Substitute dried onion flakes or onion powder for the fresh onion, if desired. This step saves time and also makes it possible to get the onion flavor while hiding the actual onion from picky eaters. Use 1/4 cup (60 ml) dried onion flakes or 1 tsp (5 ml) onion powder.
 Mix the two ingredients together in a small bowl using a whisk or fork.
 Use a medium-high heat, and allow the oil to warm for a full minute or so.
 A little will go a long way. If you aren't sure about the amount, start with 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) each and go from there. Make sure to season all sides.
 Place the roast in the skillet and sear in 30 to 60 second intervals, flipping it over with tongs after each interval until all sides are browned.


This step is only optional. You do not have to pre-brown the roast in order to cook it in the slow cooker, but pre-browning adds more flavor to the roast and the gravy., Place the carrots into the slow cooker first, followed by the onions.


Use a 4-quart (4-liter) crock pot, at minimum. A 5- to 6-quart (5- to 6-liter) slow cooker would be even better. You need enough space for the lid to sit securely on the cooker, but the crock pot must be at least halfway filled.
 Use tongs to move the roast from the skillet to the slow cooker, sitting it directly on top of the vegetables.
 Pour the beef broth and Worcestershire sauce combination over the roast. Make sure that it wets the roast and also sinks down into the carrots and onion.
 The roast should cook for 8 hours on low.If you're running short on time, cook the roast for 4 to 5 hours on high, instead.
 Once the cooking time has passed, stick a meat thermometer into the thickest part of the roast. The temperature should be at least 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius).
 Use a sharp serrated knife and large fork to cut the roast into slices.


Serve the onions and carrots on the side.
Keep warm until ready to serve.
 Wait until after the roast and vegetables have been removed and use a ladle to transfer the liquid into a small saucepan.
 Turn the burner on to medium heat.
 Ladle the liquid into a small bowl.
 Use a whisk or fork to blend the cornstarch into the 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of broth already in the bowl. Blend until smooth.
 Stir it in with a fork or spoon until evenly distributed.
 Once the liquid starts to bubble after a minute or two, reduce the heat and continue stirring an additional few minutes as it thickens., Pour it over slices of the roast before serving or place it in a gravy boat so that everyone may serve themselves.

