, This will reduce cramping when the enema is administered.
 The lubricant should be applied generously to the exterior of the anus and as far up the rectal area as possible to both make the tube easier to insert and protect the skin around the rectal area. Afterward, wipe off your finger with a tissue. (Alternatively, you can put on rubber or latex gloves before applying the lubricant.)

, While there are several positions the enema recipient can be in, the 3 most common positions are Sims' position, the knee-chest position and lying on the back with knees bent.


Sims' position can be used whether receiving an enema from someone else or giving an enema to yourself. To assume Sims' position, lie on your left side with your left leg straight and your right leg bent at the knee. Place your left arm behind your back and your right hand under the pillow at your head. If administering the enema to yourself, the flow regulating clamp should be placed where your left hand can reach it.
Knee-chest position may be more comfortable for someone receiving an enema from someone else, particularly if the recipient is pregnant, and may also be called for in cases of severe constipation. In this position, the recipient gets on hands and knees, places 1 or more pillows under the chest and leans on them while turning the face sideways and resting it on another pillow his or her arms are wrapped around. It does not lend itself to controlling the enema flow if you're giving it to yourself, however.
Use the lying on the back with knees bent position if giving yourself an enema while lying on the bathroom floor or in the bathtub. Put a pillow under your head and make sure you can reach the flow regulating clamp before you start.
 Twist the tube back and forth while inserting it to make it easier to go in. The tube should be inserted no more than 3 to 4 inches (7.5 to 10 centimeters) into the rectal area without forcing. Having the enema recipient "bear down" as though having a bowel movement may help the insertion process.
 A suggested flow rate is 4 to 8 ounces (118 to 236 milliliters) per minute. Have the enema recipient take slow, deep breaths; the recipient may feel the stomach expand somewhat while receiving the enema, and the stomach and abdomen may also appear fuller. Stop the flow at the first sign of cramping and have the recipient take quick, shallow breaths, then resume the flow when the discomfort passes. Interrupt the flow as often as necessary for the enema recipient's comfort. Allow up to 15 minutes to administer a large-volume enema.
 This will work the enema solution higher into the colon and also help dislodge fecal material from the colon walls. Start from the lower left side of the body, work up to the rib cage and then work back down the right side.
 This will prevent backflow into the bag when it is time to evacuate the bowels.
 On average, the enema should be held between 5 to 15 minutes before evacuating, with the longer times desired for relieving constipation. If the recipient feels the urge to go before this time, have him or her take deep breaths by mouth to relax.

