 Briquettes can be used if you don't have hardwood coal (such as mesquite). But hardwood coal burns hotter and faster, making for a better final product. Of course, if you only have a gas grill, that's acceptable, too. Just be prepared for a different flavor from your steak in the end.


Do not use lighter fluid to start your coals! Lighter fluid will give off fumes and can be tasted in the steaks. It's better to invest in a proper bbq chimney.
 This is your hot side of the grill. The other side is the cool side of the grill (even though it's still pretty darn hot). You're going to use the cool side of the grill to start with and the hot side of the grill later. It will help ensure a more perfect specimen of meat in the end.
 Cover the lid and slowly allow the steak to start cooking using indirect heat. This, in fact, goes against common practice: Many people try searing the steak to begin with in order to "seal in the flavors." This practice has no basis in fact.If you start with your steak on the cool side of the grill, you're giving it enough time for the whole steak — not just the outside — to rise in temperature. Additionally, by the time your steak is nearly finished cooking, it's been given enough to develop a nice crust. All you have to do to finish is quickly move it over the hot portion of the coals.
 Staying on the cool side of the grill, use tongs to flip your steak over often, about every minute or so. The grilling myth is that steaks should only be flipped once before serving. In fact, steaks which are flipped often over indirect heat cook more evenly and are juicier.When you're not flipping the steak, remember to put the cover on the grill.
 It may not sound very manly, but it sure is scientific. Plus, it works: Human judgment is a lot more fallible than a thermometer. We should all take note. Here's is the breakdown of how internal temperature breaks down to doneness:


120° F (48.8° C) = Rare
130° F (54.4° C) = Medium rare
140° F (60° C) = Medium
150° F (65.5° C) = Medium well
160° F (71.1° C) = Well done

, Open your hand and relax the palm. After each step, touch the inside of your palm with your other hand.

Fingers not touching at all (palm open): This is what raw meat feels like.
Thumb touching index finger: This is what rare meat feels like.
Thumb touching middle finger: This is what medium-rare meat feels like.
Thumb touching ring finger: This is what medium-well meat feels like.
Thumb touching pinky: This is what well done meat feels like.
 If color has already developed, keep the meat on the cool side of the grill instead, as searing releases juices in the steaks.
 Why take it off before it's hit your ideal temperature? The steak will continue to rise internally by about 5° F after it's taken off the grill.
 As you cook your meat, the juices travel to the inside of your meat as the muscle fibers contract. If you cut your steak right after you take it from the grill, the juices in the center fall out more freely. If you wait for at least five minutes, the muscle fibers relax and the juices spread out more evenly throughout the whole steak.
 Enjoy your wonderfully cooked steak alongside some scalloped potatoes and garlic-sautéed spinach, for example.

