 The fungus that causes Valley Fever can be found in the soils of the southwestern United States. It’s also present in some regions of Mexico, Central America, and South America.In the U.S., affected states include Arizona, southern California, southern Nevada, New Mexico, western Texas, southwestern Utah, and south-central Washington. Most of the 10,000 annual cases are diagnosed in Arizona and California.
 You contract Valley Fever by inhaling microscopic fungal spores that are released into the air when soil is disturbed. If you are in an endemic area and have been exposed to dusty conditions caused by heat mixed with wind and/or manmade disturbances to the soil, you are at a greater risk of being infected.


Construction work, agricultural labor, military field training, and archaeological exploration are examples of activities that can put you at risk of contracting Valley Fever., Not everyone who is exposed to the Coccidioides fungus will contract Valley Fever. The fungal spores can cause infections in people of any age or race, but there are certain groups of people who are more prone to infections.Most cases of Valley Fever occur in adults who are over 60. So, elderly people are at greater risk of infection.
Anyone who has a weakened immune system is at greater risk of contracting the disease and developing more severe forms of it. These people include those who have HIV/AIDS, diabetes, and other chronic illnesses; expectant mothers, especially in their third trimester; and people who have had an organ transplant.
People of African and/or Filipino descent are more susceptible to Valley Fever.
 The symptoms are often subtle or flu-like, which means that many people never even realize they’ve had it. However, if you have already had it, you will be immune to the disease for life.If you have been tested for Valley Fever previously, it will show up on your medical record. If you have not been tested, you can ask your doctor for a skin test to see if you test positive for Coccidioides. If you do but have never had Valley Fever, it is likely that you are immune to it. Keep in mind that 30-60% of people living in affected areas will test positive for Coccidiodes, but only about 40% of the infected population will ever present symptoms., If you are planning to travel, it might be a good idea to check up on the common diseases and outbreaks in the region you are visiting. Visit the CDC’s website to determine if Valley Fever is something to worry about while you are traveling.