 The steps in the sections above should help you create an exciting, effective trailer for most films. However, truly great trailers — those that are remembered for perfecting or re-defining the art form — are often considered classics because their creators were bold enough to disregard established trends in trailer-making. If you're shooting for greatness, stick to your artistic vision — even when it guides you away from conventional trailer techniques.

One great example of a trailer that pushed the boundaries of the art form when it was released decades ago and that has retained its status as one of the greatest trailers of all time (if not the greatest) is the trailer for Ridley Scott's Alien. The trailer is more a disjointed collage of unsettling images from the film than a traditional trailer, but the impression they give is one that's unforgettable. The only bit of guidance the trailer gives the audience is in the now-iconic tagline that appears in the uneasy silence at the end of the trailer: "In space, no one can hear you scream." The connection between the images and the film is (ingeniously) left to the audience's imagination.
 Movie trailers as an art form have been written about, dissected, and analyzed a great deal — especially with the dawning of technology that makes such discussion convenient for average people to participate it (like internet forums, blogs, podcasts, and so on.) If you want to distinguish yourself as a creator of great trailers, it's a good idea to become involved in this ongoing worldwide discussion. Below are just a few jumping-off points to get you started — it's up to you to explore as deeply as you'd like.

One good piece of reading to start with is John Long's 9 (Short) Storytelling Tips From A Master Of Movie Trailers, an article written for fastcocreate.com.In the article, Long, who is a co-founder of a trailer production house, discusses the techniques his company uses to create trailers.
Several free podcasts discuss the film-making aspects of modern and classic trailers. Among them are The Trailer Home Podcast, an up-to-date Iowa-based podcast, and Trailerclash, a podcast available through iTunes.Many more can easily be found with a quick search engine query.
Finally, community sites like Reddit usually are home to lively discussions as soon as a new film trailer is released — consider joining one of these communities and stirring the pot!

, Having a hard time finding a concept for your trailer? Seek inspiration from the noteworthy, boundary-pushing trailers that have already been made. As immortalized by the words of Isaac Newton, greatness is achieved by "standing on the shoulders of giants."In other words, don't be afraid to reinterpret the ideas of trailer-making masters through your own unique directorial lens. Below is a short list of films regarded as having outstanding trailers — there are many, many more than can be listed here. Note that not all of the movies that followed the trailers below were well-received.


Alien (1979) — discussed above.

Watchmen (2009) — great use of music, atmosphere.

The Social Network (2010) — subtle tension, eerie atmosphere.

Cloverfield (2008) — establishes the non-traditional shooting style of the film, creates an air of mystery.

The Minus Man (1999) — uses a conceptual trick to spark interest in the film. The trailer isn't about the film itself, but, rather, about a fictional couple that has just seen the film and can't stop talking about it.

Sleeper (1973) — noteworthy for its bizarre quality: director Woody Allen talks about his new movie in detached, pretentiously intellectual terms. This discussion is inter-cut with footage of outrageous, silly slapstick comedy from the film.

