 These are often called stud finders or stud sensors. They can be purchased at hardware shops, home improvement retailers or department stores.;
, Some stud finders are magnetic, so you will feel a pull when a stud is identified based on the presence of nails or wires running along the stud. Others measure changes in your wall width. These will signal the presence of a stud with a sound or flashing light.


Magnetic stud finders can be less effective than other types of stud finders. This is because they do not discriminate between metals. A metal pipe that is nowhere near a stud will appear much the same to a magnetic stud finder as will a length of wire mounted on a stud.Only use a stud finder that measures the changes in wall width if you have walls made of drywall. This is because drywall has a uniform width, which makes it easy for the stud finder. Plaster, on the other hand, often lacks uniform width, which can interfere with the stud finder.
 Some models will require you to calibrate them before use. You do this by placing the stud finder against a section of wall where there is no stud and turning it on. The calibration process will take differing lengths of time depending on the model. Some models may calibrate in a few seconds while others may need closer to one minute. Generally the stud finder will indicate once it has finished calibrating or if you need to repeat the process.Stud finders that require calibration will generally have a method of alerting you if you have placed the finder over a stud or other material that may interfere with the calibration process, such as metal. Simply move the stud finder to a different location and try again.
 An edge-finding model will locate the edge of a stud. So if you have one of these, you will have to repeat the process from the other direction to find the other edge of the stud. You may also need to recalibrate the stud finder before making a second pass. A center-sensing model, on the other hand, will indicate where the center of the stud is.If you have an edge-finding model, bear in mind that the width of studs can vary between 1.5 and 3.5 inches (3.81 cm and 8.89 cm) if your residence uses 2 x 4 lumber.Other widths of lumber lead to different stud widths.Therefore, consider checking with a contractor or your landlord to determine how wide your studs are.
 Look for the indicator that tells you a stud has been located. Repeat this process several times at varying heights to confirm that you have found a stud.


Measure and mark 16 inch (40.64 cm) increments across to find additional studs based on your baseboards. This is typical stud spacing. Older homes may have studs 24 inches apart. Use your stud finder to confirm that studs exist at these points.
 Many apartment and office buildings use metal studs rather than wood ones. If this is the case for your residence or building, you’ll need to use special fasteners. Most wood screws will not go through metal.