 Anime refers to animated series and features from Japan. It's an incredibly diverse form of art, with unique stories and styles. Anime is popular in Japan and worldwide, creating animation like Pokémon, Princess Mononoke, Sailor Moon, and Fullmetal Alchemist. Anime can be serious and adult, or cartoonish and childlike. There's something for everyone.


Many great Anime series started out as Manga, which is basically the Japanese version of comic books. Sometimes manga are better, typically faster to get through, and cost about $12. DVDs for a series might cost $20 for 5 episodes. Consider checking out a few manga for a cheap alternative.;
, Anime isn't a distinct genre, it's more of an art style. Within Anime, there are fantasy stories, love stories, space-gangster operas, and any number of different types of stories that you can get involved with. So, one of the most important questions you have to ask yourself is, "What do I like?" Common Anime subgenres include:


kodomo (for children), usually light-hearted comedy
shōjo (for girls'), usually slices of life
shounen (for boys'), usually about heroes
magical
harem
sports
martial arts
literary
medieval

, Anime is not always a long and seemingly endless series. There are a popular 12-episode, 24+ episode, 30+ episode Anime you can start with and usually have follow-up seasons. Short popular Anime are:

Attack on Titan
Re: Zero
Death Note
Angel Beats!
Suzuka
School Prison
Tenchi Muyo: War on Geminar
School Days
Code Geass
Another
Mirai Nikki/Future Diary etc.
 Hayao Miyazaki and Studio Ghibli are sort of like the Disney Studios or the Steven Spielberg of anime. They're very well-known. Anything from either one of these names is bound to be pretty spectacular. More often than not, Studio Ghibli comes up with deep, profound works for older audiences, but still make stories children love. It's a good place to start, if you're looking to dip a toe in. Some of the classics of the Anime canon include:


Princess Mononoke
Graves of the Fireflies
The Girl Who Leapt Through Time
My Neighbour Totoro
Whisper of the Heart
Paprika

, When most people think of Anime, they think of long-form shows. These feature dynamic characters and lots of drama. If you want to explore one, here's a list of popular and classic anime series that lots of different kinds of people enjoy:


Witch Hunter Robin
Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood
Cowboy Bebop
DragonBall Z
Code Geass
Psycho Pass
Naruto
Ceres, Celestial Legend
Vision of Escaflowne
Eden of the East
Soul Eater (ending varies from manga)

, Anime comes in two varieties, subbed and dubbed. Most people find that the original Japanese voice actors are better to listen to than the dubbed Anime voices, which can sound cartoonish and silly. If you don't mind doing a little reading, try to go for the subtitled option.


There's good and bad on both sides. It comes down to personal preference, not what others say after all. If you don't mind that the mouths and the sounds don't match up, go for the dubbed anime.
 Anime is long-form story telling. That means you need to have some patience and wait a while before you make up your mind about a show. If you're trying out a new series, watch a couple of episodes at least before you pass judgment.


The first episode for some series can be deceiving. The first episode of Elfin Lied has a naked woman and tons of gore but as it progresses there's far more to the story than just that. Don't worry: the characters eventually find their clothes.
On the other hand, a series can deceive you by drawing you in, only to end up being dull. Sometimes, really popular series start to suffer later in the series.
 Anime is just as diverse as any variety of art or animation. Some of it looks hyper-realistic, while other styles are cartoonish and over-the-top, featuring talking Pandas and people with giant eyeballs. That's part of the fun.


Most anime features very angular people, and a hand-drawn approach, with a very light touch. Others feature eye-popping color. While a particular anime might be your genre, the art style might turn you off. 80's Anime looks different from newer Anime thanks to unique and changing styles.
 Some anime series seem to drag on for quite some time, before suddenly getting violent or fast-paced. Anime is like that. A single fight in DragonBall Z can take about half a season, and feature a whole lot of build up before anything actually happens. It's a different sort of drama, and one that can seem strange to a Western audience. But that's part of the fun, and it's part of what people like about it. Don't expect to watch a version of what you're used to, but with different art.
 Just because your best friend swears by Fullmetal Alchemist doesn't mean it's the best. Not everyone likes fighting, so don't watch Naruto if you're not a fan. Same goes for anything.


Price doesn't equal quality. Great anime and manga can sometimes be found in bargain bins because they're not well known. If Anime is pricey, that could mean it's new or popular.
 As with any topic, talking to other enthusiasts is a great way to learn more about how to appreciate the wide world of Anime. It can seem overwhelming to the beginner, but once you've got a knowledgeable guide, it can be a whole lot easier.


Share what you learn, as well. Lend out DVD's to friends, invite people over for Anime night. The point should be to have fun, so share what you've grown to love.
 It's important to support studies, but sites like anime.net can be a good way to preview a show before you spend money. This is especially true when one doesn't have an Anime channel in their area, or a channel that plays more than just Pokémon.


Netflix and Google Play and other streaming services regularly have a wide variety of anime that you can watch for a monthly fee. It's a good option if you're curious, but don't want to invest in buying a series outright.
If after the first 3 episodes, a show seems like something you'd enjoy, go and buy the series, or explore other options for watching it via a streaming service.
 If you like an art style, check out an anime similar, by finding something that looks like it appeals to you. Or look at what else that particular director or artist has been involved with.


You'll find, for example, that The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya is similar to Angel Beats. If you know you like Witch Hunter Robin, then try Ghost in the Shell since they're the same genre.

