 A callus is a small spot of hardened, thickened skin that develops from pressure or friction. Most often, they occur on the soles of the feet or on the hands or fingers.Calluses are not contagious, but they can become uncomfortable if they get too large.;
, Corns and calluses are terms that are often used interchangeably. They do share some similarities, but there are also some differences. Technically, corns are areas of hardened skin near a bony area. Corns are usually found on or between the toes. Calluses are not associated with bony areas and usually appear on weight-bearing areas.


Both corns and calluses are caused by friction, such as the foot rubbing on shoes or toes rubbing against each other. Another difference between corns and calluses is that the callus is all thickened skin, but a corn has a hard central core, surrounded by reddened and inflamed tissue.
Corns tend to be painful, while calluses are rarely painful.
 If your callus becomes infected, inflamed or painful, you should talk to your doctor. It may require medical treatment.
 The simplest thing one can do is to soak the feet in hot water. Take a medium-sized tub and fill it up with warm water, around 45°C (113°F) and while sitting on a chair or stool, immerse your feet in the tub for 15 to 20 minutes while you relax and read a book.


Add Epsom salts for additional skin softening.Soften the hardened skin by adding a half cup of Epsom salts for every gallon of water. Soak the affected area for 10 to 20 minutes.
At the end of this foot spa of sorts, you will find your calluses getting soft. Over a few days of repeating this procedure they will be soft enough for you to just scrape them off with your hand., Castor oil can be used to soften skin and encourage new skin growth. Apply castor oil by massaging it into the callus. Then cover your feet or hands with old cotton socks or old cotton gloves. Castor oil will stain clothing, so be sure to choose something that can get stained. Cotton clothing is preferred because cotton is a natural fiber that will absorb the castor oil, but it will also leave some castor oil on the callus. Leave on for at least 30 minutes.
 Squeeze out the Vitamin E and massage it into the callus. Use as many caplets as needed to cover the entire callus.


Leave the Vitamin E on the callus for at least 30 minutes.
 Aspirin contains salicylic acid, which helps treat calluses. Make a paste by crushing six uncoated aspirin tablets in a bowl. Add a half-teaspoon of either apple cider vinegar or lemon juice to make a paste. Apply the mixture onto the callus. Wrap the affected area in a warm towel and leave it on for 10 to 15 minutes., Pumice is an extremely porous rock that forms during volcanic eruptions. It can be used to gently rub off (exfoliate) the thickened skin of a callus. Once the callused area is softened, you’ll use a pumice stone to rub off the top layers of the callus.


Pumice stones are readily available at drug stores and grocery stores.
 Use one of the softening methods to get your callused area ready. Moisturize by leaving on castor oil or Vitamin E for at least 30 minutes, or you can leave on one of these treatments overnight.
 Use the pumice after the moisturizing step to make it easier to gently remove the thickened skin. When your skin is softened, you won’t need to rub too hard. Use gentle, firm, single direction strokes, such as those similar to how you would file your nails or play a violin. With a steady hand and constant, minimal pressure, rub off the top layer of the calluses to bring about healthy skin from underneath.


Always remember that the callus is your body’s response to increased pressure and friction. Rubbing too hard may result in more callus formation.
 Be patient with the process of removing the callus. Use the pumice every day to remove a fraction of the callus. This may take a while, but will pay off in the long run.
 If after one to two weeks, the callus is still present, call your physician for advice. The callus may require a medical procedure such as:Surgical trimming
The use of urea (a cleaning agent that helps loosen skin) to soften and remove the skin cells
Orthotics to minimize pressure and/or friction
More extensive surgery

, Although the skin on a callus is hardened, you should remove the skin by rubbing it away. Do not try cutting or shaving the area. This can cause infections and laceration injuries. You can easily cut too deeply or at the wrong angle. You may require medical attention if you do this., Monitor your skin for changes that might indicate a callus is forming. If you can’t reach or see your feet, ask someone to help you. You can visit a doctor or podiatrist for a foot examination., If you are developing a callus from playing a guitar, for example, you can stop doing that activity. It may not be feasible to stop the activity, however. For example, if you have a callus on your finger from using a pen for writing, you may not be able to eliminate this activity from your daily routine.
 Many people develop calluses on their feet when their shoes don’t fit. Since calluses are the skin’s response to pressure or friction, you need to remove the source of the pressure or friction.


Get your feet measured. As you age, your feet will change size and shape, so it’s important to keep your shoe size current.Try on shoes before you buy them. Sometimes, the fit will be different depending on the manufacturer, so pay attention to how the shoe feels on your foot, not the size marked on the box.
Make sure there is about ½ inch between your toe and the tip of the shoe.
Don’t buy shoes expecting them to stretch as you wear them. If they are too tight when you buy them, then go up a size.
 Wear gloves, socks and properly fitting shoes to protect your skin from calluses. Don’t walk around barefoot, as this increases the potential for callus formation., Using these lotions on your feet and hands before you wear your shoes or gloves to reduce friction can greatly alleviate your callus pain.


Alternatively, consider slathering them in petroleum jelly. Moisture will never be a problem again!

, These or the donut shaped footpads specifically recommended for calluses are fantastic as they keep the callused area raised and cushioned, hence reducing friction by avoiding contact with footwear. They won't get rid of existing calluses, but they will prevent new ones from forming.You can also make a foot pad out of moleskins by cutting two moon-shaped pieces and arranging them around your callus.

