









Use brainstorm sketches first, don't worry about dimensions.
Once you have settled on a rough design, pencil in some rough dimensions. Your dimensions will vary based on the kind of table you intend to construct. In other words, a dining table will have different dimensions than a bedside table.
Consider where you intend to place the table when creating your dimensions. It doesn't have to be any size other than the size you need.;
, Always add a little extra, just in case.
 For most beginners using a soft wood like pine is a good place to start. For a slightly better finish try poplar. If your table will be used outdoors consider redwood or treated woods.
 There are two ways to do this:









Using planking. The advantage of planking is that it is less expensive than a single sheet. Tongue and groove planking is easiest, but if you can use a dowel or biscuit cutter to create a butt joint then you might consider that route for a flat top.
Use a single sheet of wood. If you go this route save some money and use hard wood veneered construction plywood.
, The under-table is a basic square of wood that attaches to the table top and helps support the legs, preventing them from moving from side-to-side. To create the under-table:









Measure in from the edge of your table top a few inches. The exact width will vary depending on the dimensions of your table. Make a mark at your position.
Turn the table top over and draw a square on the bottom of your table at your mark.
Cut two pairs of wood for the two front pieces and the two side pieces.
Glue and clamp these pieces at your lines on the underside of the table. You may choose to screw these into the table top either permanently or to help hold until the glue sets if your clamps do not have the depth they need to reach your inset.


Cut one leg to the size you wish.













Cut the three other legs to the approximate size.













Clamp all four legs together.













Cut all four legs to the same length while they are clamped together, using the first leg as a guide.













Sand your table legs using a power sander so they are smooth and ready for a fine sand. Be careful not to sand the top or bottom of the legs as this is likely to ruin your right angle cuts.



Turn the table upside down if it is not there already.













Place the first leg in one corner of the under-table with the top flat against the underside of the table top and the sides flat against the under-table.













Apply glue to the top of your leg and to the interior side of the under-table that will butt against the leg.













Secure the legs by fastening screws — do not use nails — through the under-table and into the leg.













Check that your legs are at a right angle to the table top. Adjust the screws as necessary.













Repeat for the rest of the legs.













Once everything is set up and square, glue and clamp the legs in place.













Optionally, you can place a screw into the top of the leg from the top side of your table, however, this is often unsightly, and you risk splitting the tops of your legs by nailing or screwing into the end wood.
,,,