 Oftentimes, your mindset can lead to self-sabotage. If you expect things to go bad, or for certain patterns to repeat, you may prematurely throw away opportunities. Try to be aware of what you are thinking, and embrace the fact you cannot predict how an event or relationship will play out.


If you see yourself as unlucky, you may unconsciously be uncomfortable when you encounter positive situations. For example, if you've been in bad relationships in the past, a relationship with fighting and distrust is your normal. You may shy away from decent, kind partners as you're only comfortable with people who are not nice to you.Try to be aware of the assumptions you're making in any given situation. When you're meeting a new person, for example, do you assume they'll treat you a certain way? Why? You may be bringing in baggage from past friendships and romantic relationships. When you start a new job, do you expect it go bad? If you've had bad work experiences in the past, you may unconsciously expect those patterns to repeat. This can lead you to avoiding good opportunities in favor of repeating the same negative behaviors.Try to remind yourself you cannot predict the future. When encountering something new, pause and say to yourself, "This is a new experience and I don't know how it will unfold." People are pattern-makers by nature, looking for signs in events and occurrences. Remind yourself predicting how something will turn out is irrational. The fact is, you do not know how a new job will play out. You do not know if a new friendship will prove negative. For all you know, this could be a new, exciting, and positive opportunity.
 Lucky people often view events differently than unlucky people. For example, say you fall down a flight of stairs. It hurt, but you're okay. You can think, "I have the worst luck!" or you can think, "I'm so lucky that I didn't break my neck." Fostering a positive outlook can help you open yourself up to good fortune.If you foster a positive mentality, you'll be more perceptive about the good around you. Internalizing negative situations, like the above accidents, can lead you to see yourself as an ultimately unlucky person. This can skew your perspective, resulting in you convincing yourself you're doomed to misfortune.
Let's return to an example we talked about earlier. If you assume you're socially awkward and unattractive, you'll go to a bar expecting to be ignored. This may lead you to missing the fact the attractive bartender is flirting with you. You'll fail to notice this chance encounter as you went into the situation with a negative attitude.
Instead, go into a social situation with a positive attitude. Instead of thinking, "I can't wait to see how I make an ass out of myself," think to yourself, "I'm so excited for an opportunity to connect with new people."

, Anxiety has a negative effect on perception. If you're worried about your work, job, school, or social life, that stress can prevent you from seeing the good around you. Taking steps to reduce your anxiety can greatly help you open yourself up to good fortune.Exercise can greatly curb anxiety. Strive to be physically active most days of the week. Take a long bike ride after work. Stop by a community school for a swim before your morning classes. If you're new to physical activity, start with an easy routine and work your way up.Cut back on alcohol and caffeine. Both these substances can cause you to have an increase in anxiety. Stick to only a couple of caffeinated beverages each day, and only have one to two drinks a night.Look into meditation, visualization, and yoga. All these activities can help curb anxiety. You can find guided meditation and yoga routines online. You should also consider taking a class in yoga or meditation., People prone to good luck and good fortune adopt a go-with-the-flow mentality. Working too hard can actually prevent good fortune. You may, for example, keep at a task you'd be better off abandoning. Try to follow you intuition and pursue your passions. This is far more effective than pushing yourself beyond reasonable limits.Give yourself a few hours a day to work on activities unrelated to work or personal goals. This allows you to recharge and re-energize, both of which can allow you to be more perceptive of opportunities around you.It's okay to give up sometimes. Staying the course when things are not working will block your ability to be innovative. Experimenting with new methods can lead to better fortune. For example, say you've been working on an article for work for hours. The writing still feels muddled and repetitive. At this point, scrap it and start over. You'll be frustrated at first, but you may find an even better approach after stepping away from the task for a few days.
 Not everything you do will turn out well. Embracing this fact can lead to an increase in good luck. If you're not afraid to fail, you'll pursue a variety of opportunities. The more you pursue, the more likely something will eventually turn out for you.Do not listen to the voice of hesitance when you encounter an opportunity. For example, say you live in Los Angeles and are a budding screenwriter. A producer asks to see your portfolio. You may never hear back after sending him your writing portfolio, and you may worry about the emotional toll of rejection. However, you will likely regret not trying even more.
Studies show you'll be happier pursuing multiple things at once. While many of your pursuits will fail, people are happier with variety in their life. In addition to increasing your chance of good luck, you may be a happier individual if you embrace variety.