 That will just lead to your old friends hating you. Keep the friends you have now, but go out of your way to talk to everyone, including the popular kids. The real definition of popular is knowing a lot of people. Make friends in all kinds of social groups.;
, Do social things like go to parties, sleepovers, and sporting games for your middle school. It's easy to hang out with one or two people all the time and cling to one best friend, but try to spend time with different people too. Hanging out outside of school might be awkward at first but you'll be surprised at how good of friends you can become with them over time!

, People would much rather prefer to see someone with a little acne than someone with foundation caked all over their face. If you're still in middle school, the only make up you should really wear is a bit of cover up if you have a blemish, some mascara, a tiny bit of eye liner on your upper lash line, and maybe a light pink blush. Play around with it an find different ways that you like to wear it.
 There are so many places where you can get clothes for less like Ross, TJ Maxx, Forever 21, and Plato's Closet. If you have a little bit of time on your hands and have a lot of patience, you can even try Goodwill or other thrift stores. It might sound scary at first because you picture old ladies digging through old piles of clothes, but it's really not! Sure you have to dig through a lot of clothes from the 80's and 90's, but there are times when you can find something really cute for only a few dollars!

, Again, if you don't have a lot of money, you can find ones on Craigslist if your parents will drive with you to go get it. Sometimes people switch carriers a month or so after buying a phone and will sell theirs for cheaper than what they bought it for!

, You never know what could happen!

, You don't have to wear what everyone else is wearing or follow every trend. Mix and match your old clothes with newer ones for your own spin on things.
 Most girls in Middle School have an Instagram, Tumblr, Snapchat, Oovoo or various other social networks.. See what's trending! What is the app that everyone uses?

, It does not matter how nerdy the person is. The more people you have that consider you a friend, the better.
 This will keep your face looking fresh and pimple free. If that isn't enough, you can find spot treatments and other things at a drugstore to help with acne.
 Curly, in a ponytail, straight, pinned up, wavy, etc. Make sure you don't put heat on your hair everyday and that you have a good heat protectant. Look up no-heat routines on YouTube!

, Everybody looks up to smart people, and they'll pay off later! If you need help in class, it's okay to ask your teacher for help after class. Also, be good in class! Nobody likes the loud, interruptive person the teacher always has to yell at.
 When people think of popularity and friendship, they tend to think that you need a friend who has pretty hair, is rich, and is perfect. Remember no one is perfect, every person has flaws. If you spend your time with someone like this, you will end up feeling jealous and will spend your time trying to impress them, which won't be fun for you. Find someone who likes the same things as you, that you can hang out at home with and just watch movies in your pajamas!

, If there's a person in your class who is being mean to you, ignore them and tell an adult. Don't take it personally when they say it. If somebody calls you stupid, ignore them call a teacher or parent. Don't give them the time of day!

, You could be a cheerleader, artist, dancer, whatever your school has to offer. You can meet new friends in clubs and sports!

, You could be the ultimate perfect Middle School girl! You can increase your chances by attending Student Council.
 Smile as you can and remember to do it genuinely. When posing for pictures, think of something funny to give you a natural smile and help you smile with your eyes. Do not pout or make duck lips.
 Cussing might make others think that you're an unintelligent, immature person and would most likely ignore you. If if slips out, that can count as an "oops!" moment, but don't make it a habit.
 Don't be too sarcastic when you joke around, as some people may find this offensive. If someone jokes about that you don't take yourself too seriously and people will admire that

,, It's so easy for girls to just throw things on their floor and have a messy room but having friends over, especially new ones, feels so much better when you have a clean room. If your room has been the same for a long time, switch things out. If you can, paint your walls a light shade of your favorite color that you know you won't get tired of in a long time. Get new bedding or some throw pillows. Donate old stuffed animals or childish decorations. Hang pictures of you and your friends up on the walls. Display your favorite things that you know will make you happy. Change the layout of your room. Don't forget to express your personality throughout your room.
 This can make learning a lot more fun. I know that taking notes is so much better when it's with a cute pen and notebook.
 No, not duck face pictures of you in your room. Not pictures in the reflection of you and your friends in a bathroom mirror. Actual pictures. Have your mom take one of you and your friends during a sleepover, on the first day of school, on your birthday. When you are older it will be so nice to have actual pictures to look back on. No one wants to have to show their kids pictures of them and friends posing in a mirror.
 Shower daily, use a moisturizer, deodorant, a little bit of perfume, brush and floss your teeth well. Nothing turns people off to someone more than a bad odor

, It's nice to have to offer to friends or even someone who sits next to you that you don't know.
 This can be one of the first things people notice about you. You don't have to get manicures or have them painted all of the time, but keep them clean, shaped, and over all nice looking. If you want to use bright nail polish, painting your toes with it can be a better idea than painting your finger nails lime green. Stick to shades like red, pink, nude, champagne.
 If not, remind yourself it's not the end of your world.
 You will make mistakes and you will learn from them, but hopefully this article will make your life easier.
 Yes, it may sound cheesy but it's true! Nobody likes someone who isn't true to themselves. Everyone is already taken, there is only one you. You wouldn't want 4 of you, do you?!

