 Now that you are in high school, you are no longer the top dog of your school as you were in eighth grade. You have gone back to square one, as the newbie of the school and there are three other grades of students that have gone through 'Freshmen Trauma' and will do anything to get back their revenge on the new fresh meat.;
, Back in middle school, things were pretty chill; no social groups, no cliques, and definitely no segregation of grade classes. But now, you have entered the boundaries of high school, and all those social groups and cliques most definitely exist. Since there is no way of avoiding the fact, try to lose the baby lingo and mature your self for the next three years of non-stop social grouping, grade segregation and of course, bumping-into-upperclassmen-in-the-halls and them giving you dirty, smirky looks.
 If you are lucky enough to catch up just in time for one of your older siblings to take a place in the upper classes, you are pretty much good to go. Your brother and/or sister have gone through the same humiliating trauma as you've had and can share tips and experiences they've had with you; sort of like having your own personal cheat sheet. Also, having older siblings in the same school as you can give you opportunities to become friendly with upperclassmen who happen to be the friends of the sibling. Although it sounds like you are pretty much using your siblings as a passage to the upper world, both you and your older brother or sister benefit from the interaction; you get to meet the uppers and your brother or sister will be able to make fun of you as much as they please when you confront their friends.
 Suppose you refuse to converse with anybody but your friends from middle school. The year will drag on and almost everybody will have made new friends, perhaps leaving you in the dust. You must stay open-minded to avoid that situation or you will most likely become shunned and avoided by not only your grade, but also the upper grades. If you are not friendly and open, how do you suppose you are to make connections with potential friends? Plus, the ability to keep open and friendly will allow you to become involved in social groups or networks the school has to offer you.

