 If you have any marked worksheets or exam papers with you, flip through and see what mistakes you have made. Knowing your mistakes will make it much easier to focus on ways to correct these in the future, as well as informing you of the likely errors you make often.;
, What were you good at? What weren't you good at? What can be improved? If you're stuck, or don't know why you got a bad mark, ask your teacher for help.
 If you have access to grading criteria, namely those lists that say "An A grade answer will have done X, Y and Z", look them up. Look at the difference between the grade you got and the grade that is above yours. This can help you determine what needs to be done to help you achieve the criteria in the next grade.


Focus on what you're missing out, gliding over or not learning enough for.
 This is particularly important if you are studying a topic you have never studied before. By doing this, you will get some background knowledge on the subject, which will make lessons easier for you during term time. You can just read the books or take notes as you go along- it's up to you.
 Also, make sure your study area at home is tidy and organized.
 They can offer you extra help. If you don't understand something, just ask. It doesn't matter how long you spend on something if you don't understand it.
 If the teacher knows that you want to learn by getting extra help, he or she will give you a point maybe if you are on a border line grade.
 Many schools give these for free. Write down not only what day you have a big test or assignment due, but also days on which you will devote a block of study time to preparation for the test or the the assignment.
 Once you know what your mistakes are, it's time to correct them. You might need some help for this so it's a good idea to get a tutor, teacher or anybody else whom you think might be able to help you. Remember, they are the people helping you so don't be afraid to tell them your problems in answering a question.
 Feeling secure about asking questions is important for ensuring that you know what is needed.
 That's the only way to absorb all the knowledge into your brain.
 How good is it already? It is probable that it needs improving. Consider how you could improve it. You could practice taking notes on the lyrics of a song or some script from part of a film if you need some practice at home. This step is particularly important if your course has lectures. Part of taking good notes involves writing down whatever the teacher writes on the board unless they say 'otherwise'. Also, if the teacher emphasizes any point, write that down as well. Another way that might help is if you type up your notes when you have a chance. This method makes them neater and easier to read and study from.
 If you have the opportunity to pick topics, pick them wisely. Think about what you are good at and, most importantly, what kind of subjects you enjoy. If you have never studied an optional subject before but you think it looks interesting, ask the teacher who teaches it what kind of skills are required and what kind of subjects it is similar to.
 Start your assignments at a routine time every day (when you get home, or right after dinner, for example). Don't leave things until tomorrow. Don't be afraid to take your time. Studying is not a race, and you will understand and retain better if you move at an even pace, rather than hurrying to get through things.
 This stimulates nerves that increase concentration. Taking natural products such as ginseng and omega-3 fish oils will increase neuron tissue growth.
 If you are still going at the same pace, it's time to try something different.

