 You may need a software program such as Adobe Reader to view the file.
 There may be requirements or codes that restrict the size of your satellite dish or how high you can mount it. DIRECTV offers 6 satellites in sizes from a round 18-inch (45 cm) dish to a 36 by 22-inch (90 by 55 cm) oval dish.
 Look for a clear, southern-facing area with a high vantage spot.
 Connect your satellite receiver to the TV as specified in the receiver's manual.


Connect 1 end of a coaxial cable to the satellite receiver through the jack labeled "OUT TO TV." Connect the other end to the antenna's "IN" jack on the television.
Connect both the television and satellite receiver to a power outlet. Turn them both on.
View the receiver's menu by tuning the television to channel number 3 or 4 if the back of the receiver has a "CH 3/CH 4" switch. If there is no switch, turn to UHF channel 14 or channel number 65 on cable.
Navigate the menu using buttons on the receiver's front panel and the receiver's manual to find the correct azimuth (horizontal) and elevation (vertical) coordinates.
 Using the receiver's pointing coordinates, find the mounting site for your dish.
, Bolt or screw in the satellite's plastic or metal reflector to its support arm. This lets you preset the satellite to its correct elevation.
, Multiple options exist for this step depending on where you install the dish (roof, hollow wall, on brick or concrete, etc.). Consult the self-installation guide to see instructions and the necessary tools for each option.
 Use a bubble level to help you determine it is even.
 Hook up the RG-6 coaxial cable to the Low Noise Block converter (LNB). Attach the LNB to the receiver's support arm.
 Run the receiver dish's cable to the grounding block. The connection to the block binds the dish to an acceptable grounded point in the main building ground, such as an enclosure for electrical service equipment or a metallic service raceway.
 The RG-6 cable should also be connected to the grounding block.
, Connect the receiver to a phone jack with the phone line.
 Adjust the dish's pointing to achieve your maximum signal strength.
