 The only sure-fire way to have a baby boy is to use in-vitro fertilization and gender selection. However, you may not want to rely on these procedures to have a baby boy.Before you try getting pregnant, talk to your doctor about your wishes. They may check your health to ensure you are healthy enough to get pregnant. They may also have some non-surgical tips on conceiving a baby boy. Recognize that many old wives tales or other suggestions for having a baby boy have no medical evidence to support them., Women only carry female X- chromosomes. Men have both one female X- and one male Y-chromosome. This means that the male partner determines the sex of a baby. A male Y-chromosome sperm may swim faster than the female X-chromosome, but the X-chromosomes have more endurance. Keeping track of your ovulation cycle with a calendar or app can help you have sex closest to when your body releases the egg. This might increase the likelihood of having a boy because the Y-chromosome sperm may not tire out before reaching the egg.Consider avoiding sex the week before you ovulate to increase your significant other’s sperm count. Have sex on the day you ovulate, if possible. Although not proven, it may increase your chances of conceiving a boy., Having sex in positions that deeply penetrate the woman could increase the chance of having a baby boy. This may give the male Y-chromosomes a head start on reaching the egg because they can swim faster than female X-chromosome sperm, though there is no evidence to prove this. Try any of the following are deep penetration positions:Standing up
Straddling (woman on top)
Doggy style, or from behind
Missionary with the woman's legs pulled toward her chest.
 Women’s orgasms may give Y-chromosome sperm another head start. This is because orgasms move the sperm closer to the cervix.A female orgasm may also create a more alkaline environment in the vagina, which can also increase the chances of the male Y-chromosome sperm reaching the egg first. Hinder the man’s orgasm if possible. Be aware that there is no medical evidence to prove this increases your chances of having a baby boy.Consider manual or oral stimulation before penetration. This may help a woman orgasm more quickly than the man.