 Though many people are able to quit "cold turkey," the best way to devise a treatment plan is in consultation with a medical professional. For some people, this may simply mean a brief information session with a primary care giver. For others, a more long-term treatment plan may be necessary.Talk to your doctor about devising a smoking cessation plan that's right for you.
Try the START method:

S= Set a quit date.
T= Tell friends and family members that you plan on quitting.
A= Anticipate hard times ahead and plan for them.
R= Remove tobacco products from the house, car, and work.
T= Tell you Doctor so that you can get help.

;
, Counseling is available through most healthcare providers. Counseling may range from individual (one-on-one) counseling sessions, group counseling sessions, or remote counseling by telephone, depending on the individual's needs and the options available through a given healthcare provider.Some people find behavioral therapy to be an effective tool in quitting smoking.There are a number of smartphone apps available that can help smokers quit. One such app, called quitSTART, was designed in conjunction with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.You can get help by calling a free phone hotline 1-800-QUIT-NOW. You can also find many resources for quitting at www.smokefree.gov.
 There are many medication options available that can help you quit smoking. These medications range from over-the-counter options to prescription-strength medicine. Prescription medication will help reduce your cravings for tobacco and help unwanted withdrawal symptoms.Over-the-counter options typically involve nicotine replacement products, such as the nicotine patch, nicotine gum, and nicotine lozenges.Prescription-strength nicotine replacements are available as patches, inhalers, and nasal sprays. Other prescription medications that may help you quit smoking include bupropion SR (Zyban) and varenicline tartrate (Chantix)., Smoking cessation is the most effective way to reverse the effects of smoking. Any other plan that does not incorporate quitting tobacco will not be as effective at reducing the health impact on your body.Studies have shown that quitting smoking has both immediate and long-term effects on your health. After quitting smoking, you can expect the following results:


Your heart rate and blood pressure will return to a more normal range within 20 minutes of quittingThe carbon monoxide levels in your blood will return to a normal range within 12 hours of quittingYour blood circulation and lung function will improve within two weeks to three months after quittingCoughing and shortness of breath will decrease and cilia function will resume within one to nine months after quittingYour risk of coronary heart disease will drop by up to 50 percent within one year of quittingYour risk of mouth, throat, esophagus, and bladder cancers will drop by 50 percent within five years of quitting, your risk of cervical cancer and stroke will drop to that of a non-smokerYour risk of fatal lung cancer will drop by approximately 50 percent after 10 years of quittingYour risk of coronary heart disease returns to that of a non-smoker within 15 years of quitting