 Consider growing your hair out very long, and make sure it's thick. Don't worry about styling it much, but if you want to you can consider straightening it or waving it. For the face, keep it clean, healthy, soft, and smooth, with zero acne. Always wash your face with a mild facial cleanser every morning and also at night to make sure no pimples or blackheads pop up. And don't worry about tanning. Mabel spends her summer in the woods in Oregon. She has completely nice skin- there isn't much sunshine over there!;
, Since Mabel has flawless skin, wear foundation, concealer, and face powder to cover trouble spots for the time being and even out your skin tone using clean makeup tools. Also, curl your eyelashes and wear dark brown/black mascara, orange/grey/pink eyeshadow, soft-colored lip gloss, lip liner, and blush to get Mabel's pink rosy blush cheeks, but don't cake on anything. The goal is to look as if you're not wearing anything. Mabel is only twelve years old, so no bronzer yet, please!

, If you live up north where it's always a bit chilly, then try to wear fun, girly, colorful sweaters, good-fitting skirts, white socks, and sensible black flats like she does. However, if you're down south where it's always hot, then wear skirts with colorful tank tops and flats. Don't burn yourself to death trying to get the Mabel look.
 Don't be embarrassed by them when you go out somewhere. After all, they are your dear family and they did so much for you, as they care deeply about you. So cherish them while you can!

, Watch their backs and always be there for them.
 Mabel never wants to hurt anyone's feelings, or abuse people, or be mean and selfish. So follow the Golden Rule, and be nice!

, You will never hear Mabel complain about anything, as she is rarely seen to get angry or upset. Find joy in the little things in life, such as a pretty flower or a baby animal. There will always be something to smile about, so go on and find it. In fact, Mabel wasn't even upset about going to Gravity Falls, Oregon for the summer. Instead, she looked at the bright side of things. She enjoyed herself in Gravity Falls by happily rolling on hills of grass, let a goat chew on her sweater and tried to flirt with boys.
 Don't turn down an opportunity to go into the woods just because it'll mess up your clothes. That's what the washing machine and laundry detergent is for. Be down to earth, but at the same time feel encouraged to love shopping, stylizing your friends' hair, painting your nails, putting on make-up, etc.!

, Mabel's main goal is to have an "epic summer romance" while she's away from home, and she willingly grabs any opportunity she can to flirt with boys, even though she may not be the best at it. Don't be afraid to talk to boys, even if they're older or younger than you. Make sure you don't judge people based off looks, too. It's often the personality that counts on the inside.
 Mabel is always wanting to know what is going on. She is extremely curious, even though her curiosity gets the better of her a lot, and it sometimes leads her to trouble and often lands herself in precarious situations. Always be willing to go investigate into something, as curiosity can help you acquire knowledge. However, use your common sense and logic and get out if something proves to be dangerous or threatening, for it can be risky to be too curious.
 There's nothing that Mabel loves more than a crazy sleepover with her friends, Candy & Grenda. Invite your best friends over to paint nails, do each others' hair (try a braid train), and play the board game "Dream Boy."


Remember to end the night with someone taped to the wall, someone kissing some random mysterious object in the closet, and someone with "Party Girl" written on their forehead. Also make glittery pizza with a smiley face on it!

