 A URI affects your kitten’s nose, throat, and sinuses,and pneumonia affects her lungs and airways.For both URI and pneumonia, you will probably hear your kitten coughing.The cough with pneumonia is typically deep.Kittens with pneumonia can have difficulty breathing. You may hear your kitten struggling to breathe if she has pneumonia.Sneezing and gagging are associated with URIs.;
, Nasal discharge is seen with both URIs and pneumonia. The discharge is typically green or yellow with pneumonia,indicating some type of infection. With a URI, the discharge may be colored or clear.Check for nasal ulcers as well. Nasal ulcers and oral ulcers are sometimes seen with URIs., With a URI caused by a bacteria (Chlamydia),the membrane that lines your kitten’s eyelids—the conjunctiva—becomes inflamed. This is called conjunctivitis, and would cause your kitten’s eyes to look a little red. Your kitten will likely squint or rub her eyes to try to relieve the discomfort around her eyes.Discharge from the eyes can be seen with URIs.Changes to the eyes are not seen with pneumonia.
 Not surprisingly, your kitten’s behavior will change when she becomes sick. For both URI and pneumonia, your kitten will probably start to become lethargic.In addition, she will eat less because the illness is dampening her appetite.She may also become depressed.These changes in behavior are not specific to either URIs or pneumonia, but generally occur during the course of an illness.
 Since URIs and pneumonia are most commonly caused by some type of infectious agent (e.g., virus, bacteria), either illness will cause your kitten to develop a fever. Take her temperature by inserting a thermometer (preferably digital) into her ear or rectum.


Ear thermometers specifically made for cats and dogs are available at your local pet store, but are generally not as effective as rectal thermometers.To take her temperature rectally, first apply a lubricant (such as KY jelly) to the thermometer’s tip. Then, stick the thermometer into her rectum and wait for about two minutes, or until it beeps.Remember that your kitten is small—you will not need to insert the thermometer in very far to get a reading.
A fever is a temperature over 103 degrees Fahrenheit (39.4 degrees Celsius).Your kitten may not stay still long enough for you to take her temperature. In that case, you can rely on her clinical signs to detect when she is sick and needs treatment.
 When you start coughing or developing a case of the sniffles, you can go to your local pharmacy and pick up an over-the-counter medicine that will help you feel better. However, if your kitten is showing signs of a respiratory illness, take her to your veterinarian—do not try to self-diagnose her.The infectious agents that can use URIs can be quite contagious, which is a problem if you have other cats. Self-diagnosing and treating her at home could end up making your other cats sick.
Depending on the severity of your kitten’s illness, she may require intensive treatment by your veterinarian to get better.Diagnosis of a URI is usually based only on clinical signs.If the URI or pneumonia is chronic, or if the initial treatment does not work well, your veterinarian may also perform other diagnostic tests (e.g., chest x-rays, blood tests, analysis of discharge)., After your veterinarian has diagnosed your kitten with a URI or pneumonia, you will need to follow the treatment recommendations to get your kitten back to good health. URIs are usually treated according to the symptoms.Your veterinarian will prescribe an antibiotic, such as tetracycline or doxycycline, if the URI has caused a secondary bacterial infection.Although pneumonia is most frequently caused by a virus,it is treated with antibiotics to treat the secondary bacterial infections. Antibiotics are usually given while other test results are pending.Pneumonia can sometimes by caused by fungi or parasites. Test results will determine if other medications will need to be prescribed.Your veterinarian will prescribe a topical medication if your kitten has discharge coming from her eyes,or has conjunctivitis., In addition to the medications, your kitten will need different types of supportive care to help her recover. For example, steam inhalation is recommended for URIs and pneumonia to keep the airways moist. Run the shower in your bathroom to create a steamy, enclosed environment. Place your cat in the steamy bathroom for about 10 to 15 minutes.Wipe the discharge from her eyes and nose with a moist tissue.To increase your kitten’s appetite, feed her a highly palatable canned cat food. Baby food might also work. If your kitten still refuses to eat, your veterinarian can prescribe an appetite stimulant.Make sure your kitten rests during her treatment.Since she will already be feeling tired, it probably won’t be hard to restrict her physical activity.
If your kitten has pneumonia, try to prevent her from lying in one position for too long.If your kitten has severe pneumonia, she will need to receive supportive care at the veterinary hospital to stabilize her before you bring her home. This may include intravenous fluids and oxygen supplementation., This is applicable if your kitten has pneumonia. Your veterinarian will want to see your kitten after a few weeks of treatment. During the follow up appointment, your veterinarian will take more chest x-rays.You may need to bring your kitten in for several follow-up appointments until the x-rays are normal. When they are normal, you can stop giving your kitten the antibiotics.