 First things to get are (in this order) grenades and defibrillator.;
, This is the sharpshooter ladder for the recon class. Keep playing as other classes until you get the DysTeK Hi-Scope X4. Now that you have a zoom scope, medium ranged targets should be easy. The next unlock is obviously the Gruber 5 Stabilizer, as this will freeze your scope from bobbing for 3 seconds or so. Warning: Do not unlock the Zeller-H Advanced Sniper Rifle, as this rifle is no more effective as a sniper rifle than your basic rifle. See Step 8.
 Rule of thumb: aim for the head. Since every sniper rifle has a long recover time, make every bullet count with a single fatal shot to the head. Repeat this line: One shot, one kill. For now, do not attempt at a moving target. Get your basics down then try for a moving target. The same principle of "one shot, one kill" should apply here as well. Follow your target until it stops or shoot 1/8" in the direction its going. Twice that if the target is sprinting. If you are determined to fire at a moving target, fire promptly before it goes behind cover. As rule, never spend more than 10 seconds on scope and check your surroundings before scope in again.
 However, a good sniper does not need it to be undetected, at least not by another soldier. (UAVs are a different story) Since a clip on the standard rifle has 5 rounds, this is a good indicator to move once you exhaust your clip. Do not stay in one spot because even APMs can't stop a good player once he/she knows where you are. If you exhaust your clip and fail to kill an enemy, do not try to reload and shoot again. You will be better off finding another vantage point and try again. Even if you don't find the target again, at least you will score a kill assist if you did damage. Staying alive is definitely the best bet as a sniper.
 Since you are playing a recon class, intelligence is your best friend. The more you play, the more vantage (and possible enemy nests) points you will discover. Stay as sedimentary as possible because movement will expose your position easier than if you were still. This is where PAC has a slight edge since the uniform is completely black where the EU uniform is white/orange. The muzzle flash is still going to be a problem, but that's why you should move after a clip. As you move, stay out of open, high traffic areas to avoid detection from stalkers collecting your dog tag. Use cover often especially when fired upon; don't freeze and shoot back in the open. *If you have the IT-33 Active Camo, go to a cover and camouflage your way to another cover before shooting back. *On Titan mode: Once your titan shield is down, follow your maindeck to the outskirts of the titan where you will find a nice prone position that you can snipe from if the commander is smart enough to place the titan close enough. Do this when the titan guns are occupied to score some points and an infiltrator pin.
 Since you should be on the move a lot, APMs are best used offensively rather than protecting your temporary position. Place APMs on the flanks of high traffic areas near silos and flags. Do not place them where a soldier can see it head on, but hide it on the side. APMs are directional so place them outward as close to a wall as possible. An APM can be easily avoided by crouching or proning past them, but that would require prior knowledge of where it is. So, keep APMs hidden!

,, How does it perform on the field? This rifle has 9 clips/3 rounds each (compared to 6 clips/5 rounds originally), but you can instantly kill a light armored soldier with 1 hit to anywhere. The problem is that you will rarely find a light armored soldier on the field, and it still takes 2 shots to the body of a heavy armored soldier. Since the regular rifle will let you get a headshot as well, there is no advantage to having 2 fewer rounds on the Zeller-H. The Zeller's slightly faster recovery rate is not as useful since you have fewer rounds. In most cases, save the unlock for something else, such as the RDX demopack. One thing to note that the Zeller can disable motion mines and other explosives while the the regular sniper won't. This is again ineffective since there is an engineer class that will do this quicker and often there is multiple mines present. *If you have the Northern Strike Booster pack, this unlock might be worthwhile since you can proceed to the next unlock, which is the Recon decoy. The Recon decoy casts a false signal to the enemy's mini-map as long you are with 60 feet (18.3 m) of the device. This can create a trap and/or save you from an ambush, which can be extremely useful if used effectively. It's fun to see enemies circling around your decoy confused while you take them out. (One thing to try is to place a decoy at your feet and take your shots. Once you have exhausted your clip, move to another vantage point where you can view the area around your decoy. Snipe the unsuspecting stalkers who wants your dog tag.)

