 Hair type is based on many factors including curl pattern, texture, hair porosity, hair density, hair width, and hair length. These factors all create your unique hair type and dictate what products and hair care procedures would work best for you.If you know your hair type (straight, curly, dry, thin, color treated, etc.), finding specific hair products at the store should be easy. Use the products that correlate with the type of hair you have. Nearly every hair care brand has multiple versions of their product to fit customers' different hair needs. It is best to determine your hair type when your hair is in it's most natural state.
If you don't know your hair type, or your hair spans over a few different types, you can always ask your hairdresser for some advice the next time you get your hair cut or treated.
If you have dyed hair, look for products specifically made for color treated hair. These specialized products usually have moisturizing benefits since hair dyes contain harsh chemicals that dry out hair. These products will also help maintain color and luster of treated hair.;
, You want to use products made for the kind of hair that you have, so you can easily control and style your hair in a way that works best with your hair type. For example, if you have oily hair, you're going to want to avoid shampoos that add moisture, and instead look for products that help with balancing or clarifying.



Curly or coarse hair should look for products that reduce frizz, and depending on how your want to style your hair, look for products that are curl defining or curl softening.

Flat or thin hair should look for products that add volume but are also gentle for washing. Since oil shows more easily on people with thin hair, they might have to wash their hair more frequently.

Colored or treated hair should try to use products specifically made for color treated hair for two reasons: first, these products have amino acids and conditioners that help fortify the already damaged hair. Second, these specific products are more gentle on your hair so your hair can retain the color. There are many reasons that hair color fades (sun exposure, adding on chemicals from further treatments, chlorine, etc.), but shampooing is the biggest culprit because people shampoo so regularly., Hairdressers are used to working with many different hair types each day, so they might have some helpful insight on what products would work well with your hair (especially if you have been a long time customer and they are very familiar with your hair). They can offer a variety of brands ranging from salon products to products that can be found in your local grocery store.
 Many people shampoo their hair every day when they shower, but in reality, shampooing hair every day can cause more harm than good. Your hair creates natural oils to keep the your hair naturally hydrated. Daily shampooing can strip your hair of these natural oils, causing your scalp to overproduce oil to compensate for the oil being washed away. A good rule of thumb is to try and shampoo hair between 2-4 times a week.









In place of washing your hair with shampoo, you can try simply rinsing your hair with water to freshen up your look, or use a dry shampoo between shampoo uses to lessen the look of greasy hair.
 Many people simply lather the shampoo all over their hair, but an important key in attaining beautiful hair goes beyond applying the shampoo, and includes taking care of the scalp. This involves massaging the scalp while shampooing. Massaging the scalp can help relieve stress and bring more blood flow to the area, promoting hair growth and strengthening the roots of the hair.
 Too often, people overuse the amount of shampoo they need. People who have medium to long hair should use about a quarter sized amount of shampoo. People who have medium to short hair should use about a nickel sized amount.
 It is best to wash with lukewarm or cool water because hot water strips moisture from your hair and dries it out. The cooler water is gentler on your hair and helps to seal in shine.
 Squeeze out the water remaining in your hair after you're finished shampooing. You want your hair to be relatively dry before you apply conditioner, because excess water can prevent conditioner from penetrating the hair and supplying its hydration.
 Again, the amount of conditioner depends on the length of your hair, but more often than not, a nickel sized amount is sufficient. The ends of your hair are the furthest from your oil-producing scalp. They tend to be the driest, and therefore need the most attention with conditioner.









Leave the conditioner in for 2-5 minutes. This time allows your hair to absorb the conditioner.
You can make use of this time by washing the rest of your body or shaving.
 Not everyone has a hair type that is conducive to frequent brushing, but if you do, it is important to brush your hair a few times throughout the day to keep it from getting tangled. This will ensure silky smooth hair for the majority of the day.









After showering, it is best to comb hair instead of brushing. Brushing wet hair can cause breakage because wet hair is more fragile than dry hair. Combs are easier on the hair while also being effective in removing tangles.
It is important to keep brushes clean by removing accumulated hair in the bristles. To clean your brush, simply remove the hair within the bristles along with any leftover product, and scrub the brush with either a mixture of baking soda and water, or a small amount of shampoo and water.
 Excessive heat (from blow dryers, flat irons, curling irons, rollers, etc.) can damage hair and cause breakage and dryness. Try using heated tools every other day rather than daily.
 Use a heat protecting spray or treatment when using hot hair tools. These protective treatments will help add and maintain moisture to your hair while acting as a barrier to the damaging heat. Be sure to pay special attention to the ends of your hair, which tend to receive most direct heat.
 Drying your hair with a towel can help save time and energy wasted by blow drying hair that is dripping wet. Also, allowing your hair to dry naturally before you start blow drying can also keep your hair from being exposed to additional and unnecessary heat.
 Again, applying heat can be very damaging to hair, so use the medium to low settings for drying and styling. The air used to dry your hair should be at a temperature where you can comfortable blow air into the back of your hand and it doesn't cause discomfort.
 Blow dry your hair from a distance of about 2-3 inches. This lessens the direct contact with the heat on your hair and helps to ensure that you aren't scorching your scalp or hair. Also, point the dryer down onto your hair instead of pointing it directly on the side of your head. This will help reduce frizz.
 These haircuts do not have to be drastic, but to maintain healthy hair free from split ends, it is important to cut off the split ends before they have a chance to split further and travel up the rest of the strand of hair. This will help your hair look and feel all around healthy.
 Elastic hair ties are extremely helpful for keeping hair out of the way while playing sports, taming wild manes, and quickly pulling your hair out of your way, but they can also be rough on your hair. The elastic ties can pull on your hair strands (especially when you tie your hair back really tight), and this tight pulling can cause hair to break. Instead of tying your hair up in tight ponytails or taut buns, try using headbands, scrunchies, or bobby pins to put back your hair without causing as much damage.
 Deep conditioning once a week or a couple times a month is great way to sustain smooth and hydrated hair. There are many deep conditioners that you can buy at the store, but there are other homemade alternatives as well. If you're looking to add moisture and softness to your hair, you should look for deep conditioners that have cetyl, stearyl, and cetearyl. If you are trying to strengthen your hair, you should look for ingredients like keratin, amino acids, hydrolyzed proteins, and henna.When you apply your deep conditioner, you should expect to keep it on for 5-30 minutes. This gives your hair time to absorb the nutrients and hydration properties of the conditioner.

