 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (176 C). Place 1 cup (85 g) of graham cracker crumbs, ⅓ cup (50 g) of ground hazelnuts and ¼ cup (50 g) of packed light brown sugar into a food processor. Blitz the mixture to combine the ingredients. Pour in ¼ cup (55 g) of melted unsalted butter and ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract. Blitz the mixture to incorporate the butter.Since the graham crackers and hazelnuts are already ground, you won't need to process the crust mixture very much. The food processor just helps combine the crust quickly.;
, Grease or spray a 9-inch (23 cm) springform pan with cooking spray. Dump the crust mixture into the bottom of the pan and use your fingers to firmly press it into the pan. Bake the crust for 7 minutes in the preheated oven. Remove it and let it cool while you make the cheesecake filling.You could also use the bottom of a glass or measuring cup to press the crumb crust into the pan.
 Turn the oven down to 325 degrees F (162 C). To make the ganache, place 6 ounces (170 g) of chopped semisweet chocolate into a mixing bowl. Pour 2 cups (473 ml) of heavy whipping cream into a small saucepan. Turn the heat on to medium, so the cream just begins to bubble a little. Remove the cream from heat and pour it over the semisweet chocolate. Whisk the ganache until it's smooth. Put it aside while you make the rest of the filling.You should whisk the ganache slowly, so the hot cream doesn't splash you.
 Let 1 pound (453 g) of cream cheese set out at room temperature until it's soft. Place it in a mixing bowl and use an electric hand or stand mixer to beat the cream cheese. Scrape the sides occasionally, so all of the cream cheese becomes fluffy. Slowly beat in ¾ cup (150 g) of sugar.If the cream cheese is cold, it will be difficult to beat and the cream cheese won't become light and fluffy.
 Sprinkle in 1 tablespoon of cornstarch and add ½ cup (120 ml) of hazelnut liqueur to the cream cheese mixture. Beat the mixture until the liquid is combined. Add 2 large eggs, but beat them in one at a time on low speed.The cream cheese filling should now appear runny. It will thicken a little as you stir in the ganache.
 Use a rubber spatula to pour the ganache into the cheesecake filling. Beat the ingredients on low speed for about 30 seconds, so the chocolate is evenly distributed throughout the filling.If you prefer, you could stir the ganache in by hand. You may need to stir it longer to ensure that it's well combined.
 Pour the chocolate hazelnut filling into the prepared crust and bake it for 30 minutes. Leave the oven door closed and just turn off the oven. Leave the cheesecake in the oven for 30 more minutes.The cheesecake will finish cooking as it sits in the cooling oven. Avoid opening the oven door or the cheesecake may not set up properly.
 Take the cheesecake out of the oven and let it cool on a rack until it's at room temperature. Cover the cheesecake with plastic wrap and refrigerate it overnight. When you're ready to serve the cheesecake, gently remove the outside band from the springform pan, so you can easily slice the cheesecake.You can garnish the cheesecake with cocoa powder and whole, toasted and peeled hazelnuts.

