 Meanwhile, prepare a 9-inch by 5-inch (23-cm by 13-cm) loaf pan by lightly greasing the bottom and sides with nonstick cooking spray or shortening.


Alternatively, you can use two 8-inch by 4-inch (20-cm by 10-cm) loaf pan. Make sure that the total loaf pan volume can hold 8 cups (2 L).To further prevent sticking, consider lightly dusting the bottom of the pan with a little flour after greasing it.
You may also use parchment paper, but using aluminum foil since the foil can cause quicker browning and uneven cooking for this recipe.
 In a large bowl, mix together the flour and sugar until evenly combined.


Depending on your personal sense of taste and the lemon-lime soda used, you may need to alter the amount of sugar. If you have a notably sweet soda or prefer blander bread, cut the sugar back by 1 Tbsp (15 ml). If you have a mild soda or strongly prefer very sweet bread, consider adding another 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of sugar.
 Lightly knead the dough in the bowl until it comes together.


Note that the dough will likely be somewhat lumpy.Do not attempt to knead out all the lumps since over-mixing the dough can cause problems with the finished texture.
For a blander bread, consider using club soda instead of lemon-lime soda.
You can experiment further by using different flavors of carbonated soda, but each different flavor will have a different effect on the final taste of the bread.
 Transfer the dough into your prepared loaf pan. Use your hands to spread it out evenly over the entire pan. Pat on the top surface to flatten it out.


If using two loaf pans instead of one, evenly divide the dough between the two.
 Place the filled loaf pan in the oven and bake the bread until the top turns light golden-brown. This will usually happen after 45 minutes, but some ovens may require additional bake time.
 Remove the finished bread from the oven. After 10 minutes, remove the loaf from the pan and allow it to continue cooling on a wire rack. Enjoy slightly warm to room temperature.


The finished bread will be somewhat crumbly and chewy, with a flavor somewhat reminiscent of homestyle biscuits. You can slice it thin or thick.

