 This is a must! It will help you very much especially in science or history.. Go out and buy several note pads, one for each of your major classes.;
, Whenever your teacher mentions a future assignment or a test, try not to be away that week. You don't want to miss a thing they have to say,write all the details down.
 They're handy and a must. If you have a school agenda use it to write with in it because it will make it look less complicated.
 That could be a big mistake if you find you need them for reference later. If you have major yearly examinations, then they will be vital when you go to study. Keep old work in a separate binder or folder so you don't lose it and it doesn't take up space in your normal binder.
 Having friends that you know are reliable and hard working will pay off. They can help you study, give you tips, and be good long term influences. If you have a group assignment or class work of that nature then work with somebody you know will be serious, not lazy and do their share of the work. It is not fun staying up till 2:30am the night before a massive assignment is due because your partner(s) has not done their share of work.
 If you wear glasses or have weaker eyes, this is important. The teacher will let you move because, believe it or not, they want you to do well.
 It is so easy to just not bother but it's really not worth the worry. Plus, if you start when its given and work steadily until its due you will be more relaxed and therefore do better work.
 It is very helpful, unless you have a photographic memory. Most schools supply them. If they don't, places like office stores, newsagents, stationary sections, etc. supply them. There is really no excuse not to have one. There is so many things to remember for reference later. It is almost impossible to function without one.
, They can be a complete drag at times, but just cringe and bear it. Most of the time it really isn't worth the argument.
 The same deal as with your teachers. They are only useful if you're on talking terms.
 This will improve you on all fronts. The more familiar you are with the subject matter, the easier it will be to remember details during tests. It will make your homework easier, and make the work easier in class. The more time you spend in reading now, the easier it will be when you have to hit the books at exam time.
 If you have none, reread old material. If homework is set, just do it because the more you review, the less pressure you will have later.
 Don't waste a lot of time reading material you haven't covered yet, but it helps to become familiar with it.
 Don't lose them. File them with their class notes.
 Just have it all because organization is important, and it's no fun having to borrow a pen from a furious teacher under exam conditions.
 This just makes it easier if you keep everything organized.
 Your study area should be a large, quiet place where you won't be distracted. Organize your study room. You are going to spend a lot of time there. Keep it quiet or turn on music, depending on what helps you concentrate. Keep the room comfortable, light, and cool.
,, Something like a supportive desk chair works well.
 Keep a separate binder or folder for each subject. Cover any folders and books according to the subject, i.e., Red=English; Green=Science; etc.
,