 Before you do anything else, try this old trick. Find a sink (one without a mirror is best) and run some cold water. Carefully splash your face with the cool, refreshing water. This is a great way to bring yourself "back to reality" if your thoughts have been spiraling out of control and can help you relax if you're feeling anxious.


As noted above, mirrors can be something you want to avoid if you're seriously high, especially on a hallucinogen like LSD or mushrooms. For some people, looking into the mirror while tripping can make them feel strange or disconnected from reality.
 Sometimes, simply getting up and going somewhere different can have a positive effect on someone who's high. If you're indoors, leave the room you're in and go to a more comfortable one or someplace outside where there's fresh air.


If you've been smoking marijuana, a nice outdoor breeze can also help blow the smell out of your hair and clothes.
 Going for a short walk around the neighborhood can be a great way to calm yourself down and clear your head when you're high (and it's also usually pretty fun!) Feeling the warm sun or a pleasant breeze can help wash away any jittery feelings, leaving you feeling calm and relaxed. Also, because walking is mild exercise, it can make your body release natural endorphins, which will make you feel good.Some amateur weed "experts" claim that exercise can remove THC, the active chemical in marijuana, from the body. Though there is no scientific evidence to support this (in fact, the opposite may be true),a nice walk can make your thoughts much calmer and clearer when you're high, so it's definitely worth trying.
 What's more relaxing than a nice shower or bath? Warm, clean water can feel amazing when you're high, and as a plus, it can help you get a grip on scattered thoughts and "collect yourself", especially if you've been feeling nervous or panicked. For the best effect, try starting with warm water, then finishing with cool or cold water to help you snap back to reality.
 Being hungry can make it trickier for almost anyone to make smart, logical decisions — if you've ever felt angry or irritable after skipping a meal, you've felt this.When you're high, hunger pangs and irritation can make it a lot harder to "keep it together" when you're coming down, so chowing down on some filling, refreshing snacks can make a big difference.


Some drugs, like LSD, can make it so that you don't feel like eating when you're high. If this is true for you, don't force yourself to eat. Giving yourself an upset stomach may make the comedown period worse.
 If you're feeling sleepy, drowsy, or "woozy", in some cases, a nice cup of Joe (or something else with caffeine, like an energy drink) can help perk you up. Caffeine won't make you "less high", but it can make you a little more alert, so if you're worried about falling asleep before you come down, this can be a good "quick fix". Don't have more than about one drink's worth of caffeine — more can make you feel worse or make you panicky.


Drugs and other chemicals that affect your brain can have a multiplicative effect — in other words, the more types chemicals you put into your body, the more high you can feel. Because of this, you definitely won't want to drink lots of caffeine or take other "upper" drugs to make you feel less high!

, The quickest way to get a drug out of your system is usually just to let your body do its work, so if you have time to take a quick nap or get a night's sleep, do it. When you wake up, you'll feel refreshed, replenished, and possibly even completely sober!


For many drugs, including marijuana, sleep should come easy (and feel great) when you're high.If your high has you feeling jittery or nervous, don't worry — relaxing alone or with a few good friends can have the same sort of effect.

