 Your friend is certain about their orientation, so whether or not it’s a choice is irrelevant. If you want to be a good friend, take their word for it. Treat your friend’s orientation as a simple fact, like their height, and avoid using language that suggests it is a choice or lifestyle., You don’t have to ignore or forget about your friend’s orientation, but don’t make a big deal of it, either. Treat your friend the same way you did before, and keep spending time together and doing the same things as always.Remember that your friend isn’t defined by their orientation or sex life any more than you are defined by yours.
 Be there for your friend when they need company or emotional support. Include them in your plans, and offer to help them come out to other people. If someone harasses or bullies your friend, stand up for them.If your friend is dating someone, meet that person. This shows that you have a genuine interest in your friend’s life.
 When your friend comes out to you, your knee-jerk response might be to worry that they’re sexually interested in you. Try to dismiss this worry. You don’t put the moves on everyone of the opposite gender, so there’s no reason to assume that your friend wants to make a move on you, either.There is a small chance that your friend may develop feelings for you. If this happens, don’t make a big deal of it. Just say something like, “I’m flattered, but I’m straight.” If they’re a good friend, they’ll understand and respect your wishes.
Don’t experiment sexually with your friend, even if you’re curious. Your friend may end up feeling used, especially if you aren’t serious. The risk of ruining your friendship isn’t worth it.
 Don’t out your friend to anyone else. Ask them who else they have told, and reassure them that they can trust you to keep their orientation confidential.Even if you decide that you can’t maintain the friendship, be respectful of your friend’s privacy and keep the reason to yourself. If anyone asks, just say you drifted apart.

