 Your loved one most likely wants to stay in their home if possible. Staying in their home maintains their independence and gives them a sense of familiarity. It will also make aging more comfortable. Options that can help your loved one stay at home include home care services, meal and transportation services, respite care, and adult day cares.Adult day care centers function the same way as child day care centers. Your loved one would go to the center a few times a week and have access to variety of planned activities. This is also a good way for your loved one to make friends and have an active social life.
Respite care is temporary relief for a full-time caregiver. A worker comes to give the caregiver a break. Respite care can last for a few hours or even a few weeks., Retirement community options include assisted living communities, adult congregate communities, rental retirement communities, subsidized housing, and continuing care communities. Communities can accommodate independent seniors and those that need some assistance. The type of community you choose will depend on your loved one's needs and your financial situation.Adult congregate and assisted living faculties are for more independent seniors.
When researching a community be sure to understand the cost, the services offered, and the requirements for residents.
 A nursing home is best if your loved one is unable to live on their own and no family member is able to care for them. Nursing homes can be either skilled nursing facilities or intermediate care facilities. A skilled nursing facility offers 24 hour care while intermediate facilities offer similar services but not 24 hours a day.


Most nursing homes will offer both levels of care.
Medicare does not pay for nursing home care, but Medicaid may be an option if your loved one meets the requirements. Long-term care insurance must be purchased privately to cover costs.
 If you have the time and resources, you may want to move your loved one into your home. Becoming a caregiver will affect everyone that lives in your home so be sure to discuss this with them. Will you continue to work or will you quit your job to care full-time?


Being a caregiver is extremely stressful and difficult. Do not neglect yourself if you assume this role. It is important for you to eat well, get rest, and take breaks from your duties.Consider using other resources to help lighten your load. You may take your loved one to adult day care a few times a week or use respite care when you need a break.

