 This is the starting point. Get it from the breeder or pet store. They should have a record.


If you don’t know the actual age and can’t find it, you could estimate the dog’s age by his or her teeth. By 8 weeks, dogs have all of their baby teeth. By 7 months, they have all permanent teeth, and their teeth are white and clean. By 3-5 years, you will see some tooth wear and tartar buildup.
By 5-10, teeth show signs of disease. By 10-15, teeth are worn, with heavy tartar buildup and some are missing. A vet can also help you guess the dog’s age with a thorough physical examination. Older dogs often have cloudy eyes, gray hair, loose skin, and stiff legs.;
, Some breeds live longer than other breeds do. This will help you understand how to put your dog’s age in context.


For example, Bulldogs live about 7 years and Great Danes live about 8.5 years. You can find charts listing life expectancy for all breeds online.Smaller dogs can live a lot longer. Miniature poodles can live up to 15 years. That’s about the highest age you will see a dog live to.
 Small dogs are generally 20 pounds or less. Realize that the size and breed can matter. Small dogs usually live longer than large dogs do, although they might age more quickly in the first few years of life.


A large dog will probably reach middle age around the age of 5. Tiny dogs probably aren’t old until they are about age 10. Medium-sized dogs fall somewhere in between.
Medium dogs range from 21-50 pounds, large dogs from 51-90 pounds, and giant dogs are generally over 90 pounds.
This will matter when looking up online charts of dog ages, which sometimes break down the age estimates by dog size., The first and second years of your dog’s life equal about 10.5 human years for each year for a medium dog, 9 for a large dog and 12.5 for a small dog (a range of 18-25 that also depends on breed).


There aren't as many differences among breeds for the first few years. Basically, your dog is about 21 years old at age 2.Dogs reach full sexual maturation even after only a year in some cases. Smaller breeds mature faster than large breeds do., Every year after the first two years equals about 4 human years. You can find charts online that show the age estimate in human years for dogs.


People often mistakenly think that every dog year equals 7 human years but this discounts the complexity of the calculation. It varies by breed and size, as noted.Dogs age more quickly toward the front end of their lives and slower toward the end., You can find many of these on the Internet. Typically they all work the same way and will do an instant calculation of your dog’s age. This is probably the best way to know for sure because you can often narrow the calculation by breed and size.


These calculators usually ask you to select your dog’s age and then to select your dog’s breed. Hit “calculate” to learn the dog’s human age. Some calculators allow you to do this in reverse too: you can calculate your age in dog years. You're probably the equivalent of a giant dog!To give you a sense, at age 8, a small dog is roughly 48 in human years, a medium-sized dog is 51, and a large dog is 55. At age 10, the numbers are 56, 60, and 66. At 15, the numbers are 80, 87, and 120. , Regular checkups are necessary for dogs just like it is for human beings. Yes, it can be expensive, but if you want to have a dog, taking care of him or her is essential.


The vet will recommend regular vaccines and preventative care that can help a dog live longer.
When you first buy the pet, take the pet to the vet for a thorough health screen., Dogs need exercise. They can’t get that if they are always sitting around. Try to take the dog for a walk once a day.


A good rule of thumb is to walk the dog for 20 minutes every day. Hey, it will also walk you, which can’t be a bad thing for your health, either.
If you don’t have time to walk the dog, make sure he or she gets some time to at least run around the yard.
 Obesity in dogs is associated with lower lifespans. So you might think you’re helping the dog by feeding him or her table scraps, but you’re not.


Research actually shows that a restricted calorie diet can help dogs live longer. Keep track of the calories your dog eats, including from pet treats, and ask the vet what the dog’s ideal weight is. Even eating 25 percent less can add 2 years to a dog’s life.
It sounds counter intuitive, but you should be able to feel your dog’s ribs. Being lean is one of the key ways that dogs can live longer., Dogs are sensitive creatures, and there is evidence that they feel stress. They are loving creatures, usually, if you love them back.


Pet your dog, cuddle with him or her, and spend time with the dog.
If the dog is a sociable breed, make sure that the dog has other dogs around for company, even if it means registering the dog in doggie daycare.

