 Before you can translate your message into Tri Code, you'll first need to come up with a message. For the purpose of providing a guided example, the message "Welcome to the jungle" will be translated into Tri Code.


While you're still getting the hang of writing in Tri Code, you may want to start with shorter messages. As you become more practiced, longer messages will become easier.
 In Tri Code, the letters of your message will be broken up into groups of three letter segments written in reverse. In the guided example, "Wel" are the first three letters, therefore, the first segment is "Lew."Generally, each segment is separated by a space. This further distances same-word letters from each other, making it more difficult for others to see the pattern of your Tri Code cipher.
In the beginning, it's likely you'll need to write down your translated message so you don't forget it. When Tri Code is more familiar, you may be able to do this translation in your head.
 The next segment begins where your first left off. Take the next three letters and write them in reverse as a set of three. For the guided example, this would be "moc." At this point, your ciphered message should now read "Lew moc."

, In many cases, words won't perfectly divide into three letter segments. When this happens, take the remaining letter(s) and complete your three letter segment with letters from the next word, then write it in reverse.For example, the 'e' at the end of "welcome" will combine with the next two letters of the following word, "to" to create the segment "eto." This is then written in reverse to get the Tri Code "ote."
At this point, you should have three segments translated into Tri Code, giving you the partially translated message, "Lew moc ote."

, The Tri Code cipher is only intended to be applied to letters, so any punctuation, like apostrophes, should be kept with the letter it punctuates. So, for a sentence like "What's that?" will become either "Ahw ts't tah?" or "Ahw t'st tah?"


Whether you put apostrophes before the letter they punctuate or after is a matter of preference. However, to prevent confusion, you may want to stick to one or the other.
 Like any new writing system, Tri Code will take some practice before it comes easily. As you practice, the time it takes you to write in Tri Code should decrease. Now that you can write in Tri Code, you can practice reading it.

