 Often, you will be training someone to do your job because you are moving into a new position within your organization. However, if you are leaving your current company, you need to give appropriate notice so that your employer know your position needs to be filled.Look at your employment agreement for any specific details regarding giving notice. Contracts or agreements may include language regarding how far in advance you give notice, and what medium is appropriate.
If your company does not have their own language regarding resignation, know that the standard is to give your employer two weeks notice before you leave, and that it’s appropriate to both meet with your supervisor to discuss your departure, as well as give them a written statement regarding your intent to leave the company.;
, Regardless of how well you train a new employee, they are not likely to remember everything from training. Develop a set of written procedures that detail step-by-step how to do your position. These procedures should include instructions on daily tasks, as well as how to conduct larger projects and processes in which you are involved.Ask your supervisor if there is a template for standard operating procedures in your company. Using a template will help keep things consistent for your trainee and make the writing process easier for you.
Begin by detailing your daily duties. Explain, step-by-step, what you do each day when you come in.
Once you have the daily routine established, detail larger processes and projects your trainee will be expected to pick up.
Map locations for anything stored digitally, and use charts and screenshots liberally so that the trainee can pair your instructions with helpful visual aids for each step.
Screenshots are especially helpful for anything you use that may be proprietary, such as databases, content management software, business to business software, or anything you would consider “in-house.”

, For a time, you and your trainee might be sharing a space. Make sure you and your trainee both have space to work without interfering with one another. If you are moving into a new position, you may want to ask if your new desk is ready while you are training your replacement.Make sure your trainee’s space is set up with what they need to fully perform their position. This includes getting them any permissions they may need for computer, software, and phone access, any keys they may need, or anything else pertinent to the specific position.
 Make sure you cover every topic important to your trainee by setting a schedule before you begin training. List every topic you want to cover with your trainee, and set aside the necessary block of time to make sure you can take them through the process.Remember to include time in each training block for your trainee to review the process and ask you questions.
Talk with your supervisor about their plans for the trainee to make sure your schedule fits theirs. If, for example, they plan on taking the trainee out to lunch one afternoon, make sure your training calendar is mindful of that time.
Have a flexible attitude when it comes to your training schedule. If something unexpected comes up in the course of your job, bring the trainee along even if the time was slotted for a different task. This allows them to see the position in action and start applying what they have already learned.
 If you did not hire your trainee, ask your supervisor or HR department to provide you with copies of their resume, cover letter, and any other material they may have submitted with their application. Familiarize yourself with their background and experience so that you can see where they might already have experience, and where they may need more training.Do not assume anything about your trainee. Their experience or background may be impressive, but they may not adapt quickly to the position.
Likewise, their experience may be different than what you would have considered for the position, but they may still be very capable and quick to learn.

