 They are made of white or red clay. You might be able to pick one up on one of your travels to Spain, or purchase one in a specialty store (either in your area or online) or through an importer.


The shapes and colours vary, dependent on where you've purchased the botijo from.
If the botijo is glazed and very artsy or heavily decorated, it's not suitable to drink from.Look for a plainer one.;
, Fill with water from the tap (this is what it is designed to take). Simply pour straight into the large central hole. Cover with either a cork stopper made for the hole shape or with something like muslin or cheesecloth. You may need to tie the cloth in place with string or a rubber band. Place the botijo in the shade, away from sunlight.


If you live in Spain or you're vacationing there, it is usual to put the botijo out in the garden or near a window. However, it is important to always cover it under some fabric netting, to avoid any insects getting in and spoiling the water. This is probably no different wherever you live, unless you're somewhere that is miraculously hot and insect-free!

, Since you can't actually see through the clay, you'll just need to get into the habit of refilling it either after each use or whenever you know you've used up a lot of the water.
 There is no need to be on ceremony looking for a glass. The botijo is made to drink from directly! Look at your own botijo––you should see that is has both a wide belly and at least one spout (it may have more). These spouts (or "mouths") are known in Spanish as "pitón" or "pitorro". It is from the spout that you consume the water. Follow this process to drink water:


Lift the botijo in the air, holding it by the handle. Direct the small spout (pitón or pitorro) toward your mouth by tilting it.
Do not put the spout too near your lips––the water has to be about 5–6 centimeter (2–2 in) (2-2.5") distance from your lips. The botijo is meant to be shared among others and germ-sharing is not a part of the deal.
Drink. Don't be surprised if it doesn't work at first; it takes a bit of skill and likely some water will spill rather than reaching your mouth. Keep practicing; it'll eventually feel natural. (And all the water spilled on you on a hot day should be a pleasant feeling!)

