 The Alabama Peace Officer’s Standard and Training Commission sets certain minimum qualifications, which you must meet before you even consider becoming a police officer. In general, you must be in good health and of good moral character. Specifically, these are the requirements you must meet:Be over age 17 to become a cadet, over age 20 to become a sworn law enforcement officer. The minimum age to become a state trooper or sheriff’s deputy is 21.
Be a US citizen.
Have either a high school diploma or GED.
Possess a valid driver’s license and have a three year record of driving.
Have no felony convictions or pardons for felonies.
Not have been dishonorably discharged from the US military.;
, Taking on the job of a police officer is an important lifestyle change, very different from anything else you might do. Before you begin the work and training that this will require, you should investigate it and make sure that you really want it.In some places, you may be able to join the Police Explorers. This is an organization in many cities that helps youth up to about age 20 learn about the job of being a police officer. Contact your local police station and ask if there is such a group in your area.
 The minimum requirement to become a police officer in Alabama is a high school diploma or a GED. However, you can become even more qualified with some form of advanced degree. Many applicants will earn either an associate’s degree (2 years) or a bachelor’s degree (4 years) in a field like criminal justice.Studying criminal justice will help you increase your qualifications as a police officer. It will also help you decide if this field is right for you.
 You will have to pass certain physical tests to become a police officer in Alabama. To prepare, you should work on your stamina and all around strength training. You can begin very simply by running, either outside or at a track. You may also want to join a health club or the local YMCA. At clubs like these, you may even be able to hire a personal trainer for a reasonable fee. If you explain to the trainer what your objectives are, the trainer will be able to help you develop a good workout plan. To become a police officer, you will have to do the following:Run 1.5 miles in 15 minutes, 28 seconds or less.
Complete 22 push-ups in 1 minute.
Complete 25 sit-ups in 1 minute.
 You must receive a statement from a doctor that yo are physically in good health and are able to perform the duties that would be required of a police officer., Alabama has 417 different law enforcement agencies, in addition to the state troopers and sheriff’s offices. You should investigate some of these possibilities and decide which would be the best fit for you. You may decide based on location, type of duties, or your own personal preference.Police departments are locally centered in cities or towns throughout the state. Your duties may consist of anything from traffic control to crime investigation.
Sheriff’s deputies are assigned throughout Alabama’s 67 counties. Sheriff’s offices investigate crimes within their county jurisdiction, work to enhance public understanding, and are generally charged with prisoner supervision and incarceration.State troopers are assigned across the state in 19 different highway patrol offices. State troopers enforce traffic laws on the highways throughout the state and also investigate a wide range of criminal activity, including homicides, robberies and narcotics smuggling., The first step to becoming a certified police officer in Alabama is to select the department where you would like to work and submit an application. The application is usually a fairly simple form that you can pick up at the police station or the city hall personnel office. You need to complete the form and return it. The form will then be held on file until openings become available.When you submit your application, you should ask about any current openings for police officers. If there are no current openings, your application will be held on file for up to one year. During that time, you should check back periodically to find out if any openings arise.
 Part of the screening process for your application includes checking references. The personnel department will contact your previous employers, coworkers, family members, and other people in your past. You should notify anyone who you would like to rely on as a reference. Tell them that you are applying to become a police office, and let them know that they may be contacted.
 As part of being hired by a police department, you will have to demonstrate the following physical skills. These are divided into two portions--agility and ability.The agility test requires you to complete a timed run of 150 yards (140 m), push a vehicle 15 feet (4.6 m) on a level surface, climb a 6-foot fence, climb through a 2 foot square window frame, walk a balance beam for 15 feet (4.6 m), and drag a 165-pound weight for a distance of 15 feet.
The physical ability test requires you to complete 25 sit-ups in 60 seconds, do 22 push-ups in 60 seconds, and run 1.5 miles in 15 minutes and 28 seconds.
 When you are hired by a law enforcement department, the department is then responsible for enrolling you in a certified training academy. The state of Alabama has ten approved training academies throughout the state. Each one offers different programs. Your supervisor will assist you in selecting and applying for a program at one of these academies:Alabama Criminal Justice Training Center – Selma, AL
APOSTC Law Enforcement Academy at Tuscaloosa – Tuscaloosa, AL
APOSTC Law Enforcement Academy- Baldwin County – Stapleton, AL
Birmingham Police Academy – Birmingham, AL
Department of Corrections Training Academy – Selma, AL
Huntsville Police Academy – Huntsville, AL
Jefferson County Law Enforcement Academy – Fultondale, AL
Mobile Police Academy – Mobile, AL
Montgomery Police Academy – Montgomery, AL
Northeast Alabama Law Enforcement Academy – Anniston, AL

, You application to attend the training academy must be received several weeks prior to the start of the program you wish to enter. You will need to make sure that your application materials are complete and that the application package is sent early enough to arrive on time.


Each training academy has its own website and its own set of requirements for attending. For example, the Law Enforcement Academy at Tuscaloosa contains all its forms and application materials on its site at http://leat.org/forms/.
 These programs usually last for several months. You will either be housed on site or at nearby hotels, either at your expense or through reimbursed vouchers through your department.While at the academy, you will undergo training in various skills that will be necessary for your work as a police officer. These generally include training in:Civil and criminal law
Traffic law
Physical training
Driving instruction
Weapons training
Combat training
Defensive tactics.
 At the end of your training, you will take a series of tests to demonstrate your preparedness to work as a police officer. If you pass the following tests with the required scores, you will earn your certification:Earn an overall score of 70% on written exams in the various classes you attend.
Pass the first aid exam with a score of 70% or better. If you do not pass on your first attempt, you will be allowed to study for three days and take it again.
Earn a score of 70% on a legal issues exam.
Pass the physical agility/ability test. This is the same test that you took to get hired (or something similar). Your training during the academy is designed to maintain your physical skills.
Earn a passing score of 70 on a firearms course.

