 Set your alarm clock to go off 30 minutes early. Spend the extra time looking at your vision board, determining what needs to be done each day, and visualizing yourself successfully completing each task. Just as you did the visualization exercise to uncover your goals, you should also do it daily to allow them to manifest into reality.Sit comfortably with your eyes closed and imagine yourself speaking to your boss about that promotion, saving money, or passing that biology exam. Do this for 10-15 minutes each morning. You should finish the exercise feeling motivated to get things done.
If you have trouble performing self-guided visualization, you can listen to a guided video on YouTube about manifesting your dreams and the law of attraction.
 If you want to reach great success, you must be in the company of others who are striving to reach their wildest dreams, too. These people can motivate you, and give off the positive energy you need to keep moving forward.Avoid negative people. Try to limit your interactions with toxic people who shoot down your goals or only serve to distract you from them. Such attitudes can be contagious and cause you to take a negative outlook on life as well.
 You can certainly benefit from learning to say "no" and not taking on more responsibilities than is reasonable. On the other hand, when you do say "yes", make sure you follow through. When you follow through on promises and commitments, others believe you to be reliable. What's more, following through on your word demonstrates that you value others in your life. It also allows you to avoid guilt, which can hold you down from living the life you desire.You can avoid guilt from letting those around you down by carefully monitoring the things to which you say "yes" or "no". Think things over and consult your calendar before agreeing to additional obligations. Never take on more than you can handle simply to oblige another person.
 Strive to be present in every activity and conversation you participate in. Don't just be there - engage. People are often distracted by emails, phone calls, and to-do lists that even when you are involved in an activity, you are not completely present. When you practice mindfulness, you allow your brain to stay focused on one activity, which means you can perform better in this singular activity than you could trying to focus on several tasks at once. When you are mindful, you can reduce stress and worries about the past or future by being fully engaged in what's going on right now. , Refrain from watching TV or reading, and focus all of your attention on the physical sensations of eating. Think about how the food looks, tastes, and smells. Note when your hunger before eating and satiation as you become full after eating.


There are a variety of ways to practice mindfulness. Visit the Greater Good Project at Berkeley for more options. , Taking good care of yourself is an investment. Remember, health is wealth. You may have felt overwhelmed and stressed in previous years but never knew how to relieve that stress. This year, aim to nurture yourself by regularly attending to your physical, emotional, and mental health needs. Relaxing on a regular basis can decrease blood pressure, reduce risk of cardiovascular disease, and even alleviate anxiety and depression.Self-care encompasses any activity that relaxes or rejuvenates your mind, body, or soul. Examples may include meditation, yoga, exercise, painting, gardening, reading, massage, and even baking. Try to regularly incorporate calming activities into your weekly schedule fend off stress.
 If you are the type to spend most of your time indoors, make a commitment to spend more time outside this year. In addition to providing you with an excellent source of Vitamin D, spending time in nature can ease depression, boost immunity, help you to focus better, and put a more positive spin on your outlook.Go on hikes, boating, walk your dog, or ride your bike. Ask a friend to join you to increase the positive vibes.
If you workout in the gym, try an outdoorsy workout a few days a week. Find small ways to move your everyday activities into the great outdoors.

