 Stand in front of your seated dog and show him the treat in your hand. Keep his attention on it, and let him focus in on it. Then, say “Catch!” as you arch your hand in the air and guide the treat into your dog’s mouth.The first time you do it, you want to guide the treat all the way to your dog’s mouth rather than tossing it. This will teach him to keep his eye on the treat when you say the command “Catch.”
You can use individual pieces of your dog’s normal food as training rewards. They are familiar with this food, you know it’s safe for them, and one piece at a time is a small enough quantity to be able to use it as a reward for an extended period of time without accidentally overfeeding them. But, because they are used to getting this food, you may want to pop in a few treats to keep it interesting for your dog.You can also buy treats made specifically for training purposes. They’re cut in very small pieces, and you can keep these in your pocket or in a container nearby while training.
For this specific trick, you may want to try using a treat that is flat enough to balance well on your dog’s nose without rolling off. Or, just use a soft treat that you can press flat with your fingers.;
, Let your dog get the hang of concentrating on the treat as you speak the command. Make sure your dog stays seated and praise him each time you practice the motion and command.


Remember to stay calm and be persistent. Don’t get irritated or upset if your dog isn’t getting it right away. The key to successful training is remaining calm and keeping at it., Once you’ve practiced the command and guided the treat to your dog a few times, try tossing the treat to him without guiding it to his mouth. Stand back, hold the treat for your dog to see, and say “Catch!” as you toss the treat gently to your dog.Try this a few times, making the task more difficult each time. Step back further with each toss. Make sure you keep your dog’s attention before tossing the treat so he can focus on it and be better able to catch it.
Practice catching with your dog until he seems to have it down. In order for your dog to be able to flip a treat from his nose and catch it, he has to be able to catch!

, On carpet or a mat, have your dog sit, and tell him to “Stay” in a firm but gentle tone. Place your hand gently around his muzzle and say “Stay.” Hold there for a moment and make sure your dog listens.Sit and stay are two basic commands that you dog needs to know before being able to master the treat flip trick. If you can’t command your dog to sit and stay, you will have difficulty training him to flip a treat. Practice these commands if your dog doesn’t have them down yet.
If your dog cannot successfully balance the treat on his nose without looking down and letting it fall, he won’t be able to flip it to catch it. You must practice balancing the treat on his nose without allowing him to drop it or get it before you can move on to flipping it.
 While gently holding his muzzle, place a treat on your dog’s nose and command him to “Stay.” Hold it there for a moment. If your dog moves or doesn’t balance the treat, start over.Once the dog balances the treat while you hold his muzzle and tell him to “Stay,” remove the treat from his nose and reward him with a different treat. You don’t want to give him the one on his nose just yet. This exercise is to teach balance, not catching or flipping. Practice this a few times.
 After practicing the “Stay” command with a treat on his nose and your hand gently on his muzzle, try the exercise again. This time, hold his muzzle, place the treat, command him to “Stay,” and then slowly remove your hand from his muzzle. Let him balance the treat on his own for a moment, then remove it, and reward him with a different one.Keep practicing this step until he is able to balance a treat on his nose without your hand for a moment or two. If he drops the treat or tries to eat it, start over without rewarding him.
 Your dog needs to be really good at these first two commands and skills before he can successfully move from balancing a treat to flipping it off his nose and catching it.


Be persistent when introducing any kind of new training skill with your dog. One common mistake dog owners often make is not working on their training often enough. Try working on training skills at random points of the day, every day., Once he has mastered sitting, staying, catching, and balancing, you can teach your dog to flip the treat from his nose. This might take a little time to get to this point, but once he has those other skills down, this last part will come easily.


Ask your dog to sit and stay. Place the treat on his nose to balance, and command him to “stay.” After a moment, command him to “catch.” Your dog will toss the treat up with his nose and try to catch it.
Even if he doesn’t catch the treat the first time, praise and reward him for trying. As long as he is sitting, staying, balancing, and tossing the treat up to try and catch it, he is on the right path., Dogs learn behaviors over time. Make sure you keep up a regular training routine when trying to implement any new tricks, including this one. Keep training sessions short and to the point, rather than trying to work too long at one time.Try training sporadically throughout the day rather than at set times each day. Also, try training in different locations rather than in the same spot. This will help the dog learn the behavior and associate it with the actual command, rather than with a certain time or location.
Don’t rely entirely on treats to reward your dog for good behavior. Make sure you are happily praising him and making him feel good about himself. Pet him, and tell him in a happy voice that he did well!

