 If your hair is naturally brittle, it’s important to use a gentle shampoo that won’t strip away all of its natural oils. Dry, coarse hair is more likely to break than hair that’s oily. Look for a shampoo made with replenishing oils like shea butter, argan oil or almond oil. These will trap water against your hair shaft and help it stay hydrated and healthy.


Look for shampoo labeled "sulfate free." Sulfates are harsh cleaning agents (the same ones used in dish detergent and other cleaning supplies) that strip the oils from your hair, leaving it dry and defenseless. Choosing a sulfate free shampoo is better for your hair.
This is especially important if your hair is curly, wavy or coarse. It's more difficult for sebum, the natural oil produced by your scalp, to travel to the tips of these hair textures.Consider low shampoo or no shampoo methods if your hair is extremely curly or coarse. Many have found that foregoing shampoo altogether and washing using only honey, conditioner or even plain water is better for their hair than using shampoo.;
, This replenishes the oils that your hair loses when you shampoo your hair. No matter what kind of shampoo you use, you should condition your hair to keep it from getting too dried out. Choose a conditioner that does not contain silicones, which coat your hair. Silicones are added to conditioner to hold moisture in, but they can only be washed away using harsh sulfate shampoos, so it's better to avoid them. Look for conditioners that contain oils as well as aloe and other natural hydrators.


Deep condition your hair once a week by treating it with a deep conditioner product such as Moroccan hair oil, letting it soak in for several hours, then rinsing it out. This will protect your hair during the course of the week, helping it to stay hydrated.

Coconut oil or olive oil are both great natural deep conditioners that you might already have in your cabinet. Comb a teaspoon or so of oil through your hair, put on a shower cap for 2 hours, then wash out the oil. .
 Most commercial styling products are loaded with an array of chemicals that aren't very good for your hair. In addition to sulfates and silicones, you'll find alcohol, fragrances and other components that don't do you hair any favors, especially if your texture is coarse or curly. Toss out the hair spray, mousse, gel and other products with an inch-long list of ingredients that are hard to pronounce.


Switch to a natural hair spray and mousse. You can make your own hair styling products by soaking a tablespoon of flax seeds in a cup of water overnight. Drain out the seeds and reserve the liquid. Flax seeds contain a natural gelling agent that works well when you need a light hold.
Coconut oil and argan oil are useful for smoothing flyaways and giving your hair a sleek look.

