 Keeping your face clean is one of the best things you can do to prevent blind pimples from forming. That's because most pimples are caused by pores clogged with dirt, bacteria, and oil, all of which can be removed by using a daily facial wash. It's also important to properly wash your hands any time you will be touching your face, as unwashed hands could introduce new bacteria to your skin's pores.Choose a gentle cleanser. Opt for facial cleansers that are non-abrasive and do not contain alcohol.Wet your face with clean lukewarm water. Then use your fingertips (after washing your hands) to apply the cleanser. Do not scrub your skin, as this can cause irritation and damage.
Rinse with clean lukewarm water and pat your face dry with a clean, soft towel.
Wash twice daily and any time you sweat excessively.
 Properly hydrating your body can help improve your skin's elasticity.Though elasticity is not necessarily correlative with reduced acne, it can help improve your skin as part of an overall skin-care regimen.


Aim for eight glasses of water daily. Avoid consuming sugar, alcohol, and excess caffeine to help prevent dehydration.
 Avoid foods with high in sugar or fat, and reduce processed foods. Eat more healthy, whole foods like fruits and vegetables. There is no conclusive evidence, but studies have show links between acne and foods containing high levels of refined sugar, fat, or dairy.Foods that cause your blood sugar to rise (like sugar and carbohydrates) cause your body to release insulin, which may cause your oil glands to overproduce.A low-glycemic diet may help prevent acne., Stress is not likely to create new cases of acne, but if you're already prone to acne, stress can induce a bad flare up.Reducing your daily stress levels can help reduce acne outbreaks, including blind pimples.Try autogenic relaxation. This method of stress relief involves repeating calming words/phrases in your mind while focusing on your body's sensations. Try concentrating on your breathing or relaxing each limb in succession while reciting your calming mantra.
Use progressive muscle relaxation. This technique involves tensing, holding, and then relaxing each major muscle group in your body in succession. Start at your head and work your way down, or vice versa. Hold your tensed muscles for at least five seconds, then release the tenseness and let your muscles relax for 30 seconds before moving to the next muscle group.
Visualize a peaceful place/situation. Close your eyes and sit alone in a quiet spot. While picturing a relaxing scenario or place, try to engage your senses. Think about the feeling of sitting on the floor/ground/bed, the sounds of ocean waves (for example), and the smell of salt water wafting over you.
Meditate. Sit alone in a quiet place. You can sit with your legs folded under you, or you can sit upright with your feet firmly planted on the floor (whatever is most comfortable). Close your eyes and focus on your breathing. Breathe through your diaphragm (down near your stomach) rather than your chest. Take slow, deep breaths in and out, and try incorporating a mantra (if you're comfortable with it). Your mantra can be affirming (I love myself) or relaxing (I feel completely peaceful) - whatever will help you relax and sit in peace.