 On the game map, after initial launch of the game, you can identify the game modes by the icons or pictures inside each of the level buttons.



Clear the top. These levels have a spark as an icon.

Free the ghost. These levels have a face of a ghost as an icon.

Save the animals. These levels have a paw as an icon.

Defeat Morgana. These levels have a face of a girl as an icon.;
, You cannot just go on attacking the game without knowing what each level’s objectives are. Each of the different game modes has its own basic objective.



Clear the top. These levels’ main objective is to clear out a certain number of bubbles from the top row.

Free the ghost. These levels’ main objective is to clear out all the bubbles attached to the ghosts to free them.

Save the animals. These levels’ main objective is to clear out the bubbles surrounding the bubbles enclosing the animals in order to free them.

Defeat Morgana. These levels’ main objective is to destroy Morgana’s shields by shooting the same-colored bubbles to them.
 Aside from the main objective, each level sets a minimum score in order to beat it and move to the next level. Completing the objective alone will not guarantee winning the game. Keep this target score in mind while playing.


Go for huge combos to score bonus points.
 Click or tap on the level button to start the game. Click or tap the “Play” button on the pre-game screen to proceed.
 On the left part of the screen, you will see your current Score and Goal targets. Inside the Goal box, the number of targets is listed. The targets vary depending on the game mode and level.
 Start playing the game by shooting the colored bubbles. Bubbles are cleared when you hit your bubbles to similar-colored bubbles. Keep in mind the level’s objectives and score targets on every move., The bubbles you shoot follow the path indicated by the dotted line. You will know where your bubble will land by observing the direction of the dotted line. You can also bounce the bubble off the walls to reach those hard-to-reach spaces.
 The bubbles you shoot are limited. When the bubbles run out and you haven’t reached the goal, you will lose the game. The bubble count is clearly indicated beside the bubbles you’re shooting. Don’t be trigger-happy.
 For each turn, you have two bubbles to choose from. You can swap these bubbles by tapping or clicking on them if you prefer to use the other one, especially if the two bubbles are of different colors. Analyze which colored bubble you need before you shoot.
 Do not settle with just clearing out a few bubbles. Go for huge combos by clearing out a huge collection of same-colored bubbles with one shot. You can also get some chain reactions. You will be able to clear out the level faster and get huge points with that.
 On every level, you can equip up to three boosters. Use these sparingly as they can cost you real money. Use these only as a last resort and when you’re confident that you can complete the level. Otherwise, it will be wiser to just restart the game.


You can equip boosters just before you start the game (on the screen with the “Play” button). Select a booster to equip by tapping or clicking on it.

