 Studies show that significant alcohol intake can contribute to the development of breast cancer. Try to limit your alcohol intake to no more than one alcoholic drink per day., The carcinogenic properties of tobacco have been linked to a variety of different cancers, including breast cancer. If you smoke, talk to your doctor about the best way to reduce or eliminate your tobacco use., There is some evidence that your diet can affect your risk for breast cancer and other types of cancer. The Mediterranean Diet may be particularly helpful for reducing your risk of getting breast cancer. A good diet can also help you maintain a healthy weight, which is an important factor in breast cancer prevention.The Mediterranean Diet is recommended by the Mayo Clinic for breast and heart health. This diet focuses on plant based nutrition (fruits, vegetables, mixed nuts, and legumes), use of healthy fats (olive oil, canola oil), and a reduced intake of salt and red meat., Not only is exercise good for your body, but it helps you to maintain a healthy weight. Studies show that people who are physically active are less likely to be diagnosed with breast cancer. Try to exercise at least four hours a week., Avoid radiation-based medical imaging techniques, like X-rays, CT scans, or PET scans, unless you and your doctor feel that they are medically necessary. Exposure to radiation can put you at risk for breast cancer and other types of cancer., Long-term exposure to hormones in hormone replacement therapy or hormonal birth control has been linked to an increased risk of developing breast cancer. If you are taking or considering birth control pills or other forms of hormone-based therapy, talk to your doctor about the potential risks and benefits. Discuss how you can limit or reduce the dose and duration of your therapy in order to minimize the risk of developing breast cancer., Not all mothers are able to breastfeed, but if it works for you and your child, breastfeeding can be beneficial to your breast health. Breastfeeding has been shown to reduce the risk of developing breast cancer.