 Hearthstone is an online TCG (Trading Card Game) that enables you to challenge anyone in the world to a card duel. It works like most of the TCG games out there, but Hearthstone made it easier even for beginners to understand.;
, Winning the duel just means depleting your opponent’s health (HP) to zero.


Unlike other TCGs, depleting your deck does not make you lose the match. You just deal damage to yourself each turn you aren’t able to draw anything from your deck.
 Both players will have their own heroes to use plus access to their specific hero powers. These powers or abilities can be triggered by clicking the hero ability icon just right beside the player’s hero avatar.
 Hearthstone cards are divided into three categories: minions, spells, and weapons. These cards can be used when you have acquired enough mana equal to their usage cost.
 Attacking simply means clicking on your minion and directing its attack at your target. You can target an enemy minion or the hero directly. Spells also work the same way. Just choose the spell you want to cast and then choose the target you want to affect.
 The name of your hero is Thrall, and his power lies in totems. Mind you, these totems vary and sometimes that’s a good thing. There’s a 1/1 totem, a 0/2 taunt totem, a 0/2 healer totem, and a 0/2 spell buffer totem. With these, how can you have an empty board?


If you have nothing decent to play, just summon a totem. This still gives you at least board presence.
Some of the powerful Shaman minions have overload. Meaning, after activating these cards, some mana crystals will be locked on your next turn, so be aware of this and plan ahead before using that card with overload. Plan ahead by making sure you can still play a card despite the locked mana crystals on your next turn.
 Due to the nature of the Shaman’s hero ability, it is obvious that its play style will revolve around board dominance. Just keep your side of the board with minions and buff whenever possible.


Winning success of the Shaman relies heavily on what you draw on your first four turns. Hopefully, you have decent summons that could actually stay on the board so you can establish your dominance.
Mid-game and endgame are the parts where the Shaman really shines, so make sure you survive the first turns, and you’ll be in good shape.
 Your minions should be a mixture of normal minions and minions with overload. Remember, choose strong minions because you will have unlimited totems to cover for your early game minion supply.



Flame tongue Totem. This totem buffs adjacent minions with 2 attack. Ideally, you put this totem in between two of your other totems, and start causing damage.

Unbound Elemental. This is the most important Shaman overload minion since it buffs itself whenever you play a card with overload effect. Having a base HP of 4, it already has proven its value for just 3 mana cost.

Fire Elemental. This could be the strongest Shaman-exclusive minion without the downside of overload. It boasts a 6/5 stat and even deals 3 damage to a character. Really a momentum shifter once dropped to the board.
 Since you have a lot of overload cards, it is wise to use minions that actually benefit with this effect. If not, better to choose minions that will give you additional defense and boost on your spell damage capability.



Defender of Argus. This minion gives adjacent minions taunt and plus one for both attack and HP. This does two things: first, it makes your 0/2 totems with attacking power, and secondly, it makes use of other minions with taunt.

Azure Drake. This minion is actually effective not only to Shaman, but it seems to work well with any other class. This is so because not only does it give you an additional draw when it is summoned, but it also gives plus one on your spell damage (which you have a lot of).
 Shaman has lots of spells that stop threats instantly, and some deal damage to enemy characters. This balances Thrall’s minion dominance with enemy minion removal with these spells.



Earth Shock. This spell simply nullifies a minion’s effect and is very useful in removing taunt abilities.

Rockbiter Weapon. This spell deals 3 damage on any character. This can be very useful in removing low-health enemy minions, and it only costs one mana.

Lightning Bolt. Again, for just one mana, this spell does 3 damage to any character. The only downside is that it gives you one overload. The good thing is, if you have an Unbound Elemental on the board, it will be buffed by this spell.

Feral Spirit. This spell summons 2 minions with taunt. What a value for just 2 mana! This will make it hard for your enemy to charge you with attacks early in the game. Again, this gives an overload effect.

Lightning Storm. A very important spell if you need to wipe off minions on your opponent’s side of the board. This deals 3 to 4 damage to all enemy minions, and it gives you 2 overload.

Hex. Imagine you find yourself against a super powerful legendary, and all you’ve got on your side of the board are totems. What now? This is where the Hex saves the day! This nifty spell transforms any minion, including legendaries, to a 0/1 minion with taunt.
 Because of the strong normal minions the Shaman has, legendaries aren’t that necessary for Thrall to win. However, some legendaries will definitely help the Shaman deck enhance its damaging capability.



Bloodmage Thalnos. One of the low-cost legendaries around, this legendary boosts damage spells by one. Not only that, it has a death-rattle effect of drawing a card when it leaves the board.

Al’Akir the Windlord. Al’Akir is an exclusive legendary for the Shaman deck. It has the move Windfury, which allows it to attack twice. Did I mention that it has taunt, divine shield and charge effect, too? Now you know its value. Perfect for finishers!

