 Rinse off scabbed areas with clean water and a gentle cleanser. This can add moisture to promote healing. It can also clear away bacteria and dirt that may cause infections.Avoid using hydrogen peroxide to clean the scab because it may kill good cells that heal your skin.Wash as needed, but look for skin that is turning white. Oversaturated skin can cause skin tissue to break, leading to infection and minimizing healing potential.;
, Rubbing scabs dry can dislodge them, exposing the new skin beneath. It can also irritate fragile skin. Gently pat scabs and the surrounding skin with a clean towel. Your skin should feel dry while the scab remains slightly damp. This can prevent irritation or accidental ripping of the scab. It can also keep the scab slightly moist, which can speed up healing., Place a sterile dressing or bandage over the scab. This keeps the area moist, which aids healing. It can also minimize the risk of infection.Change the dressings if they are dirty, wet, or damaged., Dab a thin layer of an over-the-counter antibiotic cream such as Neosporin or Polysporin. This can moisturize your skin and kill bacteria. It may also prevent itching, irritation, or infection.Speak to your doctor before putting anything on a scab., Speak to your doctor about using a moisturizing cream or lotion on a scab. These may soothe irritation or itching. Regular application can also promote healing. Some moisturizing products your doctor might suggest include:Petroleum jelly
Vitamin E
Aloe vera, Consider giving your skin a break from its normal cleansing, moisturizing, and makeup routines. This can reduce irritation, keep the scab intact, and prevent itching. It can also speed up the healing process., Keep your fingers away from the scab. Scratching, picking or just touching it can introduce bacteria and cause infection. It can also hinder the healing process and cause scarring., A bit of redness is normal in a scar. Look for a cluster of symptoms that may indicate an infection of the scab or surrounding skin. Seek medical attention if you have multiple symptoms of an infection. These include:Persistent redness and pain
Streaks of redness
Foul odor
Mild fever
Pus drainage

, If you have symptoms of an infection or your scab isn’t healing, seek prompt medical attention. A doctor can determine if you have an infection or other damage of your scab. They can also formulate a treatment plan to heal your scab and the surrounding skin.