 Windows does not have a built-in screen recorder. Instead, you can download Screen Recorder. This is a free utility released on TechNet, Microsoft's official developer resource. You can download it here.


If you need a more robust recorder for video game streaming or any other use, click here for instructions on using the free Open Broadcast Software.;
, By default, the installation files will be extracted to C:\UtilityOnlineMarch09\. You can change this location before you extract the files.
 If you aren't sure which system you have, select 32-bit. You can learn how to find out which version of Windows you are using here.
 Download Windows Media Encoder when prompted. The Windows Media Encoder software will install and then the installer will close.
 After Windows Media Encoder installed, double-click ScreenRecorder again to start the Screen Recorder installation. Follow the prompts to install Screen Recorder.
 After it finishes installing, you can find it in the Programs section of your Start menu, or on your desktop. A small window will appear on your screen allowing you to set your recording options.
 By default, Screen Recorder will record your entire screen. Click the "FULL SCREEN" drop-down menu to select a specific window if you want to record a single application.


If you're recording your entire screen to share with others, make sure that there isn't any personal information displayed.
 While Screen Recorder doesn't record your computer's audio, you can use a microphone or webcam to record your voice.



Click here for instructions on connecting a microphone.
 Recording won't start yet.
 Clicking here will also allow you to choose where the video will be saved.
 If you are recording a specific window, the border of that window will begin flashing. If you're recording your full screen, minimize the Screen Recorder window to hide it while you record.


If you checked the "Audio" box, you can begin speaking into your microphone to record audio alongside the video.
 If you need to pause, you can click the "Pause" button. You can then click "Resume" to start recording again.
 Once you click stop, the file will be created in the location you specified.


You can edit the video once it's finished like you would any other clip.
The file will be in .wmv format, which can be played in most media players and can be easily uploaded to YouTube.

