 Invite them during a time you might see them anyway. Maybe you share a scheduled activity together? Otherwise, schedule an activity or meet up with them as is convenient. The more time they have, the more receptive they'll be to your approach.
 Don't invite guests in a way that makes them feel they have to say yes. Your party should be fun and totally accommodating. If they can't make it, they should feel a little disappointed -- not guilty!


For example, instead of saying "You're coming to my party next weekend, right?", say something like "Hey *guest's name*, I'm having a party next weekend. I'd love it if you could come!"

, Much like with a phone invitation, it is easy to forget details in the heat of a personal conversation/invitation. Make sure to cover where and when it is, what the occasion is, and if they need to bring anything.


To avoid guests forgetting information, you can hand out a physical invitation as well. This doesn't have to be a tried-and-true invite so much as a reminder.
Short of that, you can offer to write information down or text it to their phone, etc.
 You can raise interest for your party with an in-person invitation. This can be especially effective in a group setting. The more excited you are about it and the more you can build it up with detail, the less they'll be likely to forget and the more likely they are to feed off your excitement and get excited, too.


Describe what your party will be like, and how excited you are. You can say something like "I'm really looking forward to it; it's going to be great!" You can also use tone and body language in a personal conversation for added effect.
If you don’t have the party’s details nailed down, open them up for suggestions by your guests. Guests are much more likely to come if they had a hand in the creation of your party.
 Be discreet when you're doling out your in-person invitations. Make sure only the people you want invited are hearing the discussion.


If it's an issue, tell them that you can only have so many people at the party. Because of that, you need them to keep word on the down-low. They'll feel special for making the VIP list!

