 These are memory tools that help you recall things such as names, dates, and facts through turning that information into a memorable rhyme, word, or sentence. For instance, you can remember the names of the Great Lakes (Huron, Ontario, Michigan, Erie, and Superior) by remembering the word HOMES. The first letter of the name of each lake is used to create that new word.Another example of a common mnemonic is the name “Roy G. Biv,” which correlates with the colors of the rainbow: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet.Be creative. Use the first letter of a group of words you’re trying to remember and make a silly sentence or phrase with words that start with the same letters.
 Rhymes are a type of mnemonic device that use audio (sound) information to help remember things. In other words, the rhymes are easily linked together for us by their sound. Think about this classic rhyme: “In 1492, Columbus sailed the ocean blue.” Try to organize the information or list of words you’re trying to remember into a rhyme.
 Mind maps are diagrams or pictures you can create to help you visually organize information. They help show relationships between pieces of information so you can better understand the connections between different concepts or groups of data. By better understanding how different ideas connect together, you can better remember them and recall them at test time.Place the main idea in the center of your mind map, and use connected branches to add related information.
You can create a mind map on paper, or there are computer tools to help you create them digitally.
 Some researchers believe that the act of chewing gum actually allows more oxygen into your brain, which helps you concentrate better. Furthermore, if you chew a particular flavor of gum while studying, such as peppermint, you may be able to better remember information you studied if you also chew that gum during your test., Smells are often associated with memories, so you can use this to help you remember what you’re studying.Try this experiment: smell a perfume or scent while studying. Then, smell the same scent right before your exam. You may be able to better recall the information you studied.

