 It is important to know exactly how much water you are using. This will allow you to calculate how much energy was used to heat the water. Use a graduated cylinder to accurately measure 100 milliliters (3.4  fl oz) of water for the experiment. Record this amount in a notebook., A soda can will conduct heat more efficiently than a glass cylinder. Be careful not to spill any of the water. It is important that the amount of water you recorded is correct., Since heat rises, you will get the most heat transfer if the can is placed directly over the fuel source. Use a stand or build a simple apparatus of some kind to hold the can a few inches above the fuel source. Use metal to hold the can in place.Materials like wood or plastic might melt or catch fire.
 Without the initial temperature of the water, you will be unable to know how much heat was absorbed. Put a thermometer into the water and take a reading. Write down the reading so that your remember it exactly.

For example, your initial reading might be 20 °C (68 °F). It is best to take the measurement in Celsius, as this will simplify your math later on.
 Use a match or grill lighter to ignite the fuel. Common fuels to test include peanut oil, vegetable oil, methanol, or ethanol. This step should be done by or with a supervising adult.Wear gloves and goggles to protect your eyes and hands.
 After all of the fuel has burned, or you extinguish it, you will need a second temperature reading. Use the same thermometer and insert it into the water. Record the final temperature for use in calculating the energy released by burning the fuel.

Your final reading should be higher than your initial reading. For example, it might be around 24 °C (75 °F), depending on your fuel.
 Subtract the initial temperature from the final temperature. This will tell you how much the water temperature was changed by the burning fuel underneath. Convert this number to Celsius if you your measurements were not in Celsius.

You can convert a number from Fahrenheit to Celsius by using the equation C=(F−32)x5/9{\displaystyle C=(F-32)x5/9} where C is the temperature in Celsius and F is the temperature in Fahrenheit.

An example is 24 °C (75.2 °F) - 20 degrees Celsius = 4 degrees Celsius.
 The specific heat of water is the amount of heat it takes to raise the temperature of one gram of water by one degree Celsius. For water, the specific heat is one calorie per gram Celsius. That means it takes one calorie to heat one gram of water by one degree Celsius.The unit for specific heat is written as 1 calorie / (gram x degrees Celsius).

Multiplying this by the temperature difference yields 4 °C (39.2 °F) x 1 calorie / (gram x degree Celsius) = 4 calories / gram.
 Now, multiply the product of the heat difference and specific heat by the amount of water you used. One milliliter of water is equal to one gram of water. Make sure you are using the unit grams.This will yield your energetic release. 4 calories / gram x 100 grams (3.5 oz) = 400 calories.
 While some of the heat released is going directly up and into the water, your system is not perfect. Some heat will be lost to the surrounding air. A small amount of heat will also be absorbed by the can itself. There is little that can be done to compensate for the heat loss. If you are trying to do highly precise experiments, you may invest in a commercial calorimeter, but even then you will not be one hundred percent efficient.