 You need to examine the topography of the land and do an inventory of the existing features and objects that you can use as obstacles, cover, vantage points, hiding spots, observation points and team bases.;
, If possible, you can take a birds eye view picture overlooking the whole land. If not, you can make a sketch drawing of the map.
 This could include natural features like a ditch or a hill, trees or walls, rocks or old junk parts of vehicles.
 Keep an eye open for and note down potential lookouts, trap locations, obstacles and observation points.
, Bringing a ruler and a laser rangefinder can be very useful while surveying.
, There may be signs of wild animal tracks, nests and prints, poisonous plants or vegetation with thorns that you may have to remove, or put boundaries.
 You may have old furniture like an entertainment center that is too small for your new flat screen filling space in your garage, leftover fence boards, fence posts or other materials staked in your yard or patio.
 Many people post on some sites like [[Give Stuff Away on Craigslist| Craigslist to give away a wide variety of items, materials, and tools that you can use for your build. There are some people that would be happy to drive up to your location and haul topsoil, concrete chunks, and chopped tree logs for you to construct your airsoft course at no cost to you.
 Reusing automotive waste that recycling centers won't take is a good way of helping reduce waste.
 You will need good quality and solid beams and boards to safely construct your bunkers and towers.


Have team and community members bring some tools for the build. You will be using a jigsaw to cut and shape the plywood boards to make interesting funny, artistic, and creative decorations, walls, and decoy targets through out the course.
Rent digging and other heavy equipment.
,,,,,,, You can paint certain locations, segments, and landmarks a different color. This way the teams can communicate and use strategy by being able to locate and navigate around.
 You can place motor driven Garage/Gate openers walls to change the layout of the field and create more challenge for players.



Place motion sensors at strategic places that activate doors, booby-traps, Supply-crate-drops with extra ammo. You can find a variety of different circuits or apparatus in a hardware store or salvage from automobiles or home security lamps.
Connect light fixtures with a motion sensor to electric power supply and screw in an adapter to the light bulb socket to power the motors, sirens, or the air-soft turret gun.

Most electrical connections and hardware assembly can be safely done by someone with basic electrical and construction experience.




Use compressed air If there is no electrical power available.

Use simple 2 gallon compressed air tanks (66 -125 PSI) or even old inflated tires (25-35 PSI) which have more air capacity and will be enough even at lower pressures.


Run air hoses or piping underground and place pressure activated valves under switch-plates.
Point a paint-gun or air-soft cannon directly on the path of the switch-plates.



Install laser and reflectors, used on some convenience stores entrances, at strategic places as trip-lines.

Every time the laser is triggered it will beep once, this will count as one team member in that location.



