 You will most likely need it to disassemble and reassemble various parts. Also verify that your model is equipped with a timing chain and not a timing belt. These two parts perform the same task, but replacing them can be quite different. This procedure is only for replacing a timing chain.;
, Having your engine clean allows you to better locate any leaks or worn parts. It also makes the job less messy overall. Never clean or work on your engine while it is hot.Keep in mind that the degreaser and oils you are washing off of your engine can kill your grass and pose an environmental threat. This should be done somewhere that is properly set up to drain and filter the chemicals used., This may be stamped directly on the engine (either on the cylinder head, valve covers, or intake manifold) and sometimes listed in the owner’s manual specifications.You can also use a service manual to determine firing order.This will be necessary to know because later you will need to check your number one cylinder (the one that fires first in the firing order).
 You should not work on your engine with the battery plugged in. First remove the ground cable (negative terminal) and then remove the positive terminal.
 This will allow the coolant to be drained from the system.
 The drain cock is located near the bottom of the radiator and is a plastic screw or pull cap that you can release. Engine coolant is a mix of water and antifreeze. It is very toxic and should be stored in a plastic container with a screw-on cap. An old antifreeze bottle is ideal., Trace the radiator hoses from the radiator back to the engine. Squeeze the hose clamps with pliers and slide them back onto the hose. Wiggle the hose to break it free and move it out of the way.


There is no need to remove the radiator. The hoses need to be loosened and the coolant drained for the purpose of removing the water pump in a later step.
 This can usually be found posted underneath the hood of your car or in your service manual for serpentine belts (S-belts). If you drive a much older car, you may have a multi-belt design (V-belt). Either way, if you cannot find a routing diagram you should take a picture or draw one before removing the belt(s).
 For serpentine belts this is done by compressing the spring loaded tensioner. Some tensioners can be compressed with simple hand tools such as a wrench, and others may require a special tool. V-belts can be removed by adjusting the position of one of their pulleys to release tension.
 Once tension is released, the belt should slide off of the other pulleys easily.
 If your model has heater hoses attached to the water pump, loosen the hose clamps with a screwdriver and slide them back onto the hose.Wiggle the hose and pull it off of the water pump.
 Take out any bolts that hold the water pump to the engine. Usually there are three to five bolts to remove. Once the bolts are removed, you should be able to pull the pump off with your hands., Remove the bolt and washer in the center of the pulley. Put the bolt partially back in the bolt hole and use a harmonic balancer removal tool. The tool should not be a jaw type tool, but instead should apply all of the removal force to the center of the assembly. This protects the rubber ring in the harmonic balancer., Unbolt the timing chain cover from the engine block. Note that the bolts are different lengths so have a system in place to remember which bolt goes where when you put the cover back on. One good method is to put them back into their proper holes in the timing chain cover and set it off to the side.
 These gears are connected by the timing chain so that the position of the piston (connected to the crankshaft) correlates directly to the opening of the fuel and exhaust valves (operated by the camshaft) to keep your engine running smoothly. These gears should each be marked to help you reference their relative position.
 These links are brighter than the other links and are used to align your engine.
 To get your engine to top dead center, line the bright links on the timing chain up with the marks on your camshaft and crankshaft gears.Remember that the crankshaft can be set to top dead center both on the compression and exhaust strokes of the piston.You want top dead center for the compression stroke, so you can insert

, This can be done by loosening the tension gear with a wrench or ratchet. Next slide the chain off of the gears.
 Using a little gear oil now will help to ensure that your chain and gear perform optimally for as long as possible.
 You want the bright links on the new chain to line up exactly with the marks on the gears just like the old chain did. This will allow you to locate top dead center if you ever need to.
 Some chains are tensioned by adjusting either the crankshaft gear or the camshaft gear, while others have an automatic tensioner. This will vary by make and model of your car. The important thing is to make sure that your timing belt is as tight as it should be.
 This is the rubber seal around the crankshaft and the timing cover.
 The seal should be seated into the correct place on the timing cover. It will seal when the cover is bolted onto the engine.
 It is necessary to coat the seal with oil to ensure proper functioning when the seal is compressed., The bolts are varying lengths. Remember the system you set up to keep track of which bolts went where and be sure to use the proper bolt in the proper location.
 There is only the one bolt in the center that fastens the harmonic balancer into place. Check you owner’s manual or service guide for proper torque specifications.
 Replace the bolts that fasten the water pump to the engine block.
 If you removed heater hoses from your water pump, you will need to slide them back onto the water pump. Once the hose is on the pump you can squeeze down the hose clamp with pliers and slide it up over where the hose and pump connect. If the clamp has a tightening screw, tighten it with a screwdriver. This will secure the hose to the pump.
 If the lower radiator hose is still removed or if you removed the upper hose for any reason, put them back on the radiator now. Once the hose has been slid onto the radiator, use a pair of pliers to move the clamps up the hose to the place where the hose and the radiator meet. This will fasten the hose to the radiator.
 If your coolant looks dirty or if it has been more than a year since you last changed the coolant in your vehicle, use new coolant. Dilute the coolant as specified in your owner’s manual or service guide and fill to the mark that says “cool” or “cold” on the tank. If your coolant is clean and relatively new, you can pour the old coolant back into your radiator.
 You should use the routing diagram stamped on your hood or printed in your owner’s manual to make sure that the belt is run properly. Pulleys with grooves are intended to meet the grooved side of the belt, but some flat pulleys are meant to be driven by the flat backside of the belt., This can be done by releasing the tensioner in a serpentine design. If you are working with a V-belt design then you will need to tension the belt manually. A good rule of thumb is that the belt should have a maximum of 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) of movement in the middle of the belt's longest run.Check your vehicle manual for more information. If in doubt, consult a mechanic.
 You do not want to start your engine without all of the appropriate accessories hooked up. Take a second look over everything and make sure that all is well before moving on.
 Connect the positive cable first, and then connect the ground cable.
 Turn the key and start the engine.
 Look under your hood and under your car to make sure that no fluid is dripping or leaking. If you are leaking coolant, check to make sure all hoses are connected properly to the radiator and water pump. If you are leaking oil you might have to replace the crankshaft seal again.
 This ensures that all cylinders are firing at the correct time and that the valves are opening and closing properly in relation to the piston’s position.

