 All phlebotomy training schools require that students are 18 years of age and have received their high school diploma or General Educational Development (GED) certificate. Even positions that do not require phlebotomy school do require a high school diploma.Classes in the biological sciences will be useful for a phlebotomist. If possible, take anatomy classes to learn more about the workings of the human body.
If you did not complete your high school diploma, you can get your GED. This is an accepted equivalency for schools and jobs.
Some people are hired as a phlebotomist and trained on the job. Many offices employing phlebotomists will not hire you even for these positions without a high school diploma.;
, Most phlebotomy training schools are one year programs. You can take your classes usually at a technical or community college.If you research local community or technical colleges near you, it's likely that one will offer a phlebotomy program. Since you need hands-on experience taking blood, you will not find online only programs, though some may allow you to take non-lab hours online.
Some programs offer night classes. This may be especially useful if you're working at the same time.
 The top accreditation agency for phlebotomy is the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences. This will guarantee that your certification program will be useful wherever you move, since each state has slightly different educational requirements.


Your program should be accredited. You will be able to learn the best practices for the field so you are prepared for your job as a phlebotomist when you start.
 When you're applying to a phlebotomy training program, you'll need to submit an application, transcripts, recommendation letters, and a short essay. Your essay should tell the program why you want to be a phlebotomist.Certain programs may have different requirements, but, in general, these are what you will need to complete your application.


You will need to obtain transcripts from your high school or GED equivalent. It may also be a good idea to talk to high school teachers, career counselors, or former and current bosses for recommendation letters.
You'll also need to write a short essay about why you want to be a phlebotomist. When writing the essay, draw on any personal and professional experience you have working in the health care industry.
 Your training program will give you background in anatomy as well as blood collection, storage, and safety. You will also be doing plenty of lab work.You will learn both biological and procedural knowledge in your courses about how to draw and store blood properly. This will help prepare you to work as a phlebotomist.
Some programs can last significantly more or less time. Research each school to see how long their program is and which fits best into your time frame.
 Programs should offer a practicum along with classroom training. You may be required to get an internship or apprenticeship to complete your work experience hours.You will need work experience hours to qualify for additional certification. While certification is not always required, it does usually provide additional opportunities and salary.
In addition to your work experience, you'll also need to complete at least 100 successful venipunctures. This shows you are able to successfully draw blood from human subjects.
 Depending on the type of certification you want, there are different requirements. You'll need to meet all of their requirements before becoming a certified phlebotomy technician.Requirements differ depending on the specific certification, but the basics usually include high school graduate or GED, 20 hours of phlebotomy courses, and certificate of completion of an accredited phlebotomy training program.
Each certification is sponsored by a different agency. Make sure that agency is the best one for gaining licensing from your state.
 Some states do not require licensing for phlebotomists, but all employers will look for certification. Gaining certification will help you get a job and advance your career.You can obtain the follow certifications as a phlebotomist: Certified Phlebotomy Technician (CPT), Phlebotomy Technician (ASCP), Registered Phlebotomy Technician (RPT), and National Certified Phlebotomy Technician (NCPT). A CPT is the industry standard and comes in five different grades, each of which requires additional punctures and hours of advanced classes. ASCAP may be most useful for those working in laboratories. The RPT certification requires an exam, and NCPT requires additional work experience.
There are a variety of organizations that sponsor these certifications. These organizations include the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences, the American Society of Clinical Pathologists, American Association of Medical Personnel, American Medical Technologists, and the American Certification Agency for Healthcare Professionals.
 Some states require that any lab technician passes a license exam. Search for your state's requirements at your state's business or licensing bureau through the Secretary of State's office.At present, only California, Nevada, Louisiana, and Washington require all phlebotomists to be certified and licensed. However, being certified is always a good career move.Being certified and licensed allows you to offer better credentials, might allow you for great pay advances, and demonstrates that you're willing to go above and beyond for your career.
 Phlebotomists work a little bit of everywhere in the health care industry. Health care and medical offices always need to take blood, so it's a good place to start your job search.You can start your job search online. Try looking for health care or medical offices in your area.
It may also be a good idea to visit some local medical offices. Even if they don't have any openings, they may be able to point you towards some at other locations.
 These institutions have phlebotomists on hand to take blood for tests and other purposes. You can usually find these jobs looking on the hospital's or clinic's website.


Hospitals constantly need phlebotomists. The initial application process can usually be done entirely online.
Clinics also need phlebotomists. They may need to test blood there or take blood to send for additional tests elsewhere.
 Plasma businesses may also be looking for certified phlebotomists. Any offices that take blood as their primary business may be on the lookout for new phlebotomists.Offices such as the Red Cross are a great place to start. They take blood for donations everywhere and can also be a good company to work with.
Plasma donation centers also take a lot of blood. Depending on the center, you may need additional training or certification.

