 When you’re choosing a color scheme for your bedroom, the right shades can instantly make the space more calm and restful. Go with cool, soothing colors, such as blue, green, and light shades of purple. You can paint the walls in one of those shades, or go with a neutral wall color, such as white, and incorporate the soothing color in bedding, window treatments, rugs, and other accessories.Extremely pale shades of blue on the wall can sometimes make a room feel cold, so it’s best to use more saturated shades, such as robin’s egg, periwinkle, turquoise, or cerulean.
If you want to use a light blue on the walls of your bedroom, it helps to incorporate accessories in warm shades, such as red, orange, or yellow, to help make the room feel more inviting.
Green is considered the most restful color for the eyes, so it’s not only a good choice for the bedroom, but a family room, living room, or any room that you want to unwind in.
For the bedroom, light purples such as lilac and lavender are the best options.;
, In rooms where you are likely to entertain guests, such as the living room, dining room, and kitchen, it’s best to decorate with warm, vivid colors that make the space more inviting. Use shades such as red, orange, and yellow to liven up these rooms, whether as the main shade in the color scheme or as an accent shade for accessories.A bright fire engine red may be too stimulating for a wall color, so consider deeper, richer shades, such as brick, crimson, or maroon.
When it comes to orange, opt for muted shades such as terracotta or rust. Light shades such as peach also work well.
Yellow is best used as a accent color because studies have shown that large amounts of it can cause feelings of frustration and anger. If you want to use it for a wall color, go with a pale, soft shade rather than a bright yellow.
 If you choose a warm, bright color for the walls that makes a room too lively, you can tone it down by incorporating neutrals. Shades like white, gray, brown, and black can help ground a color scheme, so it feels more relaxed. Use neutral shades for the furniture, window treatments, rugs, and other accessories, or even on the walls when you want to use bolder colors for the accessories.When in doubt, it’s best to go with a neutral shade on the walls. White is an obvious choice, but ivory, beige, and pale gray work well too.
Black is best used in limited doses when decorating.
If you go for an all-neutral color scheme and the room feels too sedate or calm, you can liven it up by incorporating accessories in bold, bright colors, such as red, cobalt, or pink.
 Instead of relying on artificial lights to brighten your home, take advantage of the natural light in a room whenever possible because it can help boost your energy. Keep your windows uncovered, or use sheer curtains that allow the natural light to filter in. Arrange the furniture in the room so the most used pieces receive the most sunlight.Natural light will reflect throughout a room more easily if the walls are painted a light color.
If there are heavy trees or shrubs outside the windows around your home, you may want to trim them to make it easier for the light to get in.
 You’ll be able to control the mood in a room more easily if the lights are connected to dimmer switches. They allow you to brighten and dim the lights easily, so you can turn them up when you’re reading or working, and dim them when you want to relax., In rooms where you want a calm, restful vibe, such as the bedroom, it helps to use candles. You can pair them with lamps or ceiling fixtures that have low wattage bulbs if you need more lighting for tasks, but placing just two or three candles throughout the room can create a more relaxing mood.If you’re concerned about candles being a fire hazard, use flameless, battery-operated candles that mimic the soft light of traditional candles.
 When you’re planning a furniture arrangement, you should start by determining the room’s focal point so you can position the furniture around it. It may be an architectural feature, such as a fireplace or a large window with a striking view, or another item, such as the television or a piece of artwork . Once you identify the focal point, place the furniture around it to help make the room feel more cohesive.For example, in a living room, you’ll place the sofa and arm chairs so they’re oriented around the focal point. In your bedroom, you’ll typically place the bed opposite the focal point.
 Furniture with sharp corners can make people feel edgy and uncomfortable. On the other hand, pieces that have curves and rounded edges promote a feeling of contentment. All of your furniture doesn’t have to be rounded, but it helps to choose rounded edges for the main pieces.For example, in the living room, opt for a coffee table and/or a sofa that has rounded edges.
If your main piece furniture has sharp edges, pair it with rounded items to balance it out. For example, if your dining room table has sharp corners, decorate it with a round vase. If your sofa has hard lines, add rounded throw pillows to it.
 You can improve the mood of a room simply by rearranging the furniture to make it more convenient. When you’re planning a sitting area, make sure that there’s a table within reach to place a drink or other item. Be sure that there’s enough clearance around furniture items for people to walk through the room too.When you’re trying to figure out your furniture arrangement, start by deciding where the largest piece will go. For example, find a spot for the bed in your bedroom or the couch in your living room first. It will be easier to decide where to place secondary items once you know where the main piece will be.
Make sure the room’s lighting is conveniently arranged as well. For example, make sure there’s an overhead light or lamp near the sofa so you can read comfortably.
When it comes to traffic routes through a room, aim for a lane that’s 30 to 48 inches (76 to 122 cm) wide for main paths and 24 inches (61 cm) for secondary paths., Chances are you’re going to feel more anxious and uncomfortable in a room that’s cluttered and messy. To create a calmer space, make sure that there are plenty of storage options in your home to keep it as neat and organized as possible. For example, you may want to add hooks beside the door where you can hang jackets, bags, and other outerwear so they’re not tossed all over the room.Place a tray on a table near the door where you can keep your keys, sunglasses, phone, and other items that you might need on your way out the door. It’s also a good idea to have a basket for the mail and a trash can nearby so you can immediately toss junk mail when you get it.
If scattered shoes are a problem in your home, add a shoe cubby where you can neatly store them.
You can find some furniture pieces that provide hidden storage, such as an ottoman with a lid that lifts off. They’re ideal for tucking away items that you don’t want lying around and cluttering a room.
It helps to create a weekly cleaning and organizing schedule, so you don’t let your home get too messy or cluttered before making changes.
 Research has shown that having plants in your home can help reduce stress and improve your concentration, so they’re an ideal finishing touch to the decor of any room. In a large space, such as a living room, you can add a potted tree to a free corner. In a small space, opt for a potted plant that you can place on a table or bookcase.If you don’t have a green thumb, some easy-to-care-for potted plants include aloe vera, peace lily, spider plant, and snake plant. They’re also effective in purifying the air, so they’re ideal additions to your home.
 It makes sense that the more personal touches that you add to your decor, the more comfortable you’ll feel in your home. Decorate your walls and shelves with photos of family and friends, souvenirs from your travels, and your favorite collectibles. Use any items that help you make the space really feel like yours.