 After brushing the hair, part it in the middle. The part only needs to go from the hairline to the crown of your head., Choose a side to begin. Take a small section of hair near the face and separate it from the rest of your hair. Divide this into three equal strands. Make the foundation braid with a traditional braid - cross the right strand over the middle, and then cross the left strand over the middle.









These braids will be small strands that curve around the back of the head to meet in the middle. You are not trying to braid all of your hair into the strands.
An alternate way to do this same style is to create two larger braids. This will give a slightly different look to the style. Follow the same steps, but add more hair. The larger braids will angle downwards more than the smaller braids, which means they will meet just underneath the crown instead of in the middle of the head.When you start the braid, angle the braid away from the face, towards the back of the head. Don't angle it down.
 Add a small section of hair to the right strand, then cross the now larger strand over the middle. Add a small section of hair to the left strand, then cross the now larger strand over the middle. Continue this along the curve of the head.









Stop the braid once you get to the middle of the head. Secure with a clip or a hair tie.
 Repeat steps 2 and 3 on the other side of the hair. The two strands should meet in the middle of the back of your head. They should be approximately the same size.









The braids are forming a braided half-ponytail. Most of your hair will be loose.
 Take the clips or hair ties from the two sides of the half ponytail. Add these two strands together.
 With the two French braids along your head, you can now style as you wish. You can secure the half ponytail with a clip or hair tie for a stylish half-up do. You can also pull the hair into a ponytail. If you want to add a bit of sophisticated style, wrap the ponytail into a bun and secure with bobby pins.









If you style into a ponytail or bun, the two French braids will rest just above the ponytail or bun.

