 Hair oils are good for your hair for a variety of reasons -- they help moisturize, boost shine, add antioxidants, and sometimes offer sun protection. But many natural oils also have a pleasant scent so they perfume the hair with a fragrance that can last all day when you apply them .Some oils, such as monoi oil, have a lovely scent on their own. Other oils are mixed together in a blend to create a lovely fragrance.
No matter how good it smells, don’t over-apply any hair oil. It can weigh down your hair and make it appear greasy. Add 1 to 3 drops to your palm, rub your hands together to spread the oil, and apply it to your hair. Only add more oil if your hair is extremely thick or coarse.
Unless you have extremely dry or damaged hair, you shouldn’t apply the oil at your roots. Stop 3- to 4-inches (7.5- to 10-cm) away from your scalp to keep your hair from looking greasy.
If you have very fine, greasy hair, you may only want to apply the oil to the ends of your hair.
 Essential oils are known for their delicious fragrances, which is why they’re often used in aromatherapy. That makes them an ideal option if you want to create a natural, homemade hair perfume. Choose your favorite essential oil and add 5 drops to 2 cups (473 ml) of water and 2 tablespoons (27 g) of melted coconut oil in a spray bottle. Shake well and apply it to your hair.Use a glass spray bottle for the spray. Essential oils can degrade in plastic containers.
You can substitute another oil, such as olive, for the coconut oil. The essential oil won’t disperse evenly throughout the water without a carrier oil.
Not sure what essential oil to use? Ylang-ylang, lemon, jasmine, lavender, bergamont, and sandalwood are good options.
Be sure to hold the bottle at least 8-inches (20-cm) from your hair when you spray it.
 Floral waters, or hydrolates, are made by distilling plants to extract their natural oils into water for a light but concentrated fragrance. You can mist a floral water in your favorite scent over your hair whenever you want to perfume it.You can usually find floral waters at natural beauty stores and online retailers.
Rose water is probably the most common floral water. It offers a very delicate, feminine fragrance.
Orange blossom water, mint water, and rosemary water also have pleasant fragrances that work well for the hair.
Hold the bottle about 8- to 10-inches (20- to 25-cm) away from your hair when you mist it.

