 Choose a needle and thread according to the item you are trying to repair. If you are working with a delicate fabric such as chiffon, lace, or silk, choose a thin needle and correspondingly thin thread. If you are working with a heavier fabric, such as denim or canvas, you will need a thick needle and thick thread. If the seam will be visible, be sure to choose a color corresponding to the surrounding fabric., Loop the thread through the eye of your needle. If the edge of the thread is frayed or otherwise impaired, trim back until the thread is smooth with a blunt end. If necessary, wet the end of the thread before passing through the head of the needle.You can either loop a single piece of thread through the eye of the needle, or two ends of the thread to create a thicker sewing tool. As can be expected, a thicker gathering of thread will be better for heavy-duty fabrics.
 When measuring the amount of thread to use, double the length of the seam, and add another inch or two. While you may wind up with too much thread, it is far better to have too much thread than to have too little, as you may be able to see where your stitch starts and stops in the middle of the torn area., Different stitches work well for different fabrics and problems. A simple whip stitch is wonderful for delicate fabric, while a running stitch will do well with a sturdy fabric. If you are dealing with an exposed seam, a backstitch will provide a discreet means of repair.If you are a beginner, a running stitch is likely to be the easiest option, as it involves going in a single, straight line.
A backstitch is another good beginner option. To backstitch, push your needle through the fabric, pull your thread all the way through, and push your needle up through the bottom of the fabric ¼ an inch (.635 cm), before placing your needle at your starting point and pulling the thread all the way through again. Continue this process to create a clean backstitch.
 Once you’ve chosen your stitch, begin to repair your seam, holding the fabric taut to prevent wrinkling or snagging. Try to keep your stitches as even and uniform as possible, favoring a tighter stitch rather than a loose one. While a loose stitch will be faster and easier, you run the risk of the repaired seam weakening and reopening quickly., Once you have reached the edge of the torn seam, tie a firm knot to prevent further fraying and damage. If your knot is too loose, your newly-repaired seam may begin to unravel, while a tight knot may cause snagging. Smooth the fabric to make sure there are no wrinkles or problems, then tie a knot to lie flush against the fabric.


Tying the knot will be easier if you keep the needle intact and pull the needle through the loop you’ve made for your knot. This is especially true if you have only an inch or so of extra thread.
 Turning the fabric right-side-out, gently pull apart the area you’ve mended, making sure there are no ripples, remaining holes, or snags. If you do find a snag, use a seam-ripper to remove your thread, and start again.While you do want to check to make sure your seam is solid, avoid yanking on the seam, as this can damage even the most well-constructed item of clothing.
 Choose the color that best suits your seam, whether it is visible or not. Although the color may not seem important initially, if the fabric in question is even a tiny bit sheer, a dark or light thread will be immediately visible. Choose a color as close to the fabric or existing thread as possible.
 New and old sewing machines come with a wide array of settings, ranging from the length of a stitch to the type of stitch being used. Consult your machine’s manufacturer’s booklet or instruction manual to determine how to choose a setting, and which setting is the optimal setting for your fabric., Place the fabric in need of repair below the foot, beginning ¼-½ inch in front of the torn seam. If possible, line the existing thread up with the machine’s needle to keep the appearance of the seam uniform.
 Gently press down on the machine’s pedal, feeding your fabric through the machine carefully and slowly. Again, though you may think it is best to get the job done quickly, the needle could snag even a thick fabric if it is passed through too quickly. Take your time.


Remove your pins as you go, making sure they do not pass beneath the machine’s needle. Although it could skip over the pin, you run the risk of breaking the needle when it hits the pin.
 Once you have reached the end of the tear, go back over your fabric to close the thread loop. Once you have done that, lift the foot, and remove the fabric from beneath the foot.½ an inch (1.27 cm) is more than enough space. Going over any more of the fabric may result in accidentally ripping up your repaired stitches.
 Snip the thread from the bobbin and needle, and trim any excess fabric or thread from the newly-mended area. If there are frayed edged, be sure to trim those too, as leaving a frayed edge behind could result in additional fraying.Be sure to remove your fabric from the machine slowly; you must cut the thread from the bobbin and needle before trimming up any leftover thread.

