 If you are stopped by police while you're in your car or otherwise have time before they get too close to you (such as before you go into an area known to be frequented by cops), take a second to remove your hat and sunglasses if you are wearing them. If the police are able to see your eyes, they will be much less nervous. However, if the police are already looking at you or next to you, this is inadvisable as the movement will make them nervous.


Again, you should only do this if you have not been seen. If you do this and the cop sees you, they may think you are going for a gun.
 Whether you're in a car or on the street, you need to make your hands very visible to the officer. If you're in a car, put them up on the windowsill. If you're on the street, hold them slightly up and out from your body. This will also reduce the officer's tension.
 Do not reach for anything or move around any more than you absolutely have to. Certainly do not make any sudden movements, as this can be taken as a sign of reaching for a weapon.
 Do not try to argue with the officer and don't let yourself be visibly angry. Even if you feel your rights are being violated, which they very well could be, don't take that up with them. Lawyer up when the confrontation is over and sue them, but absolutely do not get into a fight with them there.
 Speak with officers slowly, calmly, and with an even tone (don't yell at them). This will help show that you are not hostile and will help keep them from panicking. Yes, the burden should be on them to keep their cool, but thinking about what you should've done isn't going to keep you from getting shot.
 If they tell you to stop, stop. If they tell you to get out of the car, get out of the car. If they tell you to put your hands on the wall, put your hands on the wall. Like we said, the time for standing up for your rights is later, not now. All it takes is one overly stressed cop and you're dead.
 Every time you do need to move, tell the officer what you're doing. Let them know why you're moving, where you're moving to, and make those movements slowly. Say these things to them calmly. This will, again, keep them from thinking you are reaching for a weapon.

