 Buy polymer clay such as Fimo or Premo at any craft store. Lay down a piece of wax paper on your work surface — you don't want raw clay touching surfaces you may later use for food.


Wear gloves. Some clay colors can slightly stain your hands. Alternatively, coat your hands lightly with hand cream to make cleaning up easier.
 A craft knife will make good straight, thin cuts for the cubes and is recommended over a regular knife. Make sure that all eight structures have a flat, stable base.
 Elongate another piece of clay into a rectangle that is slightly thinner and taller than the eight cubes. This will hold the shamash, or helper candle used to light the eight main lights.
 Wrap a small amount of aluminum foil around the base of a small, thin Hanukkah candle. This covering will prevent the candle from sticking to the clay as you make candle holes.
 Push this wrapped candle into the top center of each of the nine clay cubes to create the hole to hold the candle. Make this hole of equal width, and deep enough to securely hold the candle.


Remove the candle but leave the foil intact, as you'll need it again later.
 Line up four of the cubes in a row. Keep them flat on the work surface. Firmly press four of them together one by one to create a solid unit. You should now have one straight row of cubes of equal height, displaying four equally-spaced holes on top.


Smooth the edges, making sure that this structure is firmly stuck together.
Check that the bottom of the four-holed structure is still flat and stable.
 You will now have two units of clay, each with four holes.
 Check that the base of each rectangle is flat and stable, then connect all nine:


Place one four-candle holder on the left side of the tall rectangle.
Place the other four-candle holder on the right of the tall rectangle.
Press the rectangle from both sides to join it to the other units. Press firmly to ensure joining and smooth the seams by rubbing the clay together with your fingers or a clay tool.
You should now have one long, solid unit of clay with nine holes in total: four holes of equal height situated on either side of the middle candle hole, which will sit slightly higher.
 A wide base, tall pillar, and two supporting arms should be enough.
 If needed, flatten each cube and rectangle slightly to make it stable, being careful not to close the candle holes. Make sure that the unit holds together as one long piece.
 Bake according to manufacturer's instructions, being careful to judge baking time by the thickness of the cubes. Cool according to manufacturer's instructions. Note: If you plan to decorate the menorah, please read the next step first prior to baking.
 If you choose to decorate, read the manufacturer's instructions for any tips related to the specific clay you're using, such as sticking pieces together or using paints. This determines whether painting should be done before or after baking. There are lots of techniques for decorating clay prior to baking with common tools, such as toothpicks and toothbrushes to create textures. A six-pointed star made from 2 overlapping triangles is a traditional symbol used on menorahs.


See How to light a Chanukah Menorah for instructions on use.
Prior to lighting the candles, place a small amount of aluminum foil around the bottom of each candle, shaping it into a small cup so that drips from the candle will catch in the foil and not drip onto your creation.
