 You will never be able to show people respect if you cannot learn to respect yourself. Think about your life and your successes and failures. Appreciate how far you have come in your life, and consider the lives you have changed. Gain confidence in yourself, and speak with a confident air without being arrogant. Many people have tried to show respect for others but have failed due to their very low self-esteem which leads them to be negative to others out of sheer jealousy.;
, I know, your janitor is lower than your boss, but, if we are able to view everyone as human beings who deserve respect, instead of viewing people from a hierarchical perspective, then we will have an easier time respecting others. Usually, when we view others, we tend to consider their social status. This must be eliminated in order to allow respect to sink in easily into our mindsets.
 People will love to be around you if you listen to them! Good listeners have the most company because they allow people to finish their thoughts before speaking. Make sure you are listening to what others say rather than just hearing what they say. If you respond appropriately, they will know you have been listening, and they will respect you more. Whereas, if you are a blabbermouth, people will distance themselves from you because you will never be able to open up a connection or bond with others because of your self-centered tendencies.
 You will be known for your kind nature and politeness if you treat everyone with kindness, even those who are unkind to you. If someone mistreats you, do not let them step all over you but know when the right time is to simply let it go and continue to act kindly toward them. Always remember that at the end of the day, those who are bitter at heart suffer more than those who are positive and those who turn a blind eye to the negative aspects of a person, particularly their enemies.
 The Golden Rule says, "Treat others the way you want to be treated." This means that if you want to be respected and well-liked, you must treat others with respect, and be polite to them. Make sure you are kind, and do not be a puppet: choose the proper emotions for situations. For example, if someone seems upset about something, comfort them. Provide a possible solution to their problem, and be sympathetic. After all, that is how you will want people to treat you when you are feeling the same way.

