 Rock Climbing will stretch your limbs in ways you didn’t even know about. Make sure you stretch thoroughly before each climb. You don’t want to pull a muscle or have a muscle tense up at a crucial point. There are many different kinds of stretches in standing and sitting positions. Use stretches with a lot of motion to stretch several regions.Stretch your upper body. Focus on your triceps and lateral muscles the most. These are the muscles that will help pull you up the rock face most.Stretch your lower body. The most important parts of your legs to stretch are your ham strings, quads, and calves. Your legs will do the heaviest lifting. These three areas are the most likely to be pulled., Climbing requires both technical skill and a minimum level of strength. If you sacrifice one for the other, you won’t be a good rock climber. Workout. Focus on both your upper body and your lower body muscles. Rock climbing is a full body sport., Work out your upper arms, forearms, and wrists/hands. We’ve all heard the phrase, you’re only as strong as your weakest link. Make sure that every part of your arm is strong. Don’t just focus on biceps. If you do, you’ll be able to lift yourself up faster, but your hands will tire before you even get a chance to fully use your upper arm strength.


Use a squeeze ball regularly to strengthen the wrist and hand region. Lift small weights frontwards and sideways to improve overall arm strength. Try to do exercises that replicate rock climbing. Do static hangs on a bar to strengthen those muscles needed for static hangs while climbing., Do pull-up exercises and use simple arm rotations with basic weights to strengthen these muscles. As you become stronger, look into more sport-specific training exercises like hang boards, campus boards, and system boards., Take time to focus on your abdominal and lower back muscles. Your goal is not to have huge core muscles, but to develop a highly flexible and stable core. As with other exercises designed to build strength for rock climbing, focus on exercises that replicate rock climbing movement. Sit-ups, crunches, dumbbell side bends, and back bridges are all great exercises for strengthening these muscles., Last, but not least, focus a lot of your time on your legs. Many people forget to work out their legs, but when it comes to rock climbing, your legs will propel you up the rock face and will be integral to repelling back down. Be sure to not overdo your legs. Keep them flexible. You might get in tight spaces, where “cumbersome” leg muscles will reduce your mobility. Run on a treadmill, swim laps in a pool, lift leg weights, or walk around with training weights attached to your calves. Emphasize mobility along with strength., Balance is very important when climbing. You need to be aware of your center of gravity in order to properly assess your next move.A slack-line is a great way to improve your balance and there are many exercises you can do with it., This may sound silly, but you need to be able to control your breath while climbing. Breathing too quickly is a great way to wear yourself down. This isn’t what you want. Practice breathing with a stopwatch. See how regular you can make your breaths.