 Even following a strict budget doesn’t mean you can totally avoid debt. Large purchases, like cars, school, and houses often require you to take out a significant loan. In addition, it can be easy to rack up credit card debt quickly. One of the personal finance basics you must understand is how to take care of this debt as quickly as possible. The first step to doing this is to pay more than the minimum payment as often as you can.


For example, say the minimum payment on your car loan is $50 a month. Paying even $60 a month toward this loan can help you pay it off sooner and cut down on the amount you pay in finance charges over time. The more you can pay above the minimum, the better., If you have a credit card for which you are paying a high annual percentage rate (APR), it might be a good idea to look into transferring this balance to a credit card that offers a lower APR or no APR for a certain amount of time. This way, your entire payment will be applied to your balance, not interest.


Read the fine print before transferring a balance. Most cards charge a transfer fee (3% of the balance, for example) and only offer 0% APR for a limited amount of time (12 or 18 months, for example). Make sure you understand the terms of your new agreement and shop around for the best option before transferring your balance., If you have multiple credit cards, compare the amount of debt you have on each one. You can use this information in two different ways:


Some people believe paying off the credit card with the smallest balance first is best. The idea here is that getting the smaller amount of debt paid off will motivate you and allow you to focus on your remaining debt.
Alternatively, some people believe you should focus on paying off the largest balance because you will be paying the most in interest on this balance. To do this, you would try to make more than the minimum payment on this balance, while paying only the minimum on your smaller balance.
If possible, the best solution is to pay more than the minimum simultaneously on each balance., Once you are able to follow your monthly budget, dedicate any extra funds you have at the end of the month toward paying down your debt. It can be tempting to use this money to treat yourself to a fancy dinner or a new TV, but remember your long-term goals before doing this. In the long run, paying down debt will serve you better than treating yourself to something unnecessary., If you have multiple credit card accounts, student loans, a mortgage, a car loan, or any combination of these debts, consolidating them into one payment may help you manage them more easily. Typically, when you consolidate debt, you’ll get a debt consolidation loan. These loans usually have a lower interest rate and require lower monthly payments.


While consolidating your debt can make it easier to manage, it may also increase the amount you’ll pay in the long run because it extends your payments over a longer period of time.
If your credit score is not good, you may need a co-signer to be able to get a debt consolidation loan.You can also consolidate your credit card debt by transferring all of your balances to a 0% APR credit card. If you think you can pay off your debt within 12 to 18 months, this might be a good option. However, if you think it will take you significantly longer to pay it off, this might not be a good option because the 0% APR is usually only good for 12 to 18 months., Refinancing is generally a good option if your financial situation has improved since taking out your loan. Similar to consolidating your debt, refinancing your loans also consolidates your debts and may allow you to make lower monthly payments on your loans. Refinancing might also allow you to shorten the term of your loan to pay off your debts more quickly. In addition, depending on your financial situation, you may also be eligible for a lower interest rate., If you can afford it, the standard repayment plan is your best option for repaying federal loans. A standard plan requires you to pay the same amount every month over a ten year period. If you can’t afford the payments on a standard plan, however, the government offers two alternative categories of plans—income-driven and basic.


Income-driven repayment plans extend the terms of your loan to 20 or 25 years and require you to pay a certain percentage of your income toward your loan each month, rather than a fixed monthly payment. In addition, any amount still owed at the end of your loan term is forgiven.
Basic plans include standard, graduated, and extended repayment options. Standard is the best option if you can afford it, but graduated or extended plans may be right in some situations. Graduated plans start you off with low payments and gradually increase them over time. This plan can be good if you expect to make more money over the years. Extended plans extend the terms of your loan to 25 years, allowing you to make smaller payments each month, but pay more in interest over time.