 You will need an up-to-date computer (you may choose either an Apple Computer or a Windows based computer). Whichever one you choose go with either a Notebook or laptop style computer. Either one will make your life easier when you start to make trips to your local library to conduct research or to call on clients.


If you choose a Windows based computer, get one that has either Windows 8 or 8.1 as the operating system. If you decide to wait on a new computer you might like the new Windows 10.0 operating system. If you choose to go with an Apple computer get one with the OS X  Snow Leopard operating system.
Regardless of which computer system you choose, make sure you keep up with the latest updates for either model. In addition to the software that comes installed on your computer it is essential that you have a solid word processing package like MS Word and an accounting package such as Excel.
Most nonprofit organizations use MS Word and Excel. This will make your life, as well as that of your clients, much more pleasant when sending documents, attachments and spreadsheets back and forth.
Get a solid laser printer (many grant makers specify all printing be laser printing), a land-line telephone as well as a cell phone, a reliable Internet provider and both a fax machine and a separate fax telephone number, business cards and a viable website.
Get file folders , several reams of printing paper as well as pens, pencils, notebooks, and index cards for keeping notes on your clients.  one step here and then click "Add Step";
, Most successful grant proposal writers have a specialized niche or industry for which they write grant proposals.A niche is generally based on something that you have experience with, such as employment, or a cause or project that you may have volunteering experience with.


Write in the area of Children’s Sports, Public Safety and Homeless Veterans causes. Regardless of what niche you choose, it is always a good idea to remain available to write on just about any subject matter that presents itself. You do not have to be an expert on all aspects or causes, just be able to conduct research on the topic and take good notes.
Learn as quickly as possible all of the key terms associated with the topic, read as much as possible about the subject on the internet and take as many notes as possible so that you can talk intelligently with your client about the subject.
 Researching your client, the subject matter of the grant itself, who are the grant makers, what grants are available and how much grant money is available for a certain type of grant and many other topics. This will be a very large part of your billing to your client.


Decide to bill for research independent of the actual grant writing, or you may decide to include it all together, but it will behoove you to keep a record of the actual time you spend on research and make sure you bill accordingly.
If you take the time to engage in a grant proposal writing service then contact someone in your area, like the Y.W.C.A. or American Red Cross and ask them if they may have several older copies of grant proposals that you could have to read and study.
Explain to them that you are new to grant writing and would like to read complete and funded grant proposals. If you have a college or university in your area contact them for additional grant proposals that you might read. Almost any non-profit organization will have copies of older grant proposals that they will gladly give you copies. From these you will learn more of what makes a winning grant proposal than from most books.

Volunteer at any nonprofit organization in your area, ask to volunteer in the grant department.
Read the book Grants for Dummies, available at your local book store. Make sure to get the latest edition.
Go on line and watch any number of grant writing seminars

, For those individuals who are just entering the grant profession as a novice freelancer you are probably wondering how much money you might expect to make.


As a freelancer you can expect, depending on how well you market yourself, on your writing skills, and if your website if you have one. The national average for a novice proposal writer is about $39,000 per year. Those individuals with 3-5 year experience may expect a yearly income of approximately $69,000. (wageindicator.org).
At the same time there are conditions that you have little or no control over, such as the time of year you enter the field, the local and national economy, how much money Congress has set aside for government grants and just how generous foundations are feeling from one particular year to the next.. For example, Google the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, one of the largest foundations in existence and see how much they give from year to year.
Also try any of the larger foundations such as Walmart Foundation, the National Football Foundation or any others you may be curious about. After you have checked out some of your favorite foundations, congratulate yourself, you have just started to learn the lesson of grant research. A skill that is vital to your Grant Proposal Business.
 The final, and for some, the hardest step is marketing yourself This means contacting nonprofit organizations in your area to start with. As you grown in experience you may choose to take on clients nationally.


If you do not have any grant proposals that you have written that you can show potential clients, but have volunteered and been a part of grant writing team, ask that non-profit organization to write you a recommendation that you can present to potential clients.
Remember not to take it personally if you get turned down by a potential client. Take time to thank them, once you have more experience you may approach them again.

