 The first step to cleaning your whole mouth and ensuring you maintain good oral hygiene is brushing your teeth frequently and effectively. Normally it is recommended that you brush twice a day, once in the morning and once at night. You can add a third time after lunch, but don't brush more than three times a day.If you frequently brush more often than this, you risk wearing down your tooth enamel and damaging your gums.Each time you brush your teeth, you should do it for at least two minutes. Try dividing your mouth into four sections and giving each one thirty seconds to help you keep track.;
, When you are brushing your teeth, it's important to use the best technique to maximise the benefit and minimise the risk of damaging your gums or wearing down enamel. Start by placing your brush at a 45-degree angle to your gums. Move the brush back and forward gently in strokes that are about the width of a single tooth and then continue the movement by gently brushing the entire surface of your tooth with an up and down motion.


Brush all the surfaces of the teeth, the outer surfaces, the chewing surfaces, and the inner surfaces.
For the inner surfaces, tilt the brush up and brush up and down a few times for each tooth., Even if you're a diligent brusher, there some areas your toothbrush cannot reach. Flossing daily will help to remove any lingering substances that are caught between your teeth. Just like brushing, it is important to use a proper technique to avoid any potential damage from scraping teeth and gums when flossing. Wrap a length of floss around the index fingers on each of your hands so there's around two inches of floss between your hands.


Keep the floss tight against the tooth to remove plaque and avoid rubbing the gums.Gently move the floss with a back and forth movement. Make sure that you use only gentle pressure to avoid hurting your gums with the floss.
If you maintain a good flossing routine and technique you will have healthier teeth and healthier gums.
You should floss your teeth once a day., When you are brushing your teeth, it's important that you have the right tools for the job. Use a soft-bristled brush that fits inside your mouth easily and enables you to reach all areas without any trouble. You should replace your brush every three or four months. If you notice the bristles are getting frayed you should replace it sooner.Combine a good brush with a fluoride toothpaste that is approved by dental professionals.
Look for a seal or marking on the package of the toothpaste to check it for a professional endorsement.Avoid using an abrasive toothpaste for more than two weeks in a row because it can wear down your tooth enamel and increase sensitivity

