 Think of the credentials that will make you marketable to budding business people. Choose 1 or more of the following ways of becoming a business expert:


Attend business school. A bachelor's degree in a business specialty or a master's degree of business administration (MBA) at a good school look excellent to people choosing a tutor. Although this level of higher education is expensive, it can also be profitable. Most tutors who have less than a 4 year degree will not be able to command a very high hourly rate.
Become a successful business person. 10 or more years of experience starting and managing successful companies can take the place of a standard business education. The more you can prove you are a successful entrepreneur, the more qualified you will look.
Teach business in a high school, college, community college or community program setting. Not only is this a great way to prove you know business, but it also proves that you can teach.
Read business journals, blogs and books. This is a great way to stay on top of business changes, such as those online and in social media. It is especially important if you have not received a traditional business education, because you will still learn much of the lingo that is used in business.;
, Although you may plan to eventually offer business tutoring to people of all ages and experience levels, your qualifications may point to high school, college or adult tutoring. Decide who you would work best with and start marketing and planning for this group.
 Many people come to tutors already knowing what they want to learn; however, you should have an idea of how you would structure tutoring sessions on general topics, such as marketing, online marketing, accounting, advertising, management and more.
 Vetting and choosing a general business text will help you to provide extra value to people who do not have a school textbook. Texts and non-fiction business strategy books reinforce the ideas you teach.
 Most tutors gain clients through referrals, so you should foster your first clients amongst people you already know. They will be willing to speak out about your qualifications.
 Business tutorials can be given individually, to groups and online. Choose what best fits your location, expertise and lesson plans.


Most successful tutors do in-person tutoring, because they can foster repeat customers and referrals. Tutoring is traditionally a hands-on, 1 on 1 teaching style. Online tutoring is growing in popularity; however, you will need to invest in a very good website, make plenty of lesson plans, provide texts and write evaluations.
 Many states require that you get a license for business conducted on your premises. Contact your Secretary of State to find out what is required in your area.


If you do not want to conduct business at home, brainstorm neutral territory where you can meet with your client. For instance, many public libraries have meeting rooms that can be rented out. Do not assume that you will meet at the client's house for a tutoring session, especially at the beginning of your tutoring.
 Set your hourly rate to a reasonable, and somewhat low, rate to begin with. Most tutors make between $20 and $40 per hour.


Consider offering group and individual rates. You may be able to tutor a few employees for a discounted rate. The more people you tutor, the more likely you are to get referrals.
 Once you have lesson plans, a few references/testimonials, a textbook and a location, you should set up a professional business website. The following are popular methods of marketing for tutors:


Create a professional website. Include a teaching/testing infrastructure if you plan to offer online tutoring. You will also need to set up a shopping cart in order to receive payment for your services. As well as including your credentials, testimonials and sample lesson plans, consider starting a business blog on your site to prove your expertise.
Contact college or high school counseling departments. These departments can tell you if students are looking for after school tutors. If not, they may still be willing to put up a flyer in their counseling office.
Get listed on online directories and in the yellow pages. Consider yourself a business and start marketing yourself accordingly. Make sure you are easy to find on Internet searches and in the phone book.
Post classified ads on Craigslist and various tutoring websites, such as TutorBungalow.com, Tutor-pages.com and TutorProfiles.com.
Create business cards and flyers. Post the flyers where there are high concentrations of business people or students. Pass out business cards to your clients and offer them a discount if they refer someone to your service.
Sign up to teach business classes at Lifelong Learning Centers and Libraries. These low-cost classes are a great way to look for more serious clients. Hand out your information so that students can contact you if they need personal tutoring.
Contact companies that you believe may have a training budget. You may also be able to market yourself as a business trainer. Businesses are more likely to offer you a contract rate, rather than an hourly rate, so this is a profitable demographic.
Be creative. Marketing your tutoring business is an excellent way to prove your prowess with business.
 This is the ultimate judge of your capabilities. Post this information, with client approval, to your website so that you can determine your value.

