


Examine your finances and set your personal navigation kit budget. Navigation kit models range in price from approximately $100 to more than $500. Typically the higher the price tag, the better the quality and features. A realistic price range will help to narrow your options and get you started in the right direction.
Determine your frequency of use. Is there more than one driver/car in your household that will need access to the navigator? If so, ease of installation may be an important factor. Do you often rent vehicles, share a common commute with several individuals or fly to new locales? If so, you may prefer a phone-based navigation kit.
Pinpoint your usual driving conditions. If you frequently drive in congested areas you may require a navigation kit with real-time traffic alerts, or alternate route options. If you often drive in unfamiliar areas, route guidance and surrounding road map displays may satisfy your needs.;
, You will need to determine whether you prefer a handheld navigator, which may exist in the form of a smartphone, cell phone or PDA; a portable, plug-and-play navigator; or a professionally mounted dashboard unit.
 Navigators have a full menu of features to choose from. Advanced technology has resulted in a plethora of special features including: Bluetooth hands-free capability, MP3 connection, voice command, live traffic and weather updates, point-of-interest search capability and much more. Determine which features you can or can't live without and confirm that such options exist within your budget.



Retail stores provide you with a first-hand look at floor models so you can test your new navigator prior to purchasing. You will also be able to carry out your new item, provided that it is in stock. Also, most retail locations offer professional installation of your device for an additional fee. Unfortunately, you often pay a higher price at a retail location to help cover the overhead of the store's rent, high electric bills and staff of sales people.
Buying online is usually the least expensive alternative, but it is not without its own drawbacks. You will be unable to test the navigator's performance, will usually have to pay for shipping/delivery charges and will have to wait for your navigation kit to be delivered to your house.
You can choose to buy directly from the manufacturer, either online or over the telephone. The straight-from-manufacturer price is usually the highest, but you may receive better extended warranty and/or repair/service options.

