


Don't sit on the couch or an area where you could easily turn on the TV or take a nap. You may feel relaxed then, but when you are up late doing your homework, you will regret that hour of TV.
If you must use your laptop or computer, set up a free, timed website blocker on all social media sites and any other websites that could distract you from your work.;
, This will generally be the order you complete the tasks in that way if worst comes to worst and you must leave an assignment incomplete, it will be the least important.


Include to the side an estimated amount of time it will take you to complete each assignment. Leave yourself a realistic amount of time to do each one.
Rearrange your list in such a way that a short yet high priority item is first. It can be discouraging to pick the most difficult and time consuming assignment first and get stuck on it. This is an easy way to get started.
 Sitting on an assignment for too long can ultimate slow you down making your study time less effective.


Take breaks every 15 -30 minutes depending on how much work you have and how difficult it is. If the particular assignment you're doing is very strenuous, you may want to take a break every 15 minutes. If it is longer yet not as difficult, work for 30 minute intervals.
Breaks should be 5 minutes. During these breaks, eat a healthy snack, go to the bathroom, do jumping jacks, etc. Do NOT think about the school work. Allow your mind to breathe for a few minutes.
After completing the homework for an entire subject, take a 7-10 minute break if you'd like. During this, put the things away for the newly completed assignment and pull out the next assignment. Then do as you would do during a 5 minute break or maybe something that takes a little more time.
 While this method may not allow you to complete your homework in record time, you will be able to finish relaxed and confident in your work. Overall, this method will keep your stress levels down which is important for every aspect of your life!


Finishing your homework and getting good grades will make you feel good about yourself. Don't be discouraged by the piles of homework, just go in with a plan and you will succeed!

