 Quite simply, admissions committees don't quite know what to do with all the applicants they receive and don't judge decisions based on who was the best student and end up floating into the real of strange subjective things. You may hear differently from them though, but rest assured this is probably post-facto justification that helps them sleep at night. Additionally, no one really knows what goes on exactly in admissions rooms, especially for very "selective" universities, however much like a measurement of an undetermined quantum particle, the statistics allow us to know that there are some disturbing trends as of late, including but not limited to the rationing of admissions for minorities... Anyway, you're ok regardless, plus with the out of control grade inflation at most of those schools, your friends are in for quite an existential shock of their own once they graduate.;
, The 1970s was famous for social unrest, civil rights progress, and cultural change. Maybe there's a cause you want to advocate for now, political or otherwise? Maybe come up with a new political theory on how social structures or political misconduct have led to current economic disparities. Angry disenchanted intellectuals have helped spur a lot of social progress throughout history.
 If your next college is a boring intellectual wasteland, transfer to another one. If the patriarchy has got you down, join a lesbian commune. If entrenched social structures in your country of residence have spoiled your personal, spiritual or intellectual goals, become an expatriate and laugh at your countrymen across the border. Not fitting in with the mainstream can be the beginning of great personal growth and change.
 Seriously, nowadays any driven person with a computer can become a modern good will hunting. A lot of web developer types are self-taught, sometimes lectures in college are so terrible you have to teach yourself the material, or maybe the stuff you always wanted to learn about astronomy is posted online. Sidestep the ridiculousness that is getting into a decent college and just teach yourself. Also consider whether college is your thing. If you find your college is completely intellectually shallow (and it often is for us IB folks), consider transferring but also realize that dropping out is an option. Perhaps you could become a self made entrepreneur or forestall returning to college until you've given writing a novel a go. In this economy, many intelligent people are finding it hard to justify getting a degree in the first place.
 Being an independent thinker can be difficult but your continued constructive efforts should pay off. If you're in your view "unsuccessful" at the moment, you won't necessarily be in the future. Plus the economy sucks now regardless.

