 Most scientists and many people accept Darwin’s theory of evolution. This theory holds that humans evolved from other species, and we are considered Great Apes, a type of primate.Regardless of race, culture, or religion, we are all biologically the same species with common ancestors.;
, All primates are hierarchical; they establish a system whereby there are leaders and subordinates. This system limits the number of conflicts among members of a group and keeps us generally cooperative.Note that hierarchical disputes can be common when individual members feel that the hierarchy or division of power or goods is unfair. Such disputes are common in both human and non-human primates such as capuchins.Humans have hierarchies that are nested. In your household, there is a dominant individual, but this person may be subordinate to someone at work or in the community., Vocalization (speech) and written languageis particularly important to humans, who share training in word use and the emotions associated with specific word choices.


Human “training” in language use happens both formally, in school, and informally, in everyday life.
The unfortunate human tendency to use language to bully others emphasizes the power of aggressive words.\

, Part of the human condition is that each of the approximately 7 billion people on the planet has to get along with the other humans as well. Humans’ tendency to be averse toward unusual behavior or appearance, combined with a high likelihood of encountering people different from us leads to high conflict.


Being mean or at least not accepting of someone who is different is a way to discourage them, and encourage them to try to be more like you.Religion, television and radio help people have shared interests so when they get together, they can get along.
 One way to minimize conflict among humans is to attempt to act like those around you. This tends to make everyone more similar and reduce conflict among individuals.


When a trait that doesn’t match the majority is unchangeable, like ethnicity or sexual preference, people can campaign to increase acceptance. For example, some areas have a non-discriminatory culture, which discourages people who are aggressive toward ethnic minorities, lesbians, gays, bisexuals or transgendered (LGBT) people, women, or people who are disabled.