  Stress aggravates Crohn's.  You may have experienced this.  You get stressed out, and before you know it, your gut is twisted in knots and you lose your appetite.  You might go one or two days without eating anything - possibly longer.


Step back from everything and ask yourself, "What stresses me?"  Make a list if needed.  Now, weed those things out.  Get rid of them however you can.  You will find that there are lots of things you can avoid for the most part, or even eliminate completely.
For instance, maybe driving is stressful to you.  Try to walk instead of drive.  Or tie trips together so that you can go to the post office, buy groceries, purchase new shoes for Jimmy, and take Susan to soccer practice in one trip.  Even little things help.
You may also find that some stress is unavoidable - a necessary evil.  In these cases, find ways to relieve the stress.  Start doing yoga, listen to soothing music - whatever works best for you.;
,  You're probably thinking, "Yes, I knew that."  But it's not just about what you eat.  Watch how you eat.


Eat small amounts.  When you go to eat your lunch, fill your plate as usual.  Then, divide everything in half.  Eat one half now, and the other half in 2 or 3 hours.  This will be hard at first, because you will most likely still be hungry when you're done.  But you will grow accustomed to it.  This allows your body to keep up with your food intake, and your digestive track handles things better.
Eat more than 3 meals per day if needed.  By eating less at a time, you may find you have to eat extra meals.  That's okay, as long as you aren't over-eating.
Take smaller bites.  Give your body less to deal with at a time.  This will take some thinking and focus at first.
Chew extra well.  Your mother may have always told you to "Chew twenty times before you swallow".  This is a good time to start counting your "chews".  Sometimes even more than twenty are in order.  Whatever the magic number is, just make sure your food is well-chewed by the time you swallow.  The rest of your digestive track will have less to break down.
  This may take some experimenting.  There are the general diet outlines, and your doctor has probably made some recommendations, but remember: everyone is different.  Your diet will still be slightly different than the next Crohn's' patient.  A little bit of trial and error is the best way to learn, however, do your experimenting at home - never in public.
  This doesn't necessarily mean you have to go tell everyone you have Crohn's.  Just don't be shy to tell your friends.  You don't have to go in depth about it.  You can say something simple, such as, "I have Crohn's disease, and it really limits my diet."  That will satisfy most people.  Close friends may want to know more, but if you are uncomfortable talking about it, ask them to look it up in their own time if they wish to learn about it.  The advantage of telling others is that they will totally understand!  Your friends and family will be more conscious of your diet, and they will be considerate of your limitations when they are making dishes for get-togethers.
  Don't eat something that will make you sick.  It's not being rude - it's being healthy.  If your friends know about your problem, they won't judge you if you say "No thanks" to the dish they are offering you.  Sometimes, you have to protect yourself.
  When you are ordering something at a restaurant, having a guys night, or going out for luncheon with your girlfriends, feel free to ask for things that specifically fit your diet.  In a world that is growing increasingly aware of such issues, you can easily find foods that fulfill your needs.  No need to risk getting sick.
  Even if you eat right and avoid stress, Crohn's is still somewhat unpredictable.  If you know where the restrooms are, you can avoid the desperate search for them should the need arise.  


If you should feel an emergency coming on, don't rush.  Calmly dismiss yourself saying you will be right back, and make your way to the restroom.  If you remain calm, you will appear more natural and will draw less attention to yourself.
  You know what's in it.  You know that it's safe.  Bring as much of your own food as you can.  Once that's gone, you can eat out, but be cautious!

,  This varies, but a rough estimate will do.  If it's about every hour and a half on a good day, plan on it being every hour the day you travel.  Figuring this out helps you plan your trip.
  When you are estimating how long you will be on the road, add time in for additional stops.  (i.e. If you trip is 12 hours long, and you think you will most likely stop every hour for a break, you can estimate 11 extra stops.)


 If each stop only takes you 15 minutes, you need to add about 3 hours to your trip time. Allow for these breaks.  Don't let the lost time discourage you.  
Plus, by overestimating your travel time, you will feel better about your life when you get ahead of schedule.  This encouragement is much better than you feeling stressed because the trip is taking longer than expected.
  This may sound crazy, but it can be extremely important at a crucial moment.  Sometimes, you may be traveling through a barely-populated area.  As you pass exits, you can't actually see a town, and you have no idea how far away it is.  Yet, that little town may have the nearest toilet in a 20 mile (32.2 km) radius or more.  


If you plan ahead, you can look up the small towns you will be passing and learn about the gas stations and visitor centers they may harbor.  That way, in a moment of desperation, you can pull off on an exit in the middle-of-no-where, confident that there's a restroom just one more mile away.

