 You can actually view all of your marketing information for Twitter right from Twitter analytics, so sign in as you normally would.;
, Once you log in, you will be on your Twitter stream. In the top right corner of the window is your Twitter icon. It will be in between the “Search Twitter” field and the “Tweet” button. Click it to expand several options to choose from and then select “Analytics.”

, Take a moment to search through the information on the Analytics landing page. At the top of the page you will find your 28-day activity summary, and under that you will find monthly summaries.


Click on the 'Bar diagram'.
 There are several different important terms used throughout Twitter Analytics that it are important to understand. They include:



Tweets—This is pretty straightforward. This number represents how many actual tweets you’ve sent out, and this includes retweets. Fun fact: You are limited to 1,000 tweets per day.

Tweet Impressions—Every time one of your tweets is scrolled over by someone, you gain an impression. If someone retweets you, then all their followers will count as an impression each.

Profile Visits—This is how many people actually clicked on your name and viewed your profile page.

Mentions—This is how many times another user tweeted a tweet with your username in it (@yourusername).

Followers—This is how many followers you gained minus a number of followers you lost in a given time period.
 You can get even more information from Twitter analytics about the effectiveness of your account. Move from the Analytics home page to the Tweets page by clicking “Tweets” at the top.



Engagements—Engagements occur anytime somebody does something with your tweet. Either they clicked on a hashtag you used, they favorited your tweet, or they retweeted your tweet. This means your tweet caught their eye and they interacted with it in some way.

Engagement Rate—This is the percentage of people that interacted with your tweet (engaged it) as compared to all of the people that could have seen it. (impressions)
You can scroll through all your tweets and see what kinds of messaging is catching your audience’s attention. You can base future tweets on this information and hopefully become more popular.
 If you’re going to make better use of Twitter in any serious way, learning about your followers can be key when deciding what content to put out there yourself. The fastest way to get more impressions isn’t getting more followers yourself, it’s getting more people that already follow you to retweet your tweets to their followers. Click the “Followers” link on the Analytics page.


You can view your audience’s top interest, which is essential for building a comprehensive Twitter strategy.
Click on “Demographics” and you will see expanded Demographic information. Here you can see the Gender breakdown of your audience, what languages they speak, and what countries they are from.
Click on “Lifestyle” and you will see expanded information about your audience’s interests and what TV genres they enjoy watching.
Click on “Mobile Footprint” and you will see expanded information about the mobile carriers that your audience uses while on Twitter.
 Now that you’ve got a vast wealth of knowledge about your followers, you should be able to create content that is more targeted toward that specific audience. For example:


You find out that your audience is mostly male and into watching sports, but you’re into news and politics. You could use analogies and references to football, for instance, and merge that into your Tweets to really grab the attention of the people to increase your engagement rate.
You find out that your audience loves comedy; you could find quotes from famous stand-up comedians to drive home your point.
Small changes like these could make a huge difference in garnering attention for you.
 A “follow train” is essentially when a group of people decides to retweet a specific tweet from a popular user, and the goal is to have everybody follow each other.


Be sure that you engage only in a follow train that suits your needs. To use the political example, you’re not going to want to get into a general follow train where you’re going to pick up a bunch of followers that will have no interest in your political messaging.
Be sure to actually follow everybody because if people notice you’re not being mutual, they’re going to unfollow you and you will have wasted your time.
This tool can be great if you find people of like mind on a specific issue or people that are among your general audience.
 Don’t be afraid to Tweet. People aren’t going to unfollow you if you Tweet several times throughout the day.


Remember that your followers followed you for a reason and that is likely to see more content from you.
Make sure to retweet things that you find amusing or things that you agree with. You can capitalize on the popularity of someone else’s tweet by retweeting. You will very likely get more profile views and hopefully more followers from this.

