 To apply for a real estate license in Florida, you must be at least 18 years of age, have a valid U.S. Social Security number, and have a high school diploma or its equivalent (an international equivalent, or a GED).Note that it is not necessary to be a Florida resident to obtain a Florida real estate license.;
, Florida requires potential real estate sales associates to complete a 63 hour pre-license class prior to taking the exam. These courses are offered both online and in classrooms, and can be taken in English or Spanish. Use the Florida Continuing Education Course Search site to find a licensed provider, or do an online search for "Florida real estate license schools."The course you need to obtain an entry-level real estate license is the Real Estate Sales Associate Pre-License
Different learners have different needs; be sure to choose a course option (online vs. classroom) that works best for your schedule and learning style.
Not all real estate schools offer the same level of service. When choosing a class, don't look only at the cost; also consider the services (live help, tech support, practice tests) that the school provides before making your choice.
 It is recommended that you do this before beginning your class to avoid delays in your licensure.The application is available at the Department of Business and Professional Regulation website, and can either be completed online, or you can download and complete a printable application.The application will ask you questions about your identity, any current or previous licenses you may hold, and a number of background questions.
Fill out the application honestly, and as completely as possible.
The current application fee is $89, and can be paid electronically or by check of money order.
 You must undergo a background check as part of your licensure process, and this requires you to have your fingerprints taken by a Livescan vendor. The process is painless and only takes a few minutes, and your fingerprints will remain valid for 12 months. The Florida Department of Law Enforcement maintains a list of acceptable Livescan vendors on its website.Most people opt to have their fingerprinting done by Pearson Vue, the same company that will administer your Real Estate examination. This can even be scheduled for the same day as your exam, if you set the appointments up at the same time. The current fingerprinting fee is $53.50.The fingerprinting vendor will require an ORI number to correctly process your information. The ORI number for Real Estate Sales and Brokers is FL920010Z.
 Be sure to pay attention, take notes, and read your textbook carefully. You must receive at least a 70% or better score on the school final exam to receive a completion certificate. Different schools have different retake requirements, so be sure you are well-prepared for the test before you begin.Your completion certificate will remain valid for 2 years. If you do not pass the real estate exam in that time, you will need to retake the pre-exam certification class.
 If you are diligent and pay attention, your course may sufficiently prepare you to take the exam, but many people require additional study help to pass. Check your favorite online bookstore for Florida Real Estate Exam study guides, flash cards, and practice exams that can give you additional support.


There are also numerous online tutoring sites that offer assistance on passing the Florida real estate exam. Some of these also offer free training/test prep videos on YouTube.Many real estate schools also offer intensive pre-exam review or exam prep courses.
 Pearson Vue will contact you directly when your application is approved and you are eligible to schedule your exam. Note that you cannot schedule your exam until this happens, and it can take up to four to six weeks for the application to be processed.


You can check the status of your application at the DBPR website., The exam takes 3.5 hours, and costs $31.50. You can make an appointment online at http://www.pearsonvue.com, or call Pearson VUE Customer Care at (888) 204-6289 to make a reservation. If spots are available, you can make an appointment to take the exam the same day you call.


The phone line is open Monday-Friday, 8am to 11pm, Saturday 8am to 5pm , and Sunday from 10am to 4pm, Eastern Standard Time.
Be sure to record the confirmation number given at the end of the call.
 You will need two forms of identification with your signature on them, one of which must also have a photo. You will also need to bring your certification from your pre-license education class. It is also helpful to bring your confirmation number, just in case there are any problems.
 The Florida Real Estate Sales Associate Exam contains 100 multiple-choice questions. 45 of the questions are on real estate principles and practices, 45 or on Florida and Federal laws, and 10 require you to complete real estate-related math calculations. You must earn a score of 75 or better to pass the exam.You will receive an official score report that includes your photo as soon as you complete the exam.
 In the even that you need to retake the exam, you will need to wait at least 24 hours to reschedule and go through the same process (Pearson VUE's website or Customer Care call center) that you used to schedule the initial exam.


Be sure to do allow time for additional studying before you retake the exam to improve your odds of success.
 In order to activate your license, you will need a signed statement verifying that you will be working under the guidance of a licensed broker. This broker can be independent, or a member of a large real estate firm. The broker’s job is to mentor you as a salesperson, and she will bear responsibility for any mistakes that you make. In exchange, you pay the broker either a monthly fee or a set part of your commission.You can begin looking for a broker to sponsor you at any time during the licensing process. Be sure to interview with a number of different brokers before making a selection, as different brokers have different fee schedules, and provide different services.
Most real estate brokerages are always looking for new salespersons. Begin by calling brokerages in your area (think about which signs you typically see up at homes you’d be interested in selling,) and go from there.
 After you pass your exam, your license must be activated through a Florida licensed real estate broker or owner/developer. The broker can do this by submitting the DBPR RE 11 form to confirm that you have been added as an employee. Once this is done, you can launch your real estate career!For questions about this process, you can call the Department of Business and Professional Regulation Customer Contact Center at (850) 487-1395.

