 When your environment is chaotic, it’s difficult to feel relaxed. Making small changes to your surroundings can help your home feel like a refuge from the chaos, rather than part of it. It’s important to address your space’s visual appeal and cater to your own individual taste.


Even small changes, like rearranging furniture or adding a piece of art, will make your space more visually appealing. Be sure that your furniture fits in the room you place it in. For example, an exceptionally large sofa in a small sitting room will make the space seem cramped and uninviting. Relegate the sofa to a larger space if possible.;
, This is vital to creating a relaxed atmosphere. If you have an especially messy place, start small, with a single space like a desk or closet, and work your way up to larger spaces. This might seem daunting at first, but if you dedicate time each day to working on decluttering, then soon you will be able to reap the benefits of a clean, calming environment.


When you declutter your closet, get rid of any clothing that you don't love or haven't been able to wear within the last year. Unless a particular garment has a sentimental value, bag it up and donate it to a nearby resale shop.
If cleaning and organizing you place seems overwhelming, search online for professional cleaning companies. For a fee, you can pay someone to clean as much or as little of your home as you like. For your own peace of mind, be sure to use a company that performs background checks on their employees.
 Constantly checking emails and social media can generate stress, especially if you are a student or employee who brings your work home with you. Make an effort to unplug in the evenings if you can. Try alternative activities to relax, like reading or taking a hot bath instead of staring at a screen all night.


Unplugging is especially important to do before bedtime, as studies have shown that the blue light emitted from electronic devices can inhibit melatonin production and hurt your sleep quality., Keeping plants or flowers on display de-stresses the atmosphere of your space and helps purify the air. Some great choices include the aloe vera plant, which contains a gel that soothes burns and cuts, or the rubber tree plant, which is great for novice plant owners and has strong air purifying abilities., Avoid scents that are too pungent or overwhelming. Instead, focus on calming scents like lavender, chamomile, or even chocolate, which have been proven to have relaxing effects. Use scent diffusers or candles for subtly incorporating relaxing scents and ambiance.


Scents to generally avoid for relaxation include grapefruit, cinnamon, and peppermint, as these promote alertness and are energizing.
 Nowhere is relaxation more important than your bedroom. Since you will spend roughly one-third of your life in bed, it’s important that your bed and bedding create a relaxing space for you to recharge. Invest in a comfortable mattress and bedding. See this article for suggestions on how to Buy a Mattress.


Be aware that memory foam mattresses are well known for trapping heat. If you tend to feel warm when you sleep, you might want to avoid this type of mattress or invest in a cooling gel mattress-topper designed to offset the trapped heat from the memory foam.
 Shades of blues, greens, and grays all inspire relaxation. Neutrals like ivory and beige are also great choices. Avoid bright, vivid paint colors, which tend to energize rather than relax.

Save vivid paint colors for accent colors on items like pillows or throws, rather than painting entire rooms with them.
 Slightly cool indoor temperatures tend to make a space seem more relaxing. Approximately 68 to 70 degrees is a comfortable indoor temperature. For relaxation for sleeping, go a bit cooler to about 65 degrees for optimal rest.