 Wear your bathing suit under your clothes, or bring your bathing suit along. Bring sunblock, lip balm, cash, towels, and a change of clothes for the end of the day. If you have long hair, you could also bring a hairbrush. Also, feel free to bring on some sandals or flip flops!;
, You will have a couple of hours when the park isn't too crowded if you arrive early, so the lines will be shorter.
 Most Water Parks have a locker/change room to store your things in and get changed. It's best to use them instead of bathrooms as in a bathroom you'll probably have to wait for a stall. In the locker room you can get changed on a bench if you don't mind other people (of your gender) seeing you naked.
 Nothing can ruin your day like getting a bad sunburn.
 That way, you don't waste time looking for a restroom once you're in the park and walking around.
 It may be helpful to get a map so that you can hit all the rides in one area and then move on to the next. Walking takes a lot of time, so you want to minimize it as much as possible.
 During mid-morning and afternoon, the lines might be very long, so you want to avoid that.
 Around noon, the water park might start to get very crowded. This is a good time to eat so that you don't spend hours in line.
 Most water parks will either have a wave pool or an area where you can lounge next to the water. This is a nice way to rest a bit and avoid really long lines.
 By this time, the lines may be starting to die down (or else you're just bored with sitting around). Your sunblock has also probably worn off, so you need more to last you through the afternoon.
 During the busy afternoon period, avoid the very popular rides. This is a good time to hit rides that move quickly so that you don't stand in line too long.
 Many water parks will start to empty out when 4:00 or 5:00 pm rolls around. Now is a good time to ride some of the more popular attractions (although they might still have long lines).
 Get out of your wet bathing suit and into dry clothes. Some water parks may have showers that you can rinse off in.NEVER change in toilet stalls,that is very unsanitary especially at water parks.

