 If you use a VPN to access the web, disconnect from it to accurately test your broadband speed. If you don’t use a VPN, skip this step.


Mac: Click the VPN Status icon at the top right corner of the screen (a rectangle with several vertical lines inside), then click “Disconnect from .”
Windows: Click your network connection in the bottom right corner of the screen, then click “Network Settings” or “Network Connections.” Right-click the VPN connection icon and select “Disconnect.”

, The most accurate way to test broadband speed is through a wired Ethernet connection directly to the modem. Temporarily turn off your computer’s Wi-Fi feature to make sure it doesn’t automatically connect to an access point.


Mac: Hold down the ⌥ Option key as you click the Wi-Fi symbol at the top right corner of the screen. In the menu, click “Turn Wi-Fi off.”Windows: Click the Wi-Fi symbol on the bottom right corner of the screen, then click “Network Settings.” Move the slider at the top to the “Off” position.
 If other devices are using the Wi-Fi feature of your modem, such as a smartphone or other computer, disconnect it from the Wi-Fi as well. Keeping other devices connected to Wi-Fi could negatively impact the test results.
 It looks like a thicker telephone cable, is often either blue or yellow, and is sometimes referred to as a “networking cable” or “cat 5 cable.”

,, Leave the modem unpowered for at least 60 seconds.
 Some modems will turn on automatically. If you see any lights on the modem, it’s on and powering up.
 Having other programs open while you do the speed test can skew your results, especially streaming applications and websites like Spotify and YouTube.
 Two popular options are Fast.com and Speedtest.net.



Fast.com is a new site by Netflix that has one function: to report your download speed. These speeds affect your ability to stream media and download web content. All you need to do to run this test is launch the site in a web browser.

Speedtest.net has been the go-to site for broadband speed testing for a long time.It reports download and upload speeds, as well as ping times. If you broadcast live media from your computer (such as a podcast or video blog) or do a lot of online gaming, you’ll want this extra data. Launch the site and click “Begin Test.”
You can also use the speed testing site of your ISP. Verizon, Xfinity and CenturyLink all have their own speed tests.
 Once the test has completed, the results will appear on the screen. If you're not receiving the download or upload speeds you're paying for, there might be a technical problem or honest mistake that can be corrected.


You might also be able to leverage the error for a discount with your ISP.

