 To get started, you're going to need a program like Microsoft Word. Don't fret if you don't have it - there's actually a free, virus-free alternative called Open Office.


If you have Open Office, select "Drawing", and if you have Microsoft Word, simply open a new document.;
, Copy the image, and paste it in your document. Carefully stretch the picture so that it fills the entire page.


If you chose a wider image, it's okay if some of the image falls out-of-line. The part that falls out of line will most likely be cropped off of the entire picture when you print. You also have the option to crop the image yourself.
Try making collages of your favorite bands and celebrities. You can search for them on Tumblr and other websites.
You can also create your own image by adding in your name, class information, and personal pictures.
 Rename the file to something you will be able to locate easily, then, make sure you change the file to a .jpg/.jpeg.


If you're using Open Office, a small bar will pop up. Make sure the quality of your picture is at 100%, then press OK.
Export is a fancy way to say that you're changing the file type; .jpg, .gif, etc.
 There's no need to save anything since you have it all saved as a .jpg file.



If you do not have a printer, save the image(s) on a USB, and head over to a local office/printing store or your local library to print it.



If it doesn't fit, take a ruler and make a line with a pencil over a small strip of the paper before cutting it, just so it's straight.
 How much you use is up to you-- but make sure there's tape exactly on the corners of the paper, otherwise the corners will tear/fold and the whole thing may eventually come off.
 Make sure you cover every part of the paper that's not taped down. Just don't put too much, or too little just to avoid wrinkly papers.
 Starting from the bottom, carefully align in to the top. This is to avoid any bubbles/wrinkles from forming.
 Your notebook is done, please take a look at the tips for further ideas to make your notebook any more fabulous than it already is!

