 By clicking on the sleep tile in the dashboard of your device or app, you can view all the details of your sleep. For an iOS device, tap on the particular day you want to view the sleep graph and quality. Tap the expander arrow in the top right to see more detailed data. You can drag your finger across the span on sleep to see a summary or specific times that were logged as asleep or awake.
For Android devices, you'll tap on the day you want to view. Then tap the expander box in the top right of your sleep pattern graph to view specific data for periods of time. Tap the expander box in the top right to return to an overall sleep summary.
 On any of the above devices, you have the option of selecting a "normal" or "sensitive" sleep setting. If you want a more basic idea of your general sleep patterns, select normal. The sensitive sleep setting will cause your device to track nearly all your movements as time "spent awake" and can give you a great understanding of how active you are in your sleep. , The different sleep states indicate your activity level while sleeping. These can be useful for people with sleep disorders and to understand how restful your sleep is. The frequency of your movement will also be used to calculate your "Sleep efficiency" which is calculated using the formula: 100* time asleep (time asleep + time restless + time awoken during sleep). A restful position would mean your movement is minimal and your tracker will indicate your body was fully asleep.
A restless state sleep will show up on your graph to indicate small movements common in tossing and turning.
If you move too much, your tracker may show you were awake, even if you weren't fully conscious and aware. This will show up in your sleep efficiency calculation as awake.
 All Fitbit devices except the Zip have a silent alarm option. This will gently wake up with a light buzzing on your wrist. This is great if you dread the blaring sound of alarms. There are a few ways to set the alarm and to deactivate it when you're awake. To set the alarm using your Fitbit.com dashboard, first login. Then click the gear icon in the top right corner. After selecting the device that you want to set the alarm on, you'll click "Add alarm," and then set the desired time. You'll be able to choose which days of the week the alarm awakes you. Click save and then sync your device to apply the chances.
To set the alarm on your iOS dashboard, tap the tracker tile from the app dashboard. Pick the device which you want to set an alarm. Tap silent alarms. Then select the time and details you want for the silent alarm. Press save. Your device should automatically sync and apply the changes.
If you have an Android device, you'll open and tap the menu icon in the top left corner. Next hit "alarms," and choose your device. The the icon that appears as a + sign. Then set your alarm time and frequency and press save.
If you use a Windows device to manage your Fitbit, open up the Fitbit app dashboard. Choose "Set Alarm" from your quick actions menu. Select the tracker that you want to wake you and tap "Add alarm." You'll then input the time and frequency for the alarm. Press "Save" and the device should automatically sync.
 All Fitbit devices have a sleep log accessible using your Fitbit app or by accessing your account. You are able to access, edit or delete each past nightly sleep log depending on how you interact with your device. If you notice your log is off, such as saying you were awake all night when you weren't, you can manually adjust the data. For iOS tap the sleep tile. Then tap the sleep log you want to edit. You can then adjust the amount of time you slept, or delete a log altogether. Then press save and the log will sync.
For Android, tap the sleep tile, then select the log you want to edit. Tap the pencil icon in the top right corner and adjust the time. For Windows based access you'll do the same. Tap the pencil icon and then press save.
This is also useful if you did not wear your device but would like to log how long you slept last night. In your log you can also set a sleep goal, much like your step goal, and try to stay consistent with your sleep.

