 You will sometimes be given muscle relaxants first, and occasionally a sedative as well depending upon the severity of your pain. Once your shoulder joint is re-aligned, the pain you feel should significantly improve.
 This is usually accomplished using a sling.


After initial immobilization, your physician will recommend a specific rehabilitation program for you as your shoulder begins to feel better.
Following through with the rehabilitation plan is key for recovering full range of motion. It is especially important if you are an athlete and if returning to optimum sports performance is your goal.
 Your rehabilitation will likely involve doing specific exercises and stretches to strengthen your shoulder. Exercises that your doctor might suggest may include isometric exercises, which strengthen the muscles without moving the joint, internal and external rotations, and/or band exercises.Perform an internal rotation by attaching an exercise band to a sturdy point about waist-high. Hold the band in your hand, bending your elbow to 90 degrees and resting it against your side. Keep your elbow steady against your side and pull the band across your body. Lay your forearm flat against your stomach if possible (but only pull as far as is comfortable). Then slowly release.Try an isometric adduction. Place a small item, like a rolled up newspaper, between your injured arm and your torso. Squeeze the item and try to hold it in place for five seconds. Repeat five to ten times.Check with your doctor before performing any exercises to avoid further injury.
 Depending upon the severity of your injury, your doctor may offer you prescription pain meds for the first few days. Alternatively, you can opt for over-the-counter pain meds such as Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and/or Ibuprofen (Advil), which may be sufficient to keep the pain under control.
 Icing helps to diminish inflammation and it can also temporarily ease the pain.
 The risks of surgery are higher, so it is generally reserved for exceptional cases.

