 Wear clothing that feels good on your skin. Eat food that makes your body feel energized. Avoid overeating or undereating. Take a nap if you feel tired. Exercise. Take a dance class, ride your bike, or go on a long, brisk walk.


If you can't tell what your body wants, do some mindfulness exercises. They will help put you back in your body.
Get a full night's sleep. Sleep without an alarm, and make your room as dark as possible.
 To live for today, focus on what you have. Appreciate the things that make each day yours. When someone does something you appreciate, thank them. Let everyone you love know one thing you love about them. Make a list of things you are grateful for, and share it with those you love.


If something happens in your day that you appreciate, write it down, title it, and include as much detail as you can, including how it came to be and how it made you feel.Make up a list of people you are grateful for, and write a letter a day., Spend time with friends or family doing relaxed, focused activites. Talk, eat, cook, or go on a walk with someone you love. Pay attention to the people you are with: ask questions, and listen to their answers. Hug, touch, and hold hands with your loved ones.


Spend time face to face if you can, but also call a loved one on the phone if they are on your mind.
Commune with a crowd. Go to a concert, a club, a church, a sporting event, a protest or a rally. Cheer, chant, move, and sing with others. Go to an event you feel welcome at, so you can enter into the group feeling.
 Paying deep attention to art can induce a state of heightened mindfulness. By paying attention to images, sounds, patterns and textures, you can experience deep emotion without judgment. Visit a museum, listen to music, and read poetry.


Don't force yourself to understand or analyze what you see, hear, and read. Don't force yourself to enjoy, either. Instead, let yourself relax and pay attention to the sensory information you receive.
If you are having trouble being present with art, try noticing five things about what you are experiencing. If you are looking at a painting, try to distinguish the brush strokes. If you are reading a poem, notice the vowels and see if they repeat.
 Spend time in the sun to improve your mood and feel present in your body.Visit a park, the forest, the beach, or another natural setting to lower your stress.Spend time outside without doing anything else. Don't listen to music or talk on the phone.


You can also spend time outside as part of your everyday activities. If you have something you need to do, ask yourself if you can do it outside.
 If you are feeling relaxed, mindful, and pleased with your day, you might be ready for the thrill of doing something new. Make a list of five things you never have done: places you haven't gone, things you haven't said, ways of participating in public or social spheres you haven't tried.


Ask yourself: have I ever had a friendly conversation with my friend about our different political beliefs? Have I ever told a joke in class or at work? Have I ever been the first person to get up and dance at a party?
Ask: have I ever memorized a song to sing to myself? Have I ever written a letter on paper to my mother? Have I ever spent a day riding my bike instead of driving my car?
Ask: Have I ridden a horse? Have I made my own cards? Have I traveled by train?
You'll know the right thing to do when you get a little thrill of fear.

