 The mouthpiece and reed setup is the most important factor of sound production and its best to have a professional level mouthpiece (Vandoren or Selmer) before you even think of upgrading your instrument.
 There are many things to consider, some of the most important of which are listed below.


Material -- Most clarinets are either wooden or plastic. It depends on your intended use for the instrument and what kind of tone you need as to which one you buy.

Plastic -- A decent plastic clarinet can have a good sound, doesn't crack, weighs less, and needs less maintenance than a wooden clarinet. Since they don't crack when the weather changes, they're more ideal for marching bands and outdoor groups. They are also great for beginning school band and orchestra.
Wood -- More expensive than plastic. Has a generally better, richer sound, and a slightly more expensive instrument may also have a better mechanism, which will last longer. Wooden clarinets are better for indoor groups, because they're easily damaged when exposed to the elements. Most wooden clarinets are made for intermediate to professional players.


Brand -- While even no two "identical" instruments sound the same, if you'd had good luck with a particular brand, or you can get a wooden version of your current plastic clarinet model, you might want to stick with that brand. Otherwise, there are plenty of decent brands to choose from. Some well-known ones are Buffet, Selmer and Yamaha.
Price -- The price is usually a good indicator of how well the clarinet is made, how it'll sound, and how long it'll last.

300 - 400 dollars -- You can get a decent, new plastic clarinet in this range, or a fairly nice used one.
400 - 600 dollars -- Nice plastic clarinet, decent used wooden one.
700 - 800 dollars -- Very nice plastic clarinet, or a decent new wooden one.
1000 - 2000 dollars -- This will get you a very good quality intermediate clarinet, which will play much better and last longer than the cheaper ones.
2000+ dollars -- Be sure that you really plan to stick to the clarinet before spending this much. Professionals tend to spend this much, or even more on a clarinet, but you may not need to go this high.


Key plating -- Once you get past the material of the clarinet, pretty much the only other thing influencing the appearance of the clarinet is the plating on the keys. You have the option of nickel, silver, or even gold, though the plating doesn't affect the sound of the instrument.

Nickel plating -- Most instruments costing 800 - 1000 dollars have nickel plated keys. Nickel has a slightly 'harder' shine than silver, it is cheaper, needs less polishing, and is more resilient than silver. However, it tends to be more slippery, which is a problem if you have sweaty fingers, and some people are allergic to nickel.
Silver plating -- Is more expensive than nickel, usually found on more expensive instruments. Has a whiter shine than nickel, and will not cause allergic reactions for those allergic to nickel. However, it does require more polishing.
Gold plating -- If you have very acidic perspiration, silver will tarnish quickly and you'd be better off with nickel, or, as an alternative, you can go with gold plating. It actually isn't as expensive as it sounds, though new clarinets with a fully gold-plated mechanism are rare.
 This would include things such as the clarinet's bore, wall thickness, tone holes, vent holes, etc. You know what you're looking for, most likely. Often clarinetists who play in orchestras will have two clarinets, and you may be able to purchase a set of two; a B flat, and an A clarinet.
 Bring with you a couple of reliable reeds, some music that you can play through easily, and your own mouthpiece. Since it may be difficult to hear differences and know what you want when you start play-testing, ask to try as many clarinets as you can. You can try playing two, deciding which of the two you like best, comparing that one with another one, and so forth. Keep in mind that you'll eventually get tired and stop noticing things as well, so you may want to take a break and visit the store several times.
 This will help with hearing the difference between each clarinet, once you've narrowed your potential instruments down to three or four. You can bring a clarinet-playing friend, or someone from the store may be able to help you. However, do keep in mind that when you hear a clarinetist play two different clarinets, you won't usually hear much difference, but two different clarinetists on the same instrument may sound very different. In other words, the sound depends more on the player than the instrument itself.

Do you offer a rent-to-own program?
Can I take this clarinet home on approval?
If I decide I don't like this clarinet, can I return it?
What kind of warranty do I get, how long does it last, and what does it cover?
Do you do little fixes for free, and is this part of the warranty, or a standard thing?
How often do you recommend coming in for a COA (Cleaning, Oiling, Adjusting), does my warranty cover this, and do you send me a notice when it's about time for one.
Any other questions you may have. No question is stupid when you're shelling out this much money for something like a musical instrument.
