 Learn about the things the guys in your group bond over. Do they have long conversations about the horsepower of their favorite cars? Do they spend hours reciting the statistics of their favorite football team? To join the conversation, you’ll need to have a deep understanding of what they’re talking about.


Guys may express their friendship by quoting their favorite movies.Watch the movies your group likes so you know what to say back.
Guys gossip about their interests, be knowledgeable enough to join in.;
, Humor is subjective. One person may find a joke hilarious while another person may find it juvenile or offensive. Some people are offended by everything, and will be triggered. Guys who hang out together tend to be amused by the same things. The guys will think it’s really cool that you can make them laugh.Try not be offended if the guys have a crude sense of humor. Learn to appreciate their grossness and remember that it’s all in good fun.
 When guys hang out, they rip on each other (in more ways than one ;)). If you’re seen as one of the guys, they’ll tease you quite a bit. Guys love trying to get a rise out of each other. Show them you can take the heat. Just laugh it off.


See if you can dish out the pain. Try to rip on them as bad as they rip on you.
There’s a fine line between teasing and bullying. They should never cause you physical harm or make unwanted sexual remarks toward you. If you feel like they’ve gone too far, it’s okay to be upset or leave.
 When you argue with guys, tell them exactly what bothers you. If they ask for your opinion on something, tell them exactly what you think. When you have something to say, get to the point. Men are brutally honest because they care and they hate to beat around the bush.If you have a crush on one of the guys, don’t be offended if he has opinions about you that are hard to swallow. Guys are more worried about helping you improve long-term than they are about your feelings.
Remember, just because they’re honest doesn’t mean they’re right. Trust your own intuition.

