 Baby clothes are adorable, so why not use them as decoration? To free up some space in the closet, you can hang your baby’s clothing items on hooks on the wall, along with toys and shoes.Small spice racks can be great for wall storage of smaller items.
Avoid hanging anything over your baby’s crib, in the event of a loose bolt or other unexpected hazard.
 If you choose to use a crib, the space under the crib should be taken full advantage of. You can use wooden crates to store baby books and toys, or small baskets to store diaper supplies and spare clothing items. This space is also great for storing collapsible baby items such as swings and strollers.This space does not have to be dedicated entirely to baby things. If you’ve begun sharing a dresser, you can put your displaced clothing in bins beneath the crib.
 Cribs, dressers, changing tables, and more can be placed inside of the closet in the baby’s room to maximize space and minimize clutter. This is best achieved by first removing the door and corresponding hardware to maximize the entry way.If you prefer to have some privacy in the closet, you can hang a curtain to separate the closet from the rest of the room.
Closets can also be great areas for hidden storage such as shelves and multiple hanging rods. As you store things in the closet, organize everything to prevent clutter and frustration.
 A baby doesn’t need a designated room for storing all of their things. Store things according to use. Baby bottles, bibs, burping cloths, and breast pumps can all be placed in kitchen cabinets, while diapers and wipes can be stored in the bathroom in over-the-toilet storage bins or hanging cabinets.The bedroom really only needs to house your baby’s sleeping arrangements and clothing. Virtually everything else can find a logical home elsewhere.
 Instead of splaying all of the diaper supplies out on the surface of a desk or table, enlist the help of some kitchen storage items, and store baby items in vertical containers, whether that means hanging a vertical storage rack on the wall or placing stacking baskets on top of a cabinet or dresser.Vertical storage affords you the opportunity to be creative. You can repurpose a hanging fruit rack to store diapers and wipes, or a 3-tier cake stand to store lotion, medicine, and other small necessities.
 Hanging storage options range from the small (a single hook), to the massive (a door covering boasting over one dozen compartments). Make your doors work for you and use them to store your baby’s clothing, diapering essentials, medicine, and toys.Door hangers are also available for cabinets, and can be used to store baby towels, rags, and burp cloths.

