 Certain tax-exempt corporations (nonprofits) are exempt from filing an annual tax return. Generally, an organization that normally has $25,000 or more in gross receipts is required to file a tax return. Smaller organizations that have less than $25,000 in gross receipts are not required to file a tax return.;
, The tax return your nonprofit will file largely depends on the amount of money your organization made in the applicable tax year.


The general form number that a nonprofit will file is form 990, although there are variations of this form. For example, form 990EZ is a short-form return can be used by nonprofits with total receipts of $100,000 and less than $250,000 in assets. A link to the current version of Form 990 is below.
Smaller organizations that have less than $25,000 in gross receipts may not be required to file a tax return, but instead file e-postcard form 990-N. Detailed information on the appropriate form to file is available on the IRS website, linked below.
 For some smaller nonprofits, filling out the tax form should be a straightforward process that can be done by someone in a management position of the nonprofit. For larger, more complex organizations, it may be in the organization’s best interest to seek the advice of an accountant familiar with the tax issues of tax-exempt corporations.


A detailed instruction sheet for completing each line of the form accompanies each form. Be sure to print both the form and the instructions and refer to the instruction sheet for each item to ensure you are providing the requested information. A link to the IRS form is below.
 You can either e-file or mail your tax return to the IRS.


The address for mailing returns is:
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service Center
Ogden, UT 84201-0027
The tax return of a nonprofit tax-exempt corporation is due on the 15th day of the 5th month after the end of the organization's fiscal year. For example, if the fiscal year ends on June 30th, the return would be due by November 15th.
The IRS provides a form for an extension of the deadline, which is linked below. The form must be filed with the IRS before the tax return filing deadline in order for it to be effective for that year. If your return is due November 15th, you must submit the extension form no later than November 15th.
Failure to file tax returns can result in severe penalties. If an organization is required to file a return and fails to do so for three consecutive years, the organization will lose its tax-exempt status and be required to reapply.

