 Shut your eyes as tight as you can. Then open them up as wide as possible. Continue this type of blinking until your eyes begin producing tears. Stop immediately if you experience pain or if the twitching becomes significantly worse.


Doing this in quick succession spreads tear film evenly. This will cause relief by hydrating the eye, resting the lid, stretching the eye and facial muscles, and increasing eye circulation.;
, Lightly massage your bottom eyelids in a circular motion using your middle fingers. Massage the lid of the twitching eye for approximately thirty seconds. To prevent irritation or infection, be sure your hands and face are clean first.This method has shown results with increasing circulation as well as stimulating and strengthening muscles., Try to do this with adequate speed. You should also make the movements very light. Imagine that your eyelashes are butterfly wings. The process of blinking is extremely important to your eyes. It relaxes most of the eye muscles, as well as lubricating and cleansing the eyeballs, which can stop the twitching.Stop immediately if you experience pain or if the twitching becomes significantly worse.
 You will notice that your upper eyelids constantly tremble with different amplitude. Concentrate your efforts on stopping this trembling.


By squinting and helping visual acuity, you place less strain on the eyes. This may help a twitch resulting from a tired eye., Close your eyes for one full minute. During this time, squeeze your eyes shut more tightly then release without actually opening them. Perform three repetitions before opening your eyes.


This exercise can lubricate eyes by increasing tear production. In addition to helping with twitching, you can use the exercise to keep eye muscles strong., Use the above image to locate the acupressure points around your eye. Massage each point lightly in a circular motion for 5-10 seconds before moving to the next. Once you finish the sequence, start again from the beginning. Repeat for approximately two minutes.For a similar acupressure technique, place your index and middle fingers on your eyebrows. Press gently and rotate them on the edges of your eye socket bone for five minutes.Acupressure methods help eye twitching by increasing circulation to the eye while the closed lid allows tear film to hydrate the eye.
To prevent irritation or infection, ensure your hands and face are clean first.
 Alternate between splashing your closed eyes with cold and then warm water. The cold water will constrict blood vessels, and the warm water will dilate the same vessels.This process will help increase circulation and blood flow to the eye, which can help with twitching.


You can also run a wet ice cube over the eyelid before splashing with warm water as opposed to alternating between warm and cold water. Repeat the process 7-8 times.

