 The Ti plant is a evergreen shrub native to Hawaii with smooth blade-shaped leaves measuring about four inches wide and range from one to two feet in length.You can also use banana leaves.


Wrapping your mahi mahi in leaves helps the fish steam slowly, keeping its juices as it cooks.
If using frozen leaves, be sure to de-thaw them first.;
, For Ti leaves, cut each leaf along the center of the rib and throw the rib away. Look for fresh Ti leaves at a Mexican or Asian market. For banana leaves, soak the leaf in water to soften it (about 1 to 2 minutes) and tear 12 long strips from 1 or 2 leaves and boil for 30 seconds before draining.


Cut 24 more strips, each about 12 inches by 3 inches and set them aside.
 Carefully slice your mahi mahi into 12 equal pieces (about 2 in. by 2 in).


If working with frozen filets, defrost them before cutting.
Press lightly when cutting. The fish is delicate and you can easily crush the filets with too much pressure.
 Place your mahi mahi slices on a plate together and leave it in your refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.


You can drizzle lemon or lime juice, salt, pepper, fresh or dried herbs, or any seasonings you prefer onto the mahi mahi pieces while they chill.
 Arrange two strips of Ti leaves or banana leaves on top of one another in a cross shape. Your piece of fish should fit in the center of the cross without overlaying.


You will use the sides of the leaves to wrap your piece of fish for steaming later.
Top with grilled vegetables if you prefer.
 Begin with the lower strip and carefully fold the leaves over the filling by alternating strips in a cross shape. Use each new strip to fold the loose end of the previous strip over the filling.


Tuck the last strip beneath the packet.
Tie closed with the thinner boiled strips you prepared earlier.
Repeat for the rest of your mahi mahi pieces.
 Use a rack or steamer basket in a large pot with water until it rests just ½ inch below the top of the rack or basket.


Bring the water to a boil over high heat.
 Carefully place your fish packets in a single layer on the rack or in the basket. Do not stack your packets.


Steam in batches if necessary.
Cover the pot or rack and cook for 6-10 minutes (or until fish it barely opaque in the center). You may need to gently open one of your packets and cut to test.
 Gently remove your packets from the steamer and tip them slightly to drain any water than may have gathered inside. Serve hot or warm.


Serve with rice or lime wedges.

