 When choosing your top, pick a top that goes great with the color of your jeans. Neutral-colored jeans tend to pair well with a variety of colors. If you're wearing jeans in bright shades, opt for a similar colored top or a neutral top.

For example, if you're wearing a yellow top, pair it with neutral jeans. Pair yellow jeans with a neutral top in a color like white or black.
You can make your legs look longer with the help of color. Wearing shoes the same color as your jeans, or in a nude shade, can help create the illusion of long legs., For a simple look, go for a wardrobe staple. A light sweater or t-shirt can easily be paired with skinny jeans for a warmer day or more casual setting. Lighter tops pair well with skinnier jeans as the cut and style are similar.Have fun with color. Create a light, spring-like look by wearing a pastel shade, such as pink, with a pair of standard skinny jeans.
 A statement outfit can be a great daytime look that you can wear to both the office or a causal lunch date with friends. Things like stripes, paisley, plaid, and other noticeable patterns make for a bold look when combined with a flattering pair of skinny jeans.It can be fun to pair patterns with colorful jeans. If you're wearing purple skinny jeans, for example, pair them with a purple plaid top or a floral blouse with purple flowers.
If you want something more formal, darker jeans or blue jeans work great with semi-casual patterns like stripes and plaid.
 If you want to rock the athleisure look, pair your skinny jeans with a casual, lightweight sweatshirt. A sweatshirt in a neutral shade, like gray, gives off a sporty feel and can pair well with a variety of types of skinny jeans.As leggings are a big part of the athleisure look, a light sweatshirt works well with super skinny jeans.
To give an even more casual vibe, try tying a denim jacket or plaid shirt around your waist.
 If you love loose sweaters and t-shirts, skinny jeans can help balance out the bulky top with a tighter bottom. Things like loose tunic t-shirts and big knit sweaters always look great when worn with your favorite pair of skinny jeans.Account for color. For example, pair a red and yellow striped sweater with a pair of red skinny jeans.
For a dramatic contrast, pair super skinny jeans with a very loose top. An oversized, flowing t-shirt, for example, can be paired with a pair of skinny jeans that resemble leggings.

