 Sometimes, you will need to invest a little more time in taming your curly hair. These methods often include using hair masks and oils and tend to last a little bit longer. This section will give you some basic recipes for masks and oils that may leave your hair feeling soft and shiny.


Keep in mind that everyone's curls are a little different, and that what works for your friend's curls may not work for yours. If one method does not work, do not despair: take a deep breath and try something else.
 Coconut oil not only smells delicious, but it is also incredibly good for your hair. It not only keeps the frizz at bay, but it also reintroduces moisture and shine into your hair. You can either use it as a hair mask or as a leave-in conditioner.









To use it as a leave-in conditioner, scoop out a small pea-sized amount of coconut oil and rub it between your palms to warm it up. Then, start massaging it into your start, starting from the ends. You want the most oil on the ends of your hair, and the least oil towards the roots., You will need ½ cup honey and ¼ cup olive oil.Combine the mixture and warm it up a little bit over a stove or in the microwave, then apply it to your hair, one small section at a time. Place a shower cap over your hair and let the mask sit for 30 minutes.You can dampen your hair prior to the treatment using a spray bottle containing conditioner diluted with water first. This method helps kinky curly hair.You can also substitute the olive oil for 3 tablespoons of warm coconut oil. Leave this mask on your hair for 10 minutes, then rinse it out., You can create a luxurious mask for your hair using just olive oil. Simply heat up a tablespoon or so of olive oil (not hot) and apply it generously to your hair. Loosely pile your hair on top of your hair and, if necessary, secure it with a clip. Place a shower cap over your hair. Leave the mask in your hair for 20 minutes, then wash it out using shampoo and conditioner.
 Vinegar may smell pungent, but when diluted with water, it can make your hair appear soft and shiny.It not only restores the natural pH of your hair,but also removes any soap residue. Dilute 1/3 cup (75 milliliters) of vinegar in 1 quart (1 liter) of cool water, and pour it over your hair at the end of your shower. The cool water will close the hair cuticles, making your hair look softer and shinier. Use this rinse once or twice a month.


You can use apple cider vinegar or distilled white vinegar.
Play around with the proportions. Some people's hair requires a higher concentration of vinegar, while others need more water in their solution.
Use caution if you have color-treated hair, as the vinegar rinse may take the color out.Consider adding herbs to your vinegar. Simply boil the herbs in the water first, then strain the herbs out using a sieve. Let the water cool, then add the vinegar. Chamomile is best for light hair, while rosemary is good for dark hair. Lavender and lemon verbena will add fragrance to your rinse while calendula will help condition your hair further., You can easily make a hair smoothing solution using some shampoo, conditioner, and hair oil. You can do this by mixing one part shampoo, one part conditioner, and one part hair gel. Place everything into an empty bottle, and shake it vigorously to combine the contents. Use this solution as you would any shampoo and be sure to rinse your hair out afterwards.


You can also use a small amount of this solution as a sort of leave-in conditioner.
You can dilute a small amount of this solution with water and use a spray bottle to dampen your hair.
 If your hair continues being unruly, consider going to an experienced stylist you trust and having him or her trim your hair. He or she will trim off the split, damaged ends, which are partly-responsible for frizz. If you are choosing a new stylist, make sure that he or she knows how to trim or cut curly hair.

