 Depending on where you live and how independent your senior is, you may or may not opt for a system that includes monitoring services.


There are many systems on the market that are connected to call centers, allowing emergency response teams to be dispatched directly to the senior's home upon activation. These products typically charge monthly fees.
If you don't think your senior needs this level of monitoring, or if there are many close friends and family members nearby who can check on the senior, you may also consider a wearable product that automatically calls a list of pre-programmed phone numbers, allowing your senior to call loved ones for help without having to get to the phone.;
, Many systems offer a simple push button that allows seniors to call for help whenever they need it. There are also newer products on the market, however, that offer a higher level of protection.


Many companies now offer units with automatic fall detection capabilities, which means your senior will get emergency help even if she is unconscious or otherwise unable to press the emergency button.Some units are also capable of automatically calling for emergency help if they detect fire or carbon monoxide.
 If you want to be able to check on your senior's health regularly, even if there isn't an acute emergency, you may want to consider a monitoring device that keeps track of the senior's movements and vital signs. These products allow you to view data on your computer or via a smartphone app, so you will know how long your senior has spent sitting or lying down, and whether there are any abnormal vital signs.There are also products on the market that will send health monitoring information directly to the senior's doctor.
If you're worried about your senior forgetting to take her medications, look for a system that has a pillbox monitoring function that will automatically send an alert if the pillbox is not opened.Video monitoring is also an option if you want to be able to keep an eye on your senior from far away.
 You will need to decide where you want your senior to be monitored. If your senior does not leave the house alone often, you can choose a home-based unit, which is connected to either a landline or a cellular connection, and only connects the senior to monitoring services within a specific range. If your senior is more active, you may want to consider a GPS-enabled device, which will allow your senior to signal for help from anywhere and will notify emergency responders of her exact location.If you are considering a home-based unit, find out if the base unit can be easily transferred to a different house. This will be important if your senior moves one day, if she spends the winters in a warmer climate, or if she just visits out-of-town family from time to time.
Be sure to check the range on home-based units, as they are all different. Some may allow for a connection while the senior is in the yard, for example, while others may not. If your senior spends time in the yard, you will definitely want to make sure this area is covered.
Some GPS-enabled devices may also allow caregivers to see the senior's location via a mobile app, which could be helpful if your senior is prone to getting lost.
 One of the most important things to consider when choosing a medical alert system is whether or not your senior will actually wear the device. There are many different options available, including pendants, bracelets, belt clips, and more. Some are more stylish than others, which may encourage a reluctant senior to wear them. Even the best system will be of no use if the senior does not wear the device, so make sure she is comfortable with it and agrees to wear it every day.Some systems include the option for stationary buttons to be placed around the house. If you are concerned that your senior may not wear a pendant or other wearable device, consider placing emergency buttons in the areas of the home where she is most likely to fall.There are also a wide variety of products on the market that include automatic sensors for the home. Depending on the system, you can monitor things such as movement in the home and temperature, and you can even get alerts if your senior leaves the water running or doesn't close the refrigerator, which can be great cues for you to call and make sure everything is okay. Some seniors may panic in the event of an emergency and forget to use the medical alert device. If you think this is likely to happen to your senior, you may want to opt for automatic detection options.
 Make sure to think not only about how the medical alert system will function for your senior right now, but also about how it might function for her as she continues to age.


The senior may be able to push a button to summon for help or reset the system today, but may not be able to a year from now. Think about what other options the system offers.
Be sure your contract is flexible, allowing you to make any necessary changes so the plan will continue to meet your needs down the road.
 Be careful not to choose a system that your senior will not be able to operate. If she is not tech-savvy, choose a more user-friendly device. No matter what system you choose, make sure to go over the operation with her so she knows exactly how to use it in case of an emergency.


Requesting a trial of a system is a great idea, especially if you are unsure if your senior will be comfortable with the technology.
 Depending on the system, you may have the option to buy or lease the equipment. Find out about the upfront and monthly costs for all the systems that meet your senior's needs.Ask about false alarm charges. If the senior pushes the alert button accidentally or uses it for any little problem, determine whether you will need to pay a penalty.
In the United States, Medicare does not cover the cost of medical alert plans. Most private insurers will not cover the plans either, but check to see. Medicaid will cover the costs in some cases., Be sure to ask if you are required to sign a contract, if there are cancellation fees, and if you are required to pay for a minimum number of months. Some systems may give you many different contract options, so choose the one that makes the most sense for you.


If you only need temporary monitoring for your senior, while she is recovering from surgery, for example, be extra careful about making sure you won't be on the hook for any extra fees.
 Ask the companies lots of detailed questions about their services to make sure you are getting the best quality service for your loved one.


Ask about response time. It will be very important to know how soon your loved one will get help in the event of an emergency.
You should also understand what systems are needed for the device to work. For example, if the system is tied to a cellular network, but your senior has poor cell reception at home, this might be a bad choice.
Find out if the company takes care of the monitoring in-house or if they outsource the service. If they do it themselves, ask about how they train their employees. If they outsource monitoring services, do some research on that company as well.
Seek a plan that provides 24/7 coverage if you want and can afford around-the-clock monitoring and service.
 You will probably already know a lot about the medical alert systems that fit your needs by this point, but there are still a lot of important technical questions you will need to ask the providers.


Determine if there is a guarantee on parts or service and whether the company offers technical support.
Find out if the battery is rechargeable or replaceable. If it is rechargeable, ask how often it needs to be charged.
Inquire about the availability of waterproof monitoring devices.
Ask if the system automatically tests itself. It is vital that the system is monitored regularly to ensure that it is working properly.
Find out where the speaker is. Some devices allow seniors to communicate with the response team through a speaker on the wearable device, while others have a speaker connected to the phone.If you have two or more seniors who you would like to monitor in the same house, find out if the system is capable of handling your needs., Research the company online to determine if it is reputable and to find out what other people are saying about their services. Think about how long they have been in business and how their prices compare to their competitors. If possible, reach out to people you know who use the system.

