 Click and hold on tree trunks to break them into wood.
 Open your inventory and drag the wood into the crafting area. Planks should appear in the results box. Drag the planks to your inventory.


Your crafting area is a 2 x 2 grid next to the image of your character.
 Fill all four slots of your inventory crafting area with planks to make a crafting table. As before, drag the crafting table to your inventory to finish the recipe.


In Minecraft Pocket Edition, you just select the object you want from the list. As long as you have the required items, it will appear in your inventory.
 Put the crafting table into one of your quick slots at the bottom of the screen. Click to pick it up, then right-click on the ground to set it down. From now on, you'll do most of your crafting by right-clicking the crafting table. This gives you a 3 x 3 space to craft instead of the 2 x 2 space in your inventory.


In Pocket Edition, tap the object in your quick slot, then tap the ground to place it.
On console editions, use the D-pad or trigger buttons to cycle through your quick slots (depending on your console). Place objects with the left trigger or L2 button., Break down more trees for wood and more wood into planks if you need to. Place one plank above a second plank in your crafting area. Drag the sticks into your inventory.
 Here's how to make your first tool:


Right-click your crafting table to open it.
Place a stick in the center square, and a second stick directly below it.
Place three planks along the top row.
Drag the pickaxe from the results area into a quick slot.
 Click the quick slot with your pickaxe to pick it up. Look for stone (grey blocks) in mountainsides or by digging a short ways downward. Click and hold on the stone to break it into cobblestone.


Make sure you mine regular cobblestone, and not cracked or mossy cobblestone, since you won't be able to use those to craft a furnace.
 Leave the center space empty but fill the other eight slots in your crafting table. The cobblestones will be transformed into a furnace.
 Place your furnace on the ground just as you did with the crafting table. 

