;
, As many people have said, it's unbelievably good for you. According to most doctors and nutritionists, you should drink at least 64 ounces (8 heaping cups) of water each day. But remember, you also consume water in your food, so don't go overboard and drink 8 cups of water PLUS all the water in the food. The most accurate calculation however, is to take your weight and divide it by 2, which will equal the number of ounces in water you should drink a day. You may want to divide that result by eight (eight fluid ounces in a cup) to tell you how many cups of water to drink daily. If you feel you are not drinking enough water, you should try to look at you urine when you use the restroom. If your urine is a pale yellow, or better yet, colorless, then you are consuming a sufficient amount water each day. If it is dark yellow or brown, you either need more water, have a serious liver disease, or hepatitis. According to a website addressing such issues, "Brown urine can an indication of a serious condition. It could be caused by liver disease, hepatitis, melanoma cancer, or copper poisoning. Other symptoms from those ailments should also be considered as indicators. But note that if you had recently eaten fava beans or taken a laxative, your urine also could turn brown." The benefits are countless: healthy, soft skin; clearer skin, too, and it flushes out all kinds of bad stuff, and so on.
 Eat as many fruit and veggies as you like, just try to eat them on an empty stomach (aids in digestion), fat free dairy products, and try not to have more than 3 ounces of meat a day. Also, the lighter the color of meat, the healthier it is. An important note, cut high fat food from your diet, make sure it's 30% or less calories from fat.
 It doesn't have to be boring and hard. It's as easy as taking a 10 minute walk after each meal, or riding your bike, or even playing tag. An easy way to get motivated to exercise is to sign up at your local recreational center for some sports, such as swimming, walking, or basketball. Go for strength training! If you have muscle tone, you will naturally burn fat around the clock. The important thing is to get out there, even if it's only a 25 minute walk. The more you do, the better you will feel. Remember, the exercise time must be at least 30 minutes , because that can burn the fat.
(It's super easy!)

, Gradually add more of the food you've been eating (that's healthy) to your diet, but keep exercising. When you have reached a point where you eat a certain amount of calories and your weight hasn't fluctuated more than 3 pounds you are done.

