 Not all altars have to be used for spiritual reasons. You can also use them for decorative reasons. One way to display is altar is by redecorating it for every season. Choose a high table or a prominent space in your home. Put out things like gemstones, minerals, rocks, flowers, ribbons, and whatever you think represents the season.For fall, put out gemstones in colors like green, red, orange, and black, fake seasonal vegetables, and any other items that are representative of fall for you. Rubies and onyx are good to use for fall.
For winter, put together light colored gemstones, items representative of the winter holiday you celebrate, and white glittery ribbons. Pearls and turquoise are good to use for winter.
For spring, set out out pastel colored gemstones, fresh flowers, and items that remind you or renewal and growth. Rose quartz and moonstones look nice for a spring altar.
For summer, put out things like earthy colored gemstones, like topaz and jade, and sunflowers.
 The altar doesn’t have to be representative of anything. Instead, you can use the altar as a decorative part of your home that is reflective of the current interior space. Choose gemstones and minerals in the colors you use in your home. Choose items that fit in with the current décor.For example, if you have a cottage themed home, put out items that remind you of the woods or beach.
 Set aside a space for your home for meditation. Meditation is a great way to reduce stress and achieve a clearer mind at the beginning or end of your day. Choose a space in your home that is usually quiet, like your bedroom, or with a space that gets soft, natural light. Put out some gemstones that appeal to you, candles, and any other items you’d like to focus on while meditating.Some gemstones are thought to influence your energy and aid meditation. A couple of those gemstones are amethyst and rose quartz.
 Set aside a space in your home dedicated to remembering loved ones that have been lost. Put out fresh flowers, mementos that remind you of the loved one(s), photos, and gemstones, like crystal, turquoise, and citrine.