 Asparagus, spinach, Brussels sprouts, and avocado all contain significant amounts of folate.Feed your child these foods to keep their folate levels high.


For instance, ½ cup of black-eyed peas contains about 100 micrograms (mcg) of folate.
½ cup of boiled spinach contains about 133 mcg of folate. To incorporate broccoli into your child’s diet, try putting a cup into a green smoothie along with milk, ice, spinach, dates, and strawberries. You could also mix it into macaroni and cheese for a tasty, cheesy broccoli experience.
Brussels sprouts are also a good candidate for smoothies or mac and cheese. Alternately you could dice them and put them in a light summer salad. Mix the sprouts with lettuce, dried cranberries, walnuts, blueberries, and a drizzle of strawberry balsamic dressing. Your child will love the fresh, crisp salad.;
, Bagels, pasta, and other products made with enriched or whole grain flour contain significant amounts of folate.For instance, ½ cup of enriched egg noodles contain 138 mcg of folate. A plain bagel contains approximately 101 mcg of folate.


Kids love bagels or toast with jam.
Look for whole grain waffles. Serve them to your child with fruit and maple syrup for a delicious breakfast.
 Black-eyed peas, lentils, chickpeas, and beans all have high levels of folate (lentils for instance contain about 479 mcg per 100 g). These vegetarian protein sources are the best choice to ensuring your child obtains vitamin B from protein.


You can’t go wrong with beans and rice. Mix some barbecue sauce into the beans to give them a bit of tangy sweetness.
Bean or lentil soup is perfect for hungry kids on a chilly winter day.
Beef liver, lamb liver, and chicken or turkey liver has high levels of folate, too (around 212 mcg). Be aware that liver meat tends to have high levels of vitamin A, which has been linked to bone disease.In order to avoid potential negative health impacts, only give your child liver meat once a week or less. Stick to the vegetarian protein options.



Babies under six months old require 65 mcg of folate each day
Babies seven to 12 months old require 80 mcg of folate each day
Toddlers one to three years old require 150 mcg of folate each day
Children four to eight years old require 200 mcg of folate each day
Children nine – 13 years old require 300 mcg of folate each day
Teens 14 – 18 years of age require 400 mcg of folate daily

, It is also in “enriched” bread, flour, pasta, and other grain-based products. Research shows folic acid can reduce the risk of heart disease and birth defects; however, excessive folic acid might conceal a vitamin B12 deficiency and symptoms of anemia. Excessive folic acid might also be linked to cancer.


If your child takes a multivitamin with folic acid or vitamin B9, avoid foods fortified with folic acid.
Enriched bread and flour — compared to regular whole wheat bread and flour — contains over six times the normal amount of folate.With this much folate in the product, you can easily feed your child too much.
Talk to your child’s physician about the risks associated with consuming excessive folic acid, and work with them to come up with a diet that ensures your child won’t consume too much.

