 Make sure that circuits that supply electricity to the old doorbell and chime are turned off. To make sure, use a circuit tester to check for the presence of any power in the device.;
, Remove the cover and use the screwdriver to detach the old switch from the wall. Pull the detached switch away from the wall and expose the wiring running from the back of the wall plate and into the hole behind the plate. Wrap the wires with a short length of electrical tape, and apply a section of the sticky tape surface to the edge of the open hole to prevent the wires from sliding back into the wall.
 Remove the cover from the new button, and thread the wires through the base of the unit. Wrap the ends of each of the wires to the positive and negative terminals, and use the screwdriver to secure the wires into position

, Use the screws provided to secure the plate into position, and then slide the cover over the device until it snaps into position.
 Remove the cover from the chimes, and use the screwdriver to detach the device from the wall or ceiling where it is mounted. Label the wires for where they're meant to go (transformer, back door, front door, etc.) with some painter's tape. After pulling the chimes away from the surface, detach the wires and use a piece of electrical tape to secure them to the area surrounding the hole.
 Remove the cover from the chimes, and run the wires through the guide channel to the terminals. Wrap the ends of the wires around the appropriate terminals (using the labels you made earlier as a guide), and screw the holding screws into position.
 Place the new chimes over the hole and use the screws provided to attach the device to the wall or ceiling. Once the chime plate is secured, fit the cover over the device and gently push until it snaps into place.
 Use the circuit tester to make sure the current is flowing through the system properly. Then push the doorbell. If the chimes function properly, the task is complete.


If it doesn't work, check that you attached the wires to the correct terminals. If it still doesn't work, call an electrician because you're problem isn't with your bell: your wiring is broken!

