 Cost is an important factor when evaluating any type of diet. However, elimination or exclusion diets may be more costly than you think. Review whether not your diet of choice will fit into your weekly food budget.


Many exclusionary diets that are designed to help relieve an ailment — like headaches, bloating or chronic constipation — will require you to avoid a certain ingredient in foods (like gluten or eggs). Finding replacement items can be quite costly. For example, gluten-free foods are significantly more costly than the regular gluten-containing items.In this case, however, the increased price is worth it, as you will likely feel much better and may even avoid some costly doctor's visits.
Some exclusionary diets may also promote the consumption of certain foods that can also be costly. They may promote you drinking certain beverages (like coconut water for electrolytes) or only purchasing 100% organic items.
Make sure you review the types of foods they promote and how the costs of those foods will fit into your budget.;
, All foods, even ones that are considered "unhealthy" contain nutrients that are used by your body to maintain normal functioning. If you're following an exclusionary diet that restricts multiple foods or food groups, this can lead to an unbalanced way of eating.


If you're looking to improve your health or lose weight, you should still follow a well-balanced and nutritious diet. This means you're eating a wide variety of foods from every food group most days.
The Paleo diet, for example, suggests avoiding large groups of foods including: dairy, beans, lentils and whole grains. The downside of this is that these foods are incredibly nutrient dense and contain a wide variety of nutrients that can promote safe weight loss and a healthy body.
If you're looking at exclusionary diets, choose one that doesn't rely on the avoidance of entire food groups. Limiting a few items is OK, but unless medically necessary, do not choose to follow a diet limiting an entire food group.
It's only recommended to avoid certain foods if you have a clinically diagnosed food allergy or autoimmune disease where food avoidance is the only method of maintaining your health., There are some exclusionary diets that do limit a larger amount of items initially, but then slowly add them back in over time. As long as the duration of the exclusions is not too long, these are generally safe to follow.


Some diets, especially low-carb diets, suggest cutting out foods that are higher in carbohydrates. For example, the Atkins diet suggests cutting out fruits, starchy vegetables, some dairy and grains for the first two weeks. However, if you follow the plan, they are slowly added back in. This type of exclusionary diet is acceptable and generally safe for most healthy adults.
Also consider how long you'll actually be able to give up certain foods. If you love dairy foods, but the diet you're considering suggests permanently giving up dairy, that might not be realistic for you.Review your diets and see just how long you're supposed to exclude or avoid certain foods. It's important to know this information, because if you reintroduce the food you may forfeit the benefits associated with the diet (like weight loss).
 If you're following an exclusionary diet, the basis is that you're going to avoid certain foods or ingredients in foods. Be careful when you replace these items with substitutes as these may not be what you're looking for.


For instance, if you follow a gluten-free diet, you may miss bread or sandwiches. You may look into gluten-free breads to fill this need; however, many of these foods are highly processed and contain more sugar, fat and calories than the original version.If you're following an exclusionary diet, be mindful if you're choosing to replace some of the "banned items" with substitutions. Limit your intake of these items, especially if they seem overly processed or end up being higher in calories, sugar and fat.
 Many diet programs — both exclusionary and otherwise — suggest the use of herbal or vitamin supplements to either promote weight loss or other desirable effects on your health. Be careful with these supplements and research them thoroughly before taking.


If you've chosen a diet to follow that suggests taking certain supplements (like B12 or green coffee bean extract) always speak to your doctor first. These supplements are not regulated by the FDA and can seriously react with your current medications and health conditions.Never take a supplement without consulting with your physician.
Some exclusionary diets may suggest taking a supplement to replace the vitamins, minerals or other nutrients that are common in the foods they are suggesting you avoid. For example, they may suggest avoiding dairy foods but also suggest taking a calcium supplement as well. This is generally appropriate, but still should be reviewed with your primary physician.
 If you find that you're having a variety of unexplained symptoms (like constipation, diarrhea, bloating or gas) on a regular basis, you may want to consider following a medically supervised exclusionary or elimination diet.


Many doctors, offer the ability to follow a doctor designed and supervised diet in their office. They will create the diet for you based on your report of symptoms and food recall and monitor your progress.
Your doctor will likely suggest eliminating one food first, followed by other suspect foods. They will also monitor and manage the reintroduction of foods or continued exclusion of certain foods.
They may also suggest that you take some vitamin or mineral supplements if they feel your diet is not well-balanced when following the recommended food exclusions.
These medically supervised programs are generally safe for most healthy adults and you should feel comfortable following one of these programs.
 With any new diet or eating pattern, it'll be beneficial for you to start a food journal. This can help give you insight into your current eating patterns and help keep you on track.A food journal can give you insight into your current method of eating. This might give you some ideas of what needs to change about your diet and how an exclusionary diet may help.
A food journal also helps keep you accountable. If you're following an exclusionary diet, writing down everything you eat may help prevent you from indulging in the foods you should be avoiding.
Also, studies show that those who kept a regular food journal, ended up losing more weight in the long-term. So if you're following an exclusionary diet for weight loss, consider starting up a food journal.
 Another important thing to track when evaluating your exclusionary diet is any side effects. When cutting out certain foods, food groups or certain ingredients, you may notice some changes in your body.


Some of the side effects of an exclusionary diet will actually be beneficial to you. For example, if you're no longer having bloating or diarrhea after cutting out dairy foods while following the Paleo diet, this is a beneficial side effect and should be noted.
However, there may be some side effects that are unpleasant. For example, the Paleo diet limits carbohydrates from grains, starchy vegetables and fruits. Sometimes a lower carb diet may cause headaches, constipation and mental fogginess.Keep notes of any positive or negative side effects in your food journal. This will help you determine whether or not you'll want to continue with that particular exclusionary diet.
 In addition to tracking any possible side effects, also track your weight. This is especially important if the goal of your diet is weight loss.


If you're following an exclusionary diet with the hopes of losing weight, make sure you weigh yourself regularly to track whether or not the diet is effective for you.
Generally, it's recommended to weigh yourself once a week. Aim to weigh yourself on the same day of the week and at the same time so you see the most accurate trend in your weight loss.If you aren't losing adequate weight (less than 1 pound per week) or are not losing weight at all, you may want to reconsider the type of diet you're following or ensure you're following it correctly.
If you're following an exclusionary diet with the hopes of eliminating an ailment (like bloating, migraines or constipation) you should still track your weight. If you're avoiding certain foods or food groups, weight loss may be a side effect of these diets regardless if that was your main goal. If you lose unwanted weight, you'll need to find things to add to your diet that can help prevent further weight loss.
 With any diet plan that you're following, you should check-in and evaluate the diet and your progress about once a month. This will help guide you on whether or not you should continue with your program.


Make a note in your food journal or calendar once a month to check-in with yourself regarding the diet you've been following. Make notes and adjust as necessary.
One thing to consider is how the diet is making you feel. Do you feel more energized since starting the diet or do you feel more fatigued? Are you more hungry or are you better able to control your appetite? If you've had some negative side effects, you may want to consider switching to an alternate program.
Also note whether or not you think the diet will continue to be realistic and sustainable for you. If you're following an exclusionary diet and you find yourself regularly craving the foods you're supposed to be avoiding, it may be difficult to maintain this method of eating long-term.
 Since the basis of any exclusionary diet is avoiding certain foods, it'll be imperative that you speak with your primary care physician. If you think you may have a food allergy and want to try an exclusionary diet, consider speaking to an allergist to make sure this type of eating pattern is safe for you.


If a diet is suggesting you give up sodas, all added sugars or fried foods, it's acceptable for you to give those up without worry of missing out on any beneficial nutrition. These foods should be limited anyways so excluding them from your diet is safe and appropriate.However, if a diet is advising you to avoid dairy, carbohydrates or gluten, you'll need to talk to your physician first. Or if a diet is recommending you avoid large quantities of a variety of foods, also talk to your doctor. They will be able to tell you what's truly appropriate for your current state of health.
If you think you have a food allergy or sensitivity, make an appointment with an allergist. They may do a skin or blood test to see if you truly react to certain foods and whether or not a exclusionary diet would be beneficial to you.
 If you're following an exclusionary diet to relieve symptoms caused by a possible food allergy or food sensitivity, its recommended that you give up certain foods for a minimum of two weeks.


Allergist and registered dietitians advise that an exclusionary or elimination diet should be followed for a minimum of two to four weeks.During the two to four weeks, if the suspected food that you've eliminated is the one causing your symptoms (headaches, constipation, bloating, gas, etc.), those symptoms should go away.This would be a good time to journal — especially in a food journal — and note how well you've been able to stick to the diet, what you've been eating and any symptoms you're noticing (or no longer noticing).
 When you're following an elimination diet, it's important to only exclude one food at a time. It might be tempting to cut out a lot of foods, but this can make things more confusing and more difficult to figure out.


It's unusual that you'll have multiple foods that you are either allergic to or sensitive to. Try to single out one or two foods that you think may be causing some side effects. This is where you should start with your exclusionary diet.
Only exclude one food at a time. If you exclude two, three or more foods, you'll never know which food is the actual culprit and you're unnecessarily avoiding foods without need.
 It's also important to reintroduce foods slowly after excluding and avoiding them for some time. This can help you avoid a serious outbreak of symptoms or allergic reaction.


After an elimination diet, you may or may not notice a resolution of your symptoms. However, that doesn't mean you can add foods back to your diet without careful thought or planning.
If you are not noticing any change in symptoms after excluding one food, it's most likely not the culprit. Slowly reintroduce that food over the course of a week or two.
For example, if you cut out dairy products with no change in symptoms, introduce a few dairy products over the course of a week. You can add in a 1/2 cup of yogurt one day (monitor symptoms) and then add in a serving of yogurt and milk on the 2nd day.
If you do notice a resolution of symptoms after cutting a certain food, you can confirm that it's the source of your symptoms by doing a challenge. Introduce the food in small doses back into your diet and if the symptoms return, this confirms that the food is causing your symptoms.

