 When writing in outlines, Word automatically formats slide titles and text, allowing you to write and edit a PowerPoint in one document before converting it to slides.


You will still need to add you pictures manually in PowerPoint.
 Click "File" → "New" to start a blank document. You could also press "Ctrl" and "N" simultaneously.
 The "View" tab is at the top of you screen. Once you click on it, a tab labeled "Document Views" will appear above your blank document. Click on the one labeled "Outline." This will bring up the Outline editing view.


This view should look like a giant, blank white screen with your tabs above it.
 You text will be in large font and colored dark blue -- this indicates the title of each slide.
 This will indent the line to the right. Everything written here will be the text for your slide. Every time you hit enter, it will bring you to a new line -- this corresponds to bullet points in your PowerPoint.


If you hit tab again, you will create "sub-bullets, like this:

This is a sub-bullet.
 Once you've written all of your slide text, hit enter to start a new line. In the upper left corner, under the title "Outline Tools," you'll see a menu with the current "Level." Using either the green arrows or the dropdown menu, select "Level 1" to make a new title.


You can also click and drag the small gray circles next to you text. If you drag a circle all the way to the left it will become a title.
 You can click on a line and change it's "Level" at any time. The levels convert to PowerPoint as follows:



Level 1 = Slide Titles

Level 2 = Slide Text

Level 3 and up = Sub-Bullets

Body Text will not appear in your PowerPoint.
 PowerPoint will take your document and convert it automatically into slides. If you cannot see the "Send to PowerPoint" button, try this to make it appear.


Click on "File" → "Options" to open up the Options Window.
Click "Quick Access Toolbar."
Select "All Commands" under the "Choose Commands From:" menu.
Scroll down through the alphabetically listed commands until you find "Send to Microsoft Powerpoint." Click to "Add > >" it.
 Now, a small button will appear in the upper left corner of word that lets you send the document to PowerPoint.
 PowerPoint will automatically convert documents written in Outline form for you. In PowerPoint, click "File" → "Open." Select "All Files" from the dropdown menu labeled VIEW FILES? to make Word Documents appear. Find and open you document to have it automatically converted.
 Apply the finishing touches to your presentation, like slide animations, sounds, themes, or pictures.


Word will not automatically convert pictures for you -- you will have to manually copy and paste or insert them into your slides.

