 If you are unhappy with the treatment options that your doctor or care team has given you, get a second opinion. There is no harm in getting checked out by a different doctor and gaining more insight into your condition and treatment options.Don’t feel that you have to stick with a doctor just because you went to them first. Don’t think that you can’t question what a doctor says because they are the doctor. Ask questions about anything you don’t understand, and talk to your care team if you feel uncomfortable with something.
A second opinion may give you more confidence about your treatment decision and make the process better for you.
 Instead of going to a hospital, you may choose to go to a cancer center. Cancer centers have the same medical personnel as a hospital. This includes a surgeon, oncologist, radiologist, oncology nurses, and other professionals. You may have cancer care centers in your area, or the best lung cancer care may be through the oncology department at your hospital.You may consider visiting a cancer center for a second opinion.
 Clinical trials are treatment options you may consider. During a clinical trial, you will be given a new cancer treatment. Your condition will be evaluated to see if the new treatment was safe, effective, or better than the normal treatment. You can find lists of clinical trials online.Clinical trials occur at different parts of treatment. Some clinical trials require people who have never had treatment. Others want patients who have have treatment but seen no improvement, or those who have recurring cancers. Other may focus only on reducing side effects.
Clinical trials are a huge part of the cancer research process. Many cancer treatments used today were first tested through clinical trials.
 There are different resources you can use to help you as you decide on a treatment plan. Though your cancer care team is your main help, you may want to reach out to others for clarification or help. Many cancer organizations provide help and resources that can be useful.For example, the American Cancer Society provides a 24-hour service to provide support for people dealing with cancer. They also help find rides and lodging, and offer support groups.

