 Oftentimes this will be the manager immediately above you. In any case, you should start with them, or with a more senior colleague or co-worker. They will have the experience to help you and give you the feedback you need., You should follow the norms in your office for emails. Humility goes a long way in asking for feedback, but don’t be so humble that your boss or manager thinks you know nothing about your job. Rather, frame the questions in ways that show your progress on a project or task.This will let the boss know you aren’t just sitting on your hands waiting for feedback. Also keep in mind the following tips.You can say, “I was working on the presentation for tomorrow when I ran into a snag with the format—I’m not sure if I’m following the company’s standard. I’ve attached the presentation. Do you have any suggestions for the format? Thank you for your help with this.”
Don’t forget to thank them in the email.
 This can help you avoid overly broad feedback that is unlikely to help you at your job. Avoid yes or no questions, unless necessary. Instead focus on specific parts of a project that need work. Try not to bombard your boss or co-worker with all the possible questions you could have about your job all at once.You can say, for example, “I wasn’t sure how to proceed with the Eastman file. The client hasn’t responded to my emails, and since it is a high-priority assignment, I thought it best to email you to see what I should do.”
If you are looking for more general feedback in the form of a review or report, request that specifically. Being polite, concise, and as specific as you can will help. For instance you could ask for a report on your efficiency or creativity. If you are asking for feedback from those who report to you, you may need to conduct an anonymous survey., If the feedback suggested you need a lot of improvement or that your work is not up to par, make sure to include a brief statement of how you’ll fix it. Give yourself time to process the emotions before immediately responding.Make sure you reply within 1-2 days at most.

