 If you have already seen the movie playing in a theater, stick your head through the doorway and yell out the ending. Yell it from the back of the theatre. Alternatively, make up the ending, or yell the ending to a different movie, like "Harry Potter sorta dies but not really I guess."


When an important part is playing, like the killer is revealed, or the couple finally gets together, sneeze or cough loudly and disturbingly. Then start yelling about why you have coughed/sneezed. "*Cough* OH SORRY I JUST HAD SOMETHING STUCK IN MY THROAT!" Make sure everyone can hear.
 Laugh obnoxiously at really corny jokes. Shush everyone who says anything, and then go into this loud discussion on how it's very rude to talk during a movie because some people might be trying to watch it.


Make those annoying slurping sounds trying to get those last few drops of soda.
Bring two or more people with you to start a loud and obnoxious conversation while the movie is playing and make sure to be near as many people as possible. If anyone tells you to zip it, throw popcorn at them.
If no one wants to be with you, bring your cell phone and don't bother to put it on vibrate. Make sure that your cell phone goes off like a car alarm and don't answer it for at least a minute.
 Make sure to sit in the middle of the row, then every 10 minutes get up and go to the aisle. Walk around a bit and then return to your middle seat. Maybe pause halfway down the aisle to your seat. Buy some kind of cheap sticky candy, like gummy bears, and surreptitiously toss them out into the aisle or on the people in front or behind you at random intervals. If anyone looks at you strangely, eat one.


If someone is sitting in front of you, start kicking the person's seat and don't stop. You can also put your feet up. The dirtier your shoes are, the better.
Bring your jogging suit and start doing laps of the aisles, be sure to pant loud and move your hips like an expert walker.
Get up to go to the bathroom, and then when you get to the exit, hold it open for a few minutes while you watch the movie.
If you are at a movie with your boyfriend/girlfriend, stand up and make out during the best parts; it will drive the people behind you insane.
 Ask the manager at the concession stand if the straws are free. Stare at the ticket-taker for long periods of time.


Ask for special permission, demanding they make room for your imaginary friends or your disabled brother George. If they refuse, tell them something totally unrelated. Like that your father's asparagus is essential. Act like what you said actually matters. If they acquiesce to your request, act like you don't know what they are talking about. You might get kicked out, but who cares.

