 Comments about your ex while with your new partner are a good sign of an incomplete breakup. Negative energy related to your ex, or constant comparisons to your ex, means you are upset about the breakup, and focusing more on it than the new relationship.


Constant comments about your ex, like derogatory gripes about the entire sex, are a good sign you haven’t let go. Aggressively bitter comments about your ex are an even clearer sign you’re not over the past. Your new relationship isn’t getting an even share of attention. , When you look for your ex in your new partner, it’s a sure sign you have looked for a replacement rather than a new love. Constant thoughts or comments of the attributes that drew you to your ex show, an unwillingness to embrace the new partner’s qualities. A few examples follow:


”Your hair looks just like my ex’s hair. It’s the same style and color.”
”I can’t believe you like the cooking shows. My ex likes the same ones.”
”I’m so glad you don’t have a cat. The cat my ex had was so ugly.”, If the end of your last relationship was completely out of the blue, caught you completely by surprise, then your current relationship may be a rebound.


Relationships that are troubled for longer periods have more time to wind down. Abrupt breakups often require longer periods before new relationships are healthy.
Sudden breakups require more time to mourn, because the shock is difficult to accept.
Commitment is more difficult in a new relationship when the previous breakup was unforeseen. , Everyone has met the recently broken up person who can steer any conversation or topic into their previous relationship, the former love of their life. That person is generally irritating, and if in a new relationship, likely on the rebound.


If you constantly talk about the pain of the past relationship with your current partner, it’s likely a rebound relationship.
Using your new partner’s shoulder to cry into is not a great sign for the current relationship.
When you’re spending more time talking about the problems with your ex, and figuring out how to fix your broken heart, the new partner is nothing more than a sounding board rebound relationship. , Plain and simple, if you’re still real good friends with your ex, it’s likely you don’t want to let go of the ex, and the new partner is a rebound. Check a few of the following items to determine whether or not you’ve officially made the separation:


Being friends on social media, or still officially “in a relationship,” are sure-fire signs you’re not over the previous relationship. Pictures of you and your ex all over your house are constant reminders of the previous relationship, and a hope that you’ll reconnect with your ex.Do you have your ex’s favorite movie? Are you wearing his old sweatshirt? Do you keep her old perfume bottle in the medicine cabinet? If the answer is ‘yes’ to any of these questions, or those related, you’ve likely not let go.