 Get a cut that flatters your face shape and keeps head to body proportions in mind. (Note, too long hair on plus sized ladies often drags the body down. Too short hair gives the "pin head" effect, that of a small head on a larger body.) Often, dying it a shade or two darker or lighter can make a much more striking appearance than "mousy" hair color. If your natural hair color is boring, consider finding out about your color type and dying it a more flattering shade. (Cold or warm color types, or if more in depth, the seasons: Spring, Fall, Winter, and Summer. This information can be found in color type analysis books, and is also very useful in picking out make up and clothing colors that flatter you the most.);
, A well made up face, but not overly dramatic that makes you look like a clown, presents a well groomed image. Learn to accentuate your best features and how to contour your face. (Get a make up consultation or invest in a book on applying make up.) In general, taking care of yourself will give people an impression of confidence and self worth. The confidence you will feel from being well maintained, will make your great personality the thing people remember about you, not the few extra pounds.
 Keep your nails well groomed. These small things make a huge difference. Looking healthy and clean is always attractive!

, Perhaps write them down so you can look at them whenever you need to Take the time to showcase those features. For example, do you have pretty hands? Then wear nice rings and maintain your nails.
 No one is completely body confident. Be positive about yourself to others, and others will see you in that light. Nothing makes a person look more unattractive to others, regardless of weight, than a person who is constantly make self-deprecating comments. However, if you seem happy and confident with the way you look, people will be drawn to your personality. Remember also many men find larger women attractive.
 Get a book on body proportion analysis (or image consulting guides), and figure out what cuts work for your body type. (For example, straight leg jeans balance wide hips, so keep away from jeans that taper!) Never wear too baggy, it will make you larger then you are. Never wear too tight clothing, it will accentuate your problem spots. Wear well fitted cuts, they will put you in the best light. You do not need to limit yourself to black, although darker colors do slenderize, but also be wary of too extremely bright colors and patterns that scream circus tent. Basic pieces can also be jazzed up through bold and creative accessories, which are always conversation starters.
 If you have trouble looking for trendy clothes that fit your size then consider wearing more timeless pieces and making them up to date with cheap trendy accessories that you will only wear for the season. Wear only one or two trendy pieces to look in, less is always more. Otherwise have good quality accessories to make an outfit. Invest in good pieces, they often have a longer life then your clothes. Good shoes, bags, and jewelry can make a cheap outfit look more expensive.
 Regular work outs such as walking and swimming are great and help to tone your muscles, give you a healthy glow, help you to feel great and move more gracefully.

