;
, Rini tends to accuse people of being a lot more immature than her, but everyone knows that she just says that to cover up the fact that she's an immature girl at heart! Being immature isn't a crime; but try not to over-do it. Here's a little guide to make your personality more like Rini's:


Don't swear. Rini never swears.
Your taste in music should be cute, but feisty(or just plain cute), like the song 'Sugar Baby' , an imitation of Eminem's 'Real Slim Shady'. This is Rini's song, sung by her. To check how your progress on becoming Rini is, compare yourself to this song.
Be innocent. Everyone knows that Rini is a little troublemaker, but hides it with her charm and cuteness to make people think she is completely innocent. This is quite a bad thing to do -- but, maybe you could tone it down a little? Let your charm shine, but be prepared to admit to serious bad things that you've done.
Rini's upbeat, extroverted and outgoing. A lot of girls are like this already; if you're not, try to get a bit more like that.
Rini is cute!! Or 'kawaii' as the Japanese put it. You should put that adorable little lisp in your voice and giggle a sweet little giggle. You MUST like pink and red and yellow. Bunnies are also a Rini-must. She's afraid of quite a lot of things - check them out on Wikipedia. Of course, you don't have to make yourself be scared of them. Rini is full of sugar and spice and everything nice!!

, The hair! We're finally on to the hair!! Rini's hair is pink and in big shiny bunches with two cones on top, representing bunny ears. Here are some hair tips:


You don't need to dye all of your hair bright pink. If you can, that's great, but if you can't/don't, you might want to consider getting pink streaks, or even just pink hair clips. Blonde hair is also quite Rini-like.
You don't need to do the complete hair-style, because the cones look almost impossible. You could just put your hair in big round bunches.
Keep your hair shiny and clean.
 Choose clothes that define your personality - in other words, clothes that are unique. Rini likes to wear pink, red and yellow, like a strawberry. Strawberry icons are a must.
 Mini-skirts and cute vest-tops are a must in the summer, and pink/white fake-fur coats are good for the winter. Rini wears a lot of ribbons and cute little pendants and kooky jewelry. Japanese characters/writing is great, especially in red. Last of all, your clothing should make a statement about YOU. Not your character!! Use Rini's style of clothing and adapt it into your own way of dressing. You'll get a unique, Rini-ish sense of fashion!

, Eat the right things and have a balanced diet to make your skin clear and fresh. Also, Rini isn't stick-thin. She's normal, really. Her face, arms and legs are maybe a little chubby in an oh-so-cute way, just to make her have more of an adorable character. Remember, to be like an anime character you don't have to have the exact shape! Don't make yourself super-chubby, because Rini's not like that!

, Rini doesn't wear make-up because she's just a little kid. If you feel like you need to wear make-up, make it natural and in safe, light colours.
 Rini has a goal to be a beautiful lady, and of course, help her mommy save the universe. Your goal might not be as major as that, but work hard on your ambition anyway. Rini does. She never gives up.
 Rini has her enemies: The Negaverse, the Negamoon, Queen Galaxia, all of the baddies from Sailor Moon. Everyone has someone that they don't like. But, Rini doesn't go and scream at them. She doesn't go and punch them in the face. She usually just fires her attacks at them, or, if she's about to die or something, she'd whisper, her eyes wide. You don't need to do either of these. Just breathe steadily, keep your cool, and try to work the problem out calmly. Rini would certainly not go and give bruises to the school bully. She'd just keep her distance from him. She'd make sure she was safe.

