 Mean people are the worst, and it can be hard hearing their cruel comments. It helps to have a strategy chosen beforehand, so you can feel prepared when they come at you. Here are some things to try to frustrate a bully.



Confusing kindness: Act like you've just been complimented; smile and say "thank you!" when they say mean things. Give them a kind word like "I like your shirt today."

Broken record: Prepare a script like "Now's not a good time to talk" or "I'm okay, you're mean." Keep repeating it each time a bully needles you.

Noisy room: Pretend not to hear them. Keep saying "I'm sorry, I can't hear you" and "Could you say that again?" Reference the noise level in the room for added effect.
 Fight the urge to snap back at them; instead, take a deep breath and pause before responding. The bully might think that you're backing down, and they will de-escalate and realize they aren't getting a rise out of you like they wanted. (If they get bored and leave, you won.)


Hurling insults right back will only escalate the situation. They will get worse, and you might even get in trouble for it.
 Try someone you trust: a family member, a friend, a mentor, or anyone who is a good listener. They can support you and help you work out a plan to deal with it.


It's often a good idea to tell an authority figure. This isn't tattling—this is getting help with a serious situation. You have the right to go to school, work, etc. without getting picked on.
 Haters attract haters, so be kind to people who are different than you. A nerd might be intellectual, but that doesn't mean looking down on others who have different passions or a lower IQ.


Kindness is more important than brains. Treat everyone as an equal, whether they are brilliant or intellectually disabled or somewhere in between.
Recognize that it's okay to have non-intellectual interests, like sports and makeup. People who like these aren't lesser, just different.
Encourage fellow nerds. This includes the newbies who can't recite obscure facts or solve quadratic equations in their head. Show them that it was a good idea to join the nerd community.

