 You can stay focused on your writing and maintain your momentum by using a timer when you write. Set the timer for a specific amount of time when you start writing and then continue writing until the timer goes off. Try not to stop writing or get distracted when the timer is running.You may shut off the timer during mini breaks to give yourself some time away from your writing. This way, when you come back to your writing, you can turn the timer back on and focus.
 If you feel your momentum stalling, you may try doing a freewrite to stay on track. You may use an existing writing prompt for the freewrite or create your own prompt. Time the freewrite and try to write for the entire time in response to the prompt. This will allow you to let your ideas flow and stay focused on the topic of the freewrite.For example, maybe you are stuck on how to describe a setting. You may then do a freewrite about walking through the setting to help you gain some momentum and have a better sense of the space. You could then use lines in your freewrite to describe the setting in your story.
 You can motivate yourself to maintain your momentum and get work done by using a system of rewards. You may reward yourself with a small treat once you have reached a writing goal or completed a written piece by a certain deadline. You may also penalize yourself if you do not finish writing something within a set goal or timeframe. Using a system of rewards and penalties can help you stay focused and capitalize on your momentum.


For example, you may reward yourself for completing a draft of a chapter within a week by having a nice meal with a friend or by going for a walk outside to your favorite park. If you fail to complete the draft, you may penalize yourself by missing a friend's get-together or by staying in and reading instead of socializing.
 You may find yourself surrounded by distractions, despite your attempts to remove yourself from others. You may be briefly interrupted by your child, your partner, or a friend calling you on the phone. Try to block out these distractions or address them quickly and then get back to your work. You do not want distractions to break your momentum and get in the way of your work.


For example, if you have a child who tends to distract you when you are working, you may say, "I am working right now. Can you go play on your own in your room for a little while? Once I'm done, we can hang out."

, If you find yourself losing momentum when you are writing, you may want to try writing with someone else. Having a writing partner can help you to stay focused and feel supported by someone other than yourself. You can also share your ideas with your writing partner and encourage each other to keep writing.You may also consider joining a writing group to help you maintain your momentum as a writer. You can then workshop your work with the group and encourage each other to explore different ideas or approaches to writing.

