 It may be difficult to differentiate a sprained leg from a fractured or broken leg. If you are certain that the leg is just sprained, you should be able to care for it at home on your own. If you're unsure about what's wrong with your rabbit, or if there's a chance the rabbit's leg or back might be broken, you'll need to take it to a vet for a firm diagnosis and treatment plan.Look for the following signs as common indicators of a sprained leg:


wobbliness or weakness in one leg
a hunched walk that favors three out of four legs
ability to bear some weight on the leg, but with a limp

, If you can't get to the vet and your vet has told you in the past that it's safe to give your rabbit baby aspirin, you may do so. Always check with your vet first if you're unsure whether your rabbit can have baby aspirin, as rabbits with certain medical histories cannot safely take aspirin.Only administer aspirin if your rabbit is not old (it should be young to middle-aged) and if you know your rabbit has never had any kidney or liver diseases.
Cut one chewable baby aspirin tablet in half, and give one of the halves to your rabbit to chew.
Wait for further instructions from your veterinarian regarding aspirin. It is essential to get the dose correct. Weigh your rabbit so that the vet can give you an accurate dose. This should ideally be done only while you wait to get to your vet.
 Cold therapy is the best treatment for any sprain. The ice pack will reduce the flow of blood to the site of the injury, which can help reduce swelling and inflammation. It can also reduce some of the pain at the site of the injury.Wrap a cold ice pack in a clean dish towel or washcloth.
Apply the wrapped ice pack directly to the affected leg. You may need someone to help hold your rabbit so that you can continue to apply the ice pack.
Try to leave it on for about 10 minutes, if your rabbit will let you. If not, try to keep the ice pack on for as long as possible.
Call your veterinarian to schedule an appointment so that he or she can give your rabbit a full physical examination.

