 You can download MSQRD (Masquerade) for free from your device's app store.


MSQRD for Android requires Android 4.3 or later.
MSQRD for iPhone and iPad requires iOS 8.4 or later.;
, You'll find it on your Home screen or in your app drawer after installing it.
 When you launch MSQRD for the first time, you'll be prompted to allow access to your camera. Without camera access, MSQRD will not work.
 This will allow you to adjust how light or dark the image is., This will let you switch to the rear camera and apply effects to someone else. This button may not be available for two-person effects.
 By default MSQRD will take videos. Tapping the Camera button will switch it to photo mode.
 If you're using an iPhone, you can turn on notifications for when MSQRD adds new effects:


Tap the Menu button (☰) in the upper-right corner.
Toggle "Notify about new effects" on.
Tap "OK" when prompted by your iPhone to allow notifications.
 You'll see a white face-shaped outline in the camera screen in MSQRD. Line this up with your face, and the first effect will be applied immediately.
 On larger devices, you'll see each option along the bottom, while on smaller devices you'll just see the currently-selected effect. Swipe left or right to cycle through each of the available effects.


The filter selection in MSQRD changes often. There are usually around 20 effects to select from.
 Some effects will change when you perform actions, just as lowering your head or opening your mouth. Instructions will be displayed at the bottom of the screen.
 The effect will stay applied as long as your face is in the outline. You can turn your head a little, and the effect should rotate appropriately., Tap the Camera or Video button in the lower-right corner to switch between taking photos and videos.
 If you've set the app to take a photo, MSQRD will take a picture with the effect applied. If you set it to record video, it will start recording with the effect applied.


Tap the button again to finish your video recording. Video recordings can be up to 30 seconds long.
The photo or video is immediately saved to your device's camera roll.
 The first time you finish recording, you'll be prompted by MSQRD to access your device's photos. This will allow you to save the photo.
 After taking the picture or recording a video, you'll see several sharing options. The picture or video has already been saved to your device, so you can find it in your Photos or Gallery app. You can use these buttons to share the photo or video to social media services like Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook. You can also tap the Share button to open your device's standard sharing menu.


The first time you share you will be prompted to link your social media account to MSQRD

