 You only need one other musician to jam with, but it is usually best to have at least one rhythm player (drums or percussion) and 1-2 other melody instruments (guitars, bass). While there is no law saying that you can't jam with 15 other people, jam groups generally stay smaller so that every musician can listen in and play off of every other musician. A small group of 3-4 similarly skilled musicians is a good place to start.


That said, there are many long-standing groups, such as blues bands, drum groups, and bluegrass bands, that have enormous, open jams, inviting a wide variety of skills and styles. Jamming is non-judgmental and free-form, so just have fun.
If you're just starting to improvise, jumping into a large jam session is a great way to get your feet wet without a ton of pressure, as any mistakes you make are less likely to get noticed.;
, Think of this as the guiding principle of the song. While there will likely be some improvisation and exploration, everyone needs to understand the chords in order to stay together. In general, most jams stick to simple, 3-4 chord songs or melodies that everyone already knows. The point of a jam is not to show off complex, interlocked instrumentals, but to allow each musician the freedom to experiment.


Jams can either play established songs, such as the blues jam classic "Stormy Monday," or quickly improvised chord groupings. If you're confused, let someone pick a song and the chords and go from there.
If you don't know the chords, sit back and watch another instrument or ask someone playing for advice.If you're a percussionist you should ask about the tempo, or set the tempo yourself if you know the skill levels of your fellow musicians.
 In general, you play through the song "as written" briefly, sometimes with vocals, so that everyone gets used to the feel of the song. If you're improvising the song on the spot, this is a good way to get everyone on the same page. Keep the first minute or two simple so that everyone can get used to the structure. Once everyone is on the same page the fun can begin.
 More often than not, one or two people will emerge as the "leaders" of the jam, keeping everyone on time and noting when people should take solos. As you play, keep your head up and watch the other musicians keep the band together. Eye contact, brief signaling, and even talking about upcoming chords or changes will help everyone stay on the same page.


As you get more comfortable with your fellow musicians, you can often hear when there is space for a solo and when the rhythm is changing, but you should still be looking up for visual cues from time to time.
Watch any improvisational or jam band play live -- you'll notice small moments when the musicians make eye contact through the show, usually before changes, solos, or the song's end., If everyone else starts playing fewer notes, calming the energy down, come down with them. If things start to pick up in volume and intensity, let your own volume grow slowly. In most jams, no one instrument is supposed to take over the entire song. Each player needs to be aware of the rest of the band so that the song grows organically. While you play, listen to the entire sound of the band, not just your own instrument.


If you're struggling to keep up with every musician, hone in on the drummer. Follow his lead in energy, tempo, and sound.
Feel free to adjust your playing, tempo, or melody, as long as it fits in with the rest of the band. You can help push the song in new directions as long as you don't try and take over the song.
 Musical improvisation takes a lifetime to master, so you're not expected to whip out a world-class solo on the fly. Improvisation is your chance to see where your instrument takes you, so relax and start experimenting. As long as you remember to stay in key, there is no wrong way to improvise, so just let go and have some fun.If you're new to improv, find a 4-5 note line you like and play it once or twice. Then start to adjust it, changing 1-2 notes each time you play it so you get variations on the same simple theme. If you can mimic the vocal line or a common melody, you'll be sure to keep the song moving.
Don't feel the need to show off or be the best. Just play what sounds good to you., A jam is supposed to be an egalitarian, communal environment where everyone can feel free to let loose. No one enjoys it, however, when one person takes all the solos, or decides to solo for 2-3 minutes straight. If you're unsure what the protocol is, just listen into the other plays as they take solos or features. When your turn comes up, play for the same amount of bars (usually eight) as everyone else.


That said, some rock and roll groups, usually small, guitar driven bands, will jam on 4-5 minutes solos (see The Grateful Dead, Phish, etc.). It is more about feeling the mood in your particular jam than adhering to a hard and fast rule.
 Once everyone's taken a solo, most musicians will start looking around for a cue when to end. In general, once all the musicians have made eye contact, someone will say or signal for "one more round" or to move to the outro, if the song has one. This helps everyone come to an end at the same moment.


As the song ends, cut the number of notes or beats you play in half to ease out of the song. It also makes it easier to stop on a dime if you miss the ending cue.

