 The balance board can be remarkably sensitive. The balance board must record your weight before you can perform most exercises or play most games. To ensure that the balance board weighs you accurately, place it on a hard, flat, and clean surface such as a tiled/wooden floor. Uneven surfaces such as carpets can interfere with weight measurements.;
, It starts off with only some basic poses such as: cobra, tree, and downward-facing dog. In order to unlock more poses, you will need to master the yoga basics. Then you will be able to perform yoga poses such as spinal twist, chair, and palm tree. Be sure to focus on your core and make sure that you breathe. Furthermore, you should try to distribute your body-weight evenly in order to avoid causing one part of your body to bear the brunt of the exercise. Despite the fact that you have already mastered some yoga poses, you will need to go back and "review" previous yoga poses.


Before doing exercises like aerobics and strength-training, do yoga. It will stretch out your body and prepare you for the more difficult exercises that lie ahead.
 When you try the aerobics, you will probably notice that you can gain more points and unlock activities more quickly by having good form. For example, when you are signaled to catch the hula-hoops that are thrown, raise both of your arms up to the sky and lean your body over in the direction that the hula-hoop is coming from. Time your movements to the same beat of the music that is played in order to get perfect timing on the basic step game. During the running exercises, keeping a steady speed will help you exceed 100 percent and unlock more levels.
 The strength training exercises were designed in a matter consistent to build the muscles in your arms, legs, chest and core. Increase the amount of repetitions that you do and motivate yourself by listening to music, and unlock the trainer challenge mode. Then challenge your trainer head to head in the jackknife, parallel stretch, and the push-up exercises. A competitor motivates you to push your limits, and if you win you will feel great.
 When playing the balance games, move your abdominal muscles minimally while you move your weight to the left and right. If you are trying to gain momentum in the ski jump game, shift your balance to the blue dot that is shown on the screen. For the soccer ball dodging game, try not to get hit by the shoes and panda heads, but shift your weight to the left or right side in order to touch the soccer balls with your head. Try to not randomly move around, and if you are behind on timing, skip the ball that is coming at you and wait for the next soccer ball to come at you.

