 For introverts, the socializing that is necessary when you go on dates can be exhausting. Prepare yourself for the date by getting plenty of rest the night before and by having some alone time.


Try sleeping an extra hour, such as by going to bed earlier than usual.
Before your date, spend some time alone in your room and do something that is enjoyable for you, such as reading a book, drawing, or listening to music.
 If you prefer to meet people in person but are not sure how to do this as an introvert, you may try reaching out to friends who are more extroverted or outgoing. Ask the friend to introduce you to someone they think might be a good fit for you or to set you up on a date with someone who is comfortable around introverts. Often, meeting people through friends will be less nerve wracking and weird for you as an introvert.You may also ask a friend who is extroverted to be your wingman/wingperson in social situations. This friend may go out with you to bars or clubs and bring you into a conversation with someone you find interesting. This may make it easier for you to then continue the conversation and feel comfortable hanging out with new people.
 As an introvert, you may be more comfortable meeting new people in smaller groups. You may try chatting up someone interesting at small gatherings at a friend’s house or when you are in a small group at a bar or club. This may feel less intimidating for you, as introverts tend to do better with one-on-one conversations or small group hangs, rather than big crowds.You may strike up a conversation with someone in a small group by asking them how they know the host of the party or how they know a mutual friend. You may also make a witty remark about your surroundings as a way to connect to new people and get them talking without having to resort to small talk.
 You can find people who may be dating material by chatting with someone in the same recreational class or team as you. You may take a class in a hobby you like, such as painting, sculpting, or woodworking. Or you may join a recreational team where you can do a sport you enjoy, such as a volleyball or soccer team. This could then expose you to other people who share the same interests as you.You may end up striking up a conversation with someone you find attractive in the same class or team as you. Talk about something happening in the class or a difficult play in the last game you played. Use your shared hobby or activity as a starting point for a conversation and go from there.
 If banter drains you, you can also attract the attention of others in non-conversational ways. You may wear unique clothing or put together outfits that show your personality and your tastes. Presenting yourself in a certain way may tell a person a lot about your personality, without having to even talk to you or be social with you.


You can also attract notice by doing art or otherwise putting your interests out in the community. You may paint, draw, write stories, or sing on your own. You could then post them online or share them with a few friends to show them how you feel and how you view the world. This could help you show your personality.
 Introverts often take longer to feel comfortable with other people, especially people they have just met. If you notice that you feel a little suspicious of the people you date, then keep in mind that this might just be part of your personality. Give yourself time to warm up to them.For example, you might consider going on a second date with someone even if you had a hard time connecting with them on the first date. You might just need to be around the person more than once before you start to feel connected and comfortable.

