 There are many martial arts from many different countries. While no martial art will prepare you for every possible situation you could face, they will give you the training and muscle memory to adapt to bad situations, assess the severity of various threats, and react quickly.

If possible, train in multiple martial arts. The more self-defense knowledge you have, the better equipped you will be to protect your partner when the time comes.
If you can’t do martial arts, learn some basic self-defense techniques. Stomping an aggressor’s foot or kicking them in the groin before fleeing (with your partner) is a standard way to escape danger.
 While working out is a great way to stay healthy and fit, you can also build strength in order to keep your partner safe.

Focus on building upper body strength with sit-ups, chin-ups, push-ups, bench presses and dumbbell exercises. When the time comes for a confrontation, you’ll be ready.

Working out also impresses your partner. Healthy and fit people tend to be perceived as more attractive and likable.
 Go a few blocks out of your way to limit your exposure to potential crime or violence.


Wrap your arm around your partner whenever they seem concerned about people or places in the vicinity. This will reassure them that you’ll protect them. If someone is whistling or catcalling your partner, pull your partner close so that they feel stronger.


Imagine you and your partner are out on the town. You’re out with a group of friends. While you and your buddies are sitting comfortably in a booth, your partner goes out on the floor to dance with some friends. You notice a group of people near your partner who are getting rowdy, or somebody heckling her or him without any apparent reason. While you might be riled up and alarmed by this, don't step in straight away. Allow him or her the space to handle it but monitor the situation closely. Go to your partner’s defense if you feel it's needed.,

There are times when protecting the one you love mean resorting to violence. But most of the time, there are other options available. You should start by attempting to de-escalate any bad situation. For instance, if someone is speaking or acting aggressively toward your partner, intervene by apologizing. Tell the aggressor, “We’re sorry, it was just a mistake. We’ll be going now.” Then, make your exit.

Do not insult the aggressor or up the ante by threatening them. Challenging the aggressor will only make them more likely to hurt your partner, or you.
If the aggressor doesn’t let you leave or pursues you, call the police. Report the situation and follow their directions. Stay cognizant of the aggressor during the entire exchange, and watch for signs that they might strike. Defend yourself if necessary.
If an aggressor pulls a weapon on you, do not struggle with them or attempt to wrest it from their grasp. You could end up getting your partner or another bystander hurt.

