 In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together the tomato sauce, chili powder, cumin, garlic powder, onion powder, paprika, cayenne pepper, apple cider vinegar, and honey. Mix until smooth and evenly combined.Use plain tomato sauce, not tomato sauce previously seasoned with other herbs and spices. Using a flavored tomato sauce can throw off the final taste of the taco sauce.
Start with the minimum amount of honey and cayenne pepper during this step—1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) of honey and 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) cayenne pepper. You can make the sauce sweeter or spicier later on, if desired.;
, Whisk in the water, roughly 2 Tbsp (30 ml) at time, until the sauce reaches your desired consistency.


You'll likely need at least 1/4 cup (60 ml) of water to bring the sauce to an appropriately thin consistency, but don't feel obligated to add the full 1/2 cup (125 ml) of you prefer slightly thicker taco sauce.
 Taste the sauce using a clean spoon. Add more cayenne pepper or honey, as needed, to adjust the flavor so that it matches your personal sense of taste.


If you accidentally add too much of either one, you can usually balance out the flavor by adding more of the other. For instance, if you accidentally make the sauce too spicy, adding more honey can balance out the heat and make it easier to tolerate.
 Cover the bowl of taco sauce with plastic wrap and place it in your refrigerator for approximately 2 to 3 hours.This step isn't strictly necessary; you can technically serve the sauce immediately after whisking it together. Giving it time to rest, however, allows the flavors to mix together and may create a more balanced taste.
 Depending on your own preference, you can serve the sauce straight from the refrigerator or let it drop back down to room temperature before enjoying it.


If you decide to serve the sauce at room temperature, simply remove the portion you intend to use and let it sit out on the counter for roughly 20 minutes before use.
Leftovers can be refrigerated for up to 5 days. You can also freeze the taco sauce in an airtight, freezer-safe container for several months.

