 Meditation helps you learn to be mindful and aware of the moment as you’re in it. Beginning a regular meditation practice can help you tune in to your heart and help you open up to the world around you.


Try this 5-minute meditation: Sit comfortably in a place with no distractions. Take deep, cleansing breaths, in and out. Place a hand on your heart and the other on your belly. As you breathe in, imagine that you are pulling in all the good that the universe has to offer. As you breathe out, release any pain or worries you have been holding on to., A common mark of a closed-hearted person is their tendency to push away painful emotions. Practice open-heartedness by giving yourself permission to cry. Crying is cathartic and can actually be good for you.If you don’t have anything immediate to cry about, purposely watch a movie or read an emotional story. As you cry, don’t judge or criticize yourself. Simply be present in the moment as the tears fall. Then, offer yourself comfort with something like “I’m with you” and gently caress your back and shoulders.
 If your heart has been closed for a while, your relationships may be primarily surface-level. Practice letting others in by disclosing intimate details about yourself. Start light before revealing your deeper secrets to allow both you and the other person to acclimate to your newfound openness.For instance, you might choose to tell a friend “It really hurt my feelings when you canceled our plans at the last minute. I was really looking forward to hanging out.” If this mini-disclosure is met with acceptance and empathy, later, you might choose to share something more emotional like how you felt after a major loss in your life.
 As you get accustomed to opening up to others, you should challenge yourself to exchange physical touch. Hugs, caresses, and kisses are all ways humans show their love and affection. However, if you have previously closed your heart, these gestures may be foreign to you.When you and a friend are laughing, lightly touch their arm. If a coworker is crying, rub their upper back to offer comfort. Greet a relative with a hug instead of a handshake (if you’ve never done this, it may be appropriate to ask first). Touch is a major form of communication; start using it in your relationships.

