 Writing a manga takes a lot of time and effort. These graphic novels are often many chapters in length, and if you're working alone the artwork will take a lot of time. Is it truly what you want to do? It will only be a waste of your time if you make a manga halfheartedly. It will also cost you some money to buy the stationary supplies necessary for a handmade manga. You do, however, have the option of creating it digitally.;
, It's not the art utensils that makes art good but the artists themselves. As a side note, once you have written out a draft of your manga in your notebook, you can do the final drawings with nicer paper, but it's better to draw out roughly how you want on the cheap paper so that you don't waste any high quality paper.
 You don't have to learn what all of the parts of the body are called; just learn what the overall outer parts are and there proportions compared to the rest of the body and the proportions of other things. that's not hard to do once you get the hang of it. Also try to draw clothing, landscapes, and other things in detail. Every time you draw you get better, and if you're always drawing things from the real world in detail Your manga Will look incredibly better and some parts (or the entire thing) may even be breathtaking. A website that helped me out when I first started drawing manga was http://www.mangatutorials.com/

, This may be hard for some of you, especially if you're always trying to draw other peoples' styles. If it is hard, try to think of the type of manga you like (horror, syfy, adventure, etc.) and the mangaka's that usually draw and write the stories that you like. It's okay to base your art style off of your favorite mangas, but don't copy there art style and call it your own; it's not. If you're having trouble making your own style, look into the manga(s) that your drawing from and try to find the objects in it or them that intrigue you. then try to search for those objects online or out in the real world and try to draw them however you want to. It takes awhile but overtime you'll develop a style that you can call your own :-). I would type in more types on how to make a manga but I have school tomorrow and it's already pretty late, so that's it for now.

