 Whether you're trying to write, paint, or solve a problem, prompts can get you thinking. Sometimes just moving past the blank page is the hardest step, and a prompt will at least get you moving.Prompts don't have to be written. They can be visual, such as a painting or photograph, or even auditory, such as a piece of music.

For instance, maybe you are trying to paint a picture of a depressing time in your life, but you're having trouble getting started. Putting on the right song could help you get in the mood.
Another example is a writing prompt, where someone else sets up a scenario or a question that you write on, such as "You find yourself in a dark room with only one window. You have a pencil in your hand and no shoes. How did you get there?" You can find writing prompts in books on writing and on writing websites.
 That is, you may often go through your day without really noticing the things around you. You drink your morning coffee without noticing its deep flavor or walk by your office's landscape without noticing the lilies. Try to be more aware of your surroundings. When you notice more, it can spark your imagination, giving you a new perspective., If you always do the same thing, you'll get stuck in a rut. However, just trying a new technique or looking at something from a different perspective can help unlock creativity. Sometimes all it takes is literally moving yourself around the room, such as looking at a project from the floor or from above it. Other times, you may need to take a different approach to encourage your imagination to start running, such as learning a new way to paint or a different way to sew a pattern.Another way to shake things up is to have different experiences. For instance, maybe go to the symphony if you've never been or try a new food. You never know what connections your brain is going to make., That is, instead of beating your head against the wall to get a predetermined finished product, let the process help define what your project becomes. It's through the process that you can explore ideas and take different routes; if you give into that process, you may come up with something even better than you expected. Another way to say this idea might be "Don't be afraid to deviate from your outline."Plus, even if you decide you don't like what you end up with, you can use what you learned on the next project.
 If you're a perfectionist, you know that you can be so focused on not making a mistake that you may not finish what you start or you're always unhappy with how it turns out. Perfectionism is a form of self-criticism, and therefore, it can stop you from moving forward with a project or trying something new. Therefore, you should try ways to slow down your perfectionist nature.Remind yourself that making a mistake is not the end of the world. If you paint a line in the wrong place on your painting, it can be fixed. Alternatively, maybe it will help you take a new direction you didn't even think of. Making a mistake is a natural part of life.Wait to decide. Sometimes, when you're in the middle of a project, you may decide you want to scrap it and start over. However, give it a chance. Finish the project, and then sleep on it. You may decide you like it better in the morning or that you can do something to fix it.
Don't make it all or nothing. Remind yourself that even if what you end up with is less than perfect, it can still be good., Working under a deadline can be exhilarating, spurring you on to creativity. However, it can also be stressful, and if you get stressed out, it can stifle your creativity. Know how much time you, personally, need to work on something, and give yourself enough time to do it. Set out that time so you can focus solely on your project.