 Sometimes the more direct approach of talking is too hurtful or inappropriate, particularly if you haven’t been friends with the other person for long. Try avoiding them when you see them. They’ll eventually get the hint and leave you alone, but this could take awhile.If you’re in school or work together, you could walk the other way whenever you see them.
If you have to be around them, avoid talking to them for too long. Focus your conversation and attention on others.
Keep in mind that if you were close friends, this type of avoidance may be confusing to the other person and cause conflict., Your friend/acquaintance may still try to interact with you outside of seeing you in person. Do not respond to their text messages, emails, or phone calls.


If you’re hesitant to immediately stop responding to all of their texts or calls, you can gradually stop responding to them.Especially avoid responding to text messages or calls that occur late at night or ones that try to pull you into drama. Responding to them with help will send them a mixed message that you’re available to them as a friend.
If you haven’t already given them your phone number, make sure you don’t at this point.
 Make sure to spend more time with other friends or with your family. Do not accept any invitations to spend time with this person, especially for anything one-on-one.


Give excuses. Anytime they invite you out, tell them you have a doctor’s appointment, plans with your family or another friend, or that you’re not feeling well. They’ll likely get the hint and stop inviting you to things.If they express concern or surprise at you not wanting to spend time with them, you may need to address it directly. You can say, “I know I’ve been fading out, but I just don’t have the time or energy to connect with you as often anymore. I’m sorry.”, Stop interacting with them online. Avoid commenting on or liking their pictures and posts. Adjust the privacy settings on your social media accounts so that they cannot see or comment on anything you post. Consider blocking them or hiding them from your account.

