 Once you have the item on, make an assessment as to whether it truly fits you. You should be able to move around comfortably in the item and it should flatter your figure. You should not hang on to clothing that is too small, too big, or unflattering. If the item doesn’t fit, get rid of it!If you decide to get an item tailored, make sure you do it within two weeks. If you don’t get around to it, get rid of the item.
 Generally speaking, you should not hang on to clothing that is no longer in style. These items are taking up valuable real estate in your closet. For example, if your closet is filled with mom jeans from the late 1990s, you should probably donate them. You can then use the space for jeans that flatter your figure and are in style., If an item fits, you will next need to think about the last time you wore it. If you can’t remember when you wore it last, get rid of it! If you wore the item within the last year, and you still have a use for it, keep it.Try putting all your hangers in the same position when you hang the clothes up after the closet clean-up. After you wear an item, flip the hanger in the opposite direction. At the end of the year, get rid of all clothes that have hangers that have been flipped.
 Look over the item carefully for any signs of damage. Keep your eyes peeled for stains, rips, and holes. Depending on the degree of damage, you will want to donate, recycle, or throw the item out. If you can repair the item, make a plan to do so within the next week., You can sell clothing that is in good shape, of high quality, and in style. Try selling higher end clothing online through a website like eBay, ThredUp, or Poshmark. You can also take clothes to local consignment stores, or have a yard sale., Find a local charity that is accepting clothing donations. You can take all the clothes you no longer want and cannot sell to the charity. For example, you can try calling the local women’s shelter to find out if they are currently accepting clothing donations.Do not donate significantly damaged clothing or used underwear.
 You can now organize the clothes in your closet. Try hanging items up on slim hangers by clothing type or color. You can also utilize storage solutions like shoe racks, shelving, and storage containers to make your closet more user-friendly.