 Many professionals recommend massaging oil into your scalp while you massage it. This not only stimulates your hair follicles but also nourishes your scalp and roots. Recommended oils include:Coconut oil
Jojoba oil
Olive oil
Almond oil
Egg oil (eyova)
Avocado oil
Castor oil;
, You have a few options here, mainly depending on whether you would like to incorporate oil into your scalp massage.


In the shower while shampooing (no oil necessary)
Before showering
Before bed

, You can warm it with boiling hot water, or you can melt it in a saucepan over low heat.


No more than one tablespoon of oil is recommended.
 The pads of your fingertips massage and stimulate blood flow to your scalp.If you are using oil, then dip your fingertips into the warmed oil before placing them on your scalp. Then, massage the oil into your scalp in small circles. Use only a minimum amount of oil to avoid making your hair too greasy.
 You can part your hair into sections, and massage each section for about one minute, or you can just work your way slowly all around your head.Some methods suggest flipping your head upside down while massaging to further stimulate blood flow to the scalp. This is not a proven method, so try it with caution, especially if you have health conditions such as pregnancy or frequent dizziness.
 Wrapping your hair gives the oil time to absorb into your follicles and hair shafts, providing extra nourishing power.Allow your hair to stay wrapped, absorbing the oil, for up to two hours.


Heavy bath towels tend to cause hair breakage, so good alternatives for wrapping your hair include old cotton t-shirts or light microfiber towels.
This step is not necessary if you did not use oil while massaging your scalp.
 No matter what type of hair you have, too much oil in it will make it greasy. This is especially true if you have fine hair, for which oils are usually too heavy.


Shampoo and condition your hair as you normally would. You may need to shampoo twice in order to get all of the oil out of your hair., Scalp massages can be done daily, although it is not recommended to use the oil daily, as washing your hair daily can dry it out. You can do both dry scalp massages and scalp massages while you shampoo or condition your hair in the shower.