 Record yourself speaking or ask a friend to listen and evaluate your speaking voice. Assess your volume, pitch, articulation, vocal quality and rate to determine the main areas where you need improvement.Is your volume too high or too low?
Is your pitch more shrill or full, monotonous or varied?
Is your vocal quality more nasal or full, breathy or clear, lifeless or enthusiastic?
Is your articulation hard to understand or crisp and articulated?
Do you speak too slow or too quickly? Do you sound hesitant or deliberate?

, You should always speak loudly enough so that everyone in the room can hear you. However, adjusting the volume of your voice up or down can add emphasis or intimacy to different parts of your speech.Get louder as you are about to make an important point.
Lower your voice when you are making an aside.
 People might tune out your voice if it sounds monotonous. Varying your pitch will eliminate a monotonous sound and make it more likely that they will keep listening to you. Continue to vary your pitch throughout your speech. Some common ways to use pitch include:Ending questions on a higher pitch.
Affirming a statement by ending on a lower pitch.
 The tempo is the pace of your speech. Slowing the tempo of your speech will help you to place more emphasis on certain words and phrases. It may also make it easier for people to understand you if you are prone to speaking rapidly.Try pausing after making an important point to give the listener a chance to absorb it.
 Have you ever heard someone’s voice quiver when they are experiencing strong emotions during a speech? This can be an effective technique in some situations, such as when you are giving a speech or acting in a play. Allow the timber, or emotional quality of your voice, to show when you are expressing strong feelings.For example, if you are saying something that makes you feel sad, then you might allow your voice to tremble if it comes naturally. However, do not try to force it.
 Before you get in front of an audience to present your speech, practice it alone and uninhibited. Experiment with variations in tone, pace, volume and pitch. Record yourself and listen for what is working and not working.Practice the speech several times with different variations. Record each attempt and compare them.
Many people are uncomfortable hearing themselves on tape. This sounds different that the voice that resonates in your head, but is closer to the voice other people hear.
 When you are speaking for long stretches of time or at a high volume, it is important to keep your throat and vocal cords lubricated. Avoid beverages that can dehydrate you, such as coffee, soda and alcohol.Drink water instead.


Try keeping a glass of water close by while you are speaking.

