 If your printer connects over Bluetooth instead of Wi-Fi, the process for preparing your printer for connection will vary slightly.


Some Wi-Fi printers must be connected directly to a wireless router via Ethernet in order to receive an Internet signal.
 Your printer will need to be able to communicate with your wireless router, so you can't place it too far away from the router.
 Press your printer's power button; it will likely have a





icon on or next to it.

Your printer must be plugged into a power source.
If necessary, also plug the printer's Ethernet cable into the router.
 If you don't have your manual, you can find it on the manufacturer's support site.


Some printers need to be connected directly to your Windows or Mac computer before they can be used wirelessly, while others allow you to complete the wireless setup process entirely on the printer itself.
If your printer supports wireless networks, then you will usually need to use the menu interface on the printer to search for your wireless network. Once you connect, you will need to enter in your wireless password.
 To do so:



Wi-Fi - Use your printer's screen to find the Wi-Fi setup page, then enter your network's password. This must be the same network to which your computer is connected.

Bluetooth - Press the "Pair" button, which will usually have the crooked Bluetooth "B" icon on or next to it.
 It's in the top-left corner of the screen., This option is near the top of the Apple drop-down menu., It's the printer-shaped icon in the System Preferences window.

You can connect both Wi-Fi and Bluetooth printers from within this menu.
 It's near the bottom-left corner of the window.

If your printer already connected over the network, you should see its name in the pane that's on the left side of the window.
 It should appear in the drop-down menu. Doing so will prompt the printer to begin setting up; once it's finished, you'll see the printer's name in the pane on the left side of the window, signifying that the printer has successfully connected to your Mac.

If you don't see the printer's name, make sure you're using the same network as the printer.
You may need to press the printer's "Pair" button again if connecting via Bluetooth.

