 You will first need to come up with your code of conduct. Employees need to be informed about what conduct is acceptable and unacceptable. Think about what expectations you have for your employees. You can also find sample disciplinary procedures for businesses in your industry to get tips for what to include.


For example, you might include general expectations: “The reputation and integrity of our business are valuable assets and are vital to our success. Each employee is responsible for conducting company business in a manner that demonstrates a commitment to the highest standards of integrity.”
You should also drill down and create more specific obligations for employees. For example, they may have an obligation to maintain confidentiality: “Employees should observe the confidentiality of information that is acquired by virtue of their employment at the corporation. Confidential information includes anything related to customers, suppliers, competitors, and other employees except where the company approves disclosure.”;
, Employees need to know what steps you intend to take when disciplining them. For example, you might want to create a progressive discipline policy, in which you first give an oral warning and incrementally increase the punishment for each subsequent infraction.


Only include steps that you intend to take every time that there is a violation., You should publish your code of conduct and standardized discipline procedures in an employee handbook or manual.However, if you choose a progressive discipline process, then you should think twice about publishing it. Instead, you should consult with a lawyer before publishing that type of disciplinary policy.


Be sure to include a reservation of rights. For example, you should tell employees that the discipline procedures will serve as guidance and that you reserve the right to modify the policy. In this way, you alert employees that you won’t ignore the policy but that some situations may be treated differently., You want to understand the legal consequences of creating a written disciplinary process. For example, you may be altering the “at will” employment status of employees by publishing your disciplinary process.


In the United States, employees are presumed to be “at will,” which means they can be fired at any time and for almost any reason.However, employee handbooks and manuals can alter this “at will” relationship. You want to discuss with your lawyer whether or not publishing your disciplinary process will alter this relationship.
For tips on finding an employment lawyer, see Find an Employment Lawyer.
 With progressive discipline, you increase the severity of the punishment with each infraction during a given window of time.For example, if someone commits one offense in a six-month period, then they receive the lightest punishment. A second infraction warrants a more severe punishment.


One disadvantage of this kind of disciplinary system is that it requires quite a bit of work. You must fully document the infraction and your response.
Another disadvantage is that you may alter the “at will” status of your employees. By making discipline progressive, you are promising your employees that you won’t terminate them until you have worked your way up the disciplinary ladder.
However, you should also consider the benefits of a progressive disciplinary system. For one thing, employees know where they stand. There are no surprises. If an employee commits a third offense in a short period of time, then he or she knows in advance what the punishment will be.
Also, a progressive system allows you to clearly document and justify your decision to terminate someone (if it reaches that point).
 If you want to create a progressive system, then you should map out the different levels of discipline. Often, progressive systems have four levels:Oral warning for a first offense. You can meet and coach the employee about how to change his or her conduct.
Written warning for a second offense. Repeat your coaching advice in the written warning. You can also include a time-frame for improving performance.
Suspension for the third offense. You should send the employee home to reflect on how to improve his or her performance. Have the employee draft a plan which includes concrete steps for addressing performance problems. You can review this plan when the employee returns.
Termination for a fourth offense. If you followed all steps properly, a termination should not be a surprise to the employee.
 You need to properly document both the employee’s conduct and the discipline you give out. Doing so will help protect you in the event you need to terminate someone and they turn around and sue you.


Properly document poor performance and other violations. Documentation can take the form of written correspondence (notes, memos, letters), emails and voicemails, and witness statements. You also want to include accurate dates and the signature of the person preparing the document.You should take minutes of any disciplinary meeting. Provide the employee with a copy of the minutes and ask for his or her input. If the employee disagrees with the minutes, then ask for their version. You should keep both versions on file., Some employee actions are so damaging to your business that you will want to terminate people immediately. You should identify these actions and specifically exclude them from a progressive discipline approach. For example, you might want to exclude any of the following:theft or embezzlement
starting a fight on company property
lying on a job application
extensive unexcused absences
intentional harassment, including sexual harassment

, Give them a copy of your disciplinary procedures and make sure that they understand all rules, general and specific. Have your managers verbally commit to following these procedures., Fair disciplinary procedures include a thorough and fair investigation. You should not simply assume that the employee is guilty of an alleged infraction.Instead, you should investigate to find out the truth.


If possible, try to have the person who investigates the allegation not be the same person who decides whether discipline is appropriate. This may not always be possible depending on your size.
You might need to meet with the employee during your investigation. If possible, you should allow the employee to have a representative go with him or her to the meeting.The person accompanying the employee could be another employee, a friend or family member, or a lawyer.
 You shouldn’t discipline an employee unless you inform him or her of the facts alleged. Make sure to use written notification. Also include the following with the notification:a summary of the evidence against the employee
copies of any evidence, such as witness statements
the consequences if the employee is guilty of the infraction
the time and location of a disciplinary hearing
a reminder that the employee can be accompanied at the meeting

, It might not always be feasible to hold a formal meeting, especially where you are giving an initial verbal warning. However, as the punishment becomes progressively more serious, you should have formal meetings. At the meeting, you lay out the evidence against the employee and ask the employee to respond.


The employee should also be able to have other people testify on their behalf.Ask the employee to notify you ahead of time of who they will call to testify.
You can let the companion summarize any evidence the employee has presented and to confer with the employee. Your employee may be nervous and not able to make a compelling argument without help. However, you shouldn’t let the companion answer questions for the employee.
 Unless you are issuing only a verbal warning, you should discipline the employee in writing. Make sure to inform the employee of the consequences for further misconduct.Also include the timescale for improving performance, unless the written notification is a termination letter.
 If you run a business in the U.K., then you should provide employees a right to appeal. The employee should provide you in writing their grounds for appeal. If possible, a manager not involved in the original disciplinary action should hear the appeal. This may not be possible in a small business. If not, the manager should try to be as objective as possible.The employee should be able to have a companion attend the appeal as well.
As soon as possible, provide your final determination in writing.
In the U.S., you should think twice before giving the employee appeal rights. It is not standard to allow for appeals. You would also clearly be altering the “at will” employment doctrine by giving appeal rights.
 Regardless of the content of your disciplinary rules, your employees will think the rules are unfair if they are not applied consistently. You should strive to apply the rules consistently to all employees.