 Breaking bad habits is a process that involves looking closely at your behavior and trying to determine what triggers your bad habit.However, you can break bad habits by identifying the things that trigger your habit, learning how to break the cycle, and rewarding yourself when it works. You can also develop a plan to help you deal with your triggers.Choose a good time to try to break a habit. It might be easier to try to break a bad habit while you are on vacation.Although it might not be possible to wait to break a habit until you go on vacation, you might at least want to choose a time when you are not too stressed to work on breaking a bad habit.
Try to be patient. Keep in mind that it can take anywhere from 18 to 66 days to break a habit.Don’t become discouraged if you find it difficult to break the habit at first.
Remember to reward yourself. If you’ve had a great day where you did really well in your new habits and routines, praise yourself and give yourself a reward. Maybe eat a bowl of ice cream or go see a movie. Little rewards can affirm your progress, and they teach your brain to associate these new routines with pleasure., Perhaps you are struggling in a new career or you want to make a difference in your community. Ask an experienced person in that area to mentor you. Meet once a week or month to discuss your goals. Your mentor will share the struggles that they faced getting to the point where they are now. They can give you advice on your own hurdles and help you realize your potential., As you reinvent yourself, talk to your close friends about your progress. Tell them the kind of person you want to be, and as you face success and failure, talk through your thoughts and feelings. Good friends will provide positive affirmation, and a strong support group can increase your chances of success.


If your friends tell you that you don’t need to change, try not to listen to them. They may have good intentions, but if you are unhappy with your current state of being, such advice can be discouraging. Thank them for their concern, but emphasize that this is something you want to continue. True friends will remain with you through the journey.

