 If you own your own home, and your spouse plans to still live there while you are in assisted living, you may want to consider doing a reverse mortgage. A reverse mortgage will allow you to borrow money on the equity you have built up in your home, in a lump sum or a series of monthly payments. The bank will determine a value based on the home’s worth, interest rates, your age, and other factors. Once your spouse or another family member is gone from the home, you will need to repay the bank. Often, this means selling the home.This option is good if you are not planning to keep the home in the family or pass it down to other family. You must be over the age of 62 to apply for a reverse mortgage and have one person still living in the home.
Work with a reputable insurance company to complete the reverse mortgage as it is a big financial commitment. Discuss the fine print attached to the reverse mortgage and be wary of high fees or clauses that may make it easy for you to lose your home.
 If spare room in your home or if you and your spouse are planning to both move into an assisted living facility, consider renting out your home. You can also sell the home if you are not planning to keep it in the family or use it as an asset.You can then use the rental income to pay for assisted living. Hire a property manager to take care of the home for you or have a family member maintain the home for the renters.
 If you have an personal investments, such as 401k plans or IRAs, consider cashing in on them to pay for your assisted living costs. Talk to your accountant about any mutual funds you can access to pay for your expenses., An annuity is done by paying a lump sum to underwriters up front. You will then receive regular payments back over a set period of time, often the rest of your life. This option is good if you have a nest egg set aside but you do not want to outlive your resources. An annuity allows you to stretch your budget and ensure you have money coming in to pay for your expenses. Talk to a financial advisor about setting up an annuity as they can be complex.In an annuity agreement, you can receive money on a regular basis, even if your purchase premium runs out. The underwriters will take a risk that you will live longer than the money lasts and will make a profit if you die early.
Annuities are also not fully counted as assets by Medicaid and are considered a resource. This may allow you to apply for government assistance, even if you have an annuity.
Be cautious when investing in an annuity as there are marketing schemes and fake annuities that will target vulnerable seniors. Use a reputable company when you purchase an annuity to prevent annuity fraud.

