 Do not put off studying until the last minute. If you hold off until the night before or, even worse, that morning, you are less likely to retain all of the material because of stress. Start studying when you find out about the test, or the week of the test.


It may benefit you to make a study schedule. When you set aside time to go over the content, you're less likely to let the week slip by, never having studied once. If you're feeling extra ambitious, set aside different times for different sections of study. Say, 15 pages a day?
Do it every day, repeat and repeat and repeat. As Practice makes a man perfect.
;
, Get a friend, family member, colleague, your girlfriend or boyfriend to help quiz you -- or at least to listen to you rattle off information. Talking to someone else and making the information interactive makes it that much more memorable. However, remember not to choose a friend who will goof around instead of studying!


Or get two or three study friends who are taking the same test if possible! Studies show that groups of three or four people that have a leader to keep them on track and cover all the necessary bases do better than those who study alone. And make sure everyone brings some light snacks for studying such as:
Potato chips
Chocolates
Rice puffs
And many more.
 It's easy to think charging through a 6-hour study session will ensure you pass any test, but studies show that if you take breaks, your brain has an easier time absorbing information. Your brain is like a muscle and it needs time to relax to perform well, too. Aim for ten minute breaks every hour or so.And take breaks in your content, too. Instead of sitting down with the periodic table of the elements, sit down with just a row, for example Tomorrow take on another. And the next day and so on and so forth. This will also give you multiple times to go over all the information instead of putting all the pressure on yourself at once.
In two hour studying session, take a break. So, it helps you to remember the stuff more accurately.
 When you stress a whole lot about the test, this makes your body uptight and your brain less functional. So do something relaxing before you go to bed the night before the test.


Take a hot bath with some scented oil in it. Heat relaxes the muscles in your body and calms you down. Also certain scents are proven to effect the mind in certain ways. Coconut, lavender, and citrus reduce stress and anxiety but obviously in no way guarantee you will Ace any test.
Music and reading also help. Put on some relaxing music and grab your favorite book for instant relaxation.
If you have a hobby that is easy to do at home, do it. Doing something familiar makes it easier to relax.
 Paying attention to the teacher, lecturer or trainer will improve your understanding and you can ask clear questions you may have during your instruction. You may also find that your instructor addresses certain test answers or elicits bonus options, so don't start snoozing!


When you're in a lesson, take notes on the material. Focus on concepts, definitions, and formulas that you think will be on the test. Use your highlighters and write in pictures and diagrams, too. The funner you make it, the more you'll enjoy it. And the more you enjoy it, the easier it'll be to remember!
If you have any questions after you finish your work, you can ask the instructor there instead of getting to the next study period early the next time or not asking them at all!
Never miss any class.
 Some may be assigned or in the textbook or on the textbook website and your instructor may use them for his or her test. Talk to your instructor? Or -- do they think this format is especially useful? Do they use the practice questions on their tests?


And take practice quizzes and tests, too, if available. You'll feel more prepared in addition to being familiar with the content and structure of the actual test.
There are many websites that provide you test and exams of your board.
 If you thought cramming was a good idea, you're in for a surprise. Your brain forms memories while you're asleep -- and on top of that, depriving it of the sleep keeps it from firing on all cylinders. So resist the temptation to cram, because it won't do you any good.You'd be much better off shutting the book and getting some shut eye.


There's a few more things to add here when it comes to sleep. For starters, get good sleep in the days prior to the test, too. And try studying right before bed or right after you wake up -- studies have shown that the former leads to memories that are synthesized in your memory automatically (because sleep leads to memory formation) and with the latter, your brain is empty and ready to ingest information. But ultimately, you should study when you find it the most effective., If you're stuffed or if you're famished, both will lead to your mind being other places. Make sure you're feeling neither hungry nor too full. So be sure to eat breakfast if your test is in the morning!


Eat normally, too. If you're on a vegetarian diet, you don't want to suddenly mix it up with a three-quarter pound cheeseburger. That could be very distracting in the worst of ways. It's hard to ace a test in the bathroom.
The most preferable breakfast for test day is corn flakes.
 You are already nervous, so the last thing you want to do is panic if you cannot find your pencil or pen. Keep extra ones handy in your backpack or your pocket. Keep loose leaf ready and have it all organized to take to the exam.


Have your notes ready, too. That way if you wind up with 5 or 10 minutes of downtime, you can whip them out and go over them on the bus, between classes, or when waiting for a friend.
 That whole "listening to classical music" makes you smarter isn't exactly true. What is true is that music calms you down and, if you like it, it can increase your ability to focus for about 15 minutes.Prior to the test, play some tunes you like and revel in your new-found attention.


Classical music is good for stress, though. If you're feeling a little strung out about this exam, you may want to forgo your preferred gangster rap and settle on Mozart.
 It's proven that if you think that you are going to do well on the test then most of the time your grade will be higher than if you think you are going to do poorly on the material. Sort of a "fake it till you make it" idea. But it works!


Take a piece of paper and write positive stuff like "I will ace my test!" on it. This will remind you to keep up the positive vibes. Be sure to take it out right before the test to get you in the uplifting zone.
Do a big smile with victory pose before you go to test.
 It's proven that your attitude during the test affects the result much more than how you remember the material. Relax. You've got this! You've done what you could -- now all you can do is stay calm and check the right boxes.


If your invigilator allows it, bring a peppermint or two to suck on during the test. Peppermint stimulates the brain and allows you to focus longer and harder.
If test anxiety is a thing you're too familiar with, try yoga, meditation, or listening to your favorite song before the test. If you get in a good place beforehand, you'll be more likely to stay there.
 Read the questions at least twice, in case you missed something before. Underline the keywords in the question. Don't rush. If possible, read the entire exam through before beginning to work. This will give you an idea of what is in store and will help you to manage your time better. It also prevents any nasty surprises with only a few minutes left.


If you're concerned about time, don't go over the entire test beforehand. If you're a slow test taker, wait to go over it until the end. You may need more time to write down your answers. Any answer is better than a blank answer!
A trick is that read every question twice. You just have to under stand the demand on question.
 Look through the paper to check if there are any difficult questions that take a lot of time and leave them for last. You don't have to do the test in the order it is written. Work through easy problems first to build your confidence and calm yourself down.


When coming back to the tough questions, you will know you have at least made a decent grade, and you know how long you have left. Then if you get correct answer to these questions, it's like you have bonus marks. Win win!

, Your first answer is probably correct and if you go back and change your mind several times, you are likely to make a mistake due to self-doubt. Often when we think about things too much, all reason and logic go away. It was your first inclination for a reason!

After you complete your test, check it accurately to justify your win.
 Usually one or two of the question choices are clearly wrong, so take those away. Now you should have two answers, creating a bigger chance of you getting it right. Now go over everything and find the best answer out of the two. The key to multiple choice isn't thinking "Which one is right?" but instead "Which of these are not right?" and eliminating answers until you have only one left.


Try your best to work out the question. Guess if you have to, because a blank answer surely won't get you any points. But a guess? You could get lucky!

, Make sure you answered all questions, never leaving one blank. If it is multiple choice, you'll have a 25% chance of getting it right (assuming there are four options) if you don't leave it blank. It's worth a shot!


Also, a final look through is a good time to catch any obvious mistakes you might have made and you might remember something more to add to a question as well. Double-checking your work is always a good idea.

