 Place an oven rack on the highest level and preheat the oven to high broil. Place the red pepper on a small baking tray and cook it under the broiler for 20 to 25 minutes. Turn the pepper every five minutes to ensure it cooks evenly. The pepper is ready when it’s soft, cooked through, and blackened on the outside.You can also roast the pepper directly on the element of a gas stove instead of under the broiler. Place the pepper over a medium–high flame and cook it for about 10 minutes, turning occasionally.When the pepper is done, remove it from the oven or the gas, transfer it to a heat proof bowl, and cover the bowl with plastic wrap. Leave the pepper to steam and cool for about 20 minutes. When it’s cool, peel away the skin with your fingers and remove the seeds. Discard the skin and seeds.;
, Turn an element to low heat and warm an empty frying pan. When it’s warm, add the caraway, coriander, and cumin. Turn the seeds often to prevent burning, and continue toasting for about three minutes.Remove the pan from the heat and pour the seeds into a spice grinder. Pulse a few times, until the seeds have been ground to a powder. You can also use a pestle and mortar to grind the seeds.
 Pour the olive oil into the warm frying pan that you used for the spices and heat it over medium heat. Add the onion, garlic, and chilies to the pan and cook them for about 10 minutes. You want the ingredients to take on a smoky color and start to caramelize.Any red chilies will do for this recipe, and you can regulate the spiciness of the harissa with different chilies.
Mild red chilies include ancho, paprika, chipotle, and cascabel chilies.
Medium-hot red chilies include cayenne, Thai, tabasco, and habanero chilies.
Hot red chilies include the Bhut jolokia (ghost pepper) and the Trinidad scorpion.
 Transfer all the ingredients to a blender or food processor. Blend on low speed to start, then increase the speed to medium as the ingredients start to incorporate. Continue blending until you have a smooth paste.


Add extra olive oil as necessary to keep the blender moving.
Additional ingredients you can add at this stage include a few sun dried tomatoes or a couple leaves of fresh mint.If you don’t have a blender or food processor, place the ingredients in a bowl and puree them with an immersion blender.
 Once you have a smooth paste, the harissa is ready to use or store for later use. Transfer any leftover harissa to a clean jar, drizzle a layer of olive oil over it to help preserve it, and close the jar with an air-tight lid.


The harissa will last in the refrigerator for two to four weeks. When you use the paste, add a bit more olive oil to the top of the jar when you're done.