 Washing denim by hand can preserve the colors and diminish the wear obtained from the abrasive action of machine washing.


Fill a tub with a few inches of cold or lukewarm water. Mix in a gentle, color preserving detergent.
Turn the jeans inside out, then lay flat in the tub. Don't bunch them or wrinkle them.Let them soak for about 45 minutes.
Run them under the water to rinse. Hang up to dry.
 Many people, including the CEO of Levi Strauss and designer Tommy Hilfiger, recommend only washing your jeans a few times a year.Washing can cause unnecessary wear on denim. Casual wear of denim shouldn't get the jeans dirty enough to wash with every wear.


Many expensive, designer jeans are raw denim, meaning they haven't been pre-washed or faded and the indigo dye has not been set.The every day wear helps raw denim conform to your body, and achieves an individualized fade on the jeans.
Jeans that have been pre-washed or faded by the manufacturer can be washed by just about any means.Wash denim every 2 to 6 months, depending on your level of wear, the type of jeans you own, and personal preferences.
The wash schedule of denim depends on their use. Jeans used to work outside will be cared for differently than designer jeans worn for a night out., Use water and a rag to remove any spillage on your jeans instead of tossing them into the washing machine.


Be careful using any kind of soap to spot clean. If your indigo dye is not set, it can cause fading in the spot where you are cleaning, which messes up the look of your jeans., If you're trying not to wash your jeans often, but they start to smell, try putting them on a line or clothing rack outside for at least 24 hours.


You can also use a deodorizing fabric spray on your jeans to remove any smells.
 One trick to prolonging the life of your jeans between washes is to freeze them when they start to smell. One major reason denim starts to smell is because of bacteria that are transferred from our bodies to the material during wear. These bacteria cause odor. Freezing your jeans can kill a large percentage of these bacteria, helping to reduce the odors.You can put the jeans in the freezer unprotected. However, this might allow things from your freezer to transfer to the jeans. Try a canvas clothing bag, or any bag that breathes (unlike plastic bags).
Allow the jeans to warm up before you put them on.
 Wearing them once or twice doesn't mean it's time to toss them in with the rest of your clothes. Jeans have a very different lifespan. Wait until the denim starts to sag in the seat, the knees are stretched or the fabric is creased behind the knees, and the waist is extremely loose.These details mean it might be time to wash your jeans.

