 Colonoscopy screenings typically begin when you turn 50 if you have no other colon cancer risk factors, such as relatives who have had colon cancer. If you have a family history of colorectal cancer or inflammatory bowel disease, your physician may advise you to have a colonoscopy before your 50th birthday.Prepare for your colonoscopy screening. The colonoscopy allows doctors to remove any polyps that may be forming in your colon. Polyps take 10 to 15 years to grow, and may turn into colorectal cancer.
You may be required to fast and go through a colon cleansing.
Getting a colonoscopy performed will take less than one day.;
, FOBTs are tests that look for hidden blood in stool which can be signs of polyp growth or cancer. FOBTs are much less invasive than colonoscopy and can be done once a year.You may often have the option of sampling your stool at home and mailing it, in a container provided to you by your doctor, to a lab to be medically tested.
 Genetics play an important role when it comes to your risk of colon cancer — 5 to 10 percent of colorectal cancers are caused by genetic mutations that can be inherited. If you have a first-degree relative who has had colorectal cancer (and especially if they developed it at a young age), ask your doctor about whether or not you should get tested for these mutations.A number of genetic tests are available to determine whether you have a genetic mutation that predisposes you to colorectal cancer, including tests for MLH1, MSH2, APC, MSH6, PMS2, and MUTYH mutations.
A genetic counselor can help you understand your individual cancer risk and which type of genetic tests, if any, may be useful for you or for other members of your family.
 There are many different options for colon cancer screenings, many of which depend on your overall health, age, and family history. Consulting your doctor about which screening test is right for you will help you get the most accurate results possible.Screening options vary from less invasive regular visits to less frequent and more invasive. If you are regularly screened with a FOBT you may also need a colonoscopy in order to confirm results.
Return for a colonoscopy screening every 1 to 10 years, depending on what your doctor recommends. If you have precancerous polyps removed, your doctor may want you to return in 1 to 3 years. However, if you have no polyps, you may not have to return for 10 years.

