 This kind of silly sentence is great for students who are learning how to read, especially if they are having trouble understanding phonics, or teaching reading by connecting written letters to sounds. Pick one letter at a time, such as "P."

, Write a sentence that uses the letter many times, using clear handwriting or typing. Make sure the letter is pronounced the same each time it shows up, or the student could get confused. It can be especially helpful to use words that begin with the letter.


For example, write "Pigs play in parks and pamper Penelope with nail polish."
Search online for "silly phonics sentences" for examples, such as this free example.
 Draw the letter you've chosen (P in our example) on a large piece of paper, but keep it small enough that the student could sit next to it and trace over it without standing up., The student may learn better if there is a texture to associate with the letter. You can use dried-on white glue, glued-on sand, or any other material. Rough materials are best, since they will force the student to use more effort and movement when tracing, helping the student's memory.If you plan to make a silly sentence for several different letters, try using a material that begins with that letter.For example, glue pepper (black peppercorns) onto the P, and sand onto the S.
 Reinforce the meaning of the word by placing a picture above each word that begins with the chosen letter. For instance, place a picture of a pig above the word "pig."


You can draw these pictures yourself if you are able to make them clear to the student, or find and print them from free art online.
 Give the student a spoon, a stick, or another rough object, and have the student trace the outline of the letter slowly, moving his arm and shoulder. Repeat this as you help the student read each word of the sentence. Ask the student what each word is, then read it aloud. Say the letter you are focusing on with the student, as the student traces the letter. Repeat this for each word in the sentence.This practice is designed to give the student as much encouragement as possible to remember and learn the letter.

