 Ask them simply, “How have you been?” This gives the person time to tell you how they are and what they have been up to since you last talked. Instead of worrying about what to say next, listen carefully to what they say.
 You probably are curious about something that they told you about and want to know more. Asking them about this is a good way of keeping the conversation going.


For instance, if they mentioned that they are now teaching at a college, ask them what subject they teach.
If you can’t think of anything to ask them, ask them something relating to the way in which you know each other. For instance, if you were friends in high school, ask them if they keep in touch with any other of your old friends.
 After they tell you about what they have been doing since the time that you last talked, talk about what you have done. Tell them about work or school, as well as any major developments in your life. You could mention things like new pets or hobbies that you have.


For example, say something like “I’ve actually just moved to Austin, Texas and I’m working at a non-profit.”

, You may have a reason why you are calling up this person at this time. For instance, you may be calling to ask for donations for a fundraiser, or to ask to borrow something of theirs. If you are calling with a specific purpose, mention it at this point in the conversation. If you are just calling to get back in touch, keep the conversation going., A great way to reenergize a conversation with an old acquaintance is to reminisce about the past. Talk about the memories that you share together, or the place or people through whom you met.For instance, if you are childhood friends, say something like, “I remember when we used to make chocolate chip pancakes together.”
Though it’s safer to stick to happy memories, you could also tell them how their friendship has helped you. You could say something like, “It meant a lot to me that you were there for me after my mom died.”

, As you are talking, remember to smile. Many people forget to smile when on the phone, but just smiling can make your tone of voice sound friendly and inviting. Because they can’t see your face, the tone of your voice is extremely important in communicating that you are excited to be talking to them.
 You don’t want to make the conversation awkward by asking them uncomfortable questions or mentioning topics that you should avoid. This is especially true for exes that you are getting back in touch with.


Saying something like “So how’s that guy you dumped me for?” will make the conversation uncomfortable for both of you.
 You're probably excited to reconnect, but make sure not to have the conversation go on for too long. You don't know what this person's schedule is like these days or how busy they may be. Remember that you don't have to fill them in on every single thing that has happened since you last talked, and that you can always talk again soon.


Fifteen minutes is a good time frame to get reacquainted. However, if the other person seems eager to keep catching up, by all means keep talking!

