 Keep the web around 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) wide. You want it to be small enough to work as a nice set of earrings, but not so small that you can't outline it with hot glue.


If you don't know how to draw a spider web, print out an outline of one from the internet.
Go over your lines with a black marker to ensure that they are visible.
 This will make it easier to remove the spider webs when you are done. Avoid using wax paper.The heat of the glue gun will cause the wax to melt and fuse with the spider webs.
 You can use plain hot glue sticks for this, or you can use colored ones. Black would look great for this. You can also use glitter hot glue sticks for something more sparkly. If you are lucky, you might even be able to find glow-in-the-dark hot glue sticks!

, Black, orange, or purple glitter would work especially well here. Glow-in-the-dark glitter would also work, if you can find it. Be sure to work quickly, however; hot glue sets fast!If you used glitter hot glue, you probably don't need to do this since your web will be already sparkly.
 If you used plain hot glue, you can add color to your web by painting it. Give it a coat of spray paint in whatever color you want, then let the paint dry. Glow-in-the-dark paint would look great!


Don't paint the spider web if you added glitter to it. The paint would cover the glitter.
 You can tell if the glue is set once it turns hard and opaque. Lift a corner of the web off of the parchment paper, then carefully peel it away.


If you used glitter on your web, be sure to put it back into its jar.
 Find a small jump ring. Grab one end of it with a pair of needle nose pliers. Grab the other end with your fingers or a second pair of needle nose pliers. Carefully twist the two ends of the jump ring past each other, like opening a door. Do not pull them away from each other., Find one of the outermost strands on your web, and slip it onto the jump ring. Next, slip an earring hook onto the jump ring. Be sure to use a color that matches the jump ring. If you used a silver jump ring, use a silver earring hook.
 Use the same technique as you did when opening it. Grab one end with a pair of needle nose pliers, and the other end with your fingers or a second pair of pliers. Twist the two ends towards each other, like shutting a door. If there is a small gap in the jump ring, pinch it shut with your finger tips., If the parchment paper is too dirty to work on, pull it off and tape a fresh sheet down on top. You can make the second earring exactly like the first one, or vary the design a little.
 At this point, your earrings are done. You can, however, hot glue a little spider charm to each web. This will give the webs that final, spooky touch.


Make your own spider. Hot glue an oval rhinestone, then use glitter glue to draw some legs and a head.
Hot glue tends to leave behind little strands. You can pull these off, or leave them on for a more web-like feel.

