 If you haven't eaten any animal products for your entire life (or even for several years) suddenly consuming meat and dairy products can make you sick. Any time you introduce a dramatic change into your gut flora, your body will take time to adjust.You could experience bloating and discomfort for a few days after ending your vegan diet.


If veganism was a big part of your life, giving it up can be hard. Make the change easy on yourself by adjusting slowly into a standard diet.
Introduce one food at a time per week as you reintroduce animal-based products. That way if you have intolerances or issues that persist, you will be able to pinpoint the food you added in that caused the symptoms.;
, Honey is gentle on the digestive system and can easily be incorporated into oatmeal, tea, or baked goods. Bringing honey back into your diet will officially take you off the vegan wagon, but you’re unlikely to notice any difference in your health or condition since it has few to no negative health effects associated with it., Scrambled eggs on toast is a delicious snack, night or day. Cereal or oatmeal can be prepared easily when you’re on the go, or headed out the door in the morning. Muffins, cakes, and pies often utilize milk and/or eggs in a form which is gentle on the digestive tract. Try baking some of your favorite baked goods with cow’s milk.
 Anecdotal evidence suggests that trying a small portion of meat as a topping on salad, or a few slices of ham in a sandwich, is the best way to reintroduce yourself to meat. If you wish, after a week or so, you can transition to more substantial portions of meat like chicken breast and hamburgers.


If you feel sick, remember not to push yourself. Your body’s digestive powers vary with the type and quantity of food consumed.
 Transitioning away from a diet you may have believed was the one true path can be hard. You might be made to feel guilty, or experience shame due to the perception you’ve “lapsed” or let yourself down. While it’s understandable to be sad about letting part of your identity go, think of it instead as a new beginning. Remember, the right choices for your health now aren’t necessarily the same as the choices you made when you became vegan. Find the balance that’s right for your health and lifestyle.


Don’t feel like you’re alone when you revert to eating meat. A recent study found that fully 84% of vegetarians, including vegans, end up eating meat again at some point., Doctors can draw blood, measure cholesterol, and run other tests that provide more information than you can access on your own. If your medical benchmark scores have improved or worsened, your doctor will let you know, and you’ll then be better-informed about what diet is right for you.

