 Preparation is vital. You need to feel ready inside and out. Enjoy a balanced dinner, a hot shower and a lightly caffeinated beverage before you begin studying will help you feel up to the task.;
, Seriously. Pajamas and lounge clothes will only put you in the mood to slack. A pair of jeans and a shirt you would usually wear during the day will put you in character, in a sense.
 A celery stick and a carrot can help release a sustained level of energy and keep you focused. If you don't enjoy either of those, find something else, as long as it is whole food based, or you'll just screw yourself over energy wise.
 Studying is dehydrating!

, Be sure it is the right music before you either end up sleeping or partying!

, Your study space has to be CLEAN and ORGANIZED. Get rid of the stuff you don't need. Shove it in a box in the corner if you have to, just make sure you have your basic tools to work with.


Now that your space is clean, revel in it for a moment and think how nice it's going to be to enjoy clutter free study time!

, In my psychology course we basically learned that quick revision like this after short term learning is a lot more likely to get the info in your head. The small chunk of information to revise every 15 mins isn't intimidating like trying to remember what you have been reading for the past hour.
 This will definitely keep stress at bay by preventing that awful feeling of being overwhelmed.
 How rewarding! Legitimate procrastination! Score! But get back to work!

, Congratulate yourself on what you're doing. This all-nighter is a good thing. What you're doing is a good thing. Remember that. It will keep you motivated. Positive self talk is helpful regardless of how much you believe you may be lying to yourself. You want to get this night over and done with, don't you?

,,, Think along with what you're doing. Not behind, or ahead, ALONG with. This actually stops you worrying!

, Also, a "Just do it!" attitude throughout the night and exam is vital.
 Remain levelheaded, breathe, and give yourself time to collect yourself at the end of every study chunk.
 The next morning, a caffeinated beverage is clearly going to be in order, regardless of what health experts say. Just keep to the level you know is good for you!

