 Again, commonly marketed for women, but if you have medium or long hair, using a curler is another easy and quick way to get your hair curled up. Use small-gauge curlers in your hair overnight to get tight ringlets, or try drying your hair with a hair curler after you bathe for the best effects.
 If you want curly hair, it's a good idea to get a haircut that emphasizes the kind of curl you want. For guys, that can be tricky, but you want to start out with short-medium hair to get the most bounce out of the curls you have. Talk to your stylist about appropriate haircuts if you want to make your hair look more curly than it is.


Try out a pompadour style cut do for something that'll help to give your hair a bit of body. Keep the sides short and let it grow out on top, giving yourself a mop that you can train up and out into a pompadour., Training your hair into "waves" can help give you the appearance of curly hair, even if it's not strictly-speaking curly. While this practice takes time and some dedication, with daily combing sessions and a bit of pomade, you can get your hair to grow in rounded waves that extend all the way around your head. It's a cool look.


Start by getting your hair cut extremely short, buzzed all the way around. After you bathe, comb your hair with pomade and start brushing it hard, from the crown of your head down toward your forehead, your ears, and the back of your head, for at least an hour each day. After doing this, wear a skull-cap or a do-rag to sleep, keeping your hair moist.
If you keep up a strict brushing routine for several weeks, your hair will start to take on a wave-like appearance as it grows out. This was popularized in the mid-2000s by rappers like Nelly. Done correctly, it can help make your hair look curly and awesome.
 Getting a permanent or a "perm" from a hair stylist is the easiest way to get your hair curled up. While some people don't like to pay for perms and treat their hair with "frying" chemicals, permanents are the surest and easiest way to instantly curl up your hair. While they're more common and popular with women, perms are commonly given to men. Don't be embarrassed to ask for a perm.

