 When choosing a shade, try not to just focus on the obvious color of your face. Look for the type of undertones you may have to your skin, this will guarantee a natural relationship between your lipstick shade and overall skin tone.


Look at the veins on your forearm. If you have blue veins, it means that you have cool, pink undertones. If you have green veins, you have warm olive or golden undertones. A mix of the two vein types means your undertones are neutral and most colors will work for your complexion. ;
, Now that you have found your skin undertones, picking a shade that matches will provide a flattering color contrast on your face. When looking at lipstick colors, try to distinguish the main base color.


If you have cool, pink undertones, then choose a shade that has a red base such as berry or plum.
If you have a warm, olive or golden undertones, choose a shade with a blue or brown base, such as burgundy., With darker shades, both matte and gloss finishes can look both dramatic and calm. Matte lipsticks are more durable and they last a considerable amount of time, especially if you choose a liquid to matte formula. Or choose a lipstick with a more glossy finish, which can look very elegant and does not require as much of a flawless application., When wearing darker shades, any creases or caves on your lips will stand out. Drinking enough water throughout the day will help your lips look fresh and smooth, since dry, cracked lips are a sure sign of dehydration., In order to guarantee smoother lips, massage an exfoliant to your lips to get rid of any flaked or dead skin on or around your mouth. You can find lip exfoliating products in drugstores and online.If you don’t want to spend the money or don’t want to wait for a product, you can make a simple and gentle exfoliant with equal parts sugar and olive oil mixed together., Moisturizing after exfoliating will make sure your lips don’t lose all of their hydration after application of your lipstick. Matte finishes are more likely to rid your lips of moisture throughout its wear.Apply Aquaphor or Vaseline to your lips before styling your hair or applying your other makeup. This allows for enough time to let the moisturizer set into your lips. Make sure to wipe off whatever moisturizer you have on before applying lipstick., Lining the lips will give a more flawless look to your lipstick. It guarantees the color will not feather to outside your natural lip line. Use matte lip liners for matte lipsticks, and gloss lip liners for gloss lipsticks.


When choosing a lip liner, decide on whether you want a nude shade to make your color pop, a similar shade to your lipstick for a natural application, or a darker shade to create a creative bold, ombre look.If you are trying to give yourself a fuller lip, try lining a little outside of your natural lip line, either by the cupid’s bow or at the base of your bottom lip.
 Whether or not you use lip liner, applying your lipstick is a process that only improves with practice. Especially with darker shades, mistakes made during application may be obvious.


Use a lip brush for precise application and also to make your lips the shape you prefer.
For a more natural application, use the actually lipstick or wand (if liquid lipstick). With gloss formulas, you can use your finger to apply.
To make sure lipstick does not end up on your teeth, curl your index finger into a hook shape and insert your hooked finger into your mouth, keeping your lips slightly pursed. Move your finger along your lips to your opposite cheek, and “pop” it out from your mouth. All the leftover lipstick on your finger shows what would have been on your teeth., A finishing powder works well to keep your lip color in place throughout the day or evening. It will make sure your darker shade does not fade, especially after eating or drinking.


To apply the finishing powder, place a tissue on your lips and using a large makeup brush, gently wipe a layer of finishing powder over the tissue. This should be done after your first coat of lip color. Apply a second coat of color if wanted, or leave as is for a more matte finish.Baby powder can be a cheaper alternative to most finishing powders.


Finishing powders may not be necessary for liquid to matte, or “long-lasting” formulas since these lipsticks usually dry instantly.
 Darker shades on the lips are more likely to draw color away from your complexion. To put more life into your face, lightly brush some blush on the top of your cheeks or bronzer along your cheekbones. Not only will it add some definition to your face, but it will also stop you from looking sickly.