 The core muscles are those in your abdomen and back. Core strength will help you stabilize the proper upper body posture on the horse while giving you extra control over your body movements. You should do between ten and twenty reps of these exercises. Some good core exercises for riders include:



One Leg Extension: Lay down on your back. Bend your knees, and keep your feet hips-width apart. Place your hands on your stomach. Raise your head slightly off the floor. Lift one leg up, keeping it straight. Hold for a few breaths before lowering and lifting the other leg.Full Body Curl: Lay down on the floor with your knees bent. At the same time, lift your head, shoulders, and feet off the floor, bringing your knees towards your chin. Straighten your body until your head, shoulders, and feet are flat on the ground again.

Plank: Lay on your belly and then push your body up so that only your forearms and toes touch the floor. Tighten your core and keep your back straight. Hold this position for one minute and then take a quick rest before repeating a few more times.

Bicycle Crunch: Lift your legs until they are 45 degrees from the floor. Bend one knee, and hold the other one straight. Raise your shoulders and head off the ground, and touch your opposite elbow to your knee. Lower your head to the ground. Straighten your leg, and bend the other one. Repeat., To improve your grip, balance, and control over the horse, leg exercises are important. Any exercise that works your thighs or calves can help. For example, you can try:



Squats: Keep your back straight and your feet hip-width apart. Lower yourself to a 90-degree angle before slowly rising to a stand again. If you having difficulty, you can start by positioning yourself against a wall.Skipping: As you skip, push off with one foot and lift the other one high, until your thigh is horizontal. Reach across your body with your opposite arm. Repeat this movement on the opposite leg. You can do this around a track or around your neighborhood. Quad Stretch: Kneel on the ground with one leg bent in front of you. With your hands on your hips, gently move your hips forward. You should keep your back straight., Yoga helps your balance both on and off the horse. It also keeps you relaxed, encouraging you to keep a more flexible posture while riding. You can attend a yoga class, watch videos on the internet, or try the following moves.



Warrior Pose: Stand straight. Stretch your right foot back behind you as far as you can; this will naturally put you in a lunge position. Stretch your arms straight above your head. Take about five breaths, and repeat with the other leg.Spinal Twist: Sit with your spine straight, and your shoulders lined up with your hips. Stretch your legs in front of you so that they are flat against the ground. Bend one leg, and place it over the other. Wrap the opposite arm around the bent knee, and twist your body. Hold this pose for five breaths before repeating on the other side.Pilates and ballet are other great options if you want to improve your core strength and balance.