 This may sound simple, but lots of people still remain to hang out with a crowd that either is a bad influence or treats you poorly behind your back. Cats don't tolerate this this. They only hang out with those who they trust and feel comfortable with.;
, When a cat is upset with someone, they don't just attack them or run away from them immediately (non-feral cats that is...). They may give a warning bite, prick their ears back or anything else that lets them know they don't know what you are doing. What you can do when in a situation like this is be direct with the person and tell them you don't like what they said.
 Cats love giving special attention to others they love. They show this by doing some of the following; rubbing up against you, rubbing heads, grooming you, playfully biting you, purring in your presence, blinking slowly at you, bringing home a gift from after a hunt, etc. You can be more like this in a human way by hugging them, giving them a present, telling them they are a great friend, being pleasant to them, compliment them, etc.
 A cat shows he/she is paying attention to you by looking at you directly in the eye. Do the same and it will show others you are intently listening and interested in what they are saying.
 Cats are experts at cleaning themselves and do it frequently throughout the day. Make sure you shower every day (don't wash your hair everyday however, you will wash away the natural oils), put on deodorant, keep your hair tidy and all the rest. Make sure your nails are kept neat too.
 Another thing that cats are experts at are getting plenty of rest - around 16-19 hours of it a day. It keeps them refreshed and full of energy the times they are up. Make sure you get around 8-9 hours of sleep a night (especially if you are an adolescent because your body does a lot of its growing when you are asleep).
 Cats stretch after they nap and even times in-between. This allows them to be more graceful with their movements and be able to climb and reach greater heights without hurting their muscles to much. You can do this by doing a bit of yoga after you get up in the morning or just casually stretch your arms or legs during the day.
 Cats, when wide awake, love playing games such as climbing trees, picking on other fellow cats, running around everywhere, exploring, climbing up onto high areas, etc. So you should also make sure you have time to have a bit of fun each day and a break from work. This could be by getting a hobby you enjoy, playing outside, playing with your cat, or even just reading a good book. Just as long as you are enjoying what you are doing.
 Cats have been acknowledged for being naturally sexy for many years. They have a graceful way of walking and when jumping up onto things, they are often graceful in the motion. Also, they are almost always relaxed and fully comfortable without worries when fully stretched out on the ground. This confidence and relaxation combined with their graceful, sleek movements is what makes people think of them as sexy. You can be like this just by being comfortable in your own skin. Self confidence is key. At the same time, be relaxed and never worry what others think of your body. Also, like the cat, be graceful. If you are a girl, walk with one foot being in front of the other (no duck feet or pigeon toes, you want to be like a cat, not a bird.) with a slight sway with the hips. Stand tall with your head held high and your shoulders back and relaxed. Good posture is essential to looking sexy.
 One way cats show their mood is through their facial expressions. If a cat is happy, it may blink a lot slowly and ears in their usual position. If a cat is mad however, it may show its teeth while squinting its eyes and have its ears pricked back. Make sure you use facial expressions to such as smiling when you are happy, raising your eyebrows in reaction to something or whatever goes with the situation. The point is not to always carry a poker face.

