 This delicious recipe is heart-healthy, easy to make and will be on the table in about 45 minutes. The dish will serve approximately 8 people. The ingredients you will need are:

Nonstick vegetable oil spray
4 small (3-inch-diameter) fennel bulbs
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
6 large garlic cloves, coarsely crushed
1 tablespoon chopped fresh thyme
1/8 teaspoon dried crushed red pepper
Coarse kosher salt
1/2 cup halved pitted Kalamata olives, Make sure you wash away any dirt or debris on the vegetables. Trim the green stalks off the top and discard them. Cut each fennel bulb into 8 wedges.

After cutting all of the bulbs, you should end up with 32 small fennel wedges in total.
 Add 1/4 cup of olive oil, 6 coarsely crushed garlic cloves, 1 tablespoon of thyme, and 1/8 teaspoon of crushed red pepper to the bowl. Toss the contents of the bowl until the fennel wedges are coated well with the additional ingredients., Spray a large baking sheet with the nonstick spray. Arrange the fennel on the baking sheet. Be sure to spread the wedges out well so that they all have room on the baking sheet.

Sprinkle coarse kosher salt and pepper over the fennel., Carefully put the dish in the oven and allow the wedges to roast for 15 minutes. At that point, open the oven and turn all of the wedges over using tongs. Continue roasting for approximately 10 minutes. Take the sheet out and turn the wedges over one more time.

Pop the fennel back in and roast for an additional 10 minutes.
After that last 10 minute interval, the fennel will be tender., Pull the sheet out of the oven and sprinkle the 1/2 cup of Kalamata olives over the top. Carefully put the baking sheet back into the oven. Roast for approximately 8 more minutes.

When the fennel starts to brown at the edges, the dish is ready., Sprinkle a little more salt and pepper over the roasted fennel wedges. Place the wedges in a large bowl. The dish is now ready to serve.

You can serve the roasted fennel warm or at room temperature, whichever is preferred.This works well as a side dish to steaks, chicken, fish or grilled pork roast.

