 You want something obvious like rolling your eyes or giving a big dramatic sigh. This is a simple way to show you don't like what they are telling you. This can really annoy your parents because while you'll still probably do what they want, they'll also know you are unhappy doing it., Maybe you don't want to clean your room right away. Or you have something else you want to do first. By delaying or refusing to do tasks they give you, you are asserting your independence.Another way to do this is to lie to them. Tell them you have finished your homework when you didn't, or that you aren't going to the house of a friend they don't like when you really are.
 People have different tastes in music, and your parents won't like everything you like. That's fine, but listening to music should be about enjoyment you get.Listen to stuff you want, and maybe even crank up the volume if they object.
 If you want to spend time, or be friends, with someone, don't let your parents control that. They may have good reasons, and you should be willing to listen to them and give counterarguments, but these are your friends.Make sure you are spending time with good people who will help you grow, and not friends who lead you to bad habits or insult you.
 If there is a time you are supposed to be home or in bed, ignore it. Stay up later hanging out with friends or doing something else you enjoy.

. Be careful since there might be a legal curfew in your community and you may be sent home by the police.

Alternatively, this can be an opportunity to show you can be responsible, by coming home (even late) and being able to operate normally the next day.
 Maybe your parents really wanted you to play an instrument or a certain sport, but you just aren't crazy about it.If it's just not for you, go ahead and quit. You should be looking for activities that you find enjoyable, not what your parents think you should be doing.


Make sure you don't like the activity before quitting. If you're having fun, it doesn't matter if your parents want you to do it.
 Choosing a religion is a difficult thing, and your parents have probably played a big role in that. If you don't like the faith they want you to follow, look for something else that is more fulfilling.This can be hard if you don't drive, and can't get to different services without their help. Consider asking a friend for help, or try to learn more about different faiths with library books or the internet until you feel comfortable making a new choice.
 If your parents tell you something or give instructions, don't just accept it. Ask why, suggest doing something else, or tell them that what they are telling you is wrong.


Don't mix your rebellion with angry words and insults. You are trying to assert your individuality, not write your parents out of your life. Screaming and insults will not get positive results, and will probably result in them yelling back at you., An important part of rebelling is making sure you get something out of it. Try new things that you believe you will help you grow as a person. These can be different classes at school, trying a new sport or activity, or even changing your clothes and the music you listen to for something you like. Your parents may not like it, but it will make it easier to understand and explain., These are things that could potentially cause serious harm to you or other people. Some of these activities are even illegal. Activities like smoking, drinking, taking drugs, unprotected sex, or gang activity can have consequences more serious than anything your parents come up with., This doesn't sound very rebellious, but it is the first step to doing your own thing. When you are younger, you do what your parents tell just because. As you grow up, it's important to think about what they want for you, and whether you agree. If you don't, that's a chance to take action.
 Rebelling is deliberately disobeying your parents, making a choice not to do what you are told. Make sure you have a reason for doing so. Maybe you are looking for attention, or perhaps trying to assert your independence. Knowing what you want will help you decide what acts to take.Maybe your parents are overprotective. If that's the case, your rebellion should demonstrate that you can do things on your own.
If you feel your parents are stifling you in some way, your rebellious acts should be about trying new things to find something you like.
If your parents are ignoring you, you'll want to do something to get their attention. Make sure whatever act of rebellion you take is conspicuous. They need to know you are rebelling.
 If you're thinking about rebelling to change your parents' behavior, look for other ways to do it as well. Explain what you want from them, and give them the opportunity to turn it down. If you want something specific, offer to make a trade in return, perhaps doing more chores, or getting a part-time job., Part of rebelling is to get your parents' attention. Once you have it, let them know what you were thinking, and what you wanted to get out of it., Rebelling will probably get you in some kind of trouble, though how much depends on what you do. Depending on your age, you could be given corporal punishment (like spanking), be grounded, or see other privileges revoked. Less serious acts of rebellion may just get an eye roll or verbal disapproval. You need to be ready to accept these punishments, or else you aren't going to rebel.


Be aware of legal trouble as well. You should avoid rebelling by breaking the law, but if you do, remember that getting caught could mean trouble with the police instead of your family.
 If you are rebelling, that means doing something that you were told not to do. At that point, you become responsible for what happens next. If things go wrong, you will have to be able to apologize or work to fix it. On the bright side, if your act of rebellion turns out well for you, you get to take all the credit.