 Use a free service such as Gmail or Hotmail to create a new email address. Write down the name and password somewhere where you'll remember it, like the notepad for instance; you may need to log into this email address when it becomes time to cancel your account., Netflix requires a different credit card for each free trial, but will not charge you any money during the trial. Turn some cash into a prepaid credit card from a gas station or supermarket, or get a virtual card online. Enter the information during trial sign up, then use the money on the card for your ordinary purchases.


Always read the fine print before purchasing a card. Many of these cards charge fees for all sorts of activities., Go to the Netflix website and click Start Your Free Month. Select your preferences and input the information associated with your new email address and prepaid card.


If you want to set up Netflix on another device, select that device while signing up and follow the instructions. You'll need to set up the Netflix application and new account on each console, Apple TV, Roku or Blu-Ray player.
 You must cancel the account before the end of the month in order to avoid payment. To do this, while logged in to Netflix, click your account name in the top right, select Your Account, then select Cancel Streaming Plan &/or Cancel DVD Plan. Follow the prompts to complete the cancellation.


In some cases, you will be able to continue watching until the end of the month.
 If you use a different credit card and email address each time, Netflix should let you receive a free trial repeatedly. This is shady territory at best as far as Netflix's terms of service goes, so consider paying the full price once you've got a chance to try Netflix to your satisfaction.If you make a PayPal account and connect your already-used prepaid card to it, you can get a second month of Netflix with the same card, by entering your PayPal information instead.Keep in mind that PayPal may shut down accounts with fake information.