 Spray the hair with water. Comb through the saturated hair to remove any knots. Part the hair into five or seven sections. Once complete, unclip each section one at a time. Unclip one section at a time and remove a ½ inch section of hair along the perimeter of the hairline., Comb the wet hair along the perimeter of your forehead over the front of the face until it is straight. Allow the hair to hang as you determine the length of the hair. Without pulling on the hair, hold a one inch section just above the point at which you would like to cut. Use your shears to cut straight across the one inch section.Using the previously cut section as a traveling guide, cut the hair remaining in the front section in this manner.
 Comb the hair around the side and back perimeter of your hairline until it lays flat. Use a ruler or your comb to determine the amount of hair to cut off—it must match the front length. Start at the center back of the head. Without pulling on the hair, hold a one inch section just above the point at which you would like to cut. Use your shears to cut straight across the one inch section.Using the previously cut section as a traveling guide, work from the back to the front of each side.
 Unclip and section off a ½ inch layer of hair from the section(s) at the nape of the neck—start at the bottom of the section and work your way up. Comb the hair until it lays flat. Start at the center back of the head. Without pulling on the hair, hold a one inch section just above the point at which you would like to cut—use the previously cut hair as your guide. Use your shears to cut straight across the one inch section.Repeat this process until you have finished cutting the hair remaining in the nape section.
 Unclip and section off a ½ inch layer of hair from the side sections—start at the bottom of the section and work your way up. Comb the hair until it lays flat. Start at the center back of the head. Without pulling on the hair, hold a one inch section just above the point at which you would like to cut—use the previously cut hair as your guide. Use your shears to cut straight across the one inch section.Repeat this process until you have finished cutting the hair remaining in the side sections.
If you divided your hair into seven sections, repeat this process on the crown sections.
 Unclip and comb the top section—evenly distribute the hair on each side. Start at the center back of the head. Without pulling on the hair, hold a one inch section just above the point at which you would like to cut—use the previously cut hair as your guide. Use your shears to cut straight across the one inch section.Repeat this process until you have finished cutting the hair remaining in the top section.

