 As time has passed, some rules have changed in D&D for various reasons, like balancing gameplay, adding content, and refining mechanics. This has resulted in many different versions of D&D being in circulation, with some versions considered superior to others.


You and those you’re playing with should all use a single version when making characters or playing a campaign.
The calculations in provided in the following examples are based off Pathfinder, an extensive online available version of D&D that is compatible with D&D Version 3.5. Some versions may use different calculations.

D&D 5th Edition’s basic rules were released in 2014 and shortly followed by the Starter Set, an adventure module, the Player’s Handbook, and more.Many online resources can be found for various versions of D&D. Find the core rulebooks of versions by doing an online keyword search for them, as in, “Pathfinder core rulebook.”;
, A character sheet will lay out all the information you’ll need to create a character in an orderly fashion. However, you could always write out your character information by hand on a blank sheet of paper, or type it up on a computer.


Free character sheets can be found online. Do a keyword search for “dungeons and dragons character sheets” to find and print one of your own.Example character sheets can be found on the D&D Wizards of the Coast website. Use these for inspiration or to check your work.Digital character sheets can help you keep track of your characters on digital devices, like phones and tablets.
 Your character will be either male or female. Once you’ve determined gender, you’ll need to choose a race. There are seven basic races, though some players may allow other races to be used. Each race has certain unique characteristics, abilities, strengths, and weaknesses. The seven basic races are:Dwarves. Short, stocky, stern, and strong. They have a connection to the earth and often live in mountains or underground lands. Stat modifiers: +2 Constitution, +2 Wisdom, –2 Charisma.

Elves. Tall, long-lived, aloof, and connected to nature. Elves live in harmony with the natural world around them. Stat modifiers: +2 Dexterity, +2 Intelligence, –2 Constitution

Gnomes. Mysterious, adventure-seeking, and strange. Gnomes are the smallest common race. Stat modifiers: +2 Constitution, +2 Charisma, –2 Strength.

Half-elves. Solitary, long-lived, graceful, and hearty. Half-elves are few in number, and tend to be wanderers due to their lack of homeland. Stat modifiers: +2 to one ability score

Half-orcs. Independent, strong, and distrusted. Half-orcs considered monstrosities by common folk. They are tall and powerfully built. Stat modifiers: +2 to one ability score

halflings. Optimistic, cheerful, curious, and small in stature. On average, only 3 ft (.9 m) tall, they are agile but physically weak. Stat modifiers: +2 Dexterity, +2 Charisma, –2 Strength

Humans. Adaptive, ambitious, and well-balanced. Humans are the dominant race, and are diverse in appearance and culture. Stat modifiers: +2 to one ability score, A character’s class is like their profession. If your character is starting from scratch at level one, you’ll also be level one in your class. As your character completes adventures, they’ll gain experience points (XP), which are used to raise your level and earn abilities and powers. There are 11 basic classes:



Barbarian. Uncivilized and strong. Considered brutal berserkers.

Bard. Charismatic and crafty. Bards use skills and spells to help and harm.
Cleric. A firm believer in a deity. Clerics heal, raise the dead, and direct the wrath of god.

Druid. At one with nature. Druids cast spells, interact with animals, and change shapes.

Fighter. Firm and brave. Fighters are capable with weapons and comfortable in armor.

Monk. Martial masters. Monks train their minds and bodies for offense and defense.

Paladin. Followers of what is good and just. Paladins are devoted knights.

Ranger. Masters of woodcraft and wildlife. Rangers track and hunt foes.

Rogue. Stealthy assassins. Rogues are cunning thieves and able scouts.

Sorcerer. Natural born spellcasters. Sorcerers command strange, ancient energies.

Wizard. Lifelong magic students. Years of study allow wizards to use awesome magic power., You might want a name that represents your class, like Jafar might for an evil wizard. In classic D&D, different races have names that reflect their culture and native language. Free name pools and generators can be found online with a search for the race, as in “gnome name generator” or “dwarf name pool.”Use name generators to get a feel for the kinds of names in your character’s race and come up with your own. Cycle through many names with the generator until you find one that suits your character.
Borrow names from your favorite video game, book, and comic characters. Use the name of your favorite historical figure.
 Every character is made up of six essential attributes. These are given scores, with high scores reflecting positive bonuses from that attribute and low scores penalties. A score of 10 in any attribute is considered to be average. The six attributes are:



Strength (Str). A measure of physical power. Important for combat characters, like fighters, monks, and paladins. Strength also dictates how much weight you can carry.

Dexterity (Dex). A measure of agility. This includes balance and reflexes. Important for rogues, light- to medium-armor wearing characters, and ranged attackers (like bow and sling users).

Constitution (Cons). A measure of health and fortitude. Constitution increases your character’s hit points, which if depleted, can result in fainting or death.

Intelligence (Int). A measure of knowledge. Important for wizards and classes requiring reason or learning, like paladins.

Wisdom (Wis). A measure of correct judgement. Wisdom contributes to common sense, awareness, and willpower. Important for clerics, druids, and rangers.

Charisma (Cha). A measure of magnetism. High charisma improves likability, appearance, and leadership ability. Important for bards, paladins, and sorcerers., You’ll need either four six-sided dice (4d6) or an online dice roller to do this. Online dice rollers can be found with a keyword search for “dice roller.” Roll all four dice. Add the three highest dice together and record this number. Repeat this until you have six recorded numbers., You can assign your recorded numbers any way you choose, but you’ll likely want to assign strong scores to attributes that are valuable to your class. Remember to add your racial stat modifiers to your total attribute scores.


To provide an example of a racial stat bonus: after rolling your ability scores, if you were a human, you’d get +2 points for any one attribute.
Use less dice when rolling ability scores to increase the difficulty of your D&D experience. 3d6 is often called “classic,” and only using 2d6 is termed “heroic.”, The Point Buy system allows you to buy attribute points for your character as you see fit. All attributes start out at an average score of 10. Each your ability score raises, the more the next ability point costs.


A low fantasy buying pool has 10 buy points, standard pool is 15, high is 20, and epic is 25.A snapshot of the ability point costs follows, with negative values counting as bonus buy points, but dropping that attribute to below average:

Ability Score / Point Cost

8 / -2
9 / -1
10 / 0
11 / 1
12 / 2
13 / 3
14 / 5

And so on…, There are ability score generators you can find and use online with a keyword search for “ability score generator.” There are also point buy calculators that can help you keep track of your point pool when buying ability points.


Many online ability score calculators and generators also factor in racial bonuses your character might have., The ability modifier is the bonus or penalty each ability score gives your character. For example, an ability score of 10 is average, so it has no bonuses or penalties (+0).


Modifier bonuses or penalties are added or subtracted to any activity requiring one of these main attributes.
Modifiers can also grant additional spells per day in an ability, if applicable. The following list provides some ability scores followed by their modifiers:

Score / Modifier

6 – 7 / -2
8 – 9 / -1
10 – 11 / +0
12 – 13 / +1
14 – 15 / +2
16 – 17 / +3, Skills are important basic abilities. You’ll find an extensive list of these on character sheets, including things like Acrobatics, Climb, Knowledge (history), Linguistics, Stealth, and more. Skills are earned by gaining levels by accumulating XP.


With each new level, your character gets skill ranks which are invested into specific skills, like Bluff, Sleight of Hand, or Swim.
Characters receive an automatic +3 bonus to class skills with at least one skill rank. These favored skills should be listed along with your character’s class description.
Your rank in a skill cannot be higher than your character’s number of hit dice (the number of dice used to determine your hit points)., Your character’s feats refer to abilities that aren’t linked their race, class, or skills. These include things like dodging reflex, a knack for fighting with bladed weapons, and natural skill with crafting items. Some feats have restrictions, like a minimum ability score or level. Many feats are oriented at improving class abilities or lessening class penalties. The main classes of feats are:Combat Feats. These allow your character to perform martial feats like All-consuming Swing, Ancestral Weapon Mastery, Bullseye Shot, Cleave, Dueling Mastery, and Improved Parry.Critical Feats. These feats can only be used when your character has a critical hit, which is generally indicated by a naturally rolled 20 with a 20-sided die.Item Creation Feats. These allow your character to create a certain kind of magic item, like scrolls, potions, and wands. These feats also generally require materials.Metamagic Feats. These influence either the effects of spells or the way in which they are cast. Some examples include Bouncing Spell, Concussive Spell, Lingering Spell, and Toxic Spell., Gold (GP), which is the currency of D&D, is usually awarded for completing quests and defeating enemies. However, each character starts with a pre-determined amount. This amount depends on your character’s class. Calculate your starting GP by calculating:


Barbarian, 3d6 x 10 GP
Bard, 3d6 x 10 GP
Cleric, 4d6 x 10 GP
Druid, 2d6 x 10 GP
Fighter, 5d6 x 10 GP
Monk, 1d6 x 10 GP
Paladin, 5d6 x 10 GP
Ranger, 5d6 x 10 GP
Rogue, 4d6 x 10 GP
Sorcerer, 2d6 x 10 GP
Wizard, 2d6 x 10 GP, Use gold to buy the starting weapons, armor, items (potions, torches), and equipment (tents, rope) for your character. Lists of items, weapons, and armor can be found online. In some games, you may only have simple weapons or armor available until you find a suitable shop where you can buy better ones.


Characters that are suited for the center of the action, like fighters and paladins, will likely need heavy armor, like plate mail and a shield, along with a weapon, like a broadsword or mace.
Characters that are agility based, like gnomes, rogues, and rangers, are better suited to light armor, like chainmail or boiled leather, and distance or sneak attack weapons, like a bow, sling, or a Kukri knife.
Frail characters, like many wizards and bards, may only be able to equip very light armor or robes. Weapons, too, are usually limited to light varieties, like rods, staves, bows, and whips., Weapon and armor bonuses will be listed along with the weapon and armor information. In some cases, like with very heavy weapons/armor, there may also be penalties. A high armor class (AC) will make your character more resistant to damage. Attack bonuses help you land damaging hits.


Use the following calculations to determine your AC and attack bonuses:

AC = 10 + armor bonus + shield bonus + Dexterity Modifier + other modifiers (like racial or class)
Melee attack bonus = base attack bonus + Strength Modifier + size modifier
Ranged attack bonus = base attack bonus + Dexterity Modifier + size modifier + range penalty (if any)


Size modifiers are determined according to the following scale: Colossal (-8), Gargantuan (-4), Huge (-2), Large (-1), Medium (+0), Small (+1), Tiny (+2), Diminutive (+4), Fine (+8). Small characters are generally more agile, whereas large ones are generally strong., Feel free to do this in a drawing or with words. Include basic physical features like age, weight, height, skin color, and more. Think of your character’s personality, which will influence the decisions they make in the game.


Write a backstory for your character. What was their young life like? This will give you a better sense of the character as separate from yourself, which will help with role-playing later.
Goals, fears, and desires can add depth to your character. Keep these in mind as you play your character and interact with other players and non-player characters (NPCs)., Alignment is a measure of moral attitude. There are nine basic alignments which encompass a range of personalities, philosophies, and beliefs. Alignment consists of one order characteristic (Lawful, Neutral, Chaotic) and one moral characteristic (Good, Neutral, Evil), as in lawful-neutral, lawful-evil, neutral-good, and chaotic-good.



Good characters are driven to protect innocence and life. Good sacrifices for others and cares for the dignity of sentient creatures.

Evil characters undermine or harm life. Evil hurts, harms, and oppresses, usually for fun or personal gain.

Morally neutral characters avoid killing, but usually lack a sense of obligation to sacrifice for or protect others.

Lawful characters respect order, truth, authority, and tradition. They are often closed-minded, overly rigid, and self-righteous.

Chaotic characters make decisions according to their conscience. They resent authority and love freedom, though they can be reckless and irresponsible.

Order neutral characters are generally honest, but susceptible to temptation. They feel neither a need to obey orders or rebel., Join other players so you can play your character in a campaign decided or created by your dungeon master. Sample campaigns and resources can be found online, but so long as you have access to a core rulebook, you can create your own D&D world.


For those who are brand new to D&D, dungeon masters are the coordinators of the game. They describe setting, control non-player characters, and design dungeons for characters to overcome.