 Open up a web browser and head over to the Minecraft Forums home page.;
, If you are a new user, go ahead and click the “Register” button in the upper right-hand corner of the page. A small box will appear in the middle of the page. This will ask you to enter a username, email address, password, then to retype the password.


If you are already a member, go ahead and just click the “Sign In” button in the upper right hand corner then enter your username and password to continue to the next section on “Posting a Question in the Forum.”

, As you are going through the sign-up process, you may notice that, under the Username field, it may say “That username is taken.” If this happens, you will have to enter a more unique username before continuing.
 If you are signing up for an additional account, or currently share an email address with another player, you will need to sign-up with a different email address. Underneath the Email Address field, it will say “That email address is not available.” until you enter a valid one.
 The last two steps are pretty straightforward. Simply enter a valid password, then re-enter it in the box below. Once finished, check the box to the left of “I’m not a robot.” Then click the large orange “Register” button on the bottom of the window. The window will disappear, and you should automatically be signed in.
 Across the top of the page, there should be a green navigation bar. The second option in from the left should be a “Forum” button. Click this to continue.
 Once the page has finished loading, you should see a series of dozens of different subforums to post on. These will range from basic introduction and discussion forums to 3D mapping and design. They will also be separated by the console on which the game is being played (like Minecraft Pocket Edition on iOS and Android), so make sure to chose the one you are playing on and looking for. Click a subforum to continue.
 If you are planning on posting on any forum, it is a good idea to read the rules of posting beforehand. These can differ slightly from site to site. On Minecraft Forums, these rules are listed at the top of the page to the right of a blue 3D square with a small pin icon inside of it. Click to read before continuing. When you are finished, click the back button in the upper left-hand corner of your browser to return to the main subforum you had chosen before.
 Near the top of the page, on the right, there should be a few different green buttons. One of them should say “New Thread.” Click this button to begin your new post. Enter a title in the Title field given and then, in the larger box under it, enter the body of the message you are trying to get across. When you are finished, go ahead and click the green “Create Thread” button in the lower right-hand corner of the page. You have just posted your first post on the Minecraft Forums.
 Before finishing your post, you also have the choice to use polls and images. Click the green “Add a poll” button in the lower left-hand corner to start a poll. Fill in your question and two different options for choices below. When you are finished, go ahead and just hit the “Create Thread” button on the right-hand side of the page.
 Click the green “Upload an Image” button to open a file menu. Navigate through the menu and select an image you would like to use in your post. These will be added as attachments on the post once you finish by clicking the “Create Thread” button on the right-hand side of the page.

