 Major characters need to be defined to some degree as soon as they are introduced in the story. If your reader can't picture the character, they will lose interest. Before you start writing, make a list of the basic physical traits and circumstances relevant to your character.


Define the physical traits of your character that you would like to know as a reader. What is your character's gender, age, ancestry or race, and general body type?
Determine what your character's life circumstances are. Is he poor? Does he have children? Where does he live? What is his occupation? Even if you don't explicitly state some of these traits in your story, it will help you develop your character to know at least his basic characteristics.;
, This is one of the best ways to make a character seem real to the reader and make him stand out in your story. If you think about it, everyone you know well probably has a few idiosyncrasies or odd habits; in order to seem real, your characters should be no different.Your character's quirks do not have to be central to the story you tell, but they should not be too strongly contradictory to his personality, nor should they distract from the primary plot.
You can use your imagination to create idiosyncrasies of your character, or (even better) you can draw inspiration from those around you.
 In order to be interesting to the reader, your character should be one-of-a-kind. For one thing, the reader needs to be able to easily distinguish your main character/hero from others in the story. More importantly, the reader will not be interested if your character is bland and has no remarkable traits.Brand your character as an individual by contrasting his major personality traits with his surroundings or with other people in the story. If your story's hero is kind and compassionate but lives in a society where most people are selfish and cruel, he will stand out to the reader.
Conflicting traits can help to establish your character as both unique and one that avoids overused clichés. For instance, you make your character both soft-spoken and short-tempered. As long as the traits are believable, your reader will be intrigued by this unexpected element.
Your character's uniqueness should serve the story's purpose. Don't make your character so strange and unpredictable that he can't believably handle the events in the narrative.
 Characters who seem real are often the most captivating, and real people are not perfect. In order to be relatable, give your character some imperfections that the reader can believe or identify with. For instance, you can create a character that is outgoing but also insecure about his appearance.Character flaws can be minor or significant, but if you choose to make your character significantly flawed, this should become part of his journey. For example, if your main character is schizophrenic, you shouldn't ignore this trait in your story; it should be addressed somehow.
Minor flaws that serve the purpose of making your character relatable should be realistic. Don't give your character both a Ph.D. and an IQ of 70.
 A good character has to need or want something in order to be a believable protagonist. Desire creates conflict, because any deep-seated, burning drive to accomplish something will realistically be met with some resistance or difficulty. This is the life-blood of most stories: the character's struggle.Rather than explicitly stating your character's ambition(s), have this come out organically in the story. It will be much more compelling to the reader if they discover that the character wants nothing more than to be reunited with his estranged brother rather than if you simply stated this fact.
Keep in mind that your character need not necessarily be fully aware of his own desires or needs. If part of your character's struggle involves learning things about himself as the story progresses, then you have created an interesting character and story.
 This also serves the purpose of creating a character to whom the reader can relate. Many of the best heroes in literature and film are those who must overcome hardship or trauma in order to succeed in their quest. Vulnerability in your character makes his perseverance all the more impressive and exciting to the reader.As an example, perhaps your character has a fear of swimming after nearly drowning as a child and later must save his own child from being swept away in a flash flood. In such a scenario, your character's own phobia increases the tension (and potential triumph) of the moment.
Some story arcs can revolve entirely around a character's vulnerability. Whether this is a secondary or central feature of your character's personality is up to you and should depend upon how you want your story to unfold.
 Stories told in writing have the significant challenge of creating characters that are memorable even without being accompanied by a visual. If you are writing a novel (and especially if you intend to create a series), your character must be memorable to the reader in order for him to stand the test of time.Use "tags" to identify your main characters. Tags can be any remarkable physical feature (such as Harry Potter's lightning-shaped scar and round-framed glasses) or the way a character speaks (such as the high-pitched, hiss-like voice of Voldemort). These help your reader identify and remember your characters.
If your story involves an ensemble of characters, the need to establish them as memorable and distinct becomes even more important; otherwise, you risk confusing your reader.
 A character who can be summed up within the first few pages of a story is boring. Captivate your reader by creating a character that is much more than meets the eye. You can accomplish this by addressing the following for each main character in your story:Establish your character's purpose in life. What are his reasons for doing the things he does?
Define your character's methods. How does he react to dangerous, frightening, or stressful scenarios?
Form your character's judgment. How does your he evaluate situations, perceive people, and judge his own situations?

, In most cases, characters should not be space-fillers; they should always fulfill the dramatic needs of the narrative. This is especially true of your main character(s), around whom the story revolves. When creating a good character, make sure his traits facilitate the storyline you hope to achieve.For example, if you want to tell the story of a warrior who saves a city from its tyrannical leader, your character should not be elderly, crippled, and meek -- unless the purpose of your narrative is to tell how such a character could accomplish such an unlikely feat.
It is useful to outline your story's plotline before establishing its characters; this way, you can avoid creating contradictory details in the two. An exception to this would be if you have a powerful inspiration for a character before you know what story you wish to tell about him.
 It is not believable to have a character who is impervious to the things that happen to him. For instance, a regular kid who gets sucked into a world of gang violence should be intensely affected by what he sees. Make your character real and believable by molding his personality to the events that take place around him.

The depth of the experiences you create to shape your character is up to you. Keep in mind that the more significant the events, the more complex should be their impact on the character.
 Good storytelling involves some degree of subtlety. It is often more powerful to divulge information about a character's personality by putting him in a revealing situation than to simply describe those traits. The reader will be more intrigued by a character if she figures out things about him without being explicitly told.The key to successfully doing this is to be very intentional in describing how your character deals with a given situation. How a person responds to a house fire says a lot about who they are.
You don't have to use Die Hard-level action sequences in your writing to do this. If your character is the protagonist of an emotional drama, you can still use action-packed scenes to convey things about your character (such as a hospital room where your hero's mother is dying).
 Character development is as important as anything to creating a compelling work of fiction. The best way to ensure that your reader can follow (and believes) the journey of your character (whether metaphorical or otherwise), pay careful attention to the sequence of events in your story. Don't have your character do things that don't fit his personality or abilities without logical steps to precede them.It is okay for a character to develop in unexpected ways, so long as this development is not illogical. Readers like to be surprised, but not cheated!
It is important that your character learn from his mistakes and figure out how not to get burned by the same situation twice. If your character keeps doing the same thing over and over, the story will become stale fast.
 Nothing kills the flow of a story more quickly than the discovery of an inconsistency in the plot or a character's background. In order to avoid making this mistake as an author, keep a file (written or digital) containing all the important information about your characters as it comes up. This will help keep you from making a claim about your character in Chapter 11 that is directly contradictory to something you wrote about him in Chapter One.To maintain consistency, refer back to your database of character facts any time you bring up something significant about your character's past or his beliefs.
This tip is especially helpful when authoring a series of related stories with the same protagonist or for novels that are very long and/or have a lot of characters.
 The main character(s) of your story should be portrayed in ways that make them likeable to the reader (for example, possessing nobility or strength of character).In most cases, you'll also want to provide the most detail (including physical description, background, and divulgence of personality traits) for these character roles.


Protagonists don't need to be perfect, and can even be obviously flawed or weak (these are known as "antiheroes"). The point here is that you don't want to make your main character contemptible, or you risk losing the reader (who likely won't enjoy following the exploits of a character she detests).
There might be situations in which you want to leave certain details about your protagonist out until later. Indeed, the most interesting characters typically can't be summed up in a single paragraph. Just make sure you don't provide more description for a side character than your protagonist.
 Not every story will include a love interest for the main character, but if yours does then you need to give a decent impression of this character's appeal. This can take many forms, but the reader needs to be able to understand what it is that the protagonist likes about him or her (or how the person makes your main character feel).As with your protagonist, the 'love interest' character should be likeable and usually deserves a fair amount of description and attention.
The amount of detail you provide for a main character's love interest should depend to some degree upon his or her relationship to the protagonist. For example, if he or she is the main character's spouse, it makes sense to divulge more to the reader than if he or she is just a stranger on the train.
 For a villain to be truly frightening or loathsome, there must be a bit of mystery surrounding his origins, motivations, or true nature. Much of what makes a good villain comes from his unpredictability and lack of redeeming qualities; both of these things rely in part upon the reader's inability to see too deeply into your villain's mind.Many good stories involve plot twists toward their ends that reveal something profound about the villain's past or personality (think Darth Vader in Star Wars or Professor Snape in Harry Potter). This is a good reason to keep certain details about your villain a secret until the proper moment.
Use imagery to portray your villain how you wish him to be perceived by the reader. This can be done through his physical features, mannerisms, speech, the settings in which he often appears, and various other forms of imagery. Be creative in how you convey to the reader what's in your mind!

, Supporting characters can be important to your story, but the amount of description you devote to them should be proportionate to their role. For instance, don't spend two pages discussing the back story of a character who never again appears in the story. On the other hand, a "sidekick" could end up being your second most important character.As with most rules of thumb for writing fiction, there are exceptions to this. For example, perhaps a character your protagonist doesn't know will end up being important to the story's climax; this is fine, so long as it is believable and fits your storyline.
It is important to make sure all your supporting characters actually serve a purpose in the story; otherwise, they are just space fillers. Your reader doesn't want to try to distinguish between 40 characters who may or may not be relevant to the narrative.

