 The way you approach the day can set the tone for it. It you think it’s going to be a horrible day, then you will look for things throughout the day to support your thinking. On the other hand, if you decide it’s going to be a good day, you will take obstacles in stride and be happier.


Start each day with the idea that it will be a good one and that you will feel happy. Think about something, someone, or somewhere that puts a smile on your face before you get out of bed in the morning.
Throughout the day, think about things that put and keep a smile on your face. Remind yourself that it’s a good day. Make a conscious decision to keep your good mood going all day long.
Never consider a day a ‘bad day’. There may be a bad moment (or two) in a day, but there are also several good, or at least decent, moments also.
 Your attitude towards something impacts how you approach it and, often, what you get out of it.Instead of letting negative thoughts fill your mind, make an effort to be positive. Decide that, as much as possible, you are going to try to find the good in every person and situation.


Be patient, understanding, and helpful as much as possible.
Try to find the positive side or a little humor in difficult situations. Although it may be hard to find a “silver lining” sometimes, just trying to do so can help you put things in perspective, decease your stress, and increase your happiness.Laugh at yourself when you do something silly or even embarrassing. Choosing to look at yourself with a smile, instead of criticism is an important step in being happier.
 Sometimes, it seems that people can drain the fun out of a situation as well as make you feel bad about yourself. Remember that you can’t control anyone else, but you can control your own happiness.Try to limit your time around negative people. If you can’t avoid them, then just keep positive thoughts in your mind while you’re around them.
In the end, you are the judge of yourself, so don’t let anyone’s negativity lower your self-esteem. Negative self-thoughts do nothing but hinder your path to happiness.
Remind yourself that their bad attitude is their problem. It’s not an accurate reflection of the situation or of you.
 Research suggests that being grateful for the good things in life can help you be a happier person.

Whether they are large (your job and your home) or small (the parking space close to the store entrance), decide to be thankful for the good things that you have and that happen to you rather than focus on the negative.

Spend a few minutes a day meditating or just imagining everything that makes you smile or thankful.
Make a list of things you are thankful for and put it where you can see it often, like your desk or bathroom mirror. Add things whenever you can and be sure to look over the list from time to time.
At the end of the day, be thankful for what happened, no matter how bad it may seem. As Buddha once said, "Let us rise up and be thankful, for if we didn't learn a lot today, at least we learned a little, and if we didn't learn a little, at least we didn't get sick, and if we got sick, at least we didn't die; so, let us all be thankful."

