 Just as you would not spend your life savings on the first house that 'looked good', you wouldn't want to spend your life in a religion or belief system in which you haven't fully investigated. This means not only talking to those currently in the faith, but those who have left as well. Find out why people have both good things to say and why people have bad things to say about it. The LDS church is as much a culture as it is a belief system, one which does require significant life changes in order to practice.;
, Stop listening to what those who claim to have information about revealing the truth about Mormonism have to say about it. Most often, what they say is grossly inaccurate.
 Find a member of the Mormon Church or a pair of Mormon missionaries and ask them to share with you what their beliefs are. Take the time to honestly and completely understand what they are saying; don't just assume you understand or leap to a conclusion based on one conversation.
 If you aren't sure you understand or if something sounds strange, ask about it. Remember that the person you are talking to is likely an intelligent, hard-working person who has probably asked him or herself the same question. Give them the benefit of the doubt and assume they really understand what they believe and give them a chance to explain it fully.
 Just as you cannot fully explain Quantum physics to someone who doesn't know anything about math or basic physics, you cannot understand LDS (Mormon) teachings about heaven or temple ceremonies until you understand what Mormons believe about God and Jesus Christ. Be patient and make sure you fully understand these fundamental teachings; don't just assume you know them. This may seem difficult since most people want to learn about the things they think are weird or strange (such as temple ceremonies, the Church's connection to polygamy, etc.). You cannot understand the big ideas until you understand the basic ideas like God, prophets, prayer, scriptures, and so on.
 Imagine someone was trying to learn what you believed. How would you feel if that person tried to tell you what you believed? How would you feel if they immediately concluded that your beliefs were crazy because they could not understand them? Allow for some time and try to understand how Mormon teachings could make sense to someone, rather than just assuming that they are crazy. Try to understand their beliefs just like you would want someone to try to understand yours. Once you have asked someone about their faith in Mormonism, listen carefully to what they say. If you feel they did not answer your question or if you did not understand their response, let them know. No doubt, they will be happy to clarify their response.
 Everything that Mormons believe is available in books. Mormon scripture includes the Book of Mormon (a history of the people in the Americas at the same period of time as the Bible,) the Doctrine and Covenants (additional teachings and revelations from Church leaders), Pearl of Great Price (a collection of short writings and translations from Joseph Smith), and the Bible (King James Version).
 By attending church you can see how the teachings of Mormonism are used by its members in their everyday lives. To attend church services first locate the nearest Mormon chapel and learn what time they begin. Dress in clean clothing. For men, this might mean suit pants with a dress shirt, and a tie if you can. Women should wear a dress or a blouse and skirt, preferably covering the knees and shoulders. Arrive ten or so minutes early so you can find a seat and chat quietly with the local members.
 Even life-long members of the LDS Church are always learning and striving. Never assume you know it all. Think about what you read, what you're told, and what you see. No Church member should want you to take everything at face value or force you to agree with their beliefs. Their goal is to help you come to your own conclusions.

