 It is important to note that most online courses are not self-paced, and it is important to understand what is expected. Carefully read and understand your syllabus at the beginning of the course. The syllabus will contain the course’s schedule, including assignment due dates and test dates, the course’s required software or textbooks, and your instructor’s contact information. Reviewing this information is key to succeeding in an online classroom.


Save your instructor’s contact information in your phone or your email account so you can quickly and efficiently access that information when needed.
 Be sure to clearly mark when assignments are due and on what days you will have tests. Writing these dates in a calendar or adding them to your mobile phone at the beginning of the course will prevent you from forgetting about upcoming projects. Plan to study and complete assignments in a timely manner and make scheduling adjustments when needed., Once you have reviewed your syllabus and you understand that course’s workload and expectations, create a study schedule. This framework is crucial for success.Think about how many hours you should spend studying each week, and select times and days that work best for your routine and preferences. Set aside time each week to review the course materials, complete the required reading, and complete your assignments. Once you create and stick to a schedule, your new routine will become second nature. You will feel more confident in your coursework and your abilities.


If you have any vacation or travel plans during your course, plan to study and complete assignments well in advance before leaving.Think about when you are most productive. If you work better in the morning, plan to wake up early a few days each week so you can study before you begin your day. If you work better in the evening, set aside a few hours each night to study after dinner.
 Plan to complete your coursework in an organized, comfortable place where you won’t be disturbed. It takes discipline to focus and complete an online course, so be sure to let family and friends know to respect your space. Whether your space is in a coffee shop, your local library, or your kitchen counter, be sure that it is free from distractions. Having a consistent and quiet study space will help you focus on your work and ensure your success in your online course.


Mute your phone or turn it off when you are in your study space. Let your friends and family know that you cannot be reached during that time. Ask that they only message or call you in an emergency.

