 Does he bring you coffee? Give you rides home? Unless he's really that much of a good citizen, chances are that he's not doing it out of the goodness of his heart only. He must be attracted to you and must want something more from you than just a "thank you" for all the nice stuff he's been doing for you.;
, Is he asking if you need his help with everything from home repairs to shoveling the snow of your driveway? Is he cooking for you because you've had a long day? If he's always around and finding ways to get close to you and to be in your presence, then it's likely that he's attracted to you.
 If a guy is interested in a girl, he will try to impress her. Even risk serious injury like jumping off cliffs into water or ride on trunks of moving cars or anything else to gain your attention and care if he does get hurt. If he's not generally a risk taker or if he takes his risk-taking to a new level when you're around, then chances are that he's doing it just to impress you. See if he tries to catch your eye or look at you after he's done the risky thing -- if so, then he's really just doing it to get a reaction from you.
 A guy would not flirt with a girl he wasn't attracted to. If a guy flirts with you, then he probably is testing you to see if the feelings are mutual. Seemingly harmless flirting may mask his fear of getting rejected if he were to ask you out outright. See if he's playful around you, if he teases you, and if he likes to make you laugh.


Just make sure he's not the kind of guy who flirts with every girl he sees. If he's a chronic flirt and that's just his way of talking to women, then it may not mean as much as it would if he were just flirting with only you.
 Do you notice unhappiness in him if you go for coffee or lunch with a male co-worker? Does he watch who is around you? If you have a male friend is he a little critical of him? His jealousy may not come out in the most obvious ways, but if he's truly jealous of you and another guy, he'll call attention to the fact that you're hanging out with another guy or he'll act extra distant when you make plans with another guy.


Each guy is different in terms of how he shows he's jealous, but if you do figure out that he's jealous of you, then it's a huge sign that he's attracted to you.
 If he gives you flowers or cute little tokens that will make you laugh or smile, then it's a big sign that he's attracted to you. Why else would he take the time to get you a gift that he knows will make your day more special? He may play down the gift when he gives it to you, making it seem like not a big deal in case you reject him, but really, he's doing this because he likes you!

, If he holds open doors and car doors for you, pulls out your chair before you sit down, offers you his coat, and does other various gentlemanly and chivalrous things around you, then yeah, there's a great chance that he's attracted to you and wants something more. Just make sure he's not acting all gentlemanly in front of all of the ladies.
 If he's fussing with his hair, picking lint off his clothes, messing with his shirt cuffs, adjusting his belt, removing a stain from his shoes, or just generally tending to his appearance around you, then it's a great sign that he's attracted to you. If you catch him acting extra self-conscious about his appearance, looking at himself in the mirror, or just generally caring more about his looks whenever you come by, then it's a big sign that he's into you.
 Really! Research has shown that when a guy is walking with a girl he is attracted to, he slows down or speeds up to match her walking pace. When the same guys walked with girls they only saw as friends, they did not slow down their pace to match the speed of their walking partner. The next time you walk with your crush, check out the pace of his feet!, If the man is attracted to you, then chances are that you'll be able to catch him staring at you from across the room. Of course, you shouldn't try too hard to see if you can catch him doing this, or he'll thinking that you're the one staring at him (which you are…sort of). If you look up and find him holding your gaze a few times, then he's probably attracted to you. Bonus points if he quickly looks away or looks embarrassed.
 If you do lock eyes and he keeps staring at you in a way that makes you blush or flush a bit, then he may be lingering because he's really attracted to you and wants more of you. Of course, if he's more shy, he may look away for a bit, but if he does stare at you for a few extra seconds, then there's a good chance he's attracted to you.
 If the man is attracted to you, then he will subtly -- or not so subtly -- turn his body toward you when you're speaking. This is just part of the basic rules of attraction. If he likes you, then he'll want to turn his shoulders, face, arms and body in your direction. If he's turned away from you or holding back, then he may not be as interested.
 If you see him playing with the buttons on his shirt, blushing, picking at his nails, playing with an object on his desk, moving his feet from side to side, or generally acting a little bit antsy, then there's a good chance that he's doing it because he's attracted to you. These are all classic signs of nervousness, and if you make him a little bit nervous, then yeah, he'll be fidgeting more than he normally would around you because he's excited by your presence.
 If he's really attracted to you, then he'll do everything in his power to get closer to you. This might mean he'll put his hand on the small of your back when you're walking into a room, he might give you a light pat on the shoulder or the arm, or he might even stand so close to you that your feet or legs touch and he doesn't move away from you right away.


He might even move a strand of hair away from your face if he really wants to get close to you.
 See if his lips are slightly parted. This is a classic sign of attraction. If he's attracted to you, his lips will part a bit when you make eye contact, or when you're talking. See if his nostrils are slightly flared when you talk. Check to see if his eyebrows are a bit raised when you talk to each other. All of these are signs that his face is opening up when you're together because he's really into you.
 If you're standing up, check to see that his head, shoulders, and feet are all pointed in your direction. If the guy is attracted to you, then this is his way of showing that he only wants to get closer to you. If he's looking away, facing in a slightly different direction, or moving his feet away from yours, then he may not see you in a romantic way.
 Have you heard that he was asking about you to your friends? Did he ask if you had a boyfriend? If so, then he's definitely attracted to you. It can be a little hard to figure out whether or not he's been asking about you without asking around yourself, because then it'll be obvious that you want to know because you like him. But if you've heard through the grapevine that he's been asking about you, then it definitely means that he's attracted to you.
 He may be so lost in his attraction to you that he ends up talking on and on about his love for Star Trek or his relationship with his kid sister. This kind of cute behavior stems from the fact that he's so into you that he can't even control the things that are coming out of his mouth. He may even apologize for talking so much or say, "I don't know why I just told you that" because he's self-conscious about looking like a fool in front of you.
 If he's attracted to you, then he may find himself revealing some personal stuff to you that he normally doesn't tell anyone. This is because he wants to get to know you and he wants you to get to know him. If you find him opening up, or even saying something like, "I haven't told anyone that before" or "It's been years since I've brought that up," then it may be because he's really attracted to you and wants you to know more about him.
 Research shows that men lower the pitch of their voices when they're talking to females they're attracted to. The next time you have a conversation with your guy, check out the pitch of his voice. Compare it to how he talks to his friends or other girls and see if you can notice a difference. If you can, then there's a chance he's attracted to you!, He may not come right out and say, "You're so hot. I am so attracted to you." However, he might give you more subtle compliments that add up to say that he's really attracted to you. He may say that you have a unique hair color, that you have a great laugh, or that he likes that you're always in a good mood. See if he's given you multiple compliments recently -- he may be trying to tell you something.
 If he's attracted to you, then he'll definitely laugh more often just because he'll be excited to be around you. You might say something that's barely funny and he'll crack up, or you might even say something that wasn't meant to be taken as funny and he could start laughing just because he's nervous. These are all signs that he's attracted to you.


On the other hand, though, he may be so nervous that he won't laugh at something that you meant as a joke because he's too busy worrying about what you think of him to pay attention to everything you say!

