 If for example the topic is about Windows XP do not talk about Windows 7,Windows Vista or Linux operating system. That can be misunderstood for trolling or hijacking a thread. And this could get you a warning from the moderators or even a ban from the forum.;
, And do not make jokes or negative comments like" Windows XP is better than Windows 7." Or "Windows 8 sucks and should be banned." Or "Linux is better than Windows." Or "Don't use Windows use Linux."Jokes about how terrible one version of Windows may be from another version of Windows,it may be very funny to readers. But forum moderators won't find it funny.And this can get you mistaken for a troll by the other forum members and get you a warning from a moderator. And it can also get you banned from the forum.
 For example your posts may be slightly off topic or you may have made some comments in your posts about how bad Windows Vista is compared to Windows 7. Or even made a joke about Windows. But often this can upset other members and they can react by posting on the thread that you are a troll when you are not. If this happens to you, just stop posting. Or polity explain that you are not trolling the forum or hijacking the thread and apologize.
 For example,you may have gone off topic in a thread,there may be something in your posts that have upset other members. Either way,if a moderator tells you to stop posting whatever it is that is upsetting other members.Then take that as a warning, and stop posting and stick to the topic or start a new thread.
 As can posting to get attention and posting on too many threads. All of which could be mistaken for trolling the forum.
 If other members or a moderator starts accusing you of trolling or hijacking a thread. Or if your threads and threads you are posting on keep getting locked or deleted.Or you keep getting warnings from the moderators. All of these could be signs that you are not welcome. So if this happens to you it is best to leave the forum. As it is better leave now than be banned later.
 As this could get you a warning or a ban from the forum. The forum has the right to lock or delete your threads or any thread you are posting on. And they can edit or delete your posts or make your threads private view. Meaning your thread is not visible to anyone else on the web or in search engines. And only forum members can view it. You have no control over this.
 If a forum member is rude to you do not respond by being rude back to them. As this can quickly get out of hand and turn other members against you. And get you mistaken for trolling or inflaming other members. Moderators do not care about who started the argument.You could also end up being banned from the forum. So if a member is rude to you just ignore them.

