 Medicine is not a cure-all for your panic attacks. Instead, one of the most common treatments is cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), administered with the help of a mental health professional like a psychologist. CBT challenges your fear. It teaches you to replace your false, unfounded fears with more rational beliefs and to develop an inner voice to cope while the fight or flight response runs its course. When feeling panicked, your response with CBT should be reassuring: “I'm in no danger.”Talk to a professional. See what sort of treatment options are available for you. There are in fact a number of different approaches that can be taken separately or at the same time., Mindfulness is an acceptance strategy and form of CBT, addressing aspects of your emotional experience that can't be directly changed. As someone who suffers from panic attacks, you likely have feelings of anxiety, fear, doubt, and urges to escape. With mindfulness you will learn that there is no “off switch” for these feelings and that the attempt to control them will only increase your distress. Mindfulness teaches you strategies to live with the sensations, to soften and accept them while letting them run their course., Exposure therapy reverses our normal response to fears. Our natural reaction is to avoid anxiety-inducing situations. But while avoidance gives immediate relief, it is actually counter-productive and can ultimately worsen your fears or create mental paralysis. Exposure therapy will systematically confront you with your fears or whatever might be inducing your panic.


Most therapists do this slowly, in a graded fashion, so that high-level exposure is not attempted until you successfully face lower-levels. With each step, then, you will build up more emotional “muscle.”The confrontation can be real (“in-vivo”) or simulated, where you are guided through an imaginary scenario. Once your brain learns that these feelings are not dangerous, it will stop triggering your panic. Exposure therapy has been found to be effective in treating anxiety disorders.