 The easiest way to save money is to book your flight early. You should try to book your flight two or three months ahead of time. This is when the cheapest tickets are available, and prices typically rise approximately thirty days in advance of your flight.If you keep waiting because of the high prices, you may simply be adding money to your ticket for every day of procrastination.If you are booking for fall or winter holiday seasons, you may be adding $5 per day for every day you wait.Avoid last minute booking. If you book a day or even a week in advance, you will be paying significantly more than if you had booked at least one month in advance., Although many websites will claim to be the ultimate hub for flight searches, there is no magic website that will save you money. Rather, it is best to shop around using a few of the big search engine websites and then compare results. Some websites, such as FareCompare, will allow you to search across a few websites at once and compare results in different browsers., Since airlines may use cookies to survey the flights you are looking for and may adjust prices accordingly, you may want to search in incognito mode. If you don’t want to use incognito mode, you can also clear your cookies before making a purchase which should get rid of your search history.If you are using the Chrome web browser, choose ‘new incognito window’ under the file menu.
If you are using the Firefox web browser, choose ‘new private window’ under the file menu.
 Budget tickets go on sale at the beginning of the week and the price wars typically start on Tuesday, so this is the time to book your flight.One strategist recommends booking your flight on the phone between midnight on Tuesday and Wednesday at 1AM. Apparently, the budget flights that weren’t sold are re-entered in airline systems at this time, which makes it an opportune time to purchase. You need to follow the time zone for the specific airline and call them directly.Try calling Delta Air Lines, JetBlue Airways or Spirit Airlines on Wednesday at 1AM Eastern Standard Time.Try calling AirTran, American Airlines, American Eagle Airlines, Southwest Airlines, and United Airlines on Wednesday at 1AM Central Time Zone.Call Alaska Airlines, Allegiant Air, and Virgin America on Wednesday at 1AM Pacific Time Zone.Call Hawaiian Airlines on Wednesday at 1AM Hawaii-Aluetian Time Zone., When you search online for cheap flights, click on the ‘flexible days’ search option. If there is no option on the search website you are using, try inputting different days into the search system. Typically, most people will travel on particular days during the holiday season. To save money, you can travel on cheaper days when fewer people are travelling.For example, try flying back from the thanksgiving on the Monday instead of the Sunday.
 You can save money by choosing early morning or late evening flights, since the highest demand is typically for flights during normal commuting hours.If you travel early or late, you should also consider whether you will end up spending more money on ground transportation.


Check to see if the public buses are running when you need them for an early morning or late evening flight. If they are not, consider how much you could end up spending on a taxi or other means of ground transportation.
 Sign up to receive flight alerts for cheap flights to your destination. You can sign up for flight alerts from your local airline, a travel agent, or booking website. These flight alerts will typically be sent via email or text message. You will have to sign up at one of the sites and then set up your preferences. You will get alerts when prices drop for your preferred flights.FareCompare, Airfarewatchdog, and Yapta websites all offer free flight alerts., If you have a mileage reward ticket that you want to use for your holiday ticket, you might want to talk to a human representative at your local airline. They may be able to check your options quicker than if you were to do it yourself online.If you are part of airline points or frequent flier miles system, you may want to look into using your miles for the holiday season. However, you should note that you may have to use double or triple the usual amount of points needed to get to your destination. Nonetheless, if you are willing to part with the miles or points, this approach could save you money.