 Not all of us have to be glued to our inbox, as many messages aren’t actually as time sensitive as we may think. If you work in a job that doesn’t require immediate email follow-up, check your email at scheduled times only about three to four times per day.
 Use filing folders and flags to your advantage instead of letting messages pile up in your inbox.Folders and subfolders in Outlook, for example, or Gmail’s labels and multiple inboxes can be an asset.If you’re a journalist, for example, your folders might be called Current Stories, Future Stories, Old Stories, Interviews & Sources, and Pitches & Ideas.


Delete and archive. Archive important, old correspondence, and delete the rest. In the example above, "Old Stories" is the journalist's archive folder. Once you start deleting old emails, you’ll be surprised at how many emails are more worthy of the trashcan than the filing cabinet. Some people also swear by “inbox zero,” which means having zero unread emails (or zero emails in your inbox, period). In addition to using folders and labels, you can achieve inbox zero by using your archive feature, deleting old emails during downtime, and using email decluttering apps., Sometimes a quick phone call can do the work of 10 back-and-forth emails. If so, make the call! If you know an email exchange merits a discussion or will involve considerable back-and-forth, sometimes it’s better to have a phone call. You will often get more detail over the phone, while you and the other party to the discussion avoid drafting lengthy, time-consuming emails. You might even email a colleague and say, “I have a lot of questions for you on this. Maybe a call would be easier. Can I ring you in 5?”

, While strategic breaks are helpful, interruptions during your work times are not. Interruptions can slow you down, break up your work rhythm, and make you lose your train of thought. So, try using away messages and voicemail when you know you’ll be too busy. These tools aren’t just for when you’re not physically in the office; they can be used when you’re just too swamped. Many people also have an “open door policy,” but you don’t actually have to keep your door open at all times. You might even leave a friendly note on the door saying, “Conference Call in Progress” or “Occupied. Drop back later or email please.”

, Cloud computing is worth considering because it can be cheaper, scalable, more efficient, and more easily updated.Content available in the cloud is particularly useful because you can access it across your devices: computers, tablets, smartphones, etc. Cloud storage also serves as a useful primary or secondary form of digital backup. Check with your IT manager or software provider because you might already have a certain amount of free disk space available in the cloud or available for a small annual fee.
 The major browsers all have bookmarking capabilities where you can save and organize your favorite or most frequently visited web addresses for quick and easy access. Take advantage of them so you don’t forget important sites to check for news or industry updates.

