 Find ways to tell your crush what you really appreciate about him or her. This will show that you're paying attention to what makes your crush special and that you're a thoughtful person. Here are some ways to do it:


Be casual. Say, "You're so smart--I didn't know that," or "How interesting, I never would have thought of it that way!" This shows that you appreciate your crush's insight without fawning all over him or her.
Find what makes your crush special. If your crush loves running marathons, say, "It's so impressive that you could do that."
Praise your crush's achievements. Say something simple like, "I can't believe you published a poem. That must have taken a lot of work!"

, Show your crush that you're actually listening to the things he or she says. This will demonstrate that you value your crush's opinion and that you're thinking about him or her even when you step away from the computer. Here's how to do it:


If your crush recommends an album, listen to it. This will give you something to talk about too.
If your crush recommends you buy a certain type of phone, pair of shoes, or whatever, if you think his or her advice is sound, take it. Then you can thank your crush for the tip.
However, don't rush off to do whatever your crush says. If he recommends a movie, don't watch it instantly and report back the next day. Take a week or two to say, "Hey, I watched that movie you recommended, and it was amazing."

, You should show that not only are you an interesting person, but that you care about your crush as a person. Try to strike a balance between talking about yourself, your common interests, and your crush. Here are some ways to do this:


Ask your crush how his or her week is going. This will get your crush to reveal some information what's going on in his or her life.
If your crush told you he or she went to a concert, tennis match, or restaurant, ask how it was.
Ask your crush his or her opinion on a certain topic. This will show that you value what he or she has to say.
Don't pry. You can casually ask about his or her interests, friends, or even family, but don't ask so many questions that you're getting too personal or sound like you're leading an interview.
 If things are going well and you feel that the timing is right, don't be afraid to invite your crush to take your relationship beyond MSN. If you've gotten to know your crush, you can do this casually and not make a big deal about it. Here's how:


Ask your crush what he or she has going on that weekend. If your crush says he's pretty free, suggest a casual hang out. Say, "Cool, me too--want to grab lunch?"
If your crush's favorite band or comedian is coming to town, ask if he wants to go to a show together.
If you're throwing a party or going out with a big group of friends, invite your crush. This will be a very low-pressure hang out, and will give you a feel for each other before you go on a real date.

