 You might be surprised by the amount of clothes you currently own that could pass in a skinhead's wardrobe. Look through your shirts and set aside anything that has a clothing brand on it or any graphic shirt. Skinheads typically wear simple tops or band shirts. It is okay to have some collared shirts. Your pants don’t need to be a specific style, color, or brand.


The underlying look for the skinhead is short hair and boots. Once you have these, the rest of your wardrobe doesn’t matter as much.;
, There are some ways for wearing clothes that is specific to the style of skinheads. For instance, skinheads usually cuff the ends of their pants. Another key look is the tucked in t-shirt or collared shirt. Skinheads also usually wear tight fitting t-shirts. Shrink your t-shirts instead of purchasing slim fitting shirts.


Since the style and movement arose out post-war Britain, the bomber jacket is an important addition. There are, however, plenty of skinheads who wear leather or denim jackets instead.There is not one set style for skinhead fashion. The important aspect of the style is the way you wear the clothes.
 Small pin buttons (1/2" or 25mm) are cheap additions you can add to your jacket. You normally get these for a few cents/pence in record shops, book-fairs, or from online badge stores. You can also make your own pins and badges for cheap. Iron-on patches are handy, but make sure you don't burn your jacket with the iron as most are made of synthetics and will melt. Fabric glue can also be used as long as it dries clear and doesn't stain. If you can sew, use a needle and thread to firmly attach any patches.


If a group of your friends want to go in on a set of patches or pins, you can probably profit from them by selling them.
 Scout out clothing at cheap clothing stores, thrift stores, military surplus stores or online. Try to find clothes you don’t have like polo shirts, button-up shirts, a flight jacket, jeans, boots and other items associated with the skinhead style. Make sure the clothes are in good condition and fit properly. When buying from websites like eBay, be aware of fake goods sold as name brands.


Popular pants in the original skinhead community are Levis. Skinheads traditionally come from working class families, so they usually only have a few pairs.As a result, those jeans become worn in quickly, and this look became a part of the style.
 The staple of the skinhead fashion is Doc Martens boots. Buy generic military or work boots instead of Doc Martens, if you're on a budget. Check out car-boot sales, yard-sales, charity shops and second-hand clothes stores. Many of these stores sell previously owned boots in good condition. Undercover and Magnum are great boots, but are sold for a fraction of the cost on sites like eBay.


You can find second hand Doc Martens in various stores. Shop around for a deal.
If you budget your entire wardrobe, you might benefit from buying new Doc Martens. You will spend a little extra on new shoes, but they will last you for a long time.
 The bomber jacket originated from working class families of the U.K. The youth that became the original skinheads were inspired by their fathers who’d fought in the war. They would take this militaristic style and bring it to the street. Bomber jackets are simple and not meant to be too flashy. You should be able to find a bomber jacket from a department store for under $50.You can also check second hand clothing stores for bomber jackets.
The bomber jacket is the opposite style of the hippie movement that was occurring in the same era. Original skinheads tried not to look like hippies and didn’t care about what was happening in America., Thinner braces (suspenders) are hard to find in stores. Go online or buy two elastic waistbands from a fabric shop and sew them onto some clips. Buy black suspenders or another color that is relatively neutral.


Suspenders especially go well with a light colored shirt. Classic skinheads typically wore light shirts and dark pants.
The style could be comparable to the 1950s greaser look, but with shaven heads.
 You can shave your head for free. Most electric clippers only cut your hair so short, even with the guard-off. To achieve a zero-cropped scalp, without breaking the bank, nothing beats a shave with a disposable/interchangeable razor (the kind used to shave your face) and some value-brand foam or gel.


You might be able to shave your head yourself, but most skinheads have their friends do this for them., The only facial hair skinheads have is small mutton chops. For the most part, skinheads keep their face as clean as their heads, if not shorter. You can get a lot of use out of an electric razor. Even though electric razors cost more, they will last you longer than cheap, disposable razors.
 Skinheads support live music as much as they can. One of the best outcomes for budgeting your wardrobe is to spend the rest of your money on your local music community. Even if you don’t know any local skinhead groups, you can purchase reggae and ska music from your local record store.
 Racism was never part of the original skinhead ideology. All races were apart of the original group of 1960s English skinheads. They banned together because larger societal issues such as class. Skinheads were not racists, but instead were anti-racists. For some reason it became part of the definition of skinhead to be white supremacist, but don’t let that guide you and your actions.