 If you work out and burn a lot of calories and then follow that by a reward or cheat food, you may be hurting your diet. Eating high-calorie foods after a workout can hurt your progress. You may not have burned as many calories as you think, so you end up eating more than you worked off.Instead of treating yourself with food, treat yourself in other ways. Buy yourself something extra, go out on the weekend, or let yourself do something fun for half an hour.;
, Sodas, diet or regular, can negatively affect your diet. If you are drinking regular sodas, you are flooding your body with sugar and high-fructose corn syrup, which can add pounds. A 20-ounce soda can have hundreds of calories and more than your daily sugar intake. Diet sodas have artificial sweeteners in them, which are chemicals that can trigger a hunger response and make you eat more.Instead of sodas or sugar-filled fruit juices, find alternatives. Try water, seltzer water, or unsweetened tea.
Staying hydrated by drinking water can help you feel full. Dehydration is often confused for hunger.
 Eating fast may be hurting your diet. If you eat too fast, your brain doesn’t have time to catch up and let you know that you are full and no longer hungry. After you finish a meal, you may still think you are hungry because your brain and stomach haven’t had time to connect yet.Try slowing down and savoring your food. Eat each bite slowly and enjoy the food you are eating.
 Another reason your diet may not be working is because you are not getting enough sleep. Being tired makes people want to eat unhealthy foods. Not getting enough sleep can also release the hormone cortisol, which can hinder your weight loss.You should get seven to nine hours of sleep each night.Some activity trackers also keep track of your sleep.
 Many people will eat healthy during the week, but they will not do the same thing on the weekend. This may be due to going out to eat, meeting up with family and friends, or relaxing and having a good time. Figure out if you are splurging and cheating too much on the weekends.If you go out to eat, you can make healthy choices and practice good portion control. Allow yourself a few tastes if you are at a party or an event, but don’t let your weekly meeting with friends give you permission to get off track.
 Not everyone can be pencil thin. Genetics influences the way our bodies are shaped and how much weight we carry. You may be genetically determined to have wider hips while someone else may have larger legs. The key is to find your healthy weight.Try to find a healthy, attainable goal for your body. Talk to your doctor about what is healthy for you.

