


Video monitors can range from $100-to-$300, depending on their features. Some well-known brands will also cost more.;
,


Think about how you plan to use the monitor and where you will need it within the house. Will it need to be portable as you move around the house? Will you spend most of your time in one room or area of the house? You will be able to narrow your focus for choosing a baby video monitor by deciding on the type of monitor that best suits your family lifestyle and needs.



Many video monitors boast long ranges, but often these are unobstructed (meaning they can only go that far without obstacles such as walls and doors in their path). Knowing your maximum required range will help in narrowing the field. Consider the size of your house and where the baby's room is located to determine the range that you will need for the monitor. Also take the distance between you and other houses into consideration. There can be electronic interference with some monitors.



Baby video monitors should have basic features, such as a range that fits your house size, infrared night vision, rechargeable battery power, good picture quality and sound indicators.



Analog baby monitors operate on radio wave frequencies that are similar to those used by cordless telephones. These monitors often cost less, but there is a chance of interference and the signal for these monitors may not be secure (meaning that someone else with a monitor may be able to hear or see your child).
Digital baby monitors convert the sound and pictures into data, making the line secure and more interference-free. However some digital monitors can still experience interference from wireless networks that may be on the same digital frequency.



Baby monitors have many optional features that may, or may not, be important to you. Prioritizing the features will enable you to compare monitors and eliminate those that do not meet your needs.
Baby monitor features can include: a color screen; a 2-way channel, so parents can talk to their children remotely; music that can be played; multiple screen options so additional receivers and transmitters can be added; snapshot capability; telephone and computer connections; digital interference-free options and remote panning and zooming capability.



Take the time to compare prices online before buying a baby monitor. There are many websites that offer price comparisons along with expert and consumer reviews. You can also check consumer product testing and review sites, such as ConsumerReports.org or ConsumerSearch.com. Often, reading what other experts and buyers have to say about a specific video monitor can help you make a good decision on which model to purchase.

