 The proper stance is the foundation to your shooting technique. Keep your feet hip/shoulder width distance apart and relax your knees. Your hips, shoulders, and elbow should be facing forward. Your body should be aligned no matter where you are around the post.Stand close to the ring.









Have someone else watch you as you practice your stance. Another person can see any errors and help you make adjustments.
Practice your stance in different positions around the post. Make sure your feet are always pointed towards the post.;
, Hold the ball with your dominant/shooting hand and keep your fingers soft. Hold the ball as high as you can in both hands. Use your other hand for balance, but do not apply any pressure to the ball with this hand. Your fingers should be touching the ball, but leave a little bit of space between the palm of your hand and the ball.If you are a younger player or a new player, it may be easier to hold the ball with two hands. Holding with two hands will give you more power when you are shooting.
Once the ball is firmly in your hands, hold the ball high above your head. Your elbow should be by your forehead.
You should not be able to see the ball when it is above your head.
 Bend your elbows and your knees at the same time. Keep your elbow by your forehead and only move the top part of your arm. Straighten your elbow and your knees and then release the ball. Toss the ball up in an up-and-over motion toward the ring. Aim at the center point above the net as you shoot and flick your hand forward with your shooting arm.








It is important that you bend your knees before you release the ball because the power of your shot comes from your knees.
Flicking your hand will cause the ball to spin backwards after you release it. This helps with the accuracy of your shot.
Keep your back straight as you release the ball.If you are shooting with two hands, both of your hands will go through the shooting motion.
Think of your elbow as a lever when you are shooting and only move the top portion (i.e. forearm area).
 To be a good Goal Attack or Goal Shooter, you don't have to be able to get goals from a long way away from the ring, it's great if you can though., The shooting technique can be overwhelming. There are so many things to remember. BEEF can help you remember the key aspects of shooting a netball.B for balance. Keep your feet hip/shoulder width apart and pointing towards the goal.
E for eyes. Keep your eyes focused on where you want the ball to go.
E for elbow. Keep your elbows close to your ears as you shoot.
F for follow through. Always flick your hand and wrist at the end of your shot.

