 For a unique take on salsa, use cranberries and jalapenos. Just blitz fresh cranberries, sugar, cucumber, cilantro, onion, and jalapeno in a food processor. Taste the salsa and add a little lime juice or salt according to your taste.Serve the salsa with tortilla chips, pita chips, or fresh veggies.;
, Make a batch of your favorite pancakes and add sweetened fresh cranberries. You'll need to soften the berries before you add them to the batter. Microwave the berries with a little sugar for about five minutes. Cool the berries and stir them into the batter. Cook the pancakes and serve them immediately.You can top the pancakes with a cranberry maple syrup. Simmer maple syrup and cranberries until the berries pop. Drizzle the syrup over your pancakes.
 Make a floating ice ring for your punch bowl. Fill a circular mold with water or juice and add the cranberries. Freeze the ring until it's completely frozen. Remove the ice ring and float it in your punch bowl to keep the punch chilled.To keep individual cocktails chilled, freeze just the cranberries on a rimmed baking sheet. Add the frozen cranberries directly to each cocktail. They'll keep the drinks chilled and add a decorative touch.
 Mix together a basic granola that uses oats, sweetener, and nuts. Add the cranberries to the granola and spread it on a rimmed baking sheet. Bake the granola until it smells fragrant and the cranberries soften. They'll add a little tart flavor to the sweet granola.You could also flavor the granola with maple syrup, salted pepitas, and cinnamon.
 Cook fresh cranberries with brown sugar or maple syrup until the berries pop. Add apple cider, orange slices, cinnamon sticks, and orange juice. Simmer the cider until you're ready to serve it.If you'd just like your home to smell great, fill a saucepan with water, fresh cranberries, a few slices of orange, and a couple of cinnamon sticks. Simmer the potpourri until your house smells fragrant.
 You can easily add fresh cranberries to baked goods. Tart cranberries work really well to cut the richness of pound cake. Prepare a basic pound cake batter. Toss fresh cranberries in flour and gently fold them into the batter. Bake the cake according to the recipe and let it cool completely.Coating the cranberries in flour will keep them from sinking to the bottom of the pound cake while it bakes.

