 For a really soft eye, choose a bronze cream eye shadow and a sparkly sheer champagne color on top.For a little more color, you could use a series of pinks, going from softer to darker up from the eye.








First, apply the bronze cream shadow all along your lid. Then, apply the champagne sparkle across the top, under the eyebrow.
For the pinks, start with your middle color, and apply it along the crease of your eyelid. Go along the top of the first color with a slightly darker pink, staying under your eyebrows. You can go over the whole thing with a light color, such as peach.You can also highlight your brow with a lighter luminizer by brushing it along your brow bone.
Another option is using pale blue on your eyelids.;
, Since you're going soft and flirty, use a brown eyeliner that is a little darker than your skin tone. It can have a bit of sparkle.You can also use a nude or bright eyeliner along your eyeline or waterline.








Simply apply the liner along the edge of your eye, creating a clean line.
You don't want anything too dark. However, a gold-tone eyeliner would also work.
 Add a coat or two of mascara by brushing the mascara up on the top eyelid and down on the bottom eyelid. You can use black or brown, for something softer. Comb out your eyebrows and add a eyebrow gel to help keep them in place.








On your eyebrows, comb up and out in the direction the hair is growing.
If you don't have gel, spray some hairspray on the comb, then run it over your eyebrows to help them stay in place.
 If you would like, you can put on a liquid foundation. Smooth it out over your face with a sponge concentrating on problem areas. In addition, you can also use a concealer on top of the foundation to help hide red or splotchy areas. Both should match your skin tone.








You can use a powder over the foundation to help set it and smooth it out.
Add a slightly darker bronzer underneath your cheekbones, as that will help give it definition. You can also add it along your jawbone and the top part of your forehead. Smooth it in with a powder brush., You definitely don't want to go overboard with the blush. However, you can use a very light pink blush to add some color and rosiness to your cheeks. Simply brush along the top of your cheekbones.Make sure to blend it in with the rest of your powder.
 You want something soft and pink for your lips. You could start by going around your lips with a pink lip liner. You also need to fill in your lips with the same liner. Once you're done, put some pink lip gloss on top for shine and sparkle.








Another option is using two lipsticks or lip glosses. Start with a slightly darker pink, then put a bit lighter pink on top of it.

