 Your skin could be dull because it's covered in dead skin, and it may have accumulated dirt and oil over the course of the day or night.Washing will clear your pores and remove excess oil and dirt. Do not wash your face more than twice a day, however. You may irritate and dry out your skin, which will lead to a dull appearance.;
, Exfoliation removes dead skin cells and smooths out your skin for a brighter appearance. You should exfoliate both your face and body one to three times a week. More often will irritate your skin; less often will cause the build-up of dead skin cells.


Use a facial scrub for your face. You can buy a scrub from the drug store or make your own. A good natural scrub is sugar and honey. A number of body scrubs are available for exfoliating below your neck.
You may also use a scrub brush for your face. Put a few drops of your cleanser on the bristles and slowly work the brush in a circular motion around your damp face. Rinse afterwards.
Use exfoliating gloves on your body. These gloves can be worn in the shower. Lather them up with your favorite body wash and work the soap over your body. Exfoliate before you shave for an extra close and smooth body. Do not use the gloves on your face.
 Moisturizer will make your skin glow with a healthy shine. That said, you want moisturizer that will work for your particular skin type. Different moisturizers are produced for various skin types and conditions.


If you have extremely dry skin, a lotion containing an oil base (either mineral or vegetable oil) will rehydrate your skin.
If you have normal skin, find a water-based moisturizer that is not greasy.
If you have oily skin that is prone to acne, try a gel or water based moisturizer that will keep your face hydrated without clogging your pores.
If you have acne or oily skin, you may be tempted to forgo the moisturizer. If you wash your face regularly, however, you are stripping your face of its natural oils, and your body will produce extra oils to make up for the loss. This will increase the oil production on your skin and in turn produce more acne. By using a non-comedogenic, gel-based moisturizer, you can keep your skin moisturized and reduce your body’s oil production., Many people moisturize their faces but forget about the rest of their bodies! And just like with your face, you want to make sure that you choose a moisturizer that is right for your body. This will be a different type of lotion than your face. You can choose from scented or unscented varieties. Moisturize at least once a day to keep your skin glowing.


Body lotion is a basic moisturizer. It is usually made from a mixture of oil, water, and emulsifying wax.It can be used once a day after every shower. Lotion is sufficient for normal to oily skin.
Body creams and butters are made of similar ingredients to lotions, but they are often more concentrated. Body creams are recommended for dry or ashy skin., Body oils are the main ingredients of lotion but without the water and wax; they typically contain fewer chemicals than lotions. These also have much better hydrating properties, but too much can appear greasy and clog your skin. While your skin is still damp, apply a few dabs of a cold-pressed oil to your body.Don't use it on your face because it may clog your pores, causing you to break out. There are a number of good natural oils, including:


Baby oil
Jojoba oil
Sweet almond oil
Avocado oil Coconut oil 