 When you ignore workplace stress, it can make you less effective at your job. But sometimes it can be hard to tell the difference between workplace stress and other issues. These are the signs of workplace stress:


Stomach problems
Loss of interest in work
Anxiety or depression
Loss of sleep
Fatigue
Trouble in concentrating on official tasks
Muscle tensions
Frequent headaches
Social withdrawals etc.
You might not show all the stress signs, but you will surely identify with certain symptoms and when you figure them out, you can address them.;
, If any of the following have occurred recently, you may be dealing with workplace stress:


Increased overtime due to layoffs
Fear of being laid off from your job
Pressure to always meet expectations with zero tolerance for mistakes
No increase in job satisfaction but extensive pressure to exceed expectations

, Admitting that you are feeling really stressed out can help you to begin figuring out how to overcome this stress. Talk to your friends and family; find out if they have experienced similar feelings of stress, and how they dealt with that stress.
 Increased stress may interfere with your life outside of work. When you are constantly stressed, you may be distracted or may decrease the amount of time you spend with family and friends. Take some time to spend quality time with the people you love; you may find that this really helps to make you feel more grounded.Stress can also adversely affect your health. Being really stressed can affect your sleeping patterns and lower your immunity.
Make sure to get plenty of sleep, eat healthy meals, and exercise regularly.
Yoga and Meditation are great forms of exercise that help reduce built up stress, both mentally and physically.
 Some people find that when they are stressed, they crave sweets. Steer clear of stress eating and make sure to eat balanced meals. A high-protein and low-sugar diet may help to combat the amount of sugar you intake when eating sweets.
 Plowing through an 8 to 10 hour day without a single break will leave you feeling exhausted by the end of the day, and may affect the quality of your work. Your body needs to take breaks in order to stay focused and energized when you do your work.Plan to take breaks and power naps throughout the day. After 90 minutes of intense concentration, take a brief break to recover and release the stress you have built up over the last hour and a half.
Take a walk around the building and get some fresh air regularly.
Consider doing breathing exercises or stretching at your desk to lower your stress levels during these breaks.
 Focusing all of your time and energy on one task, only to realize you still need to finish up a different task, will ultimately stress you out. Time management is key to managing your workplace stress.Things to keep in mind include:


Analyze your current schedule and daily tasks. Create separate time slots for work, family, social activities and solitude. Remember that continuous work is a recipe for burnout.
Don’t reschedule tasks again-and-again to accommodate more responsibilities in any given day. Commit yourself to only tasks that are realistically doable and schedule others for later.
Reach your office at least 15 minutes earlier than the official time to avoid stress levels caused by frantically rushing to your desk.
Plan regular breaks as described in the previous step.
 While managing your time is very important, managing each individual task will also help to keep your stress levels down. Staying organized while in the heat of the assignment will help to keep you on track. Things to consider include:


Tackle tasks in order of importance; do high-priority items first. Finish boring tasks early, so that rest of your day is spent as pleasantly as possible.
Break big projects and even routine tasks into small components and work on them step-by-step.
Don’t do all tasks by yourself; delegate responsibility if you work in a team.
Be willing to compromise or return the favor in terms of revising deadlines, changing behavior etc. Being flexible will reduce stress levels for everyone.
 Thinking negative thoughts can ultimately slow down your work and cause more stress because the energy you put into those thoughts could actually be put into finishing a task. Instead, think positively about the situation and set realistic goals.


Resist perfectionism which makes you set unrealistic goals. Aim to do your best and don’t seek to be perfect. It will only add unnecessary stress to your work day.
Stay on top of things by cleaning your desk, create to-do lists and check off tasks when you complete them
Practice gratitude by writing down at least 5 positive things that happened during your workday. Seeing the negative aspects of work, co-workers and other elements at your workplace only tend to drain your energy and motivation.

