 Grief is an entirely natural reaction to loss, especially the loss of someone we care deeply about. Not only companionship, but potentially even shared goals for the future are all suddenly lost. Feeling the pain of these losses in a necessary part of letting go something. Accordingly, the resentment, sadness, relief, fear, and confusion you may feel are actually necessary parts of your recovery.Share how you’re feeling. Whether with friends or a therapist, it will help to talk about what you’re going through.

Keep a journal. Writing your thoughts is an extremely effective way to help release emotions and center yourself.
Know that the pain will subside. Though you may feel deeply saddened, your heart and mind will eventually begin to move on. If you don’t notice your mood and emotions improving after a while, set up a time to meet with someone who is trained to talk with you about your mental health.
 The circumstances of your ex getting married to someone else may leave you feeling shocked and betrayed. You may wonder if you can ever trust anyone again and be reluctant to open yourself up to another relationship. There is work you can do with a therapist or on your own that can help you heal and be willing to trust someone in the future.

Work with a therapist to learn to separate your fears related to this betrayal from future relationships. You can explore what suggests a potential partner is someone you can trust — such as repeatedly following through on their promises and how they react when you allow yourself to be vulnerable.Notice if the person takes responsibility for their mistakes and if they seem invested in understanding your wants, needs, and well-being.Becoming distrustful after a betrayal limits your social connections with others and may cause you to miss out on other potentially fulfilling relationships.
 You may feel some pretty heavy emotions for a while. You may even feel used, shamed, or betrayed. Many people enduring an unexpected separation feel inadequate, or even expendable. You may even start to feel less interesting, or less attractive. You may feel betrayed, shocked, and angry. These negative thoughts are normal under the circumstances — try to avoid stuffing them down and not addressing them. Processing these emotions may be difficult, but working through your feelings will help you move on and start feeling better about yourself.First, allow yourself to sit with your emotions and identify what you're feeling. Instead of distracting yourself from what you're feeling, ask yourself: What feelings or sensations do I have? What thoughts am I having? What am I feeling in my body (tight chest, upset stomach, headache, etc.)? Do I have any judgements toward what I'm feeling? Do I have the urge to fight those feelings?Allow yourself to feel your emotions. Though it might be painful, remember this — your emotions are not going to kill you. Breathe through the feeling and ask yourself: What do I think will happen if I sit with this emotion? Is it really intolerable? How can I make it more tolerable (deep breathing, meditating, relaxing, etc.)?
Address the emotions. Acknowledge that you are likely feeling these emotions as a direct result of your former girlfriend getting married — you may feel unlovable, but it's not because that is true, it's because you are reacting to a painful experience. Teach yourself how to challenge negative thoughts by reframing them and using evidence to refute them.
For instance, maybe you keep thinking you will never meet another woman. Write down all the evidence that shows this isn't true — You met other women you liked and even loved before you met her; going to a coffee shop and looking around, you see dozens of women who look interesting and attractive; there are billions of people on the planet, and chances are pretty good at least one of them is someone you would like to date., Somewhere buried within the moments of emotional distress are occasional whispers of relief. You no longer have to wonder about a relationship that you may have been unsure of yourself. Either way, she’s moved on, and this may enable or motivate you to do so as well.Further, people often don’t recognize unhealthy relationships until they’re no longer in one. Remember that recurring issue you two could never work out? Well, now you don’t have to.
 You’ve been trying to push away all the inadvertent emotions and persistent feelings of loneliness and abandonment. Sometimes, you can distract yourself, or even convince yourself to put a positive spin on everything. But sometimes, the negativity seems to just grab onto your brain and hold it in a vice grip. This is entirely natural — feelings are feelings, and they come up when you least expect it.Even if the scenario wasn’t outrageous, and you and your ex have mostly parted ways on good terms, the fact that she’s potentially happier with someone else won’t stay out of your mind. Understandably, this bums you out. This is natural, and it's okay to feel bummed out about it — in fact, it healthier to allow yourself to feel that instead of pushing it away or pretending everything is fine. Go through the steps of processing the emotion and take an action that will help you feel better, like talk to a friend or shooting some hoops.
Watch out for worsening or recurring negativity. If you’re suffering most of the time, consider meeting with a therapist.
 The pain of separation is in many ways biologically significant. People are programmed to have strong feelings of attachment to those they are romantically involved with. This, in part, explains the potency of love. When an ex publicly declares her love for another, it’s going to hurt. Consider meeting with a therapist if you can’t move on, or if you start to have any thoughts that persistently bother you.


Therapists have talked to all sorts of people about all sorts of relationships, and will know how to help you address certain types of thoughts as they arise.
A therapist can also help you start to conceptualize your life in more healthy, forward-thinking, and happiness-inducing ways.

