 Place a vertical 4x4x6-foot post every five feet for the entire perimeter of the structure. (t is good to make the holes at least a foot deep to make the enclosure sturdy.


It is key that you pick a spot that does not get too mushy when it rains, for that will move the poles and make the enclosure look less neat.
 Cut and fit 2x4s, toenailed between the upright studs, about 2 inches from the highest ground point inside the enclosure, ensuring that this base is level and even all the way around. Then, cut and fit 2x4s, toenailed between the upright studs, one half inch from the top of the lowest upright stud inside the enclosure, ensuring that this ceiling perimeter is level and even all the way around.


If your enclosure is wider than 10 feet, create a center line of upright studs to build support across the ceiling.
If your enclosure is less than 10 feet wide, purchase 2x6x12-foot beams and toenail them across (on their sides) into the upright beams and upper ceiling perimeter lumber, every 3 feet.
 Buy or build a door--or cut out a weather-treated 3/4-in sheet of plywood--and attach it with the shed hinges. Use a metal handle and sliding latch for the door.
 Using a nail gun or staple gun, fasten and overlap sheets of chicken wire onto the outside of the entire structure, including the door and the floor/ground. It is key to do this more than once going up the posts, making sure it is tall enough for your cat to not climb up. You should also make sure there are no gaps on the bottom for the cat to crawl out of. This prevents invasion by outside cats, dogs, and other animals.


Use heavy duty staples to attach the mesh to the posts securely. Consider zip-tying the layers together so that there is no way for the mesh to become uneven in the seam; this could allow the cat to jump out.
Be sure to use gloves to avoid cutting yourself on the chicken wire.
You can use any material you wish for the walls, but keep in mind that they must have what it takes to keep the cats inside and the enclosure standing, even in bad weather.
, Be sure to line the opening with chicken wire. Consider installing an area of waterproofed flooring for the cats, especially if you include a weather-covered area for a litter box.


Any flooring will require occasional hosing and thorough cleaning, as cats interpret the outdoors as their free litter box.

