 If you’re using small amounts of bamboo for something like a small home decorative project, simply roll a sharp knife through the bamboo stalk.


Bamboo can be cut precisely using a fine wood saw or a metal saw. As it is a fibrous material, you should be careful at the end of the cut to avoid splits. Go slow at the end. Take out a relatively sharp knife. Always chop the bamboo diagonally. You can make your cut with shears for bamboo stalks 1 inch (2.54 cm) or less in diameter. For thicker pieces, use a saw.
If the project is larger, you’ll need a table and a very sharp handsaw. Position the part you want to cut over the edge and grasp the stalk on the table. Now, simply saw the end of the bamboo off. It’s also possible to drill through bamboo.
For pieces thicker than one inch, use a fine toothed saw and a stable work area as well as a way to secure both ends of the bamboo (masking tape works great). Then you secure the two ends to the work space and mark where you want to cut and then... cut it. Consider using a clamp on the workbench to hold the stalk. If you wrap the section of bamboo that goes in the clamp with a towel, this will prevent the clamp from marring the surface of your wood.
 Perhaps you want to cut bamboo stalks to put in a decorative vase. This is not very difficult to do.


Take a bamboo stalk, and make sure that it is not diseased or damaged. Find the nodes on the stalk. These look like rings. You want to make sure there are 4-6 nodes.Use a sharp knife to cut the lowest node. Cut at a 45-degree angle, and make sure your knife is sharp enough so the cut is clean and not jagged. Select a joint on the stalk and slice just above it. Everything above it will die.
Take off any leafy shoots from the bottom of the stalks. Don’t forget to water your bamboo stalks, even if you then put them in a decorative vase. Make sure you change the water once a week and don’t put the bamboo in direct sunlight. Do keep it in a bright room, though.
 Let’s say you have a bamboo grove in your yard. It’s important to groom the bamboo so it remains healthy.Bamboo canes usually survive about 10 years. Once they’ve reached the end of that life cycle, it’s a good idea to remove them so new bamboo can grow. You will want to prune the bamboo after the 3rd to 5th growing season.
Pruning works best when it’s not the shooting season. To cut down a bamboo stalk completely, most hacksaws should do the trick. Wear safety gear and take great caution when dealing with sharp instruments. Always cut above a node.Start cutting at ground level. Don’t forget to cut the stump down so no one will trip over it. Generally, don’t remove more than one-third of the canes in the grove. Use a horizontal cut at ground level to remove the dead, damaged stalks., It’s also possible to cut away the upper portion of bamboo. This will create a lusher appearance as the bamboo won’t grow upward anymore.


With the hacksaw, cut about 1.4 of an inch above the node. When you cut the top of bamboo canes, new leaves will grow on the top.
Some people tie the bamboo stalks together with garden twine, and them lop all of the tops off at once so leaves will grow and make the clump look bushy.

