 You should speak with your doctor if you have any health issues or concerns. They can help you figure out the best greens for you. If you have kidney stones, for instance, you should avoid spinach and Swiss chard.And if you take warfarin, the vitamin K content in spinach and certain other greens might negatively impact the efficacy of the medication. To avoid problems, talk to your doctor before choosing the healthiest salad greens., Salad greens should be incorporated into your meals as part of a balanced diet that also includes fruits, other veggies, whole grains, and a small amount of lean protein. Your exact caloric needs depend on your age, sex, activity level, and weight.Use a caloric intake chart like the one produced by the American Diabetes Association to determine your caloric needs based on the relevant data.
There is no daily nutritional requirement for salad greens. Instead, there is only a requirement for vegetables. If you wish, however, you could use salad greens to satisfy your daily nutritional requirement for vegetables.
Most adults require two to three cups of vegetables per day. However, this metric counts two cups of raw salad greens or one cup of cooked salad greens as a single cup. In other words, you will need to consume four to six cups of raw salad greens in order to meet the average daily nutritional requirement.If you are very active, you will need to consume more food – including more vegetables – than someone who is less active.
 Whether you’re buying loose, bagged, or packaged salad greens, it is important to ensure that they are fresh. Check the salad greens to ensure there are no wilted leaves. Bagged salad greens should be refrigerated or surrounded by ice.Don’t bother checking the “use-by” or “sell-by” dates before purchasing salad greens. These dates are generally of no use when trying to determine the freshness of salad greens.Instead, use your eyes to identify salad greens that are wilted or rotten.
 Frozen salad greens must remain in the freezer until you’re ready to use them. Fresh salad greens need to be refrigerated at 32 to 40 degrees Fahrenheit (zero to four degrees Celsius). There are several options for you to store your salad greens in the refrigerator.If you have unpackaged salad greens, wash and dry them before attempting to store them.
You could choose to store your salad greens in a plastic container lined with paper towels. For instance, you might line a plastic storage container intended for use in the fridge with paper towels, then pour a layer of salad greens into the container. On top of that, place another paper towel and top it with more salad greens. Continue in this way until the container is full.
You could also place your salad greens directly into your crisper drawer. The crisper drawer is the bottom-most drawer in your fridge. Just empty it of its contents, line it with paper towels, and add alternating layers of salad greens and paper towels.
Stored properly, your salad greens will last over 10 days.
 If you buy salad greens out of season, they will cost more. Shop at farmers markets whenever possible to save money and get only in-season produce. For instance, try buying winter greens like kale, collards, chard, and rapini during the winter.Additionally, purchasing your salad greens at local farmers markets will keep money in your local community.

