 Think about what you’re really trying to say in your paper. What is the main goal of your paper? What are you trying to prove? Brainstorm ideas for how you want your paper to go if you haven’t already. The outline of your paper, or your paper itself if you have already written it, will help you determine what kind of hook you should use.


Write the second part of your introduction—the information that will go after the hook—so you know what it will say. Put in details for each paragraph, including your conclusion.;
, The thesis is the specific thing that you are conveying to your reader; all other aspects of your paper will work to prove your thesis. What’s the main idea of your paper? Maybe you’re looking at how cat behavior affects other cats. Or maybe you’re writing on a scientific topic, such as how certain bacteria react in alcohol. Whatever your topic is, you will have to have a thesis.
 Make sure the hook leads into your introduction and your paper. That is, make sure your hook is relevant to your thesis, and to your paper as a whole. In particular, keep the tone of your paper in mind; a serious paper should not begin with a joke. You’ll confuse your readers by leading with something that doesn’t relate to your paper.


For example, if you start with a joke about married penguins but your paper is about the Civil War, the joke is not likely relevant and will just confuse or annoy the reader.
 You also want to make sure your hook is tailored to your audience, as well as your paper. Think about who will be reading your paper. What would draw them into the paper and make them interested in your topic?


If your audience is a professor, maybe the hook could be an interesting fact.
If your audience is your classmates, maybe the hook could be funny joke that relates to your paper.
 You don’t want to just place a hook at the beginning without any connection to your paper. The hook should smoothly transition into the rest of your introduction. For instance, if you were writing about the American Civil War, and specifically the actions of President Lincoln, you may consider making your hook be an interesting fact about something that relates to the topic.


For example: “Many people do not know this fact about Lincoln, as many people do not know what Lincoln’s personal beliefs were about the war he helped win.” The anecdote provides a way into a discussion of Lincoln’s beliefs.

