 Poll your friends for their ideas on possible movies to watch for the marathon. You could also provide them with some options and let them choose. If your friends can’t agree on what to watch, you can always ask everyone to bring their favorite movie with them to the sleepover. Then everyone can pick from that group of movies once the sleepover starts., Choosing a series allows everyone to really immerse themselves in that particular “universe.” Consider something fun, like the Harry Potter series. If you and your friends are fans of science fiction and fantasy, Star Wars and Lord of the Rings are also great options.The Back To The Future series could be fun or, if you want something a little more serious or dramatic, you could go with the Twilight series.If you and your friends like horror movies, you could consider A Nightmare on Elm Street marathon, or something along those lines. Be sure that all of your friends (and their parents) are okay with horror movies before making the final decision.
 This allows you to have a little more variety in your movie marathon. The theme or genre could be something broad, like romantic comedies or horror movies. You could also narrow the scope a little and pick movies that all share one common feature. For example, you could choose movies that all have princesses or vampires featured in them.If It’s close to a holiday, like Halloween or Christmas, consider doing a marathon of movies with a seasonal theme to match.Movies with music and singing in them, like Rocky Horror Picture Show and The Wizard of Oz, might be a really entertaining option for everyone, especially if you all sing-along and get into it.
An all-Disney movie marathon could also be fun, and there are plenty of Disney movies to choose from. Everyone could vote or pick their favorites.
 Perhaps all of your friends really love one particular actor who has been in a lot of films. You could choose movies for the marathon that all feature this actor. For example, if your friends like Ryan Gosling, watch all the movies he stars in. Or maybe everyone loves Audrey Hepburn – you could have a marathon of her films.Another option is selecting a time period, like all-90s movies or all-80s movies.If you wanted to get really specific, you and your friends could choose a specific year or handful of years. For instance, you could choose movies made in the early 80s or late 90s.
Ask your friends what they think about this idea and decide as a group who the celebrated actor or time period will be.

