 Child abuse can take on many different forms, and it's important to know how to recognize each of them. Not all sexual abuse is physical, so even if your child isn't being molested, he or she could be in harm's way. Here are examples of the types of abuse that can occur:Touching a child's genitals for sexual pleasure
Making a child touch someone else's genitals (an adult's or another child's)
Showing pornography to a child
Taking inappropriate pictures of a child
Showing a child an adult's genitals or encouraging a child to watch sexual acts

, From a very early age, teach your child that certain body parts should never be touched by someone other than the child. Many parents define these body parts as everything that would be covered by a bathing suit. Teach your child that if someone attempts to touch him or her in a private area, he or she should say "no" and tell you as soon as possible.


Some parents use the "good touch, bad touch, secret touch" method to teach their children about touching. A good touch is one that is welcome, like a high five. A bad touch is one that hurts, like a kick or punch. A secret touch is one that a child is told to keep a secret. Tell your child to let you know right away if a bad or secret touch happens.
 Kids are a lot more likely to confide in their parents if they aren't afraid they'll get in trouble. They must also feel that their parents will believe what they say. Start fostering a trusting and positive relationship with your child so that he or she knows that no matter what, you're there to help.


If your child brings up a problem - even a problem unrelated to potential abuse - never be dismissive. Always take your child seriously and help your child find a way to solve the problem.
 One important way to create open lines of communication with your child is to have regular conversations. Maybe your schedule is packed and you're always on the go, but make time every day to ask your child about his or her life. Stay on top of your child's activities, who he or she spends time with, and how he or she is feeling every single day. That way, if something out of the ordinary occurs, you'll know right away.


Make sure your child is feeling emotionally supported, too. Children who don't feel they are getting enough attention at home are more vulnerable to predators.
 Sexual predators tend to target kids who don't seem like they have much adult supervision. Be there for your child's games, practices, rehearsals and field trips. If you plan to leave your child in the care of someone else, make sure you know and trust them - from extended family members to teachers to coaches and family friends.
 If your child tells you he or she is being molested, do not dismiss it - even if the news is completely shocking. Remember that most perpetrators of sexual abuse are people the child knows and trusts.Just 10% are strangers to the child. If you have reason to believe someone is abusing your child, take these steps:


Keep your child away from the abuser.

Call the Emergency Services and report the abuser to the local authorities. Call the National Child Abuse Hotline at 1.800.4.A.CHILD for more information about reporting the abuse.
Get medical attention for your child. It's important to take your child to the doctor to find out if he or she was physically harmed.
Take your child to counseling. The psychological trauma of abuse often outlasts the physical trauma. Therapy can help your child find ways to cope.