 In addition to flower color and size, daylilies foliage varies significantly among the varieties. Purchase plants that provide good balance, contrast and variety for your landscape.


Ask an employee at your local garden center to recommend daylily varieties. Although daylilies are adaptable, certain varieties do better in certain climates.;
, Spring planting is ideal in areas with cold winters. This gives lilies the entire growing season to establish their roots before the winter freeze. If you live in a warmer climate with a longer growing season, you can be more flexible on planting times.


Experienced gardeners who know how to protect plants throughout winter sometimes plant daylilies in the fall. Fall planting in areas with harsh winters increases the chance that you will lose plants due to frost and freezing.
 Pick an area that gets at least 6 hours of sunlight daily. Most varieties of daylilies prefer full sun but will also do well in partial shade.
 Till the soil to a depth of at least 1 foot (30 cm). Add organic compost if the soil contains too much clay or rock. You can also add sand to clay with a high soil content. Daylilies can be grown in sandy soil as long as they are fed and watered regularly.
 If you purchased potted plants, give them a thorough watering with this solution the night before you plant.
 Some varieties require more space than others. For a closed border or bed, some varieties can be spaced as close as 12 inches (30 cm) apart.
 Although these plants can withstand droughts, they will make fewer and smaller flowers if they are allowed to dry out. Consistent watering is especially important in the spring when the buds are forming and throughout the summer blooming season. Deep water at the base of the plants, soaking the top 8 to 10 inches (20.3 to 25.4 cm) of soil. Overhead watering may cause spots on the flowers.
 Give the first application in the spring when the plants are 2 to 4 weeks old. Depending on your soil conditions, a you can give a second application towards the end of the summer.
 You can also control weeds by hoeing the soil surface regularly.
 Plants allowed to produce seeds typically produce fewer flowers the following year.
 Given the space, daylilies spread and can be divided every 3 to 4 years. Dig up the roots of the plant cluster and break them apart with your hands. Put some of the plant back in the original hole. The rest you can plant in a different bed or pot, or swap with your friends and neighbors.

