 If possible, before the game starts have a good look around. Learn where all the hiding spots are, where all the rooms are and where your team will be fighting. Having a good knowledge of the map and all it's facilities will put you well ahead of all your teammates and enemies. Also, if you know that one of your teammates are going into a dangerous area you can save their life. You will probably find good places that your enemies will be hiding in, therefore you can easily check those places first when clearing a room.;
, It would be good if you have a large number like, 20 people.
 Split them into 4 members in each group, thus making 5 groups.
 Only,if you do this,would you be able to play efficiently.
 If you are in an open space full of trees, then hide behind them.If you in a place with pillars, then you have to hide there to escape from being attacked.
 You have to discuss your plan properly with your team mates.
 Even in the real army, you will eventually run out of ammo. You'll never be able to have an endless supply on you so manage the small amount of ammo that you do have. It's not hard to manage your ammo, just don't waste it. Save it by aiming and hitting your target, not shooting to scare your enemy and not spraying randomly, also known as blind fire. If you use all of your ammo, your friends might not have any spares, leaving you as a fist magnet for bullets. You also want to preserve your grenades too, you never know when you might really need them.
 While machine guns are good, they tend to use much more ammo than guns that shoot in short bursts of three or four bullets. Sometimes they can be heavier too. When you're running around and shooting, the last thing you want is a heavy gun. Try to find a relatively light one that doesn't use too much ammo. Along with a good primary weapon, you also want a good secondary weapon. A small, lightweight pistol is recommended. The pistol doesn't use much ammo and can be great in emergencies.
 Running around and spraying your gun will almost definitely make it run out of ammo. Running around and reloading will almost definitely get you killed. To avoid being shot while reloading, reload when in cover or when there are no enemies about. If you're in a group, shout "reloading!" to your team so they know to cover you for a minute. Even in a group, still get to cover as enemies tend to aim for the ones that can't return fire. Return the favor when you're teammates are reloading too, they'll love you.
,,,, If your team leader or teammates are telling you it's unsafe, don't go. Even if you know where the enemies are, still don't go. Also listen out to hear what you team are doing. They should tell you when they're reloading, returning fire and throwing a grenade. If they're reloading, shoot anyone trying to shoot them. If they're returning fire, return fire with them. If they're throwing a grenade, keep an eye out for where it's going to land. If it's near you, run. If it's not, get to cover to absorb the explosion.

