 Using some keywords can help you title your transcript courses correctly. A concepts course of a subject area can be a broad survey of a subject where you explore the basic principles of a topic. Appreciation courses cover exploring a topic and trying to understand and appreciate it. Introduction to courses are when you first start learning a subject, whereas advanced courses are your continued learning.This can be used for any subject, such as Concepts of Algebra where you learn problem solving skill through personal finance, grocery shopping, gas mileage in cars, and cost-per-use of household appliances. Art appreciation can be you looking at art pieces and learning more about them.
 You can develop your language arts classes based on what media you have consumed. Books you have read or listened to, movie adaptations you’ve watched, and plays you have gone to can all be used on your transcript.Make a list of everything you have read, watched, listened to, or gone to see. Try to develop themes based on what you’ve explored. For example, if you have read a lot of classical literature and watched movies adapted from classical texts, you can group that together as a classical literature course.
 Don’t neglect the math that you do on a regular basis. Many unschoolers talk about math related topics often with their families, which can be used for a math course. You should also consider how much math you do in your daily life and what type of math that is.For example, research and following the stock market each day is math-related economics. Learning how a mortgage works and the way credit scores are determined is also math.
 Field trips are a great way to get real life, hands on learning experience that you can use on your unschooling transcript. Science museums, zoos, and aquariums can all be included in courses to put on your transcript., Current events can open a door to add learning into just about every subject you need on a transcript. Social studies subjects like civics, government, and politics can be explored through current events. You can connect what’s happening today to historical events, or study important historical events connected to certain days or months.Keep up with scientific discoveries, medical cures or treatments, or space exploration.
 Your transcript doesn’t have to be connected to traditional academic subjects. Your unschooling experience may cover practical skills, like car repair, cooking, sewing, or construction.Make sure to include all skills you have been cultivating and practicing. Those are as important as if you took a high school drama or band class.

