 Intact males are particularly prone to aggressive behavior among each other. Getting them fixed is the best way to solve this kind of aggression.Although these males may still spray and be prone to other kinds of aggression, this typically resolves inter-male aggression.
 This is the best way to manage aggression when it stems from illness or trauma. Pain-induced aggression is triggered by pain, frustration or deprivation, and can be directed toward people, animals and objects. Any animal—including humans—can aggress when in pain. So even a well-socialized, normally docile cat can lash out when it is hurt, when someone tries to touch an injured area, or when it is in pain and anticipates being handled., Painful diseases such as arthritis, dental pain and abscesses from fighting are common sources of pain-related aggression. By diagnosing the problem quickly, you can avoid the cat developing trauma-based aggression. Allowing an issue to remain undiagnosed can cause the problem to worsen.


Body postures will usually be defensive. A cat that dislikes being touched in a painful area may display pain-induced aggression in an attempt to stop you from handling it.
This behavior can also be associated with past trauma. For example, a cat whose tail was once caught in a door may be protective of its tail long after the pain is gone., Wear gloves if necessary, and give them food treats so that they associate your touch with a tasty reward. If they act aggressive while you are handling them, do not reward with kind words and petting; this demonstrates that aggressive behavior is acceptable. Remain calm, and this will help keep them calm.
 These can reduce pain-related aggression. There are a variety of medications that are effective at managing pain in cats. It is possible that with the right prescription, you will be able to reduce your cat's discomfort and aggression.
 Redirected aggression must be closely considered and ruled out as a possible cause before a diagnosis of idiopathic aggression is made. These cats are dangerous, and owners of such cats should carefully assess their quality of life, as well as the safety of those around them.Find ways to relieve the cat's stress.
Reevaluate the cat's presence in your home. However, you should be extremely cautious about placing her in a new home; you don't want to pass your problem on to someone else.
 In most cases it is not necessary to put an animal down due to aggression. Consider all other options before taking this route.


Aggression from an illness might be a sign of great pain. In cases where the problem cannot be adequately treated with medical care, euthanasia can be the kindest option. Talk with your veterinarian about whether or not this is the best choice, when treatment is too expensive or unlikely to provide relief.
Idiopathic aggression includes any type of aggression whose cause can’t be determined or explained through behavior history or medical exam. Cats with this type of aggression can attack their owners violently. They may bite repeatedly and remain in an aroused state for long periods of time. Talk to your vet about how to handle this type of aggression.

