 The indicators may vary, but a few red flags may suggest to you that it is time to let go and end the relationship. Be on the lookout for consistent patterns of jealousy, insecurity, arguing, boredom, and general discomfort or unhappiness.These can all be red flags that indicate an unhealthy relationship. Some arguing is normal and healthy, but there is a fine line between it being okay, and it being not okay.
 If you always fight for stupid reasons, it might be that the person is no longer attracted to you and/or feels little towards you. This is not a definite signal that things are wrong, however, because many couples fight, but it can be suggestive of deeper relationship problems. Don't let a couple petty/stupid arguments be the downfall of your relationship, but if there are a ridiculous number of fights between you two, it may be time to let go.If you find yourself thinking of ending things because of excessive fighting you can ask yourself some questions. Why are you fighting? What are you fighting about? Have you fought about this before or is this a new argument? If you find yourself fighting to hurt the person, or find that you are getting into big fights over minor issues, or keep having the same fights over and over again because you have a hard time resolving your differences, this may be a sign that it is time to move on., When both sides are annoyed by each other, they show no signs of love or interest.You can tell if your partner is annoyed by you when nothing you do seems to be right or enough, or if some of your actions in public seem to embarrass them or make them ashamed of you (they should love you for how you act). Keep in mind that you want to look for constant annoyance or a typical repeating pattern of annoyance. Don't draw too much from a single instance, as we all get frustrated with our significant others from time to time.
 For a relationship to go on, both sides must discuss problems and ideas and if he is no longer talking with you, you may want to consider that it's time to let go (he should be honest with his feelings and thoughts). That is to say that a lack of emotional expression and communication can be a sign that it is time to move on.If you are having serious issues and you love this person, however, consider going to a couple's counselor and sorting out the different emotions you each feel.
 If he is brave enough to tell you that he is no longer interested in being in a relationship with you, listen. This can be one of the hardest, most difficult things to hear; however, the truth never hurts as much as deceit. If someone has enough respect for you to be honest, return that respect and let go.


It is never easy to hear that you are no longer 'it' for someone that you shared time with; however, in the long run, you will be better off being with someone who truly loves you for who you are.
 Maybe he's texting with a girl you never met, or he's coming home late at night smelling of a foreign perfume. Or, his dating profile is back up online with updated pictures, or he is constantly messaging in flirty ways on Facebook; if any of these is the case, it suggests he may be cheating on you or planning to do so. Don't sell yourself short by staying with a cheater. At the first confirmation of cheating, move the heck on. You deserve better than that. Move on and try your best to forgive him, otherwise he will hold an emotional pull over you yet.If you're not happy anymore to be with him/her and you feel something's fading in your relationship which is the happy moments together. Decide and be more updated to him/her. Always find the truth about yourself and for him/her too. Decide what's the good for both of you

