 To avoid injury and ensure that you're getting the maximum benefit out of the kettlebell swing, you need to make sure you're using the right size kettlebell. Generally, men should start with a 16 kg (35 lb.) kettlebell, while women should start with a 12 kg (26 lb.) kettlebell.You want to pick a size that will challenge you. However, it may be a good idea to practice with a lighter kettlebell until you can be sure your form is correct.If you continue doing the kettlebell swing regularly, you will eventually need to increase the weight to continue to get benefits from the exercise. Move up to the next weight when you can comfortably swing for 60 seconds at the weight you're using.;
, One of the most difficult parts of the kettlebell swing is keeping your feet firm. As the weight of the kettlebell swings forward, it will pull you with it. To get benefit from this exercise, you must hold your body weight in your heels and the balls of your feet.Resist the tendency to roll forward onto your toes as the kettlebell swings out. If you're having a hard time holding your weight, you may want to switch to a lighter kettlebell that won't pull you as hard. Stay at the lighter weight until you are able to swing the kettlebell continuously and keep your feet firm.
 A flat back is essential when doing the kettlebell swing. Otherwise, you risk serious injury to your back. If you have problems hunching, leaning forward, or crunching your neck, you may want to switch to a lighter weight or practice the motion with no weight.You may need to go back and practice deadlifts some more if you're having difficulty maintaining a flat back through the swing. Remember that all of the force of your movement needs to come from your hips, not from your upper body.
Think of your head as an extension of your spine, and keep your neck flat as well. The momentum of the swing can be particularly jarring to your neck if it is crunched.
Set your gaze to the floor just in front of your toes, rather than looking up or further ahead of you, and don't follow the movement of the kettlebell as it swings in front of you.
 Wall touches will help you learn how to get your stance right when doing the kettlebell swing, so you know how to appropriately shift your body weight and can maintain correct posture.Start wall touches by standing about half a thigh-length away from a wall with your feet about shoulder-width apart. Lower into a squat position with your knees bent, keeping your shins straight so your knees stay over your ankles rather than your toes, with your rear end sticking out behind you. Place the sides of your hands between your legs at the creases of your groin.
Using your hands, push your hips back toward the wall until your rear end just touches it, but without putting any weight against the wall. Return to your starting position and repeat. Do 10 repetitions of this drill.
Move further from the wall and do another 10 repetitions, then move a little further and repeat. Your hips should be traveling down and back. You are learning to carry your weight and momentum with your hips, not your lower body or your back.
 Deadlifts with the kettlebell enable you to become familiar with the equipment, how it feels and how it moves. Choose a lighter kettlebell initially so you can focus on form and technique, working up to the weight you plan to use for your swings.If you've already been doing wall touches, your body should be sufficiently warmed up for this exercise. Otherwise, do some squats or jog in place for about five minutes to warm up.
Use the same position you used for wall touches while you perform your deadlifts. Rather than reaching down with your arms by bending forward and possibly rounding your back, keep your back straight, bend at your knees and flex your hips back to lower yourself down.
When you can reach the handle, pull yourself slightly towards it and then reverse the motion by pushing the hips forward, expanding your chest and standing tall. Pause at the standing position for a second, then go on to lowering the kettlebell. The focus here is on learning to use the glutes to lift the weight.
As you lower the kettlebell, move again from the hips – don't simply bend down and put the kettlebell back on the floor. Push firmly on the floor with your feet to maintain your stance.
After you have learned how to contract your glutes to lift the weight, try repeating the lift to get the kettlebell to swing forward using your arms like a pendulum. Remember the goal is a smooth continuous motion raising the kettlebell up and swinging it down. In time, you can work on building up your speed in the return lift stage so there is less of a pause at the bottom of the range of motion.

