 For affiliate marketing, it is best if you are writing about something directly pertaining to the product you are selling. So, think of an interest that you could write about that would also help promote a product.For example, if you have an interest in cooking, you could use it to help promote cooking supplies. If you have an interest in gardening, you could write about gardening supplies.
Websites like the “Art of Manliness” give lifestyle advice that also helps promote products like shaving and cooking equipment., Before you start your website, you might want to see if there are relevant businesses with affiliate programs. There are a couple of prominent sites that you can use to find affiliate programs. These include: ClickBank, ShareASale, and Commission Junction.If you are interested in a particular product, try searching online for the product name and “affiliate” program.While you are at it, look at the contract for the affiliate program. Many have minimum payouts, which means that you need sell a certain number of products before they begin paying out. You might want to shy away from these when you start out.
 You want to come up with something that will catch people’s attention. The subject of the site should also be clear enough that people looking for a gardening site, for example, will know that your site will help them with what they need., For about ten dollars a year, you can purchase yourself a site based on your blog name. Make the domain name easy to remember, so that readers can find your blog easily. The top companies for registering domain names include: Namecheap, 1&1, Go Daddy, Name, and Gandi., Try to write articles that offer your reader some useful advice and a good reason to buy a product. For example, write recipes that require a slow cooker. Then, explain in the article why the slow cooker you use is ideal for the recipe., Sign for a product’s affiliate program. Read the contract carefully and sign up. Add the affiliate program’s link into your website. The link will track when people purchase the product from your website and compensate you for the purchase.
 If readers are checking out your website but not buying products, you won’t make any money. Some affiliates allow you to offer coupons for the product. In your article, mention the coupon to bring your reader’s attention to the link., Post your articles on social media and encourage your friends to share them. Comment on other accounts to attract more attention to your own. Consistently offer high-quality suggestions and original ideas to attract readership.

