 Fermented foods are especially helpful because they contain prebiotics and probiotics. Try to get 4-6 servings of these foods every week to help promote healthy gut bacteria. These foods include:yogurt
kefir
sauerkraut
soft cheeseskombucha
kimchee

, You can do this by eating whole foods (whole grains) and avoiding processed white foods such as white bread, white rice, and white pasta. Fruits and vegetables are excellent sources of fiber as well. Try to consume about 30-40 grams of fiber per day.Increasing your fiber intake can increase gas. However, one study suggests that increasing your fiber intake by even small amounts can be good for your gut bacteria.If you experience excess gas after increasing your fiber intake, try increasing it in smaller increments.
Make sure to drink plenty of water with your high-fiber diet. This will help keep your stools regular and easy to pass., Some foods contain soluble fiber that healthy bacteria can digest. Eat one type of prebiotic food daily to ensure that you are providing your gut bacteria with enough fuel to grow. Foods that are high in this type of fiber include:garlic
leeks
asparagus
chicory root
Jerusalem artichoke
dandelion greens
bananas
wheat bran
whole wheat bread

, You should eat lots of vegetables every day. Vegetables support the growth of healthy gut bacteria. They contain substances that bacteria use to produce anti-inflammatory substances and may even help prevent cancer. Be sure to include:cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, and kale
leafy greens such as spinach, Swiss chard, mustard greens, collard greens, beet greens, and turnip greens

, Beans are a good source of fiber and they also release short-chain fatty acids (SCFA). SCFAs strengthen and support healthy gut bacteria. SCFAs are also good for the lining of your gut and improve nutrient absorption.Try to include beans in your diet 3-4 times per week.
 Diets high in certain types of foods can harm the gut bacteria and alter the numbers and types of bacteria in the gut. Evidence is growing that this sort of alteration of the gut bacteria, often called dysbiosis, may lead to all sorts of health issues.Many of these foods also increase your risk of other health issues, such as heart attack or cancer. Foods to avoid include:


animal fat
antibiotic-fed meat and poultry
sugar
processed and packaged foods that include additives, preservatives and sugar

