 In some cases, people with terminal diseases may need help from that doctor, but may avoid visiting her for treatment because of your review.


It's not an exaggeration to say that your review very well could have an impact on the life-or-death decision of another person.
Before reviewing, ask yourself the question, "Should my review be used by someone to make a choice that could affect their life or health?" If no, you probably shouldn't write a review.;
, You should avoid writing a review if you feel pressured to do so. Sometimes, doctors may have a tablet or iPad in their office to try to corner you into giving a good review. When cornered:Claim you can't remember your password for general media platforms, like Google and Facebook, which often require you to login before writing a review.
Apologize for not being able to write the review. Then use an excuse, like an appointment you're running late for.
Remember that your time is valuable. Doctor's appointments tend to run late. You might tell staff at the doctor's office that because your appointment took too long, you don't have time to write a review.
 In some cases, you may have a very good reason for being angry. There may have been a serious breach of your trust or possibly mistreatment. These sorts of issues should not be resolved through online reviews.


Serious issues with your doctor should be resolved with direct action. This might involve speaking with the doctor personally, contacting the local medical society, or filing a complaint with the state licensing board., Doctors may offer a discount to you if your write a positive review. While this discount can be tempting, it could have just as negative an effect as writing an angry review. Remember, people's lives and health may be influenced by your online review.


If a doctor tries to bribe you in some way to write a positive review, you may want to change doctors., Although doctors tend to be looked at as wealthy, they also tend to have considerable debt from medical school. This doesn't include things like insurance and personal expenses. Your negative review, in the right context, could potentially ruin somebody's career.


Due to the fact that many people only visit the doctor when sick, you may not be feeling well, which may lead to an unfair evaluation. In these situations, wait until you're feeling better before writing a review.
Differentiate between "nice" and "competent." You may not want to give a nice doctor a bad review, but if he's a bad doctor, your review will be helpful to other users.Before writing a review, ask yourself, "If this or a similar review was given to me at my job, would I feel it was fair?" If your answer is no, you probably shouldn't write a review., When you're upset about something, it's common to bring up other things you've heard or read that support your experience. But even if those things are true, saying something like, "I've heard from many people that ," makes it sound like you're inventing people to make your story more believable., You may have a very good reason for being angry. Even so, anger can make you say things you don't mean or exaggerate things because you're heated. To calm down enough to write your review:


Use anger management techniques to calm down.

Calm down with breathing exercises and mindfulness techniques.Do physical activity, like running, weight lifting, and so on., While doing so, try to be as objective as possible. General or vague criticisms like, "She doesn't know what she's doing," or, "She's a genius," won't be helpful to other users. Be accurate when describing what happened; lying could result in libel charge being brought against you.Libel is where a published false statement harms another person's reputation. In some cases, there can be serious legal ramifications for this.You can make your review seem more objective to removing adjectives that relate to your emotions., Singling out one person can make it seem like you're targeting them for revenge. This can cause other users to take your review less seriously. Also, if you write a negative review about a specific person (like a receptionist at the office), if she leaves or gets promoted, your review will be even less significant., Reviews that are too long may seem daunting to other users. This can result in them skipping over your review, which defeats the purpose of the review process. Only provide information that is relevant to your situation., This could be something specific that might be useful to someone with a similar condition, like diabetes. Saying, "Dr. Smith helped me get my diabetes under control," would be very helpful for anyone who has diabetes. Other examples of specific conclusions include:


"Dr. Wilson doesn't like prescribing pain meds. If you are in need of pain relief, try somewhere else."
"Dr. Steele is a great doctor but she consistently runs late. If you live or work on a tight schedule, try another doctor."