 Not only should you be able to enter enough information to retrieve the records you want, but you also should have a good idea of the types of records that are available.


Depending on the type of case and the charges, you may not be able to view all records from a criminal proceeding. Each state has different rules regarding what documents are available to people who weren't involved in the case, for example, as the defendant. Typically you would be able to retrieve any search warrants, the summons and complaint, and other documents related to the defendant's sentencing and incarceration.If records such as family court proceedings are sealed by court order, you must first get a court order to have the records unsealed unless you are a party in the case.When searching online, many of the databases only provide docket entries that tell you the events that occurred in a case on that day, such as the title of a motion filed or a court hearing. If you want to access the documents themselves, you must go to the clerk's office in person and request the record.;
, Many courts have databases available online that provide court records for cases filed through a certain date.


If you're looking for court records from a case filed in federal court, you can find it by searching on the Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER) website at https://www.pacer.gov.
Most states have records of civil cases and family law cases online, and some have records of traffic violations.Massachusetts Legal Services compiled a list of online databases at http://www.masslegalservices.org/content/how-look-court-records-internet-links-online-access-records-other-states. The list includes all states that publish court records online, although each website may have varying degrees of public access. Some databases only allow limited searching, or only allow you to pull a full record if you are a licensed attorney.The National Center for State Courts has a similar list of online databases for state court records, as well as information on whether any fees are charged to access the records, available at http://www.ncsc.org/Topics/Access-and-Fairness/Privacy-Public-Access-to-Court-Records/State-Links.aspx#Alabama.
You also may be able to find the database by conducting an online search for court records in the state or county where the case was filed.Keep in mind that not all of these services are free. Some of the online databases charge a fee, or you may be able to conduct a search, but must pay a fee to see the full record. Whether fees are charged for online searches depends on the state and county that has the records you want., Before you start your search, you typically must accept the site's terms and conditions and privacy policy.


Some databases have an additional step requiring you to enter a code designed to verify that you are a human searching the database.
While some states allow you to search their databases anonymously, others require you to set up an account before you can begin your search.
Florida, for example, allows you to search records anonymously at https://www.civitekflorida.com/ocrs/county/index.xhtml. Once you enter the county, you can click the public option to search anonymously. After you click through to agree to the disclaimer, you can search cases in that county, or search for people who may have been parties to cases to retrieve any court records regarding that person.If you want to view records from a federal court case, you must create a user account with PACER. While registering with PACER is free, once you retrieve documents you will be charged a fee of $0.10 per page., The databases typically allow you to search by party name, and may allow you to restrict your search results to certain years.


The more information you can enter, the narrower your search will be. This increases the likelihood that you will find the exact records you want; however, it will decrease the number of results.
 When you receive your search results, click on the link that corresponds to the particular case you need.


What information is available online depends on the state and the county of the court. Some courts have all documents filed available online, while others only have docket entries – basic information about what happened on particular dates in the case. For example, a docket entry might state that on a certain date the defendant filed a motion to dismiss, but would not have a copy of the motion that was filed.