 This pattern, as described, will fit most women with an average foot size. You can adjust the width and length of the slipper as needed, though, creating a bigger or smaller slipper for any man, woman, or child.


Using a tape measure, measure one foot from the back of your heel to the tip of your big toe. Mark this down as the length measurement.If you typically need "wide width" shoes, you may also want to measure the widest part of your foot so that you can adjust the slippers accordingly. For most people, however, a width measurement is not needed.;
, Choose a heavy yarn with a tight twist. One with nylon or similarly strong fibers blended in will make an even better option.Slippers can get worn out easily, so a strong yarn is necessary.
The yarn should also feel soft, though, since you'll want to be comfortable when you wear the slippers.
Any color will work, of course, so feel free to choose any color that appeals to you.
 Make five chain stitches, then join the last stitch to the first using a slip stitch. This will create a small ring.


Use a slipknot to attach the yarn to your crochet hook before you start. To make a slip knot:

Form a loop by crossing the attached end of the yarn over the loose end.
Grab the attached side and pull it up through the loop, creating a second loop.
Pull to tighten the first loop around the second.
Insert the hook into the second loop. Tighten that second loop onto the hook.


To make a chain stitch:

Wrap the attached side of the yarn around the tip of the hook.
Pull this yarn-over through the loop on your hook.


To make a slip stitch:

Insert the hook into the designated stitch.
Wrap the yarn over the hook once.
Pull the yarn-over through all the loops on your hook and back through to the front of the stitch.
 Chain stitch three times, then work seven double crochets into the center of your foundation ring.


Your initial chain-three will count as the first double crochet in this step.
Slip stitch the last double crochet to the first (i.e., the chain-three) using a slip stitch.
To double crochet:

Yarn over the hook.
Insert the hook into the designated stitch.
Yarn over the hook and pull it back through to the front of the stitch.
Yarn over the hook again, then draw the yarn through the first two loops on the hook.
Yarn over the hook once more, and draw it through the last two loops on the hook.
 Chain three again, then work one double crochet into the first stitch of your previous round. Work two double crochets into each stitch after that until you reach the end of the round.


As before, your initial chain-three counts as your first double crochet stitch.
Join the last and first stitch of this round together with a slip stitch.
 Chain three again, then double crochet once into the first stitch. As before, work two double crochets into each of the stitches after that until you reach the end of the round.


Note that you should not join the round with a slip stitch in this step. From this point on, you will crochet in a continuous spiral, starting one round directly after ending the one before it.
 For your next round, work one double crochet into each stitch of the previous round. Repeat this pattern until you have made a total of nine rounds like this.


Do not slip stitch any of the rounds together.
If you need to make the toe portion of the slipper larger or smaller based on the width or length of your foot, now is the time to do so. This portion of the slipper should completely cover your toes. Add or subtract rows as needed to produce the right dimensions.
Do not worry about altering the width of the rounds, even if you have a wide foot. You should be able to compensate for a larger width simply by creating additional rounds.
 Place what you have so far over the top of your foot. Your toes should be completely covered. If they aren't covered, make additional rounds using the instructions provided in the previous step until you do have enough material to cover your toes.


Do not cut or fasten off the yarn yet. The bottom half of the slipper will be worked directly from the top half; the two are not separate pieces.
 Turn the work over to the other side, then chain three. Work one double crochet into the second stitch from the hook. After that, work one double crochet into each of the next 20 stitches.


Do not double crochet all the way around the top of the slipper. From this point on, you will work in rows instead of full rounds.
This portion of the slipper should be just a little longer than the width of your foot so that it can cover the bottom and sides of your foot without covering the top.
Completing 20 double crochets should work for most feet, but you may need to add one or two if you have a wider foot. Compare your width measurement to the length of this row and adjust accordingly.
 Turn the work again, then make another chain of three stitches. Work one double crochet into the second stitch from the hook, then work one double crochet into each of the stitches from your previous row.
 For an average adult woman's slipper, you will need to make another six rows using the same procedure described in the previous step.


If you need to make the slipper longer or shorter, do so now by changing the number of rows created in this step. You need enough rows to reach the narrowest part of your arch, right before the heel begins flaring out.
 Turn the work, then chain three. Double crochet once in the first stitch from the hook, then continue making one double crochet in each stitch from the previous row. In the stitch of the row, work a second double crochet.


At this point, you are beginning to form and widen the slipper so that it can come up and over the heel of the foot.
 Turn the work, then start the next row by chaining three. Double crochet once into the second stitch from the hook, then once into each stitch from the previous row. Double crochet a second time into the last stitch of the row.


You will need to repeat this step to complete another two rows. Instead of double crocheting twice into the last stitch for these second two rows, however, you only need to double crochet once into the last stitch.
 Turn the work and chain three. Double crochet once into the first stitch from the hook, then once into each of the remaining stitches in the row. Double crochet a second time into the last stitch of the row.
 Turn and chain three. Double crochet once into the second stitch from the hook and into every stitch after that until you reach the end of the row. Double crochet a second time in the last stitch of the row.


Repeat this step once more. For this second row, however, only double crochet once into the last stitch, not twice.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 10-inch (25.4-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to knot and secure the yarn in place.
 Thread the yarn tail through the eye of a yarn needle. Fold the back end of the slipper in half, bringing one back corner to the other back corner, then whipstitch the two halves together.


When stitching, make sure that the seam will lie on the inside of the slipper.
After sewing the end, knot the yarn and weave the excess tail into the inner portion of the slipper.
To whipstitch:

Insert the threaded yarn needle through the front and back loops of the edge not attached to the tail.
Draw the needle through the next set of front and back loops on the edge of your attached end, then immediately draw it through the next set of front and back loops on the edge of your unattached end. This completes one stitch.
Repeat as needed until you reach the end of the two edges.
 The right and left slippers are identical when you use this pattern, so you will need to make the second slipper by following the exact same instructions used when working the first slipper.
 The sole of your slippers will endure more friction than anything else, so adding a separate sole can strengthen your slippers and further their lifespan. A sole will also make your slippers non-stick.Consider buying pre-made slipper soles and attaching them to your slippers with strong fabric glue.
Alternatively, you could cut soles out of felt, leather, or indoor rug pads and glue them onto your slippers.
Consider brushing on multiple coats of liquid non-skid rug backing to the bottom of your slippers.
Lastly, consider adding dots of liquid rubber coating, fabric paint, or silicone sealant to the bottom of your slippers to make them non-stick.
 You can use these slippers as they are, but if you want to personalize them, consider adding a decorative touch.


For example, you could add a decorative trim around the opening of each slipper using a second yarn color. The simplest way to do this is to single stitch into each gap around the edge of each slipper opening.
You could also crochet a fun shape or separate decoration and sew it onto your finished slippers using a yarn needle. Ideas worth considering include crochet stars, crochet hearts, and crochet flowers.
 Your slippers should be done and ready to wear at this point. Slip them on and enjoy.

