 Your diamond ring is going to be easier to sell when you can provide verification that the piece you're selling is a genuine diamond of the quality you are stating. Include the diamond certificate with the ring, if you have it, to establish the quality of your ring. Save a copy of the certificate for your records, but offer the original with the sale.


If you do not have the diamond certificate but are dealing with a potentially valuable stone, you may consider getting a grading report from an independent laboratory such as the Gemological Institute of America., Regardless of what you are selling, postings both online and in print get better responses when the lister includes high-quality images with the listing. Include at least one quality, color image of the face of the ring. If possible, post a few images including one of the band and one of the setting profile, as well.tIt is better to take a variety of images before you create your ad. If there is a cap on the number of images you can use, you can always select your best ones later on.
Try shooting the ring under natural lighting and with no visible clutter around it. You can use a white towel or sheet to create a neutral backdrop., Decide what marketplaces you want to use to advertise your ring, and create a listing. Write a clear description of the ring that includes appraisal details such as color, cut, and clarity, along with the ring size and the diamond carat size. Add your images, and post your ad.If you are using a specialty jewelry auction site such as I Do...Now I Don’t or Worthy, they may have you input pre-set values about your ring, and generate the auction page automatically.
If you are on a broad platform such as Craigslist or eBay, you will need to completely create your own ad.
Remember to make sure the contact information associated with your account is up-to-date. Typically, this will not be displayed directly to potential buyers. However, this is where the website will send you notifications that someone is interested in your piece.
 Newspaper classified ads can help you reach audiences that are not likely to shop online. Call your local paper and ask about the cost of running different sized ads. Take out an ad large enough for you to include details like the ring size and the diamond characteristics, as well as a photo of the ring.Let buyers know whether your price is firm or if you are open to negotiation. Many people who frequent classified ads like to be able to haggle.
 Shipping a diamond ring is not the same as shipping most items. The small size and high value of the object means that you want to look for a shipper that can offer you shipping insurance should your parcel get lost, damaged, or delivered to the wrong address. Insuring a package typically costs more, so don’t forget to roll that cost into the overall price for the ring.Avoid any conspicuous markings on the outside of the package to suggest that it contains a diamond ring. This may prompt package inspection or theft.
Package the ring in a hard box such as a formal ring box, avoiding materials such as cardboard. Then, package the ring box in a small cardboard box, using packing tissue or filler to ensure that the ring box does not move too much within the cardboard box.

