 Your community may have laws about the materials and sizes allowed for residential fences. Don’t rely on a fencing company to know the regulations. Contact your town hall for specific by-laws and regulations for your area. Breaking them may result in fines and the requirement to remove your fence., A tangible fence is generally more protective of your dog, if it is installed and maintained properly. It is also far less likely to cause your dog anxiety, as there is no physical discipline associated with it. Likewise, it can help block visual stimuli such as people and other dogs walking by that may excite your dog and cause them to bark or bite. However, these fences are also generally more expensive, and need to be maintained with repairs over time.


If you’re hoping to fence around ½ an acre, you will spend anywhere from a few hundred dollars to a few thousand, depending on materials. Account for the full-grown size of your dog. Your fence may need to be higher than you expect. If you have a breed of dog that will stay small, four or five feet will likely be enough. This is often not the case for larger dogs, especially agile breeds.
If you have a husky, golden retriever, or another large breed of dog, go with a fence that's about six feet tall., Chain link fences are especially common for good reason. They are cheap, and extremely durable. However, they allow your dog to see out (and other dogs to see in), which can contribute to the occasional bark-off. Chain link fences are also relatively each to jump, if your dog is a bit acrobatic., Wood fencing is reasonably priced, lasts for over a dozen years, and can provide visual privacy for you and your dog. However, many dogs are able to push wood pickets out of wood fences, and wood fences tend to be the easiest to dig under.If you do go with wood, see to it that any horizontal beams are not able to be used as launch pads from which your dog could jump the fence.
Vinyl fences can offer similar advantages, but tend to cost more than wooden fences.
 Concrete, brick, or other solid, permanent walls are especially effective in protecting your dog and keeping them contained. However, these are also the most expensive to install and maintain. While concrete blocks are relatively cheap, they are also relatively unsightly, and may be banned in your area.