 Wear blacks, whites, grays and, if you can, silver. You don’t want to draw any attention to your clothes at all. Most robots are made of metal, so silver would be the best choice.Gold metals are pretty unusual, with the exception of C3PO. Choose clothing that draws attention to your angles rather than your curves.


Humanoid robots (robots that look like humans) do wear clothes, but there is no emphasis on their clothing at all. It’s usually a very basic outfit.
Don’t wear patterns, like plaids or polka dots, or graphic t-shirts with designs emblazoned on the front. Wear plain clothing with no embellishments at all.
If you have any utilitarian styles in your closet, or anything with shoulder pads, give those a try. They will give you a more box-like shape.
 Whatever you end up wearing, you’ll need to keep it consistent, since robots don’t change clothes (if they even wear clothes). It will essentially be your “uniform” while you’re acting like a robot.


Make sure that whatever you choose, the clothing doesn’t hinder your ability to make jerky movements and keep yourself rigid.
 You don’t have to go all out with the makeup, but a light application of some shimmery silver eye makeup would be very suggestive without being completely obvious. Very light blue makeup has a similar, although less metallic, effect.


Shape your hair into a very basic style, as well. Stiffen it with hairspray to keep it from moving and blowing around, which isn’t very robot-like.
Brush a little metallic silver make up on the bridge of your nose, your brows, and your cheekbones. Or apply a little bit of petroleum jelly to those areas, to give yourself a subtle, plastic-like sheen.Paint your nails a metallic silver, too. It’s another small touch that give you a robot vibe without doing anything too obvious.
 Robots have no need for jewelry, watches, sunglasses or even regular eye glasses. If you do wear eye glasses but you also own contact lenses, wear those instead.


Also avoid doing other seemingly insignificant things, such as chewing gum, shifting your weight, tapping your toe impatiently, coughing, clearing your throat, giggling and so on.

