 As children develop, get them more engaged with chores around the house. Teach young children to sort laundry. As your children get older, show them how to set the dials on the washing machine and transfer clothes to the dryer or hanging line to dry. When doing basic home improvement like hanging a picture or building furniture, bring your child along to buy supplies and complete the task.Get children involved in chores like cleaning the bathroom and washing the dishes to help build skills and contribute as a family.
 Take your child to the grocery store and enlist their help in getting ingredients for the week. Before heading out, sit down with your child and create a shopping list together. Then, show them how the aisles are labeled and how to choose items. Send your child to pick out simple items. You can also begin to show your child how to find sales items or comparison shop.Show your child how to buy ripe fruit and veggies and how to check the expiration dates on foods.
 Basic cooking skills are essential to have by adulthood. Start building these skills early by having young children scoop out yogurt or add fruits to a meal. As a child gets older, enlist their help in making meals and show them how to put together dishes. For example, have younger children add ingredients to the blender for a smoothie and have children ten and older get comfortable using the stove for boiling water or making eggs.Teach your child how to make family recipes and pass them along. Supervise their work but let them measure out ingredients and do whatever work is needed. For example, instead of getting the flour or baking pan, say, “Now you need the flour and the pan.”

, As children become older, they should rely less and less on their caretakers to wake them up or get them to school or work on time.If your older child relies on you to wake up, pick out an alarm clock together that they can start to use on their own. If more than one child gets ready at the same time in the morning, discuss who gets the shower and the bathroom at what times.


Let your children decide how much time they need to get places on time. If your child is often late, help them brainstorm ways to prepare the night before. For example, encourage your child to make their lunch and pick out their clothes so that they’re ready when they wake up the next day.

