


Obtain a recliner.
Cut a board to hold the keyboard.
Obtain a table to hold the monitor.
Obtain table to hold the mouse pad.
Obtain table to hold keyboard.;
, It reclines to a number of set degrees and a lever raises a leg and foot rest. Degree of recline must lock in place. These may be found sometimes in thrift stores. Keep in mind that new furniture often contains chemicals adverse to the nervous system. If you can recline in one of these chairs with your feet up without pain this system maybe for you. Separately a locking recliner with independent foot and leg rest may be less expensive and more efficient.
 If permanent, with the Lazy Boy one may have to step over and between the leg rest brackets each time getting in and out. In this case the separate leg rest would be better.
 One needs to make a board to sit across the arms of the chair, to hold the keyboard. When the chair is in recline, the arms of the chair and thus the keyboard take an angle of about 35 or 40 degrees. The idea here is to keep the elbows resting on the arms, whether one types or uses the mouse. One needs a keyboard that has the little legs that snap out to hook over the further side of the board, to keep the keyboard from sliding down.


The keyboard should be able to slide back and fourth on the board for precise adjustment.
 A wider board may obtained and cut down lengthwise for special accommodation or customized in any way. One may want to round off and sand edges.


The length of the board should be from half-way across the width of the left arm pad to to half-way across the width of the right arm pad, which could be 28 inches (71.1 cm).
Then at each end of the board, 2 inch (5.1 cm) C clamps are screwed in place, screw lever up, which hooks on the ends of the arms, to keep the board from sliding down.
The placement of the C Clamps can be used to adjust the distance of the board away from the body, but must be at least two thirds of the way towards the further edge to keep the board from tipping over. The length of the chair arm should probably be around 18 inches (45.7 cm).
The keyboard wire may need an extension, depending on the distance from the computer, and may be looped through a C clamp at one end to keep it draped over the side of the arm.
This contrivance must be slipped in whole or part over to a side table when one gets up.
 A nice distance may be about 4 feet (1.2 m), adjusted to either side of the leg rest or feet. However it may be necessary to enlarge the system fonts, which is easier on eyes in any event.
 It should be about exactly the same height as the high point of the end of the chair arm when in recline position and at a distance so that one can pivot from the elbow, one's arm and hand from the keyboard to mouse and back, without the elbow leaving the arm of the chair, and also so as one does not have to reach. One can shim the pad base to the proper level. Using the side away from any leg rest lever may be no problem. However access to the lever may be impaired by the placement of the mouse base. A table with an extended top might be obtained so that one can reach under to the lever.


An extension for the mouse might be required.



This system may seem a little funky, but has been used for 6 years with complete success. One may be able to improve on the system to suit oneself.
