 Telling your partner about your drug addiction will more than likely be a very difficult conversation. To help prepare you for this conversation, prepare what you want to say ahead of time. Write down words, points, or sentences you want to make sure that you say. This can help you in the moment when you are nervous and may not be thinking clearly.Try writing out a speech. You don’t have to read it, but thinking about what you want to say in its entirety may help you when you tell your partner.
Make a list of bullet points with topics or points you want to make so you can make sure you cover everything during your conversation.
 To help make it easier when you tell your partner about your drug addiction, you should choose a proper time and place to do it. This means you should be in a private place where you won’t be interrupted. You should also do it at a time when you both have time to talk through the situation, even if that takes hours.For example, don’t tell your partner when you only have a few minutes, when they are distracted, or when they have another engagement.
 When you are telling your partner, be open with them about what you are dealing with. This may mean you tell them about the drugs you’ve taken, ways it has negatively impacted your life, and what recovery measures you have taken. Don’t shy away from the truth or try to make things sound better than they are. You are sharing your situation to gain a better understanding from your partner, so be honest.You may want to tell your partner, "I am recovering from a cocaine addiction. This has impacted my life in a lot of ways. I have to be careful in certain situations because they may trigger me into wanting to use again."

, This conversation will not be one-sided. It will not just be you talking. Your partner should have the opportunity to talk also. They may have questions about your addiction and recovery, concerns about that it means for you and your relationship, or want clarification about things. Actively listen to what your partner says with an open mind.Take all of your partner's fears, concerns, and questions seriously. Try to understand where their questions and concerns are coming from.
 You may have a list of trigger situations, places, or people that you carry around with you. These triggers may put you into a position where you want to use again. Tell your partner what your triggers are so they can be aware of what may cause a relapse and help you avoid these things. Tell your partner what you do to avoid your triggers and manage them when you get into a risky situation.Tell your partner why these triggers affect you. Your partner will understand more about your addiction and you if they can see how you react to things.
Say to your partner, “I know that you like going to clubs and bars, but that situation triggers me. I find that I want to use when I’m in that environment. Can we find other things to do?”

, You may want to apologize to your partner for any harm or hurt you have caused. You may have hurt your partner at some point due to your drug addiction. Tell your partner that you know that your actions may have hurt them, or ask them how you have hurt them. Apologize for your behavior and any trust you have broken.Face all of the negative things you may have done because of your drug addiction. Going ahead and facing the pain and negative feelings can help you both move on and heal.
You may say, "I’m sorry that my drug addiction caused you pain. I will try not to hurt you anymore in the future.”

