 Talk based, it is a way to explore the patterns of behavior, feelings and thoughts through which the patient can be suggested some healthy coping strategy. When you discuss your past and current experiences, you develop an understanding that you contribute to the array of unsuccessful and successful outcomes in your own life. This helps you in acquiring the tool in making lasting changes.;
, It can be used to treat emotional and psychological disorders such as depression and anxiety, as well as relationship difficulties. It can work for you if you have a tendency to act on emotions that you do not understand.


Psychotherapy is not like drug therapy, which only helps treating the symptoms of the emotional illness; and is effective only when the medication is taken. Psychotherapy makes a lifelong impact and brings about a positive impact on the thought and behavior pattern.
 This is a procedure or treatment that helps you bring about an expression of your thoughts via an art form. Here, art is used as a form of communication. It helps you to understand your own problems better.


Art here is used as a tool for the process of psychotherapy; it could help you to express easily and communicate without feeling threatened or unsafe; these thoughts might not be really easy to express otherwise.
You are given an opportunity to bring out your feelings and thoughts in the form of lines, shapes, form and color. The creativity process brings about a form of interaction and communication; which you find difficult, shy or awkward to express otherwise.
As the artwork is a display of both unconscious and conscious thoughts and feelings; it makes for better opportunities to explore.
 These are items such as clay and markers, paint, brushes, chalk. There are no criteria for you to have past experience with art of any level or any artistic skills. Here you don’t need to aim to get in place a picture or sculpture that has aesthetic value; it is a process that is given to you for self-expression to bring a positive change, healing and personal growth.
 In just the same way as with other psychotherapy or counseling techniques, art therapy can be used in one-to-one or group situations.

