 Go to Facebook. Locate the name of your business fan page on the left side panel of your news feed, then click on the name to be redirected to the page itself.


Alternatively, you can click in the search bar at the top of the page and type the name of your business fan page. When you see the correct option populate in the results list, click on the name to be redirected to the page.
 Click on the "About" tab beneath the cover photo on your business fan page. Once the tab opens, click on "Page Info" in the left side panel.
 Scroll down to the bottom of the page, stopping once you see the "Facebook Page ID" heading. Highlight the number beside that heading and copy it to your clipboard.This ID number is distinct and unique to your business page. No other page on Facebook should have the same number.
 Scroll to the top of your page and click on your name in the upper right corner. This action should redirect you to your personal profile page.
 On your personal page, click on the "Update Info" button located in he lower right corner of your cover photo.


You should automatically be sent to the "Work and Education" section of your personal "About" tab. If you're redirected to the "About" overview or another tab within that section of your profile, click on "Work and Education" before continuing.
 Click on the "Add a workplace" option located beneath the "Work" heading on the page., Click in the text box beside the "Company" heading of the workplace entry. Paste the copied ID number into this box.


Note that you should not need to install a browser extension for this option to work. Facebook was once unable to recognize business pages by their ID numbers alone, but after various updates, it is now typically able to locate the correct page based solely on the page ID and without the help of third-party extensions or add-ons.
You might be able to locate your business page by simply typing the name of the business into the “Company” text box, but doing so could cause a wrong, similarly titled page to pop up instead of yours. Using the ID number is your best option.
 Your business fan page should be the only option to appear in the pop-up list of possible matches. Click on the page name to confirm and select it.


After selecting your business page, the page information should appear in the “Company” text box and the cursor should jump to the next entry field.
 Complete the rest of the workplace entry form by filling in each text box with correct information regarding your job. Click the "Save Changes" button once finished to save that entry.


Enter your job title in the "Position" box. This can be an official title or an informal title that accurately describes your position at the company.
Type the city and state from which you work in the text box beside the "City/Town" heading.
You can also include a brief description of your job in the "Description" text box. One or two sentences should suffice.
Finish the entry by indicating the correct time period. Check the box beside "I currently work here" if you still work at the indicated job. Click the "Add year" option to add start dates and end dates to the entry, as well.
Note that you can also change the privacy settings of your entry before saving it. Leaving the information as "Public" will allow anyone to view it. If desired, you can change this information so that friends, friends of friends, or only select groups of people can see it.
 After you save the job entry, return to the main page of your profile by clicking on "Timeline" beneath your cover page. Your work information should appear in the top left side panel of your profile page.


Note that only your most recent work information will appear on the main page of your profile. If you add multiple entries, some might not be visible from your Timeline. All work information should be visible on the “Work and Education” tab of your “About” page, however.

