 It doesn't have to be first thing in the morning if you aren't a morning person. Find a time that suits you best and when you will have at least an hour to spend one-on-one in God's presence.


It could be after work or after tea time, when everyone's doing their own thing and you can go into your room and be alone.
Don't forget to let people know that you are praying and would like some time alone with God. If you haven't told the people in your house that you are religious, perhaps just say that you need some space for at least an hour.;
, Due to the busy schedule that many people have today, it's important to schedule a specific time for prayer. This way you will be able to pray at the set time that you have assigned and will establish a habit to do so.
 It's hard these days to sit and just connect with God for one hour. However the more you do it, the easier will find it to be and you will be inspired, perhaps, to set aside more time to connect to your Creator and give the deserved praise.
 Having a relationship with God isn't about schedules, routines and rules. God doesn't see time. However a schedule will help you fit your beliefs into your lifestyle. God understands your schedule and he doesn't condemn you if you have accidentally missed your set prayer time.


He is the God of patience and understanding, and, when you do find time to converse with him, he looks lovingly upon you and you will learn how to rely on him for everything that you need.
 You don't need to align to praying the decorum of others. It's really a time between you and God and a time of worship, thankfulness and request.


Remember during prayer to be straight forward and not babble on, he knows what your request is before you even speak it.
He is a sovereign deity and he deserves all reverence. However, he is also your Father, and best friend. He would love to hear you speak to him just like you would speak to your Dad.
 There is no right or wrong thing to pray for with God. You can thank him for the day he has given you, the lung he has given you to breathe with, the heart that is keeping you alive or you could ask for guidance to find a new job, relationships or finances.


There is no long monologue that God is requiring from you daily. He wants you to be open, honest and straightforward. He does know what you are about to say before you say it but he likes to see you pray to prove that you are continually relying on him.

