 A power bank will normally have two plug sockets: one USB socket, and one mini-USB socket. Connect the mini-USB side of the cord that came with the power bank into the power bank. The other end of the cord should be a regular USB plug. This regular USB plug will fit into either a USB wall adapter, or a USB plug on a computer. Take the mini-USB port end of the cable, and plug it into the appropriate mini-USB port on the power bank.


Normally, the mini-USB socket is the socket used to connect to the power bank to a source of power that charges the power bank.
The USB socket is normally used with a power cord leading from the power bank, and is connected to whatever device the power bank is charging.;
, There are two ways you can connect the USB side of the power bank cable to receive energy. You can plug the USB into a USB wall adapter (like a typical iPhone charger), and then plug the adapter into a wall socket, or you can plug the USB end of the cable directly into a USB port on a laptop, desktop computer, or in a car. Whichever way you are going to connect your power bank to energy, plug in the USB end of the cable into your chosen power source.


If you plug the USB end of the cable into a wall adapter, the adapter can be plugged into to any kind of wall socket.
If you plug the USB end of the cable into a laptop, desktop computer, or car, the power bank will only charge if the power source is turned on. That means the laptop, computer, and car all need to be running in order to supply energy to the power bank so it can charge.
 Once the power bank is connected to some sort of power source, an LED light should illuminate somewhere on the power bank. This LED light indicates that the power bank is indeed receiving power and charging. When a power bank is charging successfully the light should be a yellow or orange color (however the charging color of the LED light may vary). Once the power bank is fully charged, the light may go out, or change to blue or green color. Again, this varies depending on the individual power bank. You may need to leave the power bank to charge for several hours.


Typically, it may take between two to four hours to charge a power bank from connecting it to a wall socket, and about eight hours to charge it from a computer.Often the power bank light is blue/green when it is on and is being used, orange/yellow when it is being charged, and red when it needs to be charged.
 Once your power bank is completely charged, it is ready to be connected to and charge a device, like a phone. Whatever charging cable you use to normally connect your phone is going to be the same cable you use to connect your phone to the power bank. The charging cable must be an adapter type charger, where it is detachable from the adapter, exposing a regular USB plug. Detach the adapter from the charging cable. Take the USB plug that was just connected to the adapter, and inset it into the power bank. Then take the other end of the cable (the end that plugs into your phone or other device), and plug it into your phone. Click on the power button of the power bank, and the power bank should instantly start charging your device.If the power bank is successfully charging your device, the LED light on the power bank should be on, and the device should show some visual sign that it is in the process of being charged (like a lighting bolt symbol or a plug and socket symbol).

