 Making the 10X (ten times the normal concentration used) stock is almost identical to making the 1X stock, you simply add 10 times the amount of chemicals. To make the 10X stock, you will need a 1 L graduated cylinder, a balance, a 2 L beaker, stir bar, stir plate, pH meter, autoclave, and a glass bottle for storage.To make 1 L you will need the following amounts of each compound:start with 700 mL of distilled water
80 g of NaCl (sodium chloride)
2 g of KCl (potassium chloride)
14.4 g of Na2HPO4 (disodium phosphate)
2.4 g of KH2PO4 (monopotassium phosphate)
You will also need small amounts of dilute HCl and/or NaOH to pH the final solution.
The final concentrations of each compound in the 10X solution are 1.37 M NaCl, 27 mM KCl, 100 mM Na2HPO4, and 18 mM KH2PO4.
 To help dissolve everything quickly, use a stir bar and stir plate to keep the solution constantly moving. Place the stir bar into the empty beaker before beginning to avoid splashes.Wait until there is solution in the beaker before turning it on.
 You want to start with less than the final volume because the volume will change as you add the compounds to it. After everything has been added and dissolved, you will add the rest of the water to bring the total volume up to 1 L. Measure 700 mL of water with the graduated cylinder and pour this directly into a clean beaker.Once water is added, turn on the stir plate to a medium speed. You should see a small whirlpool form in the water as the stir bar begins to spin.
 Weigh out 80 g of NaCl, 2 g of KCl, 14.4 g of Na2HPO4 and 2.4 g of KH2PO4. Weigh out each chemical individually in their own weight boat.If you add too much chemical, simply remove the excess until you have the right amount.
 Add each chemical to the water while it stirs. There is no special order to add each one, so you can add everything all at once. Continue to stir until all the powder is fully dissolved.It will take at least 5-10 minutes to dissolve, so let it stir and check on it later.
 With everything fully dissolved, you need to check the pH of the buffer and adjust it to 7.4.Keep the stir bar on and submerge the tip of the pH meter in the top of the solution. Let the numbers on the pH meter stop moving to measure the current pH. The solution will likely be too acidic so you’ll need to add dilute sodium hydroxide (NaOH) to make it more basic.


Use a small pipette to add NaOH a few drops at a time. After each addition, let the solution stir for a moment and wait until the numbers stop moving. Keep adding NaOH until you reach 7.4.
To pH a solution is a process that requires patience. If you accidentally go higher than 7.4 you can add a few drops of hydrochloric acid (HCl) to bring it back down.
 With the pH properly adjusted, bring the solution up to the final volume of 1 liter. Carefully pour the entire solution from the beaker into the 1 L graduated cylinder. Add enough distilled water to make it 1 L.Pour the final solution into a 1 L glass bottle safe for autoclaving.
 Place the lid on the bottle, but do not screw it all the way down. The autoclave process produces steam which can cause a buildup of pressure in the bottle. If the lid is tightened, the bottle can explode. Use a strip of autoclave tape across the lid to hold it in place while autoclaving.Set the autoclave to sterilize for 20 minutes at 15 psi on the liquid cycle.Autoclave tape has a temperature indicator in it. If it reaches the proper temperature, the tape will turn black. If the tape does not turn black, the autoclave did not get hot enough and you will need to re-sterilize.
 After autoclaving, let the PBS cool completely before tightening the lid. If you tighten the lid while it is still hot, it can create a vacuum that will make it very difficult to remove the lid later. PBS is stable long-term at room temperature.You can also aliquot the PBS into smaller containers to use one at a time.

