 You can use any pattern you like and any fabric, but cravats are typically made with soft fabrics (as opposed to stiff ones) that are more comfortable to wear and easier to wrap and tie. You can even use two different fabrics if you’d like to make a reversible cravat. Popular fabric choices include:Satin
Soft cotton
Muslin
Silk;
, For this project, you will need some pins, a sewing machine, thread, scissors, a steam iron and ironing board, a measuring tape, a flat work area (such as a table), pattern paper and a pencil, a pattern pencil or chalk, and two strips of fabric that are at least 9 inches (23 cm) wide and about 2.2 yards (2 meters) long.To make a cravat that only wraps once around your neck, the fabric can be only 1.6 yards (1.5 meters).
If you don’t have access to a sewing machine, you can hand stitch the cravat, meaning you’ll need a sewing needle instead.
 Whatever that measurement is, subtract one-half inch (1.3 cm), and divide that in half. Write this measurement down, as you will need it in the next step to create your pattern.


To make a generic or one-size cravat, use eight or nine inches as your measurement., Draw a rectangle that’s 2.5 inches (6.3 cm) wide and the correct length based on the neck measurement from the previous step.


Now, connect that rectangle to an elongated hexagon that’s 7 inches (17.8 cm) wide,and between 21 and 31 inches (53 to 78.8 cm) long, depending on how long you want your cravat to be.
Make sure the center of the original rectangle connects with the lengthwise center of the hexagon.
When you are finished, cut out the pattern.
 Take both your strips of fabric and fold them in half widthwise. With the folds together, lay them out on a flat surface. Place the pattern on top of the fabric, and position the very top of the neckband along the straight folds of the fabric.


Pin the pattern in place, making sure to go through all four layers of fabric.
 Use your chalk or fabric pencil to draw the pattern out on the fabric. Carefully remove the pattern and replace the pins to hold the fabric in place. Cut out the two pieces of your cravat.
 Open the folds so that your two cravat pieces open up. Lay them out on a flat surface with the good sides of the fabric pieces facing inward (facing each other). Pin the edges together.
 Be sure to leave the bottom triangle open so that you can turn the cravat right side out when you are finished. Make sure you back stitch at the beginning and end.


Use a one-quarter to one-half inch (0.6 to 1.3 cm) seam allowance.
 Anywhere there is a corner on the cravat, make a notch with a single snip in the fabric that bisects the angle of the corner. This will help create cleaner edges. Make sure you stop before cutting the seam.
 When you have pulled the right sides of the fabric through, carefully press the edges around the entire cravat.


Be sure to use the correct iron setting.
 Use your iron to press up the open fabric ends, following the same one-quarter to one-half inch (0.6 to 1.3 cm) seam allowance. Pin the edges together, and either top stitch the bottom or use a needle and thread to create a blind stitch.
 You want both ends hanging down on your chest. Adjust the cravat so the right is slightly longer than the left. Bring the right side across the top of the left side.
 The left and right sides should now be back on their original side, but the right side is now wrapped around the left.
 Wrap the right side around the back, and then pull the right side up through the center of the neck band.
 Fold the fabric over the top of the neckband so it hangs down the front center of your chest. Tuck the extra fabric into the opening of your collared shirt., Follow the same procedure as for the casual cravat, but instead of tucking the excess fabric into your shirt, tuck it into your vest.


If you like, use a cravat pin to keep the top layer of fabric in place.
 Take the fabric that you pulled up and over the neck band, and tuck it into the fabric loops that you created by wrapping the cravat. Adjust the knot and tuck the excess fabric into your shirt or vest.