 Just how you turned the duvet cover inside out in the first method, you’re going to turn your duvet cover inside out for this second method. Reach in through the bottom opening of the duvet cover and grab the two top, inside corners.Pull these inside corners down and out through the cover opening.


Once the duvet cover is inside out, hold onto the corners and shake it a bit to spread the cover out over the bed.
Be sure that the duvet cover opening is at the foot of the bed., Fully spread out the duvet comforter on top of the duvet cover.Make sure the duvet corners align neatly with the duvet cover corners.


The long side of both the duvet and duvet cover should run along the length of the bed, and the short side of both the duvet and duvet cover should run along the width of the bed.
 If your duvet and duvet cover have fasteners on the corners to keep the duvet corners secured into the corners of the duvet cover, attach those now.


These fasteners might be small buttons and buttonholes, elastic pieces with buttons, or small strings that tie together.
 From the top of the bed, roll the duvet and duvet cover down to the end of the bed.Roll as if you are rolling a burrito. Try your best to roll both the duvet and duvet covers evenly all the way to the end of the bed.


If you are by yourself, you can roll the duvet and duvet cover from the middle of the bed. If you have someone to help you, you both can stand on the sides of the bed, and roll evenly, together., Once completely rolled at the foot of the bed, put your hand in the duvet cover opening, and grab the entire rolled side portion of your duvet and duvet cover.Flip the side of the duvet cover over the side portion you are still holding onto. Once the duvet cover is flipped over the one side of the roll, do the exact same thing on the other side of the roll.


When both sides of the roll have been flipped and are covered by the sides of the duvet cover, even out the rest of the duvet. Flip the middle portion of the duvet cover over the middle portion of the duvet., Unroll the duvet and duvet cover back up toward the top of the bed.Fasten the opening of the duvet cover either by buttoning or zipping the cover flaps together. Shake out the corners and sides of the duvet to flatten out and bunched up areas.


You can use this same rolling and unrolling method to also removing your duvet cover.

