 A cold sore is the same as a fever blister, but it is not the same as a canker sore. Canker sores are mouth ulcers that occur inside the mouth. While cold sores may on occasion develop inside the mouth, they are usually smaller than canker sores, and they start as blisters. Canker sores are not contagious, and they are not caused by a virus, so treatment differs from that for cold sores.;
, Before you can actually see a cold sore, you will probably be able to feel a slight tingling or burning somewhere around your mouth where the cold sore will erupt. The earlier you can detect an outbreak, the quicker you can take action to hasten your recovery.


You may be able to feel a small bump or hardness in the skin in conjunction with the tingling sensation.
Other early symptoms include, itching of the lips or skin around mouth, sore throat, swollen glands, and pain when swallowing, and a fever., The herpes simplex virus is highly contagious, so avoid kissing or other mouth-to-body activities at any time during an outbreak. Also avoid sharing utensils, cups, or straws with other people, and wash dishes and utensils thoroughly with disinfectant soap. Gently washing the blisters with soap and water may also help to prevent the spread of the outbreak.



Wash your hands frequently, and try to avoid touching the sore. If you touch the cold sore, you can then spread it to other people or to other places on your own body, such as the eyes and genitals.
 As the name fever blisters suggests, cold sores are sometimes accompanied by a fever, particularly in younger children. If fever is present, use fever-reducing medications such as acetaminophen, and monitor the fever carefully.


Fight the fever with lukewarm baths; cold compresses on the inner thighs, feet, arms, and neck; warm tea; popsicles; and adequate sleep.
 Over-the-counter cold sore creams may help to ease the pain of cold sores, as may painkillers such as aspirin, acetaminophen, and ibuprofen. It's important to note, since cold sores often affect young children, that aspirin should generally not be given to young children because of the risk of Reye's syndrome, a rare, but potentially fatal disorder.
 Some outbreaks can be serious.


People with already-weakened immune systems are at particular risk of long-term complications or even death from a herpes outbreak.
Herpes infections in the eyes are one of the leading causes of blindness in many countries, so be very careful not to spread the infection to your eyes, and if you have any irritation in the eyes, see your doctor at once.
 Although herpes simplex is still incurable, you can prevent outbreaks before they happen by:


Wearing sunscreen on the lips and other vulnerable areas. Zinc oxide may help prevent outbreaks in people whose outbreaks are triggered by sun exposure.Washing towels, cloths, and linens in boiling water after each use.
Not having oral sex if you have oral herpes. This can spread the herpes the genitals, even if blisters or lesions are not present.
 If left untreated, a cold sore can last from eight to 10 days. Until then, there's not much you can do. Avoid squeezing or picking at a sore, as this will only slow healing.
 Studies show that there may be a correlation between stress levels and an increased likelihood for cold sores. To prevent future outbreaks and reduce the amount of time you have to suffer through a current outbreak, take time to lower your anxiety and stress levels.