 If you get money from relatives for your birthday or the holidays, do not use it to indulge your desires or buy new knickknacks you don’t need. Instead, put the money toward your debt. Likewise, put all work bonuses toward your debts., If you are broke with debts, you are in dire financial straits. One of the best ways to use the money you have is to get professional help. With a certified financial planner’s assistance, you’ll be able to develop better habits around your saving, spending, and debt management.A financial planner can also help you develop a financial plan to help you acquire wealth, set and meet your financial goals, and discover ways to adapt through changing circumstances such as a change in employment status or divorce.Rates to consult a financial planner vary. You might get a flat rate for around $1,000, or an hourly fee of about $250 per hour. Though it seems expensive, putting aside some money for a financial planner to analyze your financial situation is a good investment.
A financial planner is similar to, but different from, a credit counselor. A credit counselor specializes in helping clients grapple with their consumer debt, while a financial planner tends to help clients develop new skills and tricks to manage their finances (including debts).
 If you have credit card debt on a card that has a high rate of interest but you’re sure you could pay it off in a few months, you can get your debt moved to another card and pay zero interest on it. Simply contact a credit card company where you don’t have a credit card and inquire as to whether they offer any zero percent balance transfer credit cards. If they do, they’ll transfer your balance from one card to their card and charge no interest for a fixed period.Before switching to a balance transfer, be sure you can afford it. If you don’t pay the debt off before the zero percent interest period expires, you’ll be hit with interest again, possibly at an even higher rate than what you were paying originally.
Some cards offer a zero-interest rate that lasts up to 18 months.Balance transfers are typically subject to a one-time fee, so check the fine print before accepting any balance transfer deal from your credit card provider.
 This will help you avoid racking up new debt. You will not be able to easily pay off debt when you are broke if you continue to create new debts., Use your credit cards once each month for small purchases like groceries or to fill up the gas tank, then pay the balance off immediately. Do not stop using your credit cards altogether or you run the risk of reducing your credit score if your account is closed., If your credit card information is stored in your account profile for online stores, it is easier for you to check out. But it also makes it more likely that you’ll buy things online that you’d be better off without. Log in to the online store profiles that you use regularly and delete the information.If you decide you need to buy something online, enter your card info where appropriate but do not save it to your profile when prompted to do so.
If you’re regularly paying for services or goods online, use a debit card linked to your checking account. This will save you from interest and late fees. Just make sure you always have enough money in your account to make the regular payments.
 If you’re broke, you have a pretty good case as to why you need a lower interest rate. For instance, if you are broke because you have no job (or have only a poorly paying job), you can often petition your credit card company to reduce your interest rate. You might also be able to obtain a pay-as-you-earn deferment on student loans so that they stop racking up interest so quickly.There is no uniform process for applying for a lower interest rate. Consult the terms and conditions of your specific loans or debts for information about how to negotiate a lower interest rate.
 If you pay your monthly minimums late, you’ll start racking up not only interest, but late fees, too. This will only add to the debt you need to pay back. Avoid this unhappy situation by always paying your minimum monthly balance on debts., Debt consolidation is a process by which many debts are combined (and therefore simplified). This allows you to make one simple payment toward your debt each month. There are three major types of debt consolidation.In a debt management plan, you’ll meet with a credit counselor to determine how much you can afford to pay each month. This is the most common sort of debt consolidation.
With debt consolidation loans, you make a single payment to a single creditor at a lower interest rate than what you’ve been paying. This means you will be able to focus on paying off one debt at a time.
A third variation on debt consolidation is known as debt settlement. With this technique, you can pay a massive lump sum toward your debt that totals far less than what you would otherwise pay.
Debt consolidation and debt settlement will negatively impact your credit score. Debt consolidations will likely push back the period it takes you to pay off your debt.
Talk to a credit counselor or certified financial planner to begin a debt settlement or debt consolidation program.

