 Map out an area of your yard in which to place your compost bin. You will want a spot that is not too close to your home but is still close enough that it will be convenient for you to make regular trips to make deposits in your compost pile.;
, Size matters. You can have a small, compact single-chamber compost bin or you can build a multi-chamber compost bin. The size is completely up to you but the size of your bin should coincide with the amount of compost you want. If you have a small garden, a single-chamber compost bin will suffice. However, if you have a garden large enough to feed a large family, you may want to consider building a multi-chamber compost bin. If you decide to build a multi-chamber bin, each chamber will be used for the various "stages" in the composting cycle.
 The easiest, cheapest, most eco-friendly material to use for your compost bin are wood pallets. Not only are the pallets free, but they already have slats built right in for the air to be able to get to your compost pile. Pallets are easily obtainable from furniture stores, hardware stores, building supply stores, etc. Any facility that uses pallets for transporting goods will have a virtually limitless supply of pallets that they stack behind their store for the trash. Take a trip behind your local Big Lots store and you are bound to find as many pallets as you would like. For a single-chamber bin, you will need 5 pallets. When getting your pallets, try to find ones that have narrow openings between the slats. The narrower the slat the better because this will help contain your compost. Once you have your pallets, you will need twine to bind your pallet box together.
 So, you have your 5 pallets and twine. In the spot you've chosen to place your compost bin, lay down your first wood pallet to act as the floor of your bin. Next stand up the next 3 pallets on each of 3 sides of the 1st pallet. Use the twine to bind the corners together at the top, the center and the bottom of the corners. You should now see the box that your compost will go in. With the 5th and final pallet, place this in the opening of your box. You may choose to prop it in front of the opening or, if you are really fancy, you may attach 2 hinges to one side so that the door of your compost bin swings open. The door doesn't have to close completely. It's main function is to keep your compost pile from spilling out of the container.
 Here is the fun part. You may now put in those raked up leaves from your yard, grass clippings, kitchen waste and manure (if you have some). For your compost to be successful, you want to have a good mixture of brown (leaves) and green (grass) materials, air (which is already taken care of since you are using the pallets) and water. The manure is an excellent material to add to your compost but its not absolutely necessary. The only manure you will want to use would be cow, horse, chicken, rabbit, etc. Any animal that is naturally vegetarian will produce the desired type of manure. As for the kitchen waste, make sure you don't put any meat or animal byproducts in your compost. The meat will rot instead of decompose and the rot will introduce harmful bacteria to your compost and render your compost useless. Once your materials are in your compost bin, you will soon see bugs and worms living there. Don't be alarmed by this. These critters are vital for the success of your compost pile since they help break it down into the "black gold" you need for your gardening needs.
 If you want to walk away from your computer right about now because you feel tricked into doing something that requires maintenance, stay seated. Maintenance (that dirty "m" word) is not as difficult or as time-consuming as you may think. About once a week, you will need to turn your compost pile. If you have a pitchfork, this makes the turning very easy. Turning your compost pile consists of simply getting the composting material from the bottom of the pile to the top of the pile and vise-verse. If you don't get regular rain, you will also want to get your compost wet about once per week. You don't want to drown it but a give it a good soaking weekly if it hasn't rained.

