 When a crisis or stressful situation occurs at work, make sure everyone is clear about any new roles or responsibilities they have.Keep your coworkers and employees updated about any changes as you hear them, rather than allowing rumors and stress to build.Give your staff space to ask questions and air grievances about changing expectations and responsibilities.
 You might not be able to put out every fire at work, but try to resolve any conflicts that arise as quickly as possible, particularly during times of stress. This will ensure people feel safe and cared for at work. This will also show that their concerns are valid and answered., Encourage coworkers and employees to contribute suggestions to how the workplace could be changed. Encourage your coworkers and employees to pay attention to their emotional needs, particularly if they are getting too stressed at work.You can also be encouraging by:Recognizing that everyone has limitations.
Providing training and skills-building opportunities.
Taking time to listen to and help people define their goals.
 Keep a work environment as safe as possible at all times, but especially during times of crisis and stress. This will help everyone feel cared for and will help to minimize the stress load. Some ways you can make work a safer place include:Encourage taking breaks or time off.
Ensure adequate lighting and a clean environment.
Establish quiet areas where workers can have some respite from noisy or stressful conditions.
Provide opportunities for workers to get counseling if needed.
Allow more inexperienced workers to have a more experienced worker or “buddy” they can reach out to for support.
 To reduce stress, hold regular meetings with your staff or coworkers. Make time to solve problems, build up your team, and recognize everyone’s accomplishments.Keep in mind not to have wasteful or unproductive meetings, which can make the situation more stressful and communication worse. To keep meetings on track, you can set a time limit, have three clear objectives for the meeting, and use the last 10-15 minutes of the meeting for answering questions and clarifying expectations.