 If you are unfortunate enough to not have this support for reasons such as a lack of understanding, or the fact you haven't told them yet, don't worry, there is so much support out there for you, even if you may not believe it. Online you may ring free helplines that can offer unbiased and caring support. You may also consider other options such as going to talk to a priest, you don't have to be religious at all or be 'a reborn' to do this, a priest is someone who can give unbiased genuine support, he won't ask for symptoms or have a clipboard, he can just be there and listen. It is easy to feel a burden with doctors if you keep telling them about progress, whereas a religious leader will always be there and have a genuine care for your recovery. The reason why this is so important is because it encourages communication, you don't have to carry the burden on your own and most importantly, it is essential for recovery.;
, It can be hard to reveal that you have anxiety, because you yourself will recognise it as a fault in your personality. But the real truth is, it is not some dark secret that you have to be embarrassed about and your family and friends will probably feel much better themselves, because believe it or not, they have probably been wondering for years as to what has been troubling you. Because SA is a very spiraling disorder, you may have noticed before how a very neutral thought can turn negative very quickly. This is because people with SA have a tendency to side with negativity, and this is where the belief 'I am no good at anything' comes from. You need your family and friends to be on your side, to help you to re learn that compassion that you need with yourself, and to teach your mind that praise has just as much of a place as criticism.
 There is an extremely long vertical line with many horizontal lines going across it. The very top represents us at our best, at our most positive and the bottom represents us at our worst (perhaps depression, fears, anger etc.). The idea of productivity is to hopefully bring you up the ladder chart step by step. So for example if you cook a meal for your mum or help a friend with homework, you know you haven't sat still and wallowed, you have helped someone, they are probably very grateful, you may receive praise that will slowly help to train your brain to know that you are 'useful'. Because believe it or not, you are in no way useless.


It is important to know that a chart like this is not fixed. You will have good days, you will have bad days. The quicker you accept this, the more your anxiety will stop being a nuisance, and just a part of you that you have to love. This may sound strange but it is true. Be a 'determined softie' which is exactly what you have to be. Determined enough to want to get better, and sometimes push yourself, while at the same time having the patience and compassion with yourself to accept when you are not ready to do something.
E.g. You are in a shopping centre and you want to go into a shop you like. But. It is right in the middle of the building where there are more people, more crowds. You say to yourself "This is stupid, I want to go into the shop so I will!". Problem. This is what your heart wants and not your head. You do manage to reach the shop but you can feel the onset of a panic attack. Inside the shop are lots of people who you feel are judging you, and even though you do manage to look around without running out the shop, the whole experience has left you bitter and more alienated than ever. The point of this is, is that you have to know when you are ready for something, when both your head and heart agree that you can maybe try that thing today. If things do go wrong, it is easy to hate yourself, but in fact the opposite is needed. Instead of saying: "Why did I go in that shop, now I feel more worthless and stupid than ever." say. "It's O.K. I wasn't quite ready for that. I WILL be eventually, but not right now."

, In effect, as long as you feel that you have achieved something or helped someone else or yourself a few times a day, you are on the road to recovery. Everyone has different standards of 'achievement' but, as mentioned before, don't expect too much of yourself, nobody else does.

Why don't you tidy the house, cook your parents a meal, be on hand for any useful tasks that need to be completed? Start from the home and branch outwards, rather than trying to be Mother Teresa from day one. Outside jobs: Grow veg, tidy the yard, feed your cat even. ANYTHING is the point. Do not sit still. Sitting still leads to worry. Worry leads to increased anxiety. Keep moving people!






It doesn't always have to be about doing things for others. Do something for yourself. Learn a language, learn more about a particular subject you are interested in, read a book, paint, fix your car or if you are ready for it perhaps join a class. It can be very useful to continue your learning in some way.
 Learn them as Mantras to say when you are tempted to be hard on yourself for your fear, anger and frustration:


"Whatever difficulties you have had in the past, you can make a fresh start today" The Buddha.
 Elbert Hubbard.


" Patience will bring the snail to Jerusalem." Irish proverb.
" The greatest mistake you can make in life is to be continually fearing you will make one." Elbert Hubbard.

