 When you’re buying morels, opt for mushrooms that firm and dry because they’re more likely to be fresh. Avoid any that are soft, wet, spongy, or shriveled because that’s usually a sign that they’re old.Stay away from morels that appear dried out or dehydrated too. They are probably old as well.;
, Large morels are more likely to be spongy and breaking down because they are older. Select smaller morels, which are usually fresh and firm.If you find large morels that are firm and dry, they are usually safe to buy. You may want to cut them down for recipes, though.
 Like other wild mushrooms, morels can sometimes have worms and other insects inside the crevices in their caps. You can still buy morels that have pests in them, but be sure to remove them when you’re cleaning the mushrooms.You can use a dry pastry brush to brush worms, insects, dirt, and debris from the outside of the morels.
If you notice silky threads that resemble mold on the morels, they may be fibers excreted by worms so check the mushrooms for pests.
While you can pick the worms out of the morels and still cook with them, it’s best to avoid any that appear heavily infested. You’ll usually wind up spending a lot of time cleaning them so they may be more trouble than they’re worth.
 There may be dirt and debris hidden in the morels’ crevices so it’s important to rinse them before cooking. Place the morels in a colander, and rinse them under cold water at the sink.After you rinse the mushrooms, shake the colander well and pat the morels dry with paper towel to remove any excess moisture.
 Morel stems are usually tough and dirty, so it’s not a good idea to use them when you cook. Use a small, sharp knife to carefully cut off the stems and discard them., For most recipes, you’ll want to cut the morels in half. However, you should cut the mushrooms lengthwise to open up their hollow centers. Use a sharp knife to carefully cut them down the middle lengthwise before cooking with them.In most dishes, cutting the morels in half is fine. However, if you like, you can quarter them lengthwise if you prefer.
 If you’re not cooking with your morels right away, you should store them in the refrigerator. However, you shouldn’t place the mushrooms in a plastic bag because they are airtight, which can cause the moisture to come out of the morels and make them slimy. Opt for paper bags for storage instead.Like plastic bags, plastic storage containers are a poor choice for storing morels because they’re airtight.

