 There are a few differences but they are mainly cosmetic. The first thing to do is to download and install OpenOffice.orgor StarOffice from Sun Microsystems.;
,,, Registering the database (is done locally) and makes it easier for Writer and Calc to use.
, It defaults to 'My Documents'. Give your new database a name. For now call it 'MyContacts'. Accept the default settings and click on the 'Save' button.
 'Forms' will be automatically highlighted. However, we first need to create a table for our database, so click on 'Tables'. We will come back to forms later.
 A window titled 'Table Wizard' will pop up.


The wizard will step you through creating your first database. On the right under Select fields for your table you will see 'Category'. Click on 'Personal'. Under 'Category' are sample tables, click on the 'down arrow' and highlight 'Addresses'. Under 'Available fields' all the fields for the sample table are displayed. To the right are four buttons. Click on the '>>' button. This will move all the fields under 'Available fields' to 'Selected fields'. Click on the 'Next' button.
 Under 'Selected fields' are all the field that were chosen. To the right of that you will see 'Field information'. Each field can be individually formatted in the way you want. Click on the various fields to get an idea of what types you have available. For now accept the defaults for each field and then click on the 'Next' button.
 As the database grows in size the primary key becomes more important. The primary key will speed up queries. For now, accept the default values and click on the 'Next' button.
 Accept the default value for the table name. In this example it is called Addresses. Below that you have several choices on what to do next. Click on 'Create a form based on this table' and then click on the 'Finish' button.
 The first windows is titled 'Untitled' and on top of that window is another window titled 'Form Wizard'. We will now create a form for data entry.
 As before accept the defaults and click on the '>>' button. This will move all the fields to the other side under 'Fields in the form'. Then click on the 'Next' button.
 Accept the default values. We will not be creating any subforms for now. Click on the 'Next' button.
 On the right, the third button is the default. Click on the second button to the right of that, the fourth button. Click the 'Next' button.
 This will set the mode of data entry for your form. Accept the defaults and click on the 'Next' button.
 Accept the default values and click on the 'Next' button.
 Then click the 'Finish' button.
 If you do not like how the form is laid out, you can easily change it. Here's how to change your form.



Click on the 'Edit' menu item and highlight and click on 'Edit'.
 Click on any of the fields and then 'drag and drop' them where ever you like. Don't worry about getting your form messed up. If you make too many mistakes and want to start over then close the form editor, don't save your work and start over again. It will take a little practice but once you get the hang of it you will find it easier to work with.
 You have created a Star Office Base database.
