 Professional artists work in dozens of media, and finding one which is marketable and suitable for your style will be your first priority. Here are a few examples:


Painting in oils. For either skilled painters who create original artwork to display and sell at showings or in galleries, this is probably the oldest continually used media. There are too many things to list involved in becoming a professional oil painter, such as choosing a technique, style, and preferred subject, but you should research the styles and subjects which are marketable to succeed without living in poverty. Here are a few subjects which may offer some hope of a successful career.

Portraits. Some institutions commission portraits of their benefactors or previous executives and significant persons in their company history, and oils tend to create a dignified artwork for this purpose.
Landscapes (and seascapes). For the decorator and the collector, these pieces are sought after as investments or simple decoration. The size and quality of an individual work, and more importantly, the artist's reputation, help determine the value of the work.
Still Life. Much like landscapes, these are usually sought after for decorative purposes, and possible customers could be collectors and professional people for use in decorating their office waiting areas.
Abstracts. These are more likely to be sought after by persons with more discriminating tastes, or Art Nouveau ideas, and the market probably isn't as open for them, since one must be a connoisseur to appreciate well executed abstract art.


Painting in acrylics. This is essentially the same as painting in oils, except the materials are water based, tend to be less expensive, and dry more rapidly, allowing a work to be completed in less time. Similar subject exist for acrylics as do oils.
Watercolor. This is a faster media in execution, and with skill gives excellent results. A wash can cover large areas more quickly than brush strokes, and the paint dries very quickly. The media is not as suitable for portraits, but is commonly used for landscapes, seascapes, and still life. Because of the relative ease of creating a finished watercolor painting, these are commonly sold in venues such as sidewalk displays, vacation destination souvenir shops, consignment galleries, and art shows. They can be created and hence, sold more cheaply than oils and acrylics, and so they are thought of as a more affordable painted fine art.;
, Framing and matting may be done by a professional, but be aware these add significantly to the cost of your work, and this will affect your success in selling the painting.
 Libraries, restaurant, hotels, and other public places and businesses are often happy to exhibit works for you, if they are of sufficient quality and work with their atmosphere and climate.
 Have a brochure printed with illustrations of your work, contact details, and other information available for interested persons.
 Professional artists often find that commissioned work is more reliable for income, and a few successful commissions will open doors in many cases, since the person who commissions the work usually does so to display it, which creates advertising for you, the artist.

