 Also called an inslope turn, a berm is a turn with a surface tilted toward the inside of the curve, helping bikers navigate it smoothly without losing speed. Whether your berm is a slight curve or a full semicircle, keep the radius between 10 and 15 feet (3–45.m). The slope of the berm can be as gentle as a 7% slope, but steep downhill turns require a steeper angle.Building the turn around a tree, large rock, or other obstacle discourages bikers from short-cutting the turn. Make sure the obstacle doesn't block line of sight, and that it's not close enough to hit someone's head when they lean into the turn.
For your first berm, avoid a sideslope (slope between the two sides of the turn) steeper than a 4:1 gradient (25%). Steeper slopes require a turning platform, which takes a lot more work.
 This includes topsoil, which will decompose and crumble if used on your trail. Build your berm with bare, mineral soil only., Steep berms and berms built onto steep slopes require a retaining wall to prevent collapse. This is a big job, so consider working with experienced builders, or building a berm with a gentle slope instead (10 degrees, for instance). There are two approaches if you decide to go this route:


Flat, square stones weighing at least 50 lbs (23 kg) make the best retaining walls. Lock the stones together with smaller rocks and "deadmen" logs extending into the bank to prevent wobbling, then backfill each layer with small rocks and mineral soil.Wooden retaining walls take less labor, but rot over time. Use pressure treated wood rated for ground contact ("heavy duty" or "extreme" ground contact in wet climates).Lay deadmen logs into the bank, attached to the wall with notched log cabin construction., To support mountain biking without eroding, the berm must be extra sturdy. Lay down 2–4 inches (5–10 cm) along the turn in the trail, and compact it as hard as you can using a McLeod rake or hoe. Trying to compact the whole pile of dirt at once will create a weak berm that won't hold together for long.The soil must compact and cohere well. If it is too loose and sandy, mix in clay fill.Powered compaction tools are difficult to use for this project, since they flatten the curve of the riding surface.
 As you build, incorporate a wide drain at the downhill edge of the turn to direct water off the trail surface. Add a slight grade in the opposite direction before and after your turn for the same reason., Rough up the surface of the berm a little, add another 2–4 inches (5–10 cm) of soil, and compact again. Repeat this to build the berm to the desired shape and height.


The rough surface helps the layers attach to each other, improving strength. A light sprinkle of water also helps.You can incorporate small rocks in the lower layers, but the top surface should be pure mineral soil only.
 Once your berm has reached the desired height and shape, make the surface as smooth as possible, with a constant slope. Give the berm a test ride and make adjustments until the turn feels smooth. For instance, if the turn feels too abrupt, you may need a wider radius, or a longer lead up into the berm.