 If you are decided on using a hen to hatch your eggs, you will want to know how to choose the best for your hatching needs. Some breeds will never go broody, so if you are waiting for your favorite to get in the mood for hatching, it may be a very long wait! The best broody breeds are Silkies, Cochins, Orpingtons and Old English Games.


There are plenty of other breeds that will go broody, but keep in mind that just because a hen goes broody, it is no guarantee she will be a good mother. For instance, some hens will go broody, but will not stay on the nest consistently, so few if any eggs will hatch.
Some hens are so startled when the eggs finally hatch, that the mother hen may attack the new chicks or abandon them. If you can find a hen that's a good breeder and mother, then you're on to a winner!

, To tell whether a hen has gone broody, look for a hen that stays flattened out in the nest box in a trance-like state and stays there at night. You can also look for a patch of naked skin on her underside. And if she warns you away with a loud squawk or gives you a sharp peck, this is a good indication that she's broody.


If you don't trust your hen, before placing fertile eggs under her, test her for a couple of days to see if she sticks tight to the nest. You can place her on golf balls, artificial eggs, or regular eggs that you are willing to sacrifice. You don't want a hen that will abandon the nest partway through the incubation cycle.
 Put the broody hen in a separate house or room that can be used for both the incubation and hatching period and the time when the chicks are growing. Place a comfortable, ground-level nest within the brooding area, filled with soft cushioning such as wood shavings or straw.


Minimally the brooding area should be somewhere quiet, dark, clean, draft-free, isolated from the rest of the flock, free of lice and ticks, and safe from potential predators.
Allow ample room for the hen to leave the nest to eat, drink, and move around.
 Once you are sure the broody hen will be a good setter and you have prepared the brooding area, place the fertile eggs under then hen. Place the eggs under her all at once, so they will hatch within 24 hours of each other.


Place the eggs under the hen at night, since you are less likely to disturb her and cause her to reject and abandon the nest and eggs.
Don't worry how you place the eggs. The hen will shift them numerous times over the course of the incubation.
 Make sure the hen has access to food and water at all times, even if she only gets up to eat and drink once a day. Place the water far enough away from the hen that she won't knock it over or spill it over her nest and eggs.
 The hen will do all the necessary work of turning and adjusting the eggs and the eggs should stay moist and warm from the hen's body. If you want to inspect and candle the eggs to check on their progress, resist the temptation of doing it too often.


However, you don't want to have rotten eggs that could create health and safety problems if they crack open. A good compromise is to candle all the eggs at the same time between seventh and tenth day of the incubation process. If you discover a rotten egg or are absolutely sure the egg has no chick developing inside, remove it.
During the last week of incubation, expect the hen to stay on the nest full time without turning or fussing with the eggs. That's all natural, so leave her alone.
 It can be very frustrating when a hen has been faithfully broody for two weeks and then gives up on the eggs, but don't despair. If you have another broody hen or an artificial incubator at hand, you can still save the clutch.
 Once the chicks begin to hatch, try not to peek or remove the eggs from under the hen just to get a better look. They are exactly where they need to be. Don't worry if not all of the eggs have hatched, hens are surprisingly good at multi-tasking between incubating eggs and caring for baby chicks. The hen will usually stay on the nest for 36 hours or longer to provide time for all of the chicks to hatch while keeping the hatched chicks very close under her wing.

