 Attendance is essential for passing any class, but it may be even more important in an English class where participation may make up a large part of your grade. Make sure that you are present in body and mind whenever you attend your English class.


Never sleep in class.
Silence your cell phone and always keep it stowed away during class.
Avoid chatting with your classmates, especially when your instructor is talking.
 Much of what your English instructor talks about during lectures will end up on your tests and exams for the course. This information can also be helpful when you are writing papers. Make sure that you take good notes during class to earn as many points as possible on your English class assignments.Write as much as you can during class to help you retain the information. Things that your instructor writes on the board or includes on a PowerPoint may be even more important to remember, so be sure to write these things down.
If you have trouble keeping up, then you may consider recording lectures (with your instructor’s permission) or asking a friend to compare notes with you after class.
 If your instructor ever says something that does not make sense or that you’d like to know more about, make sure that you speak up. Raise your hand and ask your instructor to repeat, explain, or expand on what he or she just said.


Keep in mind that most instructors are happy to elaborate on a point if it will help you to understand it. Just make sure that you are listening closely because an instructor may find it annoying if you are always asking him or her to repeat things that have already been explained.
 Your instructor probably has regular office hours where you can drop in or make an appointment to meet with him or her one-on-one. Make sure that you take advantage of this valuable resource.Meeting with your instructor outside of class is a great way to get some extra help with assignments, ask questions that you didn’t want to ask in class, or just get more information about something.
Try to meet with your English instructor at least once per semester.
 If you really want to excel in your English class, then look for ways to go above and beyond your instructor’s expectations. If your instructor ever says that something is a good idea, but that it is optional, do it anyways. These extra assignments can help you to increase your knowledge and that may improve your grade. Some instructors even offer extra credit for completing optional assignments.For example, if you are assigned a short story and your instructor says it might be a good idea to get a little background on the story’s reception after you read it, then do it! If your instructor recommends flashcards as a good option for improving your vocabulary, then make some flashcards!

