 Cortisol is the hormone that helps us to manage stress. This hormone level should increase in situations where you are under physical or emotional stress, such as strenuous activity, infection, or injury. Have a doctor test the amount of the hormone in your blood to reveal your level.Cortisol can also be detected in your saliva, so your doctor might want to perform a series of saliva tests at different intervals.


Symptoms of low cortisol levels are chronic fatigue, muscle weakness, loss of appetite, weight loss, low blood pressure leading to dizziness and fainting, hypoglycemia, increase in anxiety, severe PMS, and inability to cope with stress.
 If you are diagnosed with low cortisol (in severe cases, called "adrenal fatigue"), your doctor may recommend cortisol hormone therapy. This involved taking prescription "bioidentical" cortisol. This hormone can be very beneficial for individuals suffering from adrenal fatigue, however taking bioidentical cortisol may further interfere with your body's nature cortisol production. Discuss these details with your doctor, and decide if prescription hormone therapy is right for you., Cortisol production dramatically increases during stressful situations. Repeated bursts of cortisol may cause your adrenal glands to become fatigued. A stress-free body will allow cortisol to gradually increase in your system, instead of being produced all at once in high-pressure situations.Try things like blog writing, journal writing, yoga, or meditation to reduce your stress.
Spend more time with family and friends instead of being alone.
Whenever you feel your stress-level rising, stop and take a few deep breaths.
 Cortisol production is highest during deep sleep. As a result, you need to be getting between six to eight hours of uninterrupted sleep per night to naturally maintain adequate cortisol levels.Try to go to bed at the same time every night. If your sleep cycle is regular, your adrenal glands will adapt to secrete the hormone at a particular time. Irregular sleep will make it difficult for the adrenal glands to sense when to secrete the hormone.
A quiet and peaceful environment during sleep is necessary for the adrenal glands to work efficiently, so make sure to block out any noise or light.
 Licorice contains glycyrrhizic acid, which inhibits the breakdown of circulating cortisol in the liver. As a result, consume licorice supplements may help cortisol levels to gradually increase.Licorice supplements are available in tablet or capsule form.
Take one or two tablets in the mornings, as this is when cortisol levels tend to rise.
Use caution with licorice and avoid excessive use. If taken at too high of a dosage by people with high blood pressure, licorice can increase high blood pressure. It can also cause high blood pressure in people who do not have high blood pressure if you take too much of it.
 Thyroid hormones are necessary for cortisol to exert its effect within the body. These hormones act synergistically, which means that one hormone is necessary for the other to act.Low levels of thyroid hormones can produce symptoms of low cortisol, even if the actual level of cortisol remains normal.
Visit your doctor to have your thyroid levels tested if you experience any symptoms of low cortisol. Having your TSH levels tested will indicate whether you have any thyroid abnormalities.
 Foods high in trans fat and cholesterol will abruptly raise cortisol levels. Avoid trans fats (red meat, butter, shortening) to maintain a healthy level of cortisol. Instead, eat plenty of whole grains, fruits and vegetables. In particular, citrus fruits (such as grapefruit) break down enzymes that inhibit cortisol production, so you should add grapefruit to your diet to boost cortisol production.