 If you’ve been foreclosed on, the first people you should ask to take your cat are those closest to you. Since they care for you and best understand what you’re going through, your friends and family will probably be willing to help you care for your cat. Offer to pay for your cat’s expenses.For instance, you might ask your mother, “Mother, would you be willing to look after my cat? I think it really likes you.”
You could ask a friend, “Michael, since my home is in foreclosure, would you be willing to look after my cat? I can pay for its expenses.”
Close, trustworthy coworkers might also be willing to assist you if your cat needs a home due to your foreclosure.;
, Ask your vet if you can receive low-cost boarding for your cat. Alternately, ask if you can set up a payment plan to cover boarding costs over a long period.If you cannot board your cat at the vet’s, ask the vet for recommendations. Your vet may be able to offer information regarding how to find safe placement for your cat after foreclosure.
 Some shelters and rescue organizations hold pets for up to 60 days at low or no cost. After the designated period has elapsed, your cat might be placed for adoption. Ask about your options and clarify the organization’s protocol before leaving your cat at an animal shelter.As a last resort, surrender ownership of your pet at a shelter or rescue organization with a no-kill policy. This will ensure the cat is treated well and stays safe until either another family wishes to adopt or until you have the means to once again provide the cat with a stable home.
 If you don’t have another option, you might choose to sell or give away your cat to an individual or – preferably – a family. Be sure to thoroughly investigate anyone interested in buying or obtaining your cat. Ask the individual interested in obtaining your cat for references from their vet. Call the vet to ensure that the individual treats their pets well and takes them for regular (biannual) checkups.Avoid giving a cat to someone who has never owned a cat or dog. They might not fully understand the level or investment (in both time and money) that cat ownership entails.
Advertise your cat for sale online. Use social media to network with others with whom you share mutual friends and family.
 There are many ways to get help when attempting to find safe placement for your cat after foreclosure. For instance, you might crowdsource a fund to pay for a long-term cat boarding service through GoFundMe or a similar site. Alternately, you might be able to get help finding safe placement for your cat through an organization that provides temporary financial aid for individuals who have been foreclosed on.Local animal shelters often offer free or low-cost cat food to individuals who are experiencing financial hardship.

