 To meet new people, you’ve got to do new things. Getting out of your comfort zone can be a challenge when you have depression, so seek out activities that interest you. You’ll be more likely to keep up with things you enjoy.If you feel apathetic about most activities, think back to the time before you became depressed. What did you enjoy then? Look for a similar activity now, and it might rekindle your interest.
Classes, gaming clubs, and fitness groups are a few good ways to meet other people who have similar interests.
Keep in mind that it is okay to start small and work up to doing more activities over time.
If you have trouble finding activities to get involved in, then try looking into local special interest groups using Meetup.com.
 Asking people questions about themselves is an effective way to make new friends. Strike up a conversation with a classmate or coworker with the goal of finding out more about them. They’ll be flattered by your interest, and you’ll open the door to further conversations down the line.

Keep conversations light at first, before you get to know someone well. A few good topics to ask people about include their families, hobbies, and work. You might strike up a conversation with a coworker by saying, “Richard, it’s been awhile since I’ve seen your family. How’s the new baby?”

, The loneliness that accompanies depression can make you vulnerable to being drawn in by the wrong types of people. Aim for friends who lead mostly healthy lifestyles, who are encouraging, and who value you for who you truly are.For instance, you don't want to make friends with people who are using alcohol or drugs or making risky decisions. The allure of such activities can seem strong when you want to feel anything besides sadness. However, self-medicating is only trading one problem for another.
 You already spend a lot of time around your coworkers, so why not befriend them? If someone at work seems interesting or fun to be around, make an effort to get to know them better. Chat with them when the opportunity arises, or ask them to grab lunch or coffee with you., Volunteering is a great way to connect with other people and contribute to your community. Look for local charities you want to support or ask around to find organizations that could use a helping hand.If you need help finding a place to volunteer, you can visit VolunteerMatch.org or idealist.org, which are databases that connect you with opportunities in your area.
 If you are going to counseling for the treatment of depression, let your therapist know that you are interested in building new connections. You can set a goal as a part of your treatment to meet new people and forge stronger relationships.


One way to do this is by attending group therapy sessions. In this type of treatment, several people with depression work with a therapist as a group, learning coping skills and building better lifestyle habits.You can also potentially make friends by joining a local support group in your area for people with depression. Some sort support groups operate similarly to group therapy and are facilitated by a mental health professional. Others are ran by a peer who has experience coping with depression. In these groups you can hear the experiences of others who are going through the same thing and make new connections in the process.