 Depending on the type of cake, cooling using this method can be done in just a couple of hours. Here are some things to consider:

Angel food cakes, pound cakes, sponge cakes and other light and fluffy cakes can cool in the refrigerator in about 1-2 hours.This method may not be the best choice for a cheesecake, as quick changes of temperature can upset the structure of the cake, causing cracks. For rich, creamy cakes that are served chilled, this method may take you up to 4 hours.If you are cooling a traditional cake, this method will take you about 2-3 hours.;
, Once your cake is fully cooked, use oven mitts to carefully take it out of the oven and place it on the kitchen counter. Let your cake sit for 5-10 minutes. Here are some guidelines to consider:


If you are working with a cheesecake, or other creamy cake, it is recommended that you turn off the heat and let your cake cool in the oven for about an hour before transferring your cake to the refrigerator. If you don't have the time, you can put your cake in the refrigerator although it may crack slightly.If you are working with cheesecake, run a butter knife along the edge of the cake and the pan while the cake is still warm, this will prevent the cake from sticking to the pan later.
You may want to place your cake pan on a wooden surface like a cutting board to protect your countertop from heat damage.
 After allowing it to cool briefly on the countertop, place your cake pan in the refrigerator for another 5-10 minutes. This will further cool the cake without causing it to dry out. It should be pretty cool to the touch after 5 or 10 minutes. Here are some things to consider:


If you are cooling a sponge or angel food cake, it is recommended that you cool the cake upside down.This can be done by turning the pan upside down and setting the tube part over the neck of a stable bottle. Turning it upside down for cooling helps prevent it from collapsing as it cools.
If you are cooling a pound cake, it is recommended that you take it out of the pan to cool it. Cooling a pound cake for too long in a pan can cause it to become overly damp and stick to the pan.Transfer it to a wire rack and place it in the refrigerator.
 Sealing the cake tight will help keep it moist as it continues to cool.


If you have removed your cake from the pan or placed it upside down, you don't need to wrap it up.
 If you are chilling an angel food cake or pound cake, you may only need to cool it for an additional hour. If you are cooling a cheesecake, let it cool for the entire 2 hours.
 Use a sharp knife or butter knife and run it along the edges of the pan between the rim of the pan and the cake.


Be sure to keep your knife vertical so you don't accidentally cut into the sides of your cake.
 Place a large plate over the cake pan. Hold the plate and the pan firmly together and flip them upside down. Shake the pan softly to transfer your cake from pan to platter.


If your cake is especially delicate, gently tap the bottom of the pan a few times until you feel your cake release.
Now that your cake is cool, you are free to frost and decorate however you wish!

