 If you're interested in writing children's literature professionally, you should strive to understand your options. Children's books come in a variety of forms and sub-genres, so take some to learn about children's lit in order to understand what types of books you might be interested in writing.


For very young children, there are board books, easy picture books, and standard picture books. Board books are generally concept books with very little text that teach things like words, animals, shapes, and rhymes and may include various pop-up devices and different colors and textures. These books are typically around 12 to 16 pages. Easy picture books are elaborations on board books, usually around 32 pages, and usually contain the same fun textures and pop-ups but strive to tell a basic narrative using only about 500 words. Picture books, for children from 4 to 8, stick to illustrations on each page but contain about 500 to 800 words of text outlining a simple narrative plot that addresses childhood emotions.Easy readers and transition books are for children just beginning to learn to read independent of adult supervision. Easy reader series are broken down by grade level, starting in kindergarten and moving up to third grade. Much like a picture book, colored illustrations are found on each page but the reading level is a little more advanced. There is more text, about 200 and 1500 words, and the stories are told mostly through action and dialogue. Easy readers are typically 32 to 64 pages long. Transition books serve as a transition between easy reader books and chapter books. These books are broken down into 2 or 3 chapters and around 30 pages long. Illustrations are less prevalent, usually black and white illustrations showing up every few pages.Early chapter books, for children ages 7 to 10, are generally 45 to 60 pages long and broken down into 3 or 4 chapters. While paragraphs remain short, sentences are often more complex. Middle school books, written for children 8 to 12, are generally around 100 to 150 pages long. Stories tend to be more complex, introducing secondary characters and subplots, and genres range from fiction, nonfiction, fantasy, sci-fi, and other genres typical of adult literature.Young adult books are for ages 12 and up, and manuscripts are usually between 150 and 225 pages long. Characters are older, usually 13 and up, and themes generally revolve around the struggles of modern teenagers.;
, If you want to write children's books, you need to read a lot in your chosen genre. Seek to find relevant reading materials to familiarize yourself with the common language, themes, and characters of your chosen genre. There are a variety of ways to find good reading materials.


Talk to a librarian. Explain to a local librarian what genre of children's literature you're interested in writing and ask her for recommendations of current, popular books, authors, and series. You can also ask a clerk at a bookstore or a friend you have who has young children.Browse book review websites and see what children's books are getting the best reviews. Sites like Goodreads can provide an overview of what's being read and reviewed in the current market.Pay attention to awards, like Newberry Medals and Children's and Teen Choice Book Awards. This will give you an overview of what the most acclaimed writers and books are in your chosen field., Once you've got a variety of books together, you should sit down and read. When reading children's books, you need to read as a potential writer. Look for ways for you to learn the craft while reading through a variety of books.


Look for how the writer builds the story. When do we first meet the main character? How is he or she introduced? Do we get to know his or her personality through dialogue, action, description? What makes you root for this character? Why?How is the plot introduced? When is the central problem of the story made apparent? How is this problem solved? How is the solution proposed? What are the characters trying to accomplish? Do characters feel fully fleshed out and believable? If so, why?Pay attention to logistics as well. About how long are paragraphs? Sentences? If you're reading a chapter book, how long are chapters? Are pictures included? If so, where? Pay attention to the names of illustrators. If you want to write children's books, you might need to network with an illustrator if you're not familiar with drawing yourself. Be aware of who the best known illustrators in your chosen genre are., If you're serious about writing children books, some background information in childhood development might be a good idea. This can help you gauge what appropriate reading levels are and what kind of topics children best respond to at different age groups. Many colleges offer courses online and you might also be able to enroll in a single course at a local college or university. Check the requirements on a variety of college websites for information on how to apply.

