 Salvage anything from the wreck that left you on the island. Bedding or cloth can be used for string, and other materials can be adapted in similar ways to provide footwear, bedding, or help with building shelter. Make sure to find something sharp so that you can use it to cut materials.Look for other useful things like radios, flares, flotation devices, cell phones, buckets to store water, first aid kits, or other working electronic equipment.
 Going inland is a good idea when building your shelter. Don't make your shelter on the shore or else flooding could destroy it and your remaining supplies. Aim for wooded areas around fresh water sources.The shade from overhanging leaves will keep you cool during the day, and the trees will provide a natural barrier to the elements.
Stay out of the sun for an extended period. Heat exhaustion or overheating could cause you to hallucinate, pass out, or even die., You can build a place to sleep by leaning a large log against a tree, then setting smaller branches at a 45-degree angle on the wood. Put foliage and leaves over the top of your sticks and you've built a makeshift tent.If you're able to find a tarp or piece of plastic or cloth, then you can also construct a desert tarp. Drive four stakes in a square shape into the sand. Tie your tarp in place and then tie another tarp on top of it, leaving around 2 inches of distance between them. To ensure that the stakes stay in the ground, you can tie the top of them to logs, trees, or rocks in order to anchor them.There are other shelters that you can construct from logs and leaves. Whatever you do, make sure that it protects you from the sun's rays.
Salvaged plastic tarps are more efficient at keeping the elements out of your shelter.
 A fire will is necessary during the cold nights, and to cook any fish or animals that you catch. If you've salvaged any matches or lighters, wait for them to dry before trying to use them. If you don't have any supplies to start a fire, then you may have to start one by rubbing a sharpened stick into a pile of kindling. Read Start-a-Fire-with-Sticks to learn how to do this.
 Injuries and sickness are much more dangerous when you're alone on an island that does not have medical treatment. Make sure to attend to any injuries immediately by washing cuts out with fresh, clean water, and keeping them wrapped with bandages. Be careful not to overexert yourself because a broken bone could become fatal.


Make sure to boil the water that you're using to clean any wounds before you use it.
 Extreme isolation can cause irregular sleeping patterns, altered logical and verbal reasoning, and losing a sense of time.Work on projects that need to be completed around camp or devise new methods to escape the island. Channel your creative side during any downtime by creating art with salvaged materials. If there are people around you, stay social and maintain and communicate with the people that are around you.

