 "Quit" is "four-letter word" to most employers. Instead, use more neutral language and emphasize the positive reasons you left a job.For example, when describing a transition from one job to another, simply say "I joined another company." Never give unnecessary detail unless asked. Saying too much might prompt the interviewer to follow-up with uncomfortable questions that would be better left alone.
 If prompted for more detail, explain your departure from a previous job in general terms that don't cast you or your old boss in a bad light.


For example, saying you left a job to spend time with family or reevaluate your priorities before choosing your next career move are acceptable reasons for leaving a job in the eyes of most interviewers.Only offer more detail if it can cast you in a positive light. For example, you might want to talk about how a change in culture or management at your old job caused you to leave if it allows you to highlight how you're a good fit for your new job. You might say, "After some management changes, it became clear that the company was moving in a direction that didn't align with my strengths and goals." Continue by talking about your strengths and goals and how they align with the position for which you're interviewing., If personal conflicts in the workplace caused you to leave you previous job, don’t discuss them. Your new employer wants to know you can be a professional.The interviewer doesn't want to hear why you didn't get along with your old boss or coworkers. Instead, if a personality conflict with your old boss was at the heart of your departure, simply say you had “differing professional attitudes."

, People get fired everyday. Employers understand its part of business. If you were fired from your previous job, be honest and try to frame the reason in as positive terms as possible.


If a force beyond your control — reorganization, change in management, merger, downsizing, recession, etc. — caused you to be let go, be sure to explain that as simply and straightforwardly as possible.If you were fired because of your performance, minimize your discussion of it. Unless the reason was criminal, it will not appear on your background check. When in doubt, say that you “were not a good fit” for your previous position, then explain why you’re a great fit for the new position.Always emphasize your positive attitude in response to the setback.In many cases, you can even turn the reason you were fired from your previous job into a discussion of the skills you developed. Make yourself, not your old employer, the focus of your response. For example, if you couldn't work the inconsistent hours that your previous job demanded, say so. Then add that the situation helped you improve your time management and explain how what you've learned will help you succeed in the position for which you're interviewing. 