 Goldfish like to socialize with other fish and they are rarely aggressive to one another.Make sure to buy goldfish that compliment one another. For instance, do not put a shy or vision impaired species, like a telescope eye goldfish, with a more active species of goldfish like the shubunkin or comet. You can also prevent conflict amongst your fish by providing enough food so that they don't have to compete for it.Adding more fish may make your goldfish a more interesting pet.


Make sure that your tank is big enough to accommodate more than one goldfish.
Larger goldfish like the comet, shubunkin and wakin require up to 100 gallons of water and thrive better in small ponds.
For smaller goldfish, make sure that there is at least 20 gallons for the first goldfish and an additional 10 gallons for each additional fish., Adding things for your goldfish to swim through and around will make it more intelligent and give it more things to do during the day.Consider adding structures or rocks to your tank to increase the complexity of your goldfish's habitat.


Adding structures to the tank will also make looking at it much more engaging and exciting for you as a pet owner.
Substrate is the stuff on the bottom of your tank. You can buy different color pebbles or sand for this.Do not add ceramics, wood, plastics, sharp glass, and certain rocks or corals to your tank as they can leech harmful chemicals that could kill your goldfish. When purchasing decorations for your tank, make sure to go to a pet store and talk to the owner about any potential dangers., Adding plant life to your goldfish tank will give it more character and make it a much more attractive habitat. Purchase plant life from a local pet store. However, keep in mind that goldfish are notorious for eating plant life and will most likely use it for grazing.Popular varieties of plants for fish tanks include java moss, java fern, and dwarf baby tears.
Adding plants to your tank introduces foreign bacteria, and the water needs time to adjust before it's a safe habitat for your goldfish. This is called the cycling process and typically takes two to eight weeks.You can cycle your fish tank by adding natural bacteria in the form of plant life and other additives to the tank, then adding a small amount of ammonia each day. Test the water until it has zero ammonia and zero nitrites, which are chemicals that will harm your goldfish.