 Despite your best efforts, you may find yourself sucked into a political debate. If this occurs, at the very least try to keep things respectful. Do not let a discussion turn into an argument.Remember, people come into the world with different experiences. While you may disagree with your Uncle Ted, does he have a unique background that may make him feel the way he does about a subject? Can you make an effort to understand him better, even if you don't respect his viewpoint?
Ask questions. Instead of seeing this discussion as a chance to win or lose, see it as a chance to gain insight into a point of view that's foreign to you. Ask things like, "Why do you feel that way?" and "Is there a reason you think that?"

, Political discussion can be healthy. You may not change minds, but you can certainly learn something about another person. You can also give that person a chance to learn something about you. When you disagree, try to share your opinion as an offering rather than an argument.For example, say you're arguing about Planned Parenthood with your very conservative cousin. Say something like, "You know, I guess I see it differently, as I'm friends with a lot of women who don't make a lot of money. Planned Parenthood has always provided services when my friends were in need, so I personally think it's important to keep it funded."
Try to empathize with your cousin. Make it clear you are engaging, without wanting to argue. You can follow up with something like, "But I understand, given your views on abortion, why you see it differently." You can also say something like, "But thank you for sharing your opinion."

, You may want to change the topic quickly; however, this can appear rude and provoke tempers. Be sure to wait until someone finishes expressing their opinion or asks you a question before commenting or changing the topic.


If you are discussing politics and sharing differing opinions, it's especially important not to interrupt. This can come off as argumentative.
 Regardless of how your family members may be responding during a political discussion, be sure to watch your own anger. People are often unaware of when they raise their voices or say something offensive during a controversial discussion with family members. Getting angry over politics is likely to upset your relatives and can derail a fun family event.Remember, someone having an opposing viewpoint is not a personal attack on you. Keep this in mind when arguing. Do not resort to saying things like, "So you think I'm stupid?"
Be aware of the volume of your voice. If you're feeling passionate, you may be raising your voice without meaning to do so. This can come off as arguing, even if you're trying to be respectful.

