 For some shoes, you may want to consider actually making the shoes smaller by wetting them and then allowing them to air-dry. This can get great results if done right, but it's important to note that it carries a small risk of damage to your shoes, so always check the care label inside the shoe before beginning. See below for directions.First, get your shoes wet. For leather or suede shoes, use a spray bottle. For casual/athletic shoes, soak the shoes in water.
Let the shoes dry in the sun. If it's not sunny, use a hairdryer on the "low" setting. Be careful not to hold the hairdryer too close to the shoe — some fabrics, like polyester, are vulnerable to burning and/or melting.
When your shoes are dry, try them on. You may need to repeat this process several times if they're still too big. If you're worried about your shoes shrinking too small, let them dry on your feet so that they will form around them as they constrict.
Condition fine suede or leather shoes after they dry. Conditioning kits are usually sold at shoe stores and sometimes drug stores.
 This trick is handy if you have some experience with sewing. Stitching elastic bands into the inside of your shoes pulls the material together, giving a tighter fit. All you need for this is a short elastic band for each shoe, a needle, and thread. Use a fairly strong set of bands if possible.Stretch the elastic band along the inside of the back of the shoe. A good spot for this is the inside of the heel, but any loose area will work.
Sew the band in place, keeping the elastic tight as you go. Safety pins can help here.
Release the band. When you let go, the elastic band will draw in the material of the shoe. This should give it a "smaller" fit.
You can use method this with the water shrinking method or one of the tricks above if needed.
 When all else fails, you can always see a professional. Cobblers (people who specialize in working with shoes) were once common, but they are somewhat rare today. However, the internet can make them a little easier to find. For instance, a search on Google Maps or Yelp should give at least a few results in any major city.



Best for: High-quality, expensive shoes; treasured heirlooms.

Notes: The services of a cobbler are often expensive, so try to reserve them for shoes that are really worth it. The nicest pair of dress shoes you own are a good choice to bring to a cobbler. Your daily tennis shoes are not.

