 In many ways, a brokerage account is similar to an IRA. You invest in it over time and, once you are ready to retire, you withdraw the money that you need. Some people prefer a brokerage account because there is no income ceiling, you can contribute as much as you want, and you have an unlimited amount of investment choices. However, the money invested in these accounts is always taxable. This is a good option if you make more than $107,000 annually.In order to find the right firm, you should meet with a representative and talk with them about your options. The right firm is one that meets your needs at a reasonable price.
Ask them things like “What are your fees?” and “How closely will I work with my advisor?”
With a discount firm, you should visit each firm’s website and compare their fees and services.
 One option for managing your brokerage account to work with a full-service brokerage firm. With a firm, you will receive the expertise of an advisor who will help you manage your money. However, this expertise often comes at a steep price.Determine whether the assistance of an adviser is something that you want and if it is in your budget.
 If a full-service account is too expensive, you may want to consider opening an account with a discount brokerage firm. For a much lower cost, these firms offer far fewer services. However, you are in total control of your assets. If you feel capable of managing your retirement portfolio on your own, this may be a good option.Some common discount firms are Scottrade, E*Trade, Vanguard and Fidelity.
With many of these firms, you manage your investments through an online portal.
 Once you have decided on a brokerage firm, you will need to manage your portfolio. With a full-service firm, you can manage your assets through an adviser or allow them to take care of your retirement portfolio for you. With a discount firm, you will manage the account on your own.Once you are ready to retire, you can begin withdrawing money from your accounts.

