 Rather than shame your child for her shyness, you should take a supportive role. This means being aware of her social needs and responding to them in kind. Doing this will be much more efficient than trying to force her to socialize or be more outgoing.Keep an eye on your child when she is in a social situation, such as with other kids on the playground or around other adults at the dinner table, and note her body language. Is she avoiding eye contact and turning her body inward? Does she seem unengaged or distracted?
Respond to this by letting her take a minute to assess the situation. Be supportive by making eye contact with her or smiling at her encouragingly. Don’t rush her into socializing or participating in the conversation.
You can also pull her aside and talk to her one on one to ensure she feels comfortable. Or, you can take a more hands-off approach and allow her to listen to what is being said, rather than force her to respond.
 Many shy children become anxious and stressed when they have to present a big speech or do a performance in front of others. Help her cope with this by practicing her speech with her one-on-one beforehand. After she is comfortable with this, enlist the help of other family members, gather a small audience, and encourage her to perform in front of them. This is an excellent way to help your child overcome stage fear. Ask the family members beforehand not to laugh at her mistakes and to give encouraging nods through her speech. You may also try to integrate the speech or performance in your daily routine. For example, you can play the song she may be dancing to, on the drive to school or take some time before bed to practice critical sections of her speech. Doing this will help her become more comfortable with her upcoming presentation and reduce her feelings of shyness.
 Support your shy child by discussing any big social gatherings with family or friends a few days before they happen. This way, you can talk about who will be there and who she can talk to at the event. You can also put her at ease by preparing her for what to expect regarding the itinerary for the event or any special activities planned as part of the event.For example, if you are throwing a surprise party for her grandparents, you should sit her down and let her know there will fifty people in the house and mention few familiar names she may be comfortable around. You can also let her know there will be balloons, cake, and presents so she knows what to expect on the day of the party.
 Giving your child a task to focus on when she is around a big group can help her to steady her nerves and feel less pressure to socialize on her own.This could be collecting everyone’s coats at the door or showing everyone into the dining room. You could also encourage her to help set the table before dinner or organize the presents at a party. These types of tasks will help her stay focused and feel more comfortable around a big group.
 Most shy children do better one-on-one, especially when they are playing with other children. You could set up playdates with another child in her class that she gets along with and make them a weekly or bi-monthly occurrence so she can socialize on a consistent basis. You could also suggest that she join a club or a class with one close friend to expand her social group in a safe and comfortable way., Some shy children are less intimidated around children who are younger than them. Encourage your shy child to play with younger children in the neighbourhood or younger siblings at home.