


Oahu: University of Hawaii at Manoa, University of Hawaii - West Oahu, Honolulu Community College, Kapiolani Community College, Leeward Community College, and Windward Community College

Maui: University of Hawaii - Maui College

Kauai: Kauai Community College

Hawaii (Big Island): University of Hawaii at Hilo and Hawaii Community College
;
, Some may be stronger in accounting and business, while others are offer more computer and technology based degrees. Kapiolani Community College is known for their culinary and medical careers, as opposed to Honolulu Community College, which is more geared towards mechanical and industrial careers.
 Each university has their own requirements for undergraduates and graduates. All schools have different categories for residents and non-residents of Hawaii, international students, and students with visas. It's highly recommended to double check on the college's website.


Health requirements include a valid Tuberculosis (TB) Examination and a Measles, Mumps and Rubella (MMR) Immunization record. Both records are mandatory for every college application.
Achieve the minimum requirements for grade point averages (GPA), SAT and ACT scores, and other tests. Each UH college has their own score requirements, especially transferring within the system and from other schools. There are also different requirements for the Official Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) and Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) scores.
 It is important to verify when application forms are due for the specific semester you wish to enter. Registration fees, as well as late registration fees are different for each school and are non-refundable and non-transferable. If you are an incoming freshman to the University of Hawaii at Manoa, you will also need to fill out a "Self Reported Application Supplement" form, which can be accessed here. Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to view this PDF file. Be sure to attach any high school or college transcripts, if applicable.
 Tuition, book, and room fees can add up every year and all students are welcome to see if they're eligible for financial assistance. All campuses uses the Free Application for Federal Student Aid system.
 The MyUH portal is the University of Hawaii online system that is mandatory for all students to have access to. Creating an account will enable you to view all records (applications, tuition status, financial aid records, transferable credits, etc) as well as all class grades. If you transfer from one school to another within the University of Hawaii system, your past records will be categorized in the correct section.

