 Fertilizer not marked as "organic" is typically petroleum-based, and should not be used in organic gardens. Organic fertilizer can come from many sources, including animals (e.g. manure), plants (e.g. seaweed), and minerals (e.g. Epsom salt).


If you're buying non-organic fertilizer, you'll need to choose a release speed. General-purpose fertilizer releases most of its nutrients within a few months, and so will have to be applied several times per season. Slow-release fertilizers remain effective for an entire growing season. Water-soluble fertilizers become available to the plants as soon as you water the area.
The distinction regarding release speed does not need to be made with organic fertilizers. Plants will use the nutrients in organic fertilizer at the rate needed, so there is no risk of over-fertilizing and burning the plants.;
, After the winter season has passed and the spring has begun, conduct a soil test to assess the pH and acidity level of your soil. Poor soil means that the soil is deprived of nutrients so fertilizing your soil can be a great solution to that.Even a nutrient-rich ground can still benefit from regular fertilizing, especially since growing produce strips soil of its nutrients.Choose your fertilizer depending on the quality of the soil and the plants you are trying to grow., In fact, the concentrations of these 3 nutrients are printed on the front of each package as a series of 3 numbers, sometimes called the "NPK" numbers or the fertilizer grade.


Deficiencies of these 3 minerals can be roughly diagnosed through leaf appearance. Nitrogen deficiencies lead to yellow and brown leaves; phosphorus deficiencies cause purple-veined and slow-growing leaves; potassium deficiencies lead to curled, distorted leaves.
The balance between nitrogen and potassium determines where plants focus their growth. A high nitrogen-to-potassium ratio boosts leaf growth, which is ideal for lawns, shrubs, and other plants in which foliage is desirable. A high potassium-to-nitrogen ratio will boost fruit, flower, and vegetable growth at the expense of leaf growth.
To achieve the most accurate picture of your soil's nutrient content, you can have a soil sample from your garden analyzed. In the U.S., many county extension offices can perform this test or direct you towards an organization that can.
 Some types of fertilizers are richer in 1 nutrient than another, and you should match this nutrient content to your plants' needs.


Plant-derived fertilizers provide quick nutrients to your soil and can be applied often. Corn gluten meal is a good source of nitrogen; soybean meal is a good source of phosphorus; alfalfa meal is a good source of potassium.
Animal-derived fertilizers tend to offer large amounts of nitrogen, and are therefore good for encouraging leafy growth. Bone meal is also a good source of phosphorus, and fish emulsion is a great all-purpose fertilizer. Manure, while often low in nutrient content, provides a large amount of organic matter that increases the soil's water retention and introduces beneficial microorganisms.
Mineral-based fertilizers release their nutrients into the soil very slowly, and so are best considered long-term amendments rather than short bursts of food. Epsom salt contains plenty of magnesium and sulfur, which are beneficial for tomatoes and peppers. Gypsum contains high levels of calcium and sulfur.
 Avoid burning plants with fertilizers by watering them before feedings. If plants have not been planted yet, add the fertilizer into the soil by tilling it. If plants are already planted or are in the process of being planted, sprinkle the fertilizer in the garden bed as per the fertilizer’s instructions.