 Realize that your mom wouldn't buy it for you or pitch in without knowing what you're doing. So, try doing extra chores around the house or get a part-time job to afford the hair dye.;
, Either walk to a store that sells hair dye, take a bus, or have a friend's mom drive you if you don't have a driver's license. If you only have a small amount of money, perhaps you should visit multiple stores to get the best deal. Also, look for coupons in the newspaper, for they will save you a couple of dollars at the most.
 Try to make it a couple of shades lighter or darker. if you want a more natural look. Maybe you shouldn't get a bold color, such as pink or red, for this will be more noticeable to your mom if she catches you off-guard. Ask around about the brand of the hair dye, for some brands are known to permanently damage hair. Try to get a type that you can still use normal shampoo on.
 Hide it in your drawer, closet, or any other spot where you know your mom will not look. Keep it there until you are ready to actually do the hair dying. Try to avoid setting the hair dye directly under heavy items, for this may cause some damage. Also, avoid putting near the window or vent, for extreme temperatures may cause the hair dye to act up 

, Call up a friend, and ask them if you can come to their house to dye your hair. Make sure the date is a day when both families aren't busy. Remember to call multiple friends if the first one you call won't let you come over. The goal is to avoid dying your hair at your own house, for it may leave an odor that your mom will most likely notice.
 Bring all of the hair dying supplies with you in a bag. Explain to your mom before you leave that you're just going over to a friend's house, if a reason is needed. Your mode of transportation doesn't matter, for your mom won't know you will be heading over to your friend's house to dye your hair.
 Read them at least three times before beginning so you will know exactly what to do. Have your friend help you out if you need some assistance. Once you believe you are finished, pack up your materials and head on home. However, be sure to spray an air-freshener in the bathroom of your friend's house, and thank your friend for allowing you to come over.
 Don't let your mom see your hair once you return home. Cover it up it any way possible. Try to avoid your mom by going into a different room and not talking to her. Also, you may need to hide it from siblings if they are the type to snitch on you.

