 Every two years we elect members to the House of Representatives, and every six years Senators must stand for re-election. The President is elected every four years.To get involved, you should ask the candidates what crime policies they favor.


Ideally, you can ask the question during a town hall or other meeting, so that you can ask the question in person and judge the sincerity of the politician’s response.
However, you can also check the candidate’s website, which should list his or her positions on crime.;
, You can fight crime at the federal level by supporting candidates who will make crime prevention a major part of their candidacy. To volunteer, reach out to the campaign. There should be an office in your city or county. Stop in and ask how you can help.


Volunteers typically act as the eyes and ears of the campaign. You can call potential voters at their homes or go door-to-door and drum up support for your candidate.If you feel uncomfortable talking to people, then you could help with the creation of marketing materials or work on the candidate’s social media accounts. There is always something for volunteers to help with, so don’t be shy about reaching out.
 In addition to volunteering, you can also give money to a candidate who is tough on crime. Individuals are currently limited to a maximum contribution of $2,700 per candidate per election.However, you could also give money to the following:


A maximum of $5,000 to a Public Action Committee (PAC) that makes contributions to other federal committees.
A maximum of $10,000 combined to the district, local, and state party per calendar year.
A maximum of $33,400 to a national party committee per calendar year.
A maximum of $100,200 to additional national party committee accounts.
 You need to be registered to vote before you can vote for your preferred candidate. Don’t delay. Not every state allows you to register close to election day. To register, visit your local voter registration office or download the National Mail Voter Registration Form and fill it out. This form contains registration information for each state.To be eligible to vote in a federal election, you must meet the following requirements:You are a U.S. citizen.
You satisfy your state’s residency requirements.
You are at least 18 years old.
 In the United States, federal elections are held on the first Tuesday in November.You should check several weeks ahead of time to see that you are properly registered. You can visit your state or local voter registration office and check.If you will be away on election day, contact the voter registration office and ask how to vote by absentee ballot.
Many states also allow early voting for convenience.

