


For example if you moving from Liverpool to Manchester, you have the same spoken language but may the traditions of the local people in Manchester vary from their counterparts in Liverpool.
You are to know these habits and use them too. You usually drink from time to time but people do not espouse drinking so, just drink privately in your house not publicly. People usually have meetings and encourage team work so, go ahead, learn these values and use them in your daily routine.;
,


You need to know not just knowing but also learning their spoken language. Their language like ”words people always use, expressions, movements, thoughts, interactions with each other and what they like” as for the mother language Italian, you will learn it sooner or later, sooner will be outstanding as that helps you to be in action much more quicker. That will also help you coping with the society faster and know their habits and customs.
 They will put you in the right track and make your life easier and easier than it looks. They will give you an overview about their living style, traditions, people as a whole, what they like, what they espouse, how to help them, and let you visit new places. With teaching you some of their own language.


Getting friends will help if you have problems in that society or even if you want to search for a new job.
Making friends in a foreign society is not easy at all, you are to show your good side of your personality, just be your-self and everything will be on track.
Show people that you care, want to help in order to get new friends. And when that happened, those friends will back you up and also support you in your living.
 You have to know that you are a new member in their society and it`s not easy that they trust you quickly, you must show them that you worth this trust and gain it too.


If anyone tried to get under your skin “let by gone be by gone”
If anyone asked for your help do not refuse and try not to let him down.
Use their traditions and stick to them, forget the traditions of your society and live your new life.
 If their traditions abject yours, choose the best. Like “if they walk in streets and usually greet each other and you do not do that so, choosing their option will be helpful. If you live a private life and they live an open one in this case choose the best that suits you. If they usually visit hospitals so, let them know that you are there and go ahead for it.”


No ideal society. Espouse the best of their customs and habits. And other things you would better get rid of them!
Know them, and you need to be the best because if anything happened against your situation, they will defend you.
,