 If it's possible, try to plan well before the birth. This luxury isn't open to every new parent but if you do have time, starting early can ease your concerns about having too much to do. In terms of freedom, realize that there is no one right way to design a nursery other than ensuring that it is safe, warm and healthy. Decorative elements are completely up to you and you can have as much or as little in the nursery as you wish.

While it's fun to use sites like Pinterest to create a dreamboard nursery, be realistic. Time, financial and space constraints will end up dictating a lot of what you're able to do in the end; use your photos as general inspiration rather than absolute must-haves.;
, This is the primary concern and the one thing on which you cannot compromise.
 It's easy to want the best for the baby, and for some parents that may include providing a beautiful, new, well-coordinated nursery, but remember that it won't matter to the baby whether the area rug matches with the curtains. Stains are a fact of life, so focus on buying things that are functional first, beautiful second. When the baby spits up and has accidents, you want to focus on the child, not on how those sheets you spent so much money on are ruined.

Bear in mind that baby is only a baby for a short space of time. It may not feel like it now, but over-blowing the budget on baby gear and gadgets isn't really the best idea. Save your pennies for the growing child, who will cost you considerably more than baby. In this same vein, do not be ashamed to accept heirlooms and hand-me-downs. For example, a crib that gets passed around the family is great, provided it has been checked for safety prior to each use.
 You will need these measurements when you go shopping for furniture, paint, etc. And if you happen to see something nice at a flea market you did not expect to visit, you can reach into your pocket for the measurement information.

Consider putting the crib close to the entrance so that you don't have to walk around things or risk tripping over something when you come for the baby in the middle of the night. Avoid putting the crib right next to the window, where there might be drafts. Never place a crib near anything that dangles, like curtain or blind trimmings, as the baby can get caught up in these and choke.






Put the changing table close to the crib. When the baby has wet accidents, you don't want to carry him or her across the room.






If there is a window, think about putting the rocking chair or glider next to it so you can look outside. You could also get yourself a nice comfortable rocking recliner. By this window, make sure to get some contrasting curtains that go with the wall color to protect the baby from any bright light. Add a block out blind to help your baby sleep well during the day if the sun shines directly into the window.






Estimate how much storage you'll need, and create twice as much. The baby will accumulate more items than you may think. Do not place any shelving above the crib, where either the shelving or the things on the shelves might jostle and fall onto the baby.
 It may be a good idea to switch off all lights in the room once the baby has been put in the crib, due to recent studies. (See link at bottom.) A dimmer switch, sconce, chandelier or nightlight - they are all among your options. Choose more than one if you like. Make sure you run any necessary wiring now before you start painting.
 Do you want it to match the rest of your home? Do you or your spouse have a history of allergies? If so, your baby might be susceptible too. Take this into account when you make your choice. Wall to wall carpet can harbor allergens, so a hardwood floor with a removable rug (which can be cleaned) might be your best bet.
 This will be influenced by your nursery theme if you have chosen one. If you don't know the baby's gender, favor neutral colors like cream, yellow, beige, and pale green. Decide also whether or not you would like to decorate with a nursery theme. Anything goes, from cowboys to flowers, pirates to butterflies, or something more modern, such as blocks or stripes. Also consider how the room will be used in the future. Will you need to repaint the room once the child outgrows the theme?

, The crib will form the focal point of your baby nursery. Take your time and choose wisely. Shape, style, finish and durability are among the factors you should consider. Be sure the slats of the crib are vertical, so the baby will be less likely to use the slats for climbing out. And be sure the slats are close enough together as not to allow the baby to get his or her head stuck. An easy guideline for this measurement: if a standard size soda can fits through the slats, they are too far apart. Newer models will incorporate both of these features, but if you using an old crib, you have to think about these things.
 Essential furniture items include: a baby changing table; a very comfortable chair; a night stand or table, a nursery hamper and a clock if you are planning to breastfeed. Important safety note: Except for the chair, it is very important to secure all furniture to the wall. Your child will be old enough to pull down on an open drawer faster than you think. It is best to secure everything when you put it in the room. You can do this either with a strong nylon strap or an L bracket. First find a stud in the wall behind the piece of furniture. You can do this by taping with a hammer or by using an inexpensive stud finder. Chose a position on the upper side or top of the furniture where you can secure the strap or bracket to the stud.
 It's time for that great baby nursery shopping spree you've been waiting for. Choose a mural, picture, and bedding. Buy stuff, sew stuff, glue stuff. Assemble the furniture in the nursery, if possible, so you don't have any issues with large items not fitting through the doorway. Let the room come alive. Remember to add essential equipment to your baby nursery:


A baby monitor to know when your baby gets upset.
Diapers, wipes, ointment, burp cloths, receiving blankets, backup outfits, and a toy or two in or near the changing table.
Garbage can (or a diaper disposal system that minimizes the smell) next to the changing table.
Beginning toys to play with, like rattles, teddy bears, or a mobile.

