 During recovery from all strains, avoid the HARM factors during the first 24 to 72 hours after injury. These include:Heat: Heat is avoided because heat can increase swelling and bleeding at the injury site.
Alcohol: Alcohol increases bleeding, swelling, and delays healing.
Running or exercise: Any activity will aggravate the injury and increase swelling and bleeding.
Massage: Massage can be very helpful after the initial recovery period, but should be avoided during the first 72 hours.
After 48 to 72 hours, you can try some of these methods.
 You can use non-prescription, over-the-counter (OTC) medication for the first few days for the pain in your thigh. These medicines can also reduce the inflammation.


OTC pain medication, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB) or acetaminophen (Tylenol), can be taken to reduce pain and inflammation.
 Heat can help a sore, tight muscle by helping the muscle relax. It also helps circulation into the muscle. Don’t use heat on a fresh injury or acute pain. Wait for at least 48 to 72 hours before applying heat.After the appropriate amount of time has passed, apply heat to the injury three for 15 minutes, three to four times a day.You can use a heating pad, a heated wrap, a hot compress, or a hot water bottle. You can also soak in a hot bath.
Heat is better at helping chronic muscle pain or pain associated with arthritis.
 After you can walk on your thigh without pain, you can apply alternating heat and cold. This can help reduce the pain and the swelling.


Start with two minutes of heat, followed by one minute of cold. Repeat this six times.
Repeat the entire cycle twice a day.
 After you can walk without pain, talk to your personal trainer or a physical therapist about using a foam roller to stretch and massage the injured thigh muscles.The foam roller is a foam tube that you place under the injured leg and roll it back and forth under the injured leg.
When you are able, repeat on both sides. This can be useful in preventing further injury.
 Epsom salt is believed to be an anti-inflammatory properties that help lessen pain in sore muscles. Soaking in a hot Epsom bath gives you both the benefit of the Epsom salt plus the heat from the water.Fill your tub with water that is warmer than lukewarm, but that does not burn your skin. Pour in at least a cup of Epsom salt, though you can add more. Soak for up to 20 minutes.
 After the acute pain has passed and the thigh has started recovering, try massaging your leg. Applying light pressure can help alleviate the pain.Try stroking the legs in an upward direction, kneading the muscles with your hands, or press deeper pressure along the muscle.
Go see a massage therapist if your thigh injury is severe, or if you are unsure how to massage your thigh at home.
 Stretching can help limit the damage and limit the risk of re-injury. Stretching exercises are especially helpful if you injure your hamstring (the back of the thigh) or have pain in your inner thighs. Generally, your doctor or physical therapist will help you decide if stretching is the correct method of treatment for you.Try the frog stretch for your inner thighs. Get on your knees and spread them as wide as you can, stabilizing yourself on your hands. Make sure your shins are parallel to one another. Arch your back so that your belly drops and your butt is pushed back. If you are more flexible, you can lower yourself to your forearms. You should feel the stretch in your inner thighs.For a good hamstring stretch, sit on the floor with one leg straight out and the other bent. Lean towards the straight leg, rotating at the hips. You should feel the stretch in the back of the thigh. Hold that for 30 seconds. Switch legs and repeat. You can also place both feet straight out in front of you and bend at the hip, reaching for your toes.To stretch the quads, stand and hold on to the wall or a chair to balance yourself. Bend your knee and grab the foot, bringing it as close to your butt as possible. You should feel the stretch in the front of the thigh.
 See your physician as soon as you can if, immediately after the injury, you cannot put any weight on the injured leg or you can’t walk more than four steps without significant pain.


See your physician if the pain or discomfort does not improve with the RICE method within five to seven days.
Physical therapy may be required for severe injuries. Ask your doctor for a referral to a massage therapist or physical therapist.

