 Many people find the decision to stop cutting first comes from within. Before reaching out to another person, it may be helpful to think about why you need and want to change your behavior.People have different motivations for quitting. You may be motivated by a desire to manage your pain better. You may be fearful of the behavior getting worse, or getting sent to the hospital. You may also worry about how your cutting affects friends and loved ones.
Whatever your reasons, identify why you want to quit. Starting a journal to write down how you are feeling when you want to cut can help understand how to stop or find other coping methods. It can even help to write down a list of reasons that you do not want to cut anymore. You can refer back to this list in moments when you feel tempted.;
, It is very hard to stop cutting on your own. It can be helpful to open up to someone when you begin the quitting process. This person can provide you with support along the way.Choose someone you know you can trust. You do not want to pick a friend who's notorious for gossip or someone who is judgmental. It may be a good idea to tell a parent, as your mom or dad can help you find professional help.
It can be scary to admit to someone you have been cutting. You may be afraid of an adverse reaction. Keep in mind, however, you will probably feel relieved once you tell someone. It's very hard to keep things bottled up, and you will feel better once you've reached out and asked for support.
Consider speaking with your pediatrician or family doctor as a first step. They can be a very helpful resource. It may be easier to tell your parents, too, if you have already talked about it with your doctor and you, your parents, and your doctor can discuss it together.
 Your comfort is very important. Telling someone you have been cutting is not easy, and it's important you open up in a way that makes you feel safe.You do not have to have a face-to-face conversation right away. If the idea of telling someone directly is scary, try writing a letter or email. Allow the person to process, and then talk face-to-face later on.
You don't have to share everything. If you're not ready to open up about some information, give yourself time. Make it clear to the person you may not answer all the questions they have. You do not have to show your injuries or explain any details you're not ready to share.
Focus on your feelings when you talk to the other person. Do not talk primarily about the self-harm behavior. Talk about the feelings, situations, or emotions that led to the behavior. For example, "I've been so stressed about school. I think I'm having trouble managing my emotions about my senior year."

, It can be shocking to hear a loved one is cutting. The person you open up to may need time to process the information. Have some patience.You may dislike someone's initial reaction. Remember, reactions are usually temporary. Just because someone responds with shock, fear, or anger does not mean they will feel this way forever. These reactions usually come out of concern for you.
It can help to print out some pamphlets about cutting that you find online. Many people do not understand self-harm. Having some reading material can help them process.
If you have already reached out for help from a health professional, such as your family doctor or a counselor at school, it may be helpful for you and your parents to meet with them so they can support you as you tell your parents.
 It's great to have someone to support you as you quit. However, a friend, family member, or loved one may not be able to help you during a crisis. In some situations, psychiatric or medical help is necessary.If you ever feel suicidal, call 9-1-1. You can also call the National Suicide Prevention Hotline at (800) 273-8255.
If you find yourself in crisis without anyone to talk to, call (800) 366-8288. This is the number for the S.A.F.E Alternatives program, which offers support for those who engage in self-harm.
 Have a range of distractions in the back of your mind at all times. In the moment when you feel the urge to self-harm, you should have an alternative behavior ready. Sometimes, the best way to avoid engaging in self-harm is to find a distraction from your feelings.Think about things you enjoy doing. You can go for a walk or run, play with a pet, call a friend to talk about something completely different, or watch television. Make sure to change the channel if you see something distressing.
It may help to have a list of distractions written down somewhere. If you feel the urge to cut, refer to your list.
 Cutting often comes in response to stress and anxiety. If you're feeling anxious, find something soothing to calm you down.A warm bath or a shower can be soothing to some people. Just make sure there are no razors in the shower.
Try a deep breathing exercise. You can find many different guided routines online. You can also try doing something like yoga. Ask your parents about enrolling in a yoga course. When you're feeling stressed, you'll know a few moves to calm you down.
Try listening to soothing music. This can potentially calm your mood.
 Many people cut because they are feeling pain. You do not need to express your pain physically. There are healthier ways to address your emotions.Drawing or doodling can help you figure out your emotions. Many people find red pen or paint very expressive.
Keep a journal and write out your anger and frustration. You can also try writing fiction or poetry about how you're feeling.
 Cutting can sometimes soothe physical tension associated with stress; however, there are much healthier means to get rid of tension than cutting. Get some exercise instead of cutting when you feel tense.Go for a walk or a run.
Take a bike ride.
Dance in your bedroom.
Try any other form of exercise you enjoy, like playing a sport.
 Talk to your parents about therapy if you've been cutting. Cutting can be a sign of an underlying mental illness, so it's important to seek professional help. Your parents should be able to find a therapist through their insurance provider or by asking your regular doctor for a referral.If your family can't afford therapy, try talking to your school guidance counselor or checking to see if there are any free or discount mental health clinics in your area.
 Just sitting down and talking to someone who won't judge you can be a huge relief. Psychodynamic therapy can get to the bottom of the real reason you're cutting. It may help bring up underlying things you never even knew were bothering you.You may be asked to focus on past experiences. A bad experience at some point in your life may be affecting your ability to regulate your emotions in a healthy fashion.
In this type of therapy, you will converse with a therapist. They will guide the discussion to try to find the root cause of your behavior. You may also work on figuring any potential triggers that can cause you to cut.
 Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) can be very effective in treating self-harm. With CBT, you are shown ways to become aware of negative patterns and alter your behavior.Usually, you have a session once a week with a therapist. Sessions are generally 30 to 60 minutes.
Your therapist will help you break down your thoughts, physical feelings, and actions. You will work to figure out what kind of thoughts and behaviors are not helpful, and find more positive ways to cope.
Your therapist will recommend you do certain exercises at home to help you better regulate your emotions. At the next session, you and your therapist will talk about the effectiveness of these activities.
 There are no specific medications prescribed for cutting; however, underlying mental health issues like depression and anxiety can contribute to cutting. These are often treated with medication. If you believe medication would help, ask your therapist about possible medications.Antidepressants and other medications may be effective in stopping your cutting.
A psychiatrist will determine if medication is right for you. This will be based on your medical history, mental health diagnosis, and other factors.

