 Title III requires that businesses be accessible to people with disabilities. Almost all businesses are covered. To be covered, a business must provide goods or services to the public and fall into one of the following categories:bars and restaurants
stores and shops
service establishments
recreational facilities
hotels
theaters
private museums
private schools
dentist and doctor offices
shopping malls
other businesses;
, The federal government created standards in 1991 but revised them for 2010. You should get a copy of the 2010 Access standards, which are available online.Read them and take notes.


If you altered your business in the past 25 years to conform with the 1991 Standards, then you are not required to make additional modifications. For example, the 1991 standards required that you have one parking space that is van accessible for every eight parking spaces. In 2010, the requirements changed: you need one van accessible space for every six parking spaces.Unless you are re-doing your parking lot, you don’t need to comply with the 2010 standards since you already complied with the 1991 ones.
However, the 2010 standards contain new requirements which weren’t in the 1991 standards. You do have to comply with these new requirements.
Furthermore, if you choose to modify your business, then you must make sure the modification complies with the 2010 standards.
 The ADA requires that newly constructed and renovated buildings be accessible to people with disabilities. However, there is no “grandfathered” exception for old buildings. Instead, all buildings should remove any architectural barrier.Look for the following:


Narrow aisles which people in wheelchairs or other mobility devices cannot use.
Parking space that doesn’t have enough space to allow a wheelchair lift to be used.
Restrooms too small for people with a mobility device to use.
Counters which are too high.
The lack of an entrance ramp.
Doors which are too narrow.
 You might not be confident you can identify all barriers to access. In this situation, a low-cost option is to ask members of the disabled community to come into your business and identify barriers., The ADA does not require that you entirely transform your business so that it is handicap-accessible. Instead, the law requires that you remove barriers if doing so is “readily achievable,” which under the law means “easily accomplishable without much difficulty or expense.”This analysis requires that you analyze the following:


How much it costs to remove the barrier. Installing a ramp might not be very expensive. Installing an elevator to reach your business on the third floor of a building is quite expensive.
Your resources. A larger business with more money is expected to make more extensive renovations to remove barriers. A smaller business, with fewer resources, is not.
 You might identify multiple physical barriers that could be removed to improve access to your business. However, your resources might be limited. In this situation, you can afford to remove some barriers but not others. The government recommends that you remove barriers in the following sequence:Provide access into the business from parking areas, sidewalks, or public transportation.
Provide access to your goods and services by, for example, lowering shelves or widening aisles.
Make public restrooms accessible.
Remove barriers to drinking fountains and other public amenities.
 Sometimes it is not possible to remove existing architectural barriers. For example, the door may be too narrow for someone with a scooter to enter, or it may not be possible to install a ramp. In this situation, you need to make sure that you provide alternate ways to use your business, if possible.


For example, a restaurant could provide take-out service.You need to advertise these alternate methods as well. Continuing with the restaurant example: you can mention on your flyers and other advertisements that take-out is available.
 A “certified access specialist” can look at your property and make sure that it complies with the ADA. Some states, such as California, have created a certified access specialist program.Don’t forget about your state and local laws. The ADA is a federal law, but businesses also must comply with local and state laws as well.In fact, your business typically must comply with detailed building codes at the state and local level.
For this reason, you should make sure that your access specialist checks that you have complied with all applicable laws and regulations.
 Barriers aren’t just physical. You also have to modify any policy or procedure that would act as a barrier to the disabled. However, you are only required to make “reasonable” modifications. You are not required to completely change the way that you operate. Identify policies that might prohibit a disabled person from using your business.


For example, a retailer might have a policy that only one person at a time can use a dressing room. Because a disabled person might need help, you should modify that policy to allow a second person to go into the dressing room.The ADA does not require that you hire a staff person to assist disabled people with getting dressed. That is an unreasonable modification and not required.
 Disabled customers may need help as they walk through your store. You should train staff to help them. If you only have one employee working at the store, then it might be unreasonable to expect your staff person to help the disabled. But if you have more than one employee, then you should train them on how they are expected to help:Help patrons with intellectual disabilities read labels and tags so that they understand what they are purchasing.
Assist blind customers move around the store.
Retrieve items that are out of reach for some patrons, particularly those in a wheelchair or scooter.
 Under the ADA, only dogs qualify as service animals, and they must provide a service directly related to the person’s disability—e.g., a person with low vision uses a service animal to help them avoid dangers. However, you are not required to allow service animals if they are out of control or not housebroken. If it is unclear whether the animal is a service animal, then your employees can ask only two questions:“Is the animal required because of a disability?” Don’t ask what the disability is.
“What has the animal been trained to do?”

, The ADA also requires that you communicate with people who have disabilities. This is a very complicated area of the law. Essentially, you must analyze the following in order to come up with an effective mode of communication:Complexity of the interaction. If you sell clothes, then your staff should be prepared to communicate with the deaf by writing notes. However, if you run a doctor’s office, the information you exchange is much more complicated. You may need to hire a sign language interpreter to communicate or perhaps install devices like large monitors on which you can display information.
Difficulty securing effective communication. You do not have to provide a sign language interpreter (or other communication device) if it would be an “undue burden.” This means that it would be very expensive or difficult to arrange. For example, if you run a dentist’s office in rural Alaska, it might not be practical to hire someone who can communicate in sign language. However, it is not an undue burden for a waiter to read the menu to someone with low vision.
Your resources. The ADA requires more compliance from businesses with greater resources. For this reason, installing a Braille translator may be too expensive for a small “mom and pop” establishment. However, the expense could be reasonable for a larger business.
 Title I of the ADA prohibits you from discriminating on the basis of disability in employment.Not every business is covered. To be covered, your business must have at least 15 employees who worked for at least 20 calendar weeks., It is illegal to discriminate on the basis of disability for certain covered employment practices. These covered practices include:hiring
pay
promotion
recruitment
training
leave
job assignments
benefits
lay-off
firing
other employment related activities

, The ADA doesn’t protect everyone with a medical issue. Instead, it offers protection only to people who are qualified to do the job and who meet one of these other requirements:A person is disabled if they have a mental or physical condition that limits a major life activity substantially, such as walking, talking, learning, hearing, or seeing.
A person is also disabled when they have a history of a disability (such as leukemia in remission).
A person can also qualify as disabled if you believe they have a mental or physical impairment that you expect to last more than six months and isn’t minor.
 You should be particularly careful about not discriminating during the hiring stage. Accordingly, you should train your staff not to ask inappropriate questions during interviews.You can’t ask any applicant if they are disabled or about the extent of any disability. However, you can ask them to show you how they will perform the job.
You also can’t require an applicant to take a medical exam before you extend a job offer. However, once you make an offer, you can require an exam if you ask other employees to take one. You can also condition the offer on the applicant successfully passing the exam.
 The ADA does not require that you do everything possible to hire and retain disabled staff. Instead, you only must provide “reasonable accommodations.” There is no bright-line definition of what qualifies as reasonable. However, you should consider the following factors:The cost. You should analyze not only how much it would cost, but your own resources. You also should consider whether you can get outside funding to help defray the cost, such as a grant or tax credits.
How disruptive the accommodation would be. If it would fundamentally change the business, then you don’t need to make it.
Alternatives which are less of a hardship on your business.
Whether the employee will pay. You must also give the employee a chance to pay for some or all of the accommodation if you think it is too burdensome.
 Often, a disabled individual knows what she or he needs for an accommodation. For example, a person with low vision might know that she needs a larger computer screen so that she can enlarge documents. However, sometimes you might not know how to accommodate a disability. In that situation, you should contact the following:The Job Accommodation Network, which you can reach by calling 1-800-526-7234.
Your nearest EEOC office. You can visit the EEOC website to check the location and phone number.
State or local vocational agencies. Look in your phone book.
Other organizations that serve individuals with disabilities.
 Most states also prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability. Furthermore, these state laws will cover you even if you aren’t covered by Title I of the ADA. You should research and read your state anti-discrimination law.


For example, you might only have six employees. The ADA doesn’t cover you because you have too few employees. However, your state law might not have a minimum number of employees.
 You should discuss any employment-related issues with a qualified employment attorney. For example, you might not know if you are covered by the ADA. Or you might have a disabled employee you want to fire but need to know how to protect yourself against a lawsuit.


You should also think about getting an attorney on retainer, which means you pay the attorney a small monthly fee and he or she is always available to do legal work.See Find an Employment Lawyer for more information.

