 Take your spool of yarn and your DVD case. You want to wrap the yarn around the DVD case width-wise. There are two sides to a DVD case: a notched side, where the case opens, and a smooth side. Begin winding at the notched side, slightly left of the center. Wind the yarn towards the center of the DVD.Wind the yarn fairly tight and make sure no yarn is overlapping. You should also wind the yarn close together, so there are no gaps in yarn.
Keep winding the yarn until you've moved 3 to 3.5 inches across the DVD. If there are any gaps in the yarn, push the yarn together to fill in these gaps.
If you have difficulty keeping the yarn in place with your fingers alone, you can tape down the end of the yarn with a piece of scotch tape.
 Once your yarn is wound around the DVD, take two long pieces of scotch tape. Use this tape on the smooth side of the DVD. On the front and back of the DVD, just underneath the smooth side, tape down the yarn. The yarn on the smooth side should be securely taped to the DVD., Take a pair of scissors and slip them underneath the notched edge of the DVD. Cut through the yarn on this side of the DVD. Then, un-tape the yarn on the smooth side, keeping the tape securely attached to the yarn. You should begin to see something of a wig forming. The tape marks a barrier where the doll's part will be. There should be strands of loose yarn coming off either side this part.If you're struggling to cut the yarn, get a sharper pair of scissors. You should be using sewing scissors rather than normal craft scissors. You do not want your doll's hair to look uneven.
 Cut off a thin piece of tissue paper roughly 4 by 8 inches. Lay the tissue paper on a flat surface. Place the taped portion of the yarn between each strand of tape on the tissue paper. Fold the tissue paper over this portion of the yarn, sandwiching the yarn between the tissue paper.You should have a long line of strands of yarn with the tissue resting on the halfway point between the strands. As you can see, hair is forming. The tissue paper represents where the doll's part will be located.
 Working through the middle of the tissue paper, sew all your strands of yarn together. Sew vertically up the middle so you have a straight line of thread going through all your layers in the center. You should have a grouping of hair on each side that meets in the middle, where your thread holds the strands together.If you are savvy with a needle you can sew them together manually. Otherwise, you can use a sewing machine to sew a straight line through them.
Use small, tight stitches. These should keep the hair secure.
 Now that your strands are sewn together you can remove the excess tissue paper at the sides of the line you sewed. Remove the tissue paper slowly and gently, being careful not to tear out any thread. Using tweezers might be helpful. All that should remain are the two strands of yarn doll hair, with the thread holding them together in the center.If you're struggling to remove the tissue paper, try trimming some of it off with a small pair of scissors. Just be careful not to snip any of the yarn by mistake.
 You will want to repeat this process one more time. However, stop winding the yarn after you've moved about an inch or two across the DVD case.Once again, secure the end of the yarn with a piece of scotch tape if you're having trouble keeping it in place with your fingers.
Remember, wind the yarn around the DVD case, secure the smooth edges with tape, and then cut the yarn by tucking your scissors under the notch in the case.
When you're done, secure the strands with tissue paper and sew down the center.
 Grab the larger piece of your sewn together bunch of yarn hair. Remember, the larger piece has a part that runs roughly three to three and a half inches in length. Get your hot glue gun. Once the glue is hot, put a line of glue down the seam you just made and press it to the top center of your doll’s head. Hold it there until the glue has dried. When it is dry you can flip the hair over and admire your finished doll hair.If glue is not holding the hair in place and your doll is fabric, you can sew the hair to the doll's head. Take an extra piece of yarn and use a long needle to backstitch the hair to the top of the doll’s head. It may be helpful to go over the seam twice.
If you're using yarn hair on a plastic doll, you will want to use tacky glue instead of hot glue. However, keep in mind synthetic hair tends to look better on plastic dolls.
 Now, take your smaller strand of hair. This is the strand of hair with the part running an inch to two inches in length. Follow the same process with gluing or stitching the hair to the doll's head. However, place the part slightly to the left or right of the center of your doll's scalp. This will create a side part, as well as add some layers to your doll's hair.If you can still see a lot of the doll's scalp at this point, consider adding another layer of hair. you can create another larger wig and secure it in the center of the doll's head so it overlaps with the existing hair.
 You can style the doll hair how you want. You can cut the hair, braid the hair, paint the hair, make a ponytail, or do anything else you want with it. If you don’t want to style it you can just leave it how it is. It is your doll hair; feel free to do what you want with it.

