 Either click the Windows logo in the bottom-left corner of the screen, or press the ⊞ Win key.
 It's in the lower-left corner of the Start window., This is in the top row of options on the Settings page., It's on the far-left side of the window., In the box beneath "Share my Internet connection from", you should see "Wi-Fi" displayed. If you don't, click the box and select Wi-Fi before continuing., They're listed next to the "Network name" and "Password" headings, respectively.

If you want to change either the network name or the password: click Edit below the "Network band:" heading, enter a new network name or password, and click Save.
 It's at the top of the page under "Share my internet connection with other devices." Doing so will enable your computer's mobile hotspot, allowing you to connect your phone., On a Mac, you can't share a wireless network while also using a wireless network., Click the apple-shaped icon in the top-left corner of the screen to do so., It's in the drop-down menu below the Apple Menu icon., This is a blue folder with a yellow caution sign on it., This option is on the left-hand side of the Sharing window. Doing so will display the Internet Sharing settings on the right side of the page., It's on the right side of the page., This option is in the drop-down menu., It's below the "Share your connection from" box., This option will allow you to share your Ethernet connection over Wi-Fi with other devices--in this case, your Android., It's at the bottom of the page., The network name and password you enter here are the credentials you'll use to access the hotspot on your Android., This will save your changes., Doing so will place a checkmark in the box, indicating that your hotspot is now active. You can proceed with connecting your phone., This will open the quick settings menu., It's typically found in the top-left side of the quick settings menu., You should see the network name from your computer listed in your Android's available networks.

If you don't see the network name here, disable and then re-enable Wi-Fi on your Android.
 This is the password you either saw or created in the hotspot settings., Doing so will prompt your Android phone to connect to your computer's hotspot, thereby reverse-tethering the Android.