 Before you invest time and money in training, take time to explore the esthetician field. As an esthetician, you will be helping improve the overall appearance of your client's skin by providing services like chemical peels, waxing, exfoliation, and other skin care techniques. At the moment, the demand for estheticians is growing, so you can expect there to be more opportunities in the field in the coming years.You need to be genuinely interested in skin care to be an esthetician. You should be enthusiastic about helping your clients achieve their best possible appearance through skin care techniques. As an esthetician, you will need to be on top of all new techniques for improving the appearance of skin.
You should also love working with people. You will be dealing with clients face-to-face as an esthetician, so you need to be genuinely enthusiastic about helping others look and feel their best.
The average wage for an esthetician is around $29,000 a year. However, very high paid estheticians can earn as much as $58,000 a year.;
, Enrollment requirements vary from state to state. In general, however, students must have a high school diploma or GED. They must also be sixteen years of age or older. If you want to become an esthetician, the first step in your education is finishing high school or receiving a GED.Work on building your skill set in high school. There are many jobs and volunteer opportunities you can try in high school that will help build your skill set for your future career.Cleanliness is important to becoming an esthetician, so work jobs or volunteer in professions that require neatness. Working in a hospital, for example, will teach you to value cleanliness. You can also try working in a hair salon, where you'll learn all the proper clean up techniques for beauty products.
Customer service is another major aspect of the esthetician career. Therefore, any customer service job can be a great way to kickstart your career.
 Each state has different requirements when it comes to becoming an esthetician. Before completing high school or your GED, make sure you know your state's requirements. This will help you determine what's next for you on your career path.Almost every state has requires esthetician specific training to become licensed. You will have to enroll in cosmetology school on the esthetician path in order to become licensed in most states.
The length of required training varies by state, however. Some states, like Oregon, only require around 250 hours of training. Other states, like Alabama, require as much 1,000 training hours.
If you're going into a very specific field as an esthetician, there may be a specific license required for that field. In New York, for example, you need 75 hours of training to receive a waxing license.
 Esthetician programs are offered at select community colleges, cosmetology schools, and technical schools. You should find a license at a school near you if you want to become an esthetician.You can expect a lot of hands-on learning in your program. You will be taught a variety of skin care techniques. You can also expect to learn about the basics of skin health, taking courses in things like anatomy and nutrition.
Price, location, class size, class schedule, and the courses offered are all things you should take into consideration. Find a school that meets your needs and budget., The application process will vary from program to program. You should be prepared to provide your high school transcript, a registration fee, and photo identification. You may also have to fill out an application, pass an entrance exam, and/or sit for a formal interview.
 While you attend school, you will take courses on a variety of topics. These include things like nutrition, physiology, anatomy, esthetician theory, facial treatments, skin analysis, hair removal, color theory, sanitation, and safety. In addition to taking traditional courses, you will be required to complete hands-on learning courses in a student lab and/or student salon setting. Your program may also offer business management courses, such as marketing and bookkeeping.Full-time students may expect to be in school for four to six months. Part-time students may expect to attend courses for nine to twelve months. If you can't commit to a program full time, you can be part-time student while you work another job.
 Following graduation, you will be required to apply for and complete an apprenticeship. This opportunity allows you to learn the trade under the tutelage of a seasoned professional. Each state sets its own requirements for the length of an apprenticeship. Depending on where you live, you may have to complete between 300 to 1200 supervised hours.If you're unsure where to find an apprenticeship, talk to your school. Many schools help place in an apprenticeship program.
Your school may also have an apprenticeship program in place. Some cosmetology schools offer an apprenticeship alongside training hours.
 Requirements will vary by state, but you will need to sign up for your licensure exam. There will be different testing centers in your area. You should be able to learn, when signing up, when and where you can take the exam. You should be able to ask someone at your apprenticeship or school where to sign up for the exam.There is usually an application fee you have to pay. The amount will vary by state, but make sure you have the money together for the fee before signing up.
 The exam will be a review of everything you learned in cosmetology school, as well as anything you learned at your apprenticeship. You may be able to find a study guide online. You can also review your materials from school.


Think positive going into studying. Studying with a bad attitude, or when you're stressed, will not make for an effective session.Pick a quiet place to study that's free from outside distractions. Leave things like your phone and laptop behind when you're studying.
Study a little bit each day over a long period. Make sure to take breaks periodically. You will burn out if you try to study for hours on end. Aim to take a short 15 minute break every hour or so.
 To obtain an esthetician license, you must pass a written and practical state licensing exam. After signing up and studying, you will go in to take your exam.While exams vary by state, you can expect questions about both the science behind skin and modern esthetician practices. You also usually have a set time frame to complete your exam.There is also a practical portion of the exam, in which you will display your skills in front of a judge. Depending on your state's exam rules, you may have to bring in your own dummy and wig for this portion of the exam.
Review your state's retake policies prior to signing up for the exam. In the event you don't pass, you should know when you can retake your exam and whether you have to pay an additional registration fee.
 Once you've passed your licensing exam, you can begin the job hunt. One tool vital for landing a job successfully is a quality resume. Spend some time writing a great resume before seeking out work.Make sure you list only your relevant experience. Potential employees don't need to hear about your part time job washing dishes. Other part time jobs, especially ones where you worked with people, would be helpful however. Working a customer service desk at a beauty salon is a great thing to include on your resume.
You should also include the details of your training, your apprenticeship, and your certification.
Choose a legible font that employers can read easily. You should also keep formatting choices consistent throughout. Do not, for example, switch from bullet points to sentences or swap fonts halfway through.
 When you begin the job hunt, know what kind of places typically hire estheticians. Salons, spas, wellness centers, cruise ships, and physicians offices all may hire estheticians. Start by looking in these places. You can also look on job boards.Never hesitate to reach out to people from your school and training. Many people successfully land jobs via networking.
 Most cosmetology schools and esthetician training programs offer job placement assistance. Job resources are also available through the National Cosmetology Association's website. Look for jobs in spas, salons, and resorts. If you are unable to find employment quickly, you may have the option to continue to work as an apprentice with an experienced esthetician., When you are called in for an interview, make sure you conduct yourself appropriately. An excellent performance at an interview can help land you the right job.Make sure to dress professionally for an interview. Remember, it is always better to be over dressed than under dressed.
Give off confident body language. Sit up straight, offer a firm handshake, and maintain eye contact.
Make sure to use appropriate language. In addition to the obvious, such as not cursing, you should avoid slang terms during an interview.
Always ask questions at the end of the interview. This conveys a genuine interest in the company. Go for open ended questions, like, "What is your company culture like?"

, There are several ways to build your client base. Ask your family and friends to spread the word about your esthetician services. Advertise your services at local nursing homes, plastic surgery offices, and dermatology offices. Gradually, you will develop a following of clients eager for your assistance.Always give clients your full attention during your meetings, and provide the best services possible. By gaining a reputation for excellence, you're more likely to build a large client base.
You can also encourage your best clients to leave you good reviews on online services such as Yelp.
 After receiving your esthetician license, you are eligible to attend advanced courses or enroll in a masters program. Advanced courses are one-time professional learning opportunities that offer an in-depth look into a specific treatment or facet of your profession.


Your state may require you to complete a certain number of continuing education courses once you've received your license. If this is the case, make sure to stay up-to-date on your required courses to avoid losing your license.You also may want to further specialize after a few years on the field. You may find a particular aspect of skin care stands out to you, and want to take a course in that area.

