 Egg yolks can work wonders on dry and damaged hair, helping you have strong, soft and silky hair. There are a number of different variations and ingredients you can add to egg yolks to make treatments for your hair, but you can use egg yolks on their own too.


Depending on the amount of hair you have, mix up a few egg yolks until they become creamy.
Egg oil is another great way to get all the micronutrients of egg yolks without the risk of have cooked egg in your hair.
Generously apply the yolks to your hair and scalp and leave it for around half an hour, before washing it off thoroughly with cold water.
This treatment is thought be an effective moisturiser for your hair, and when repeated regularly, a good way to tackle thinning hair., By adding olive oil and honey to the egg yolks you can potentially increase its potency. This treatment is aimed at soothing dry and damaged hair, making your hair softer and more manageable. It can also help your hair maintain a healthy shine. Take one to three egg yolks, whichever is appropriate for the length of your hair, and mix them together with a fork or whisk.


Add in three tablespoons of olive oil and three tablespoons of honey. You can match the tablespoons with the number of egg yolks you used.
Massage the mixture into your hair and your scalp and wrap a towel around your head.
Leave the mask to work for around twenty minutes to half and hour before rinsing it out thoroughly with warm, but not hot, water., You can combine egg yolk with yoghurt to make a moisturising treatment for dull and dry hair. Mix an egg yolk with plain, preferably sugar-free, yoghurt. Gently massage the paste into your hair and leave it for around half an hour.


Rinse it out and inspect your hair to see if it looks healthier and shinier.
You can add some honey to the egg yolk and yoghurt mixture for an alternative method that also focuses on moisturising your hair., You can use egg yolk to treat hair at the roots while also giving your scalp some attention. Mix together three eggs yolks in a bowl. Wet your head and hair and then massage the yolks into your scalp. Leave the yolks to dry for a while, around fifteen minutes, and then wash the mixture off with shampoo and warm water.


After shampooing, rinse your hair and scalp thoroughly with cool water.
Egg yolks can nourish the scalp and roots, and help tackle dandruff.