 Count out 12 links, and measure them from the first pin to last pin. The distance between those pins should be 12 inches (30.48 centimeters). If the distance is more than 12 1/8 inches (30.80 centimeters), then you need to replace the chain. This is because pins are wearing out, lengthening the chain.If the distance between the 12 links is correct, and you have an older bike, consider loosening the back wheel and pulling it back. This may take up enough of the chain's slack to fix the problem.;
, This tool pushes the pins out of your chain to allow link removal. If you know the make and model of your bike chain, you may prefer to track down a specialized tool for that specific chain.


Some chains, notably most Shimano and Campagnolo models, also require a special reassembly pin.You cannot put the chain back together without this pin, so make sure you have the right part before you get started.
 If you do not have a bike stand, lean it against something sturdy, preferably upside down. This will make it easier to remove the chain.
 Use a high-quality, biodegradable chain cleaner to dissolve any dirt or grease. This will make it easier to handle the chain and find the master link., Your chain may or may not have a master link. The master link is easy to spot, because it is usually slightly lighter/darker than the other links on the chain. It may also have protruding pins inserted into a special outer plate. This plate typically has an oversize, oval hole around one or both pins.
 This will make it easier to access. The master link is easy to spot, because it is usually slightly lighter/darker than the other links on the chain. It may also have protruding pins inserted into a special outer plate. This plate typically has an oversize, oval hole around one or both #*If your chain does not have a master link, you'll use a chain tool to break the chain. The steps to do so are described in Part 2: Shortening the Chain.
 There are many designs of master links. Some swivel to allow the pin to slide out, while others open up when flexed. Some master links are also disposable, and can only be removed by bending them apart with needle-nose pliers or a specialized tool.
 It's better to take off too few links at first than to take off too many. It'll be easier to take off an extra link or two than to add several links back on., Start at the end of the chain not attached to the master link. Hold that link in place with a vise, or use the clamping mechanism on your chain tool if present.


If your chain does not use a master link, start with any link on the chain.
 Line up the punch on the tool over the link's pin. Slowly turn the handle on the chain tool clockwise, and stop when the pin is clear of the outer plate, but still attached to the link. Do not push the pin completely out of the link, or it will be very difficult to reassemble the chain. If you did accidentally push the pin all the way out:Slide the pin through the center of the link.
Use the chain tool to remove the upper part of the joining link.
Use the chain tool to slide the pin back through the link, until the top of the pin is flush with the center part of the link.
Replace the top part of the link, then use the chain tool push the pin back up.
Adjust the adjacent pin, as necessary.
 Move on to the other pin in the same link. Push this out far enough that you can lift away one of the outer plates, followed by the central piece attaching it to the next link.
 Only remove the minimum number of links to make your chain work, generally less than five. The more you shorten the chain, the more stress you'll put on the links.


As before, leave the pins partially attached and set aside all components.
Consider saving the chain links you are removing for future repairs., You may need to use some pliers or a screwdriver in order to do this. Push the two links together until you feel the pins click into place in the inner link.


If your chain has a disposable master link or special pin, you'll need a replacement part to reattach the chain. Most of these special pins come in two parts that enter from opposite sides, but it's best to look for model-specific instructions.
 Place the two links back into the chain tool's outer slot. Make sure that the pins are facing towards the chain tool's pin. Turn the handle counterclockwise. As you turn, the chain tool's pin will start pushing the pins back through the link. Keep going until you can see a small portion of the link from the other side. The chain pin should be sticking out the same amount on both sides of the link.If you have quick-release link, you may need a pair of pliers in order to replace it., Sometimes, the chain links end up too stiff after you re-connect them. Start by placing the link into the inner slot of the chain tool. Tighten the chain tool's pin until it touches the chain's pin. Give the tool's handle a quarter of a turn, remove the chain, and test it. If it is too tight, repeat the process., It will also improve shifting performance, and reduce wear on derailleur assemblies and drivetrain cogs.