 Check your breath in the morning, in the afternoon, and in the evening, before and after you've brushed your teeth, and figure out how persistent the problem is. If you know why your breath smells bad, you can take steps to fix it.


Morning breath is normal. You can fix it by brushing, flossing, and rinsing with mouthwash right after you wake up.
Halitosis is a more serious bacterial infestation, but it is still common and still treatable. To fight halitosis, you'll need to keep your mouth clean and manage the bacteria that make your breath smell bad.
The most common causes of bad breath are dental cavities, gum disease, poor oral hygiene, and coated tongue (a white or yellow coating on the tongue, usually due to inflammation). If you can't tell from inspecting your mouth, your dentist should be able to tell you what's causing your bad breath.
If someone tells you that your breath doesn't smell so great, don't be embarrassed. Think of it as constructive criticism.
 Brush your teeth more thoroughly, gargle with antibacterial mouthwash, and floss between your teeth to keep plaque and bacteria from hiding out there. Drink plenty of water, and swish cool water around in your mouth to freshen morning breath.


It’s very important to brush your teeth before going to bed. You might try an additional round of brushing with baking soda to reduce the acidity in the mouth and make it difficult for the bacteria that cause bad breath to grow.
Use a tongue scraper (available at many drugstores) to remove any residue that may be building up between the taste buds and folds in the tongue. If you don’t have a tongue scraper, you can use your toothbrush to brush your tongue.Replace your toothbrush every two to three months. The bristles will become less effective over time, and your brush may accumulate bacteria. Replace your toothbrush after you've been sick so you don't give the bacteria a place to hide out., Chew gum, eat breath mints or use Listerine strips before sensitive social situations. Ultimately, you may want to treat the roots of your problem and banish your bad breath for good, but it never hurts to make your breath smell better in the meantime. Keep gum with you so that you can use it in emergencies.


Chew a handful of cloves, fennel seeds, or aniseeds. Their antiseptic qualities help fight halitosis-causing bacteria.
Chew a piece of lemon or orange rind for a mouth- freshening burst of flavor. (Wash the rind thoroughly first.) The citric acid will stimulate the salivary glands—and fight bad breath.
Chew a fresh sprig of parsley, basil, mint, or cilantro. The chlorophyll in these green plants neutralizes odors.
 If you ever needed another reason to quit, here’s an easy one: smoking contributes to bad breath. Tobacco tends to dry out your mouth, and it can leave an unpleasant smell that lingers even after brushing your teeth.
 Visit your dentist regularly to help maintain good oral hygiene. If you have chronic bad breath, your dentist can rule out any dental problems like cavities, gum disease, and coated tongue.


If your dentist believes that the problem is caused from a systemic (internal) source such as an infection, he or she may refer you to your family physician or a specialist.

