 Sometimes workplace gossip is true, or contains some kernel of truth. Nobody likes being criticized, but you should be honest with yourself when thinking through critical gossip from others.If you decide that the gossip has some merit, work to correct whatever fault inspired it.
If your coworkers are gossiping that you are not doing a good job, for instance, take their criticism into serious consideration and evaluate your performance. If you decide that you could be doing a better job, start working harder and help your peers out more often.
 People who gossip about others often do so not because they detect something unbecoming in others, but because they are uncomfortable with themselves. Gossip becomes a tool through which they attempt to deflect negative attention away from themselves while attracting positive attention. Understanding this will help you see the gossiper for what they truly are: a sad and desperate individual struggling with their own insecurity.Remember, understanding the gossiper’s motivation doesn’t mean you need to excuse it.
 There are several ways to respond when you become the subject of workplace gossip. The best thing to do if you know who is behind the gossip is to confront the person directly. Perhaps they didn’t anticipate how hurtful their gossiping could be, and will work to rectify the situation after you explain how hurt you are.You could say, “I’m very hurt by the gossip you’ve perpetuated about me. Will you please retract what you said so that others recognize that it was merely gossip?”
In other cases, where you suspect the gossiper is unrepentant, you should contact your superior or your human resources department in order to lodge a complaint about the situation.
Sometimes, it’s best to let the gossiper just wear themselves out. If they see that they aren’t getting a rise out of you, they’re liable to quit gossiping after a bit. And if others merely roll their eyes at the discredited gossip, it’s best to pay them no mind.
You could also talk openly about the subject of gossip, thus rendering the issue unworthy for gossip.
Never launch a counterattack against the person or people who spread the gossip with gossip of your own.
Analyze the situation carefully when charting a course for responding to gossip.Recognize that you cannot change the gossiper. You can only change your response to the gossip.

