 In most states you're eligible to get a GED if you're 16 or older and not enrolled in high school. Some states have different requirements, though, so it's important to look into this before getting started. Do an online search for your state + GED requirements to find out more.
 The GED covers the same five basic subjects offered by high schools: writing, mathematics, social studies and history, science, and reading. The test is divided up as follows:


The writing section tests skills in grammar, vocabulary, spelling and capitalization, with a separate written essay section.
The math section tests skills in arithmetic, measurement, basic algebra, geometry, number relations, trigonometry and data analysis of charts and graphs.
The social studies section tests knowledge of geography, civics and government and economics.
The science section tests knowledge of life science, physical science and earth science.
The reading section tests proficiency in sentence structure, reading comprehension and language usage.
 The test is taken over the course of 7 hours and 45 minutes, with a portion of time allotted to each subject. In order to do well on such a big test, it's important to study the individual subjects beforehand. Plan to start studying at least 2 months in advance - longer if it has been years since you attended high school classes. It might seem overwhelming, but there are a lot of resources available to help you bone up before test day arrives.


You can buy a GED preparation book or use online resources to help you prepare.
Make sure to take plenty of practice tests so you get used to the test format.
Double down on any areas where your knowledge is weaker, and consider getting tutoring in that subject area.
You can enroll in GED preparation classes, many of which are free, or hire a GED tutor to help you prepare., Find a testing center in a location that's convenient for you. Call the center or sign up online for a test date. The test itself is not available online - it must be taken in person at the test site.
 On the day of the test, show up a little early so you have time to find the right room and get settled in. Bring any materials you were requested to bring by the testing center. If you signed up to take an all-day test, make sure your schedule is cleared for the day. In some cases you can take the test in 2 parts.


Make sure you get a good night's sleep before the test. This makes a huge difference when it comes to concentration.
You'll probably get a lunch break, but be sure to eat a hearty breakfast so you don't get distracted by hunger during the test.
Follow the test administrator's instructions closely. Breaking any rules, even accidentally, could cause you to get disqualified from taking the test that day.
 After you take the test, you may either need to call your testing center after a designated amount of time, or you'll receive your score in the mail.

