 If you sense that a friendship is waning and you want to know whether your friend misses you, invite them to get together for something friendly and light, like a cup of coffee. If your friend reacts enthusiastically, it’s likely that he misses you, too. On the other hand, if he postpones the meeting or seems reluctant to get together, recognize that he probably doesn’t miss you.Be honest but non-accusatory about missing your friend. Say something like: “I miss our fun Friday night hang-outs! Do you want to get together again soon?”;
, If your friendship has grown distant and you’re not sure why, it may be more helpful to talk directly with your friend about the cause of the distance. Tell your friend that you’ve noticed that the two of you are not as close anymore. Ask if you did anything to cause offense or to hurt your friend. If the answer is yes, be ready to listen to what your friend has to say without leaping to your own defense.It may be helpful to ask directly if your friend misses you, but be careful about putting her on the spot. If your friend feels accused, she might not answer honestly.
 Be clear about your needs and intentions. For example, you can tell a friend: “I feel like I’ve grown further away from our mutual friend lately, and it makes me sad. Do you think it would be worth it for me to reach out to them right now?” Listen thoughtfully to the reply.


Don’t ask about whether someone misses you only in order to make yourself feel better.
 Recognize the signs of a friendship that is coming to its close. There may be long silences or awkward gaps in the conversation. Making plans may be more difficult. Misunderstanding may happen more often. Not all friendships are meant to last forever; as interests and lives evolve, so will relationships.If your friendship is coming to an end, don’t obsess about whether your friend misses you. Instead, celebrate the good things the friend brought to your life and move on.
 You both may be mourning the loss of the good parts of what you had together. However, that doesn’t mean that getting back together is a good idea.