 Dead skin cells build up over time on your skin’s surface, giving it the appearance of old age or dryness. Slough off those dead skin cells to give your skin a revitalized appearance.


Many brands offer a chemical exfoliator or special exfoliating brush that you can purchase at local drug and beautify supply stores for cheap.
Make your own exfoliator out of sugar and honey. Rub this on your face in small circles followed by a rinse with warm water to remove the dead skin buildup. If you want a softer exfoliant than sugar, mix oatmeal with honey instead. Another option is to use equal parts baking soda and water. This mask is quite exfoliating, so only use it once every one to two weeks.
Most dermatologist offices and spas offer specialized exfoliation treatments. Research to see what these offices in your area offer.
Look into the option of buying an electric exfoliator. These work by using a specialized moving brush (similar to an electric toothbrush) to wash you face with twice a day. They can be a bit expensive, running upwards of $100, but work wonders for keeping skin soft and pores clean.
 These help to reduce redness and even out the color and texture of your skin.


Buy a specialty face mask at a local beauty supply or drugstore. Many different types of masks are available depending on your desired results; there are ones to reduce redness, aid in age spots, get rid of acne, and smooth your skin.
Make a face mask out of a banana and honey for your face. Mix the two together until it forms a paste, and apply it to your face for 10 minutes and rinse with warm water.
 Face peels are a type of mask or gel you apply to your face that use healthy acids to dissolve dead skin cells. These remove the top layer of the skin which appears dull or has discoloration or scarring.


Use a face peel that has salicylic acid if you have problems with acne or acne scarring.
Try a peel that is made with glycolic acid to help your skin if you have problems with wrinkles.
Always wash off your peel with warm water when the time limit, typically ten minutes, is up. This way it will keep the peel from over-exfoliating your face.
Avoid using a skin peel if you have problems with eczema or rosacea, as these can be worsened by the acids in the peel., These are products that are used for helping to break-up the unwanted pigmentation that forms from sun damage.


Many spot removers work for both sun spots and age spots. If you have both, try this type of dual product.
Freckles are a type of sunspot, but a spot remover may not work in lightening these.
Try an all natural spot remover of lemon juice. Dab on the juice to your dark spots and allow it to sit for ten minutes, and then rinse. The acid in the juice helps to bleach the spots.
Another way to reduce the appearance of dark spots is to use a toner that contains witch hazel.
 In order to even out complexion a good moisturizer is key. There are many variations available which meet your specific skin needs - from dry to oily or wrinkled skin.


Find a moisturizer that includes an SPF to expedite your process of applying creams.
Tinted moisturizers can work to apply a bit of color in addition to making your skin soft. Make sure to find one in the right skin tone for you though, because the wrong tint can make your skin appear orange or sickly., It will speed up the healing process, as well as hydrate and moisturize the area. You can also use witch hazel for this.

