 If there’s a certain company you’d love to work for, visit their website. There will often be a “Careers” section that allows you to apply for a position--sometimes even if they aren’t currently hiring. This lets the company know you sought them out directly, which may give you an edge over other applicants.


Companies love to find workers that already have a value associated with their company in particular. If you are fond of the company, you will most likely be fond of the culture and brand that is already in place. Go directly to the careers website for each company that you are interested in. Let the recruiters know you have an understanding of the company, making you a more attractive candidate.;
, Sites such as Craigslist.org, Monster.com, Indeed.com, and CareerBuilder.com can be great resources for finding employment. You can search by category, keyword, location, salary, etc. Some even have career resources or allow you to post your resume. Thousands of jobs are posted each day, so be sure to check back often.
 You could type in “nursing jobs in Dallas, TX” for example and see what Google comes up with. It will likely bring up several of the websites mentioned above, but there may also be new sites you haven’t checked out yet. Try rephrasing your search to find even more hits.
 Many companies will check job boards for potential new employees, and your college or university likely has some as well. Find the best job board for your skill set and post your resume there. Choose a catchy but professional headline to entice employers., Networking is one of the best ways to find new employment. Start with reaching out to your existing connections. You can also locate new connections based on what kind of position you are looking for. Reach out to colleagues, previous and current, to see if they know of any positions that would be right for you. Put out a request on social media and see where it takes you. You can also set up a LinkedIn profile and check it every day.


Sign up for an upgraded account with Linkedin so you can see everyone who viewed you and send better inMail. This will put you in touch with recruiters faster. Don't be afraid to directly mail recruiters that post job postings for their company. Contacting them directly can get you noticed and expedited if it is a company or position that you truly wish to pursue. Also, check out your first connections and see if anyone is connected to someone that can get you noticed.
 Many schools have career centers with all kinds of resources that you may find helpful, such as specific job search websites. Get in touch with students or even professors from your college days. They are a great source for new leads and may even be in the position to offer you a job themselves., Many jobs are never posted online, rather the positions are filled by headhunters and recruiters whose job it is to find new employees. Getting in touch with someone like this can help you find leads that aren’t available elsewhere. Ensure you are working with someone you can trust, but don’t rely solely on them to find you the perfect job., Your college or university likely has job fairs each semester that you can attend. Events hosted by charities as well as professional organizations can also be a great way to meet potential employers. Make a goal to speak to at least two or three people at each event. Keep business cards on hand to pass out, and don’t forget to follow up!