 Many people notice nausea before they are sick. Nausea is the feeling that you might be sick.Most people also experience over-activity in their parotid glands just prior to regurgitating, which causes salivation. By producing extra saliva, the body is helping to reduce the acidity of the vomit.If you are experiencing these symptoms, quickly seek a bathroom or a place where you can safely release the contents of your stomach.;
, Your end goal should be to keep yourself safe while also minimizing the mess that you will make while you are sick. In order to do this, assess your current environment as quickly as possible. You will then need to make a quick decision about where you will vomit. Consider the following:


If you are near a bathroom, do your best to make it to the toilet before you are sick.
If you are unable to make it to the bathroom, try to find a trash can or some type of container into which you can vomit to minimize the mess that you will make.
If you are in a car, do your best to alert the driver to the fact that you are going to be sick and ask him or her to pull over.
Finally, if you are unable to find a bathroom, container, or trash can in which to vomit, or if you are in a car, remember that your best bet might be to vomit outside. It is much easier to hose off a sidewalk or a gutter than it is to get vomit out of cloth seats or carpet.
 As awful as it can be, vomiting is a necessary reflex and it should not be suppressed. Especially in the case of food or alcohol poisoning, the body is desperately trying to rid itself of toxins, and it does this through the act of vomiting. Moreover, many things may lead to regurgitation and none of these things are anything to be embarrassed about. Causes of vomiting include, but are not limited to:Pregnancy
Food allergies
Adverse reactions to medications
Food poisoning
Drinking too much alcohol
Rotavirus
Viral Gastroenteritis
Migraine
Chemotherapy
Peptic Ulcer

, If you’ve gotten vomit on your clothing, try to wash it off in a sink or with a wet wipe. Rinse your mouth out with mouthwash or water if you do not have a toothbrush and toothpaste with you. You might even want to splash some water on your face., If you got vomit on the floor or wall, or elsewhere that requires cleaning, do your best to clean it yourself. If the mess is too large for you to clean on your own, do not hesitate to ask for help. Depending on where you are, there might be a janitorial staff who is better equipped to clean up your vomit than you are.
 Remember that vomit stays with you long after the action of regurgitating occurs. When you are finally able to do a thorough cleansing of yourself try the following:Take a hot, steamy shower to remove vomit from you and your sinus cavity
Blow your nose into a Kleenex directly after showering
Thoroughly brush your teeth and gargle with mouthwash
Eat a throat lozenge to calm a sore and scratchy throat
Dry yourself completely and climb into comfortable clothing

, It's not the end of the world, and the people around you will likely have empathy. In fact, most people treat others who are ill with kindness.


Embarrassment occurs when you have broken a social norm and you are worried that others are judging you negatively for your perceived transgression.Others often meet an embarrassing ordeal with empathy and kindness, rather than with judgment, as this allows them to avoid a potentially awkward or embarrassing situation as well.
For example, perhaps an office worker is experiencing morning sickness and vomits into her trash can in front of a co-worker. Her co-worker will likely ask if the woman with morning sickness is okay, if she needs anything, and sympathize with her, rather than offering a negative judgment of the woman’s condition or illness.
 Another way of dealing with the embarrassment of being sick in public is to make a mild joke about it or to laugh it off.It is often best to resort to humor when dealing with an uncomfortable situation, since humor eases tension. Moreover, laughing can help lower your stress levels, which are likely rather high after vomiting in public., Rather than dwelling on or making awkward commentary on your regurgitation, you should give a brief and confident apology to anyone who saw you vomit.You might also ask them for help if you need help, but do not make your moment of sickness a topic for conversation. Instead, try to move forward with your day in a dignified and confident manner.
 Vomiting can cause dehydration and a loss of electrolytes from the body.Dehydration and lost electrolytes can cause fatigue. In order to combat this, be sure to drink plenty of liquids. The best things to drink after being sick include:


Water
Gatorade
Pedialyte
Electrolyte Water

, Often, it is a good idea to lay down to ease nausea and to encourage recovery.Depending on the cause of your regurgitation, you may require a prolonged recovery period.
 Eating or drinking certain things too soon after vomiting may lead to more sickness. Allow your stomach time to settle, particularly if you are dealing with food poisoning or a virus. Many doctors recommend following the bland BRAT diet when a patient is vomiting. The BRAT diet consists of:Bananas
Rice
Applesauce
Toast

, A doctor will be able to determine and treat the cause of your vomiting. While vomiting is common and usually resolves itself, in some cases, it may be an indication of a serious or life-threatening condition. Be sure to call your doctor immediately if you have been vomiting and also experience:Chest pain
Severe abdominal pain or cramping
Blurred vision
Confusion
High fever and stiff neck
Fainting

