 Now that you’ve learned about the issues and committed yourself to tackling them, it’s time to make yourself heard. Start by stating your beliefs about animal rights in influential public forums.For example, sign on to petitions, write letters to decision-makers, and send editorials to newspapers. If there is a hearing about a particular issue, such as the development of wetlands, sign up to give testimony.
 Animal rights groups need monetary backing to support their good work. Pick an organization that is running campaigns that you believe in and that are garnering measurable results.Most organizations make it easy to donate by having secure, online tools for making one-time or monthly contributions.
If you choose a registered nonprofit, your donations are tax-deductible.
 Join and/or volunteer with a group that’s dedicated to animal rights. Membership usually involves paying dues, attending meetings, being on their contact list, and participating in sponsored events and campaigns. Check locally to see if there are organizations that are active in your area. The site Their Turn has a handy locator tool for tracking down a group near you that’s available here: http://theirturn.net/animal-rights-group-locator/.
If you’d like to get involved with a major player in the cause, here is a helpful online list of the biggest animal rights groups internationally with links to each: https://speakingofresearch.com/extremism-undone/animal-rights-activists-organizations/.
 If there’s a specific issue, such as factory farming or cosmetics testing, that speaks to you, get involved. There are plenty of ways, large and small, to lend a hand.


Some informal ways to get involved include signing a petition, sharing information on social media, or attending a demonstration.
Some more formal ways of participating include attending organizing meetings related to the campaign, volunteering your time to a related event or effort, or taking on a leadership role.
 The best activism takes advantage of the knowledge and experience that you already have. Ask yourself how you can use your education, career, and/or hobbies to help the cause of animal rights.


For instance, if you are an artist, do a show or exhibition that engages the public in the cause. If you’re a businessperson, set up a seminar to inform people in the industry about why investing in cruelty-free companies is good business.

