 RMR is often used interchangeably with basal metabolic rate (BMR). Although they are slightly different, estimating either is sufficient for the purpose of losing weight. To calculate your RMR, use the Mifflin-St Jeor equation (which is more reliable than the Harris-Benedict equation). There are also calculators online that can do this for you:


RMR = 9.99w + 6.25s - 4.92a + 166g-161

w = weight in kilograms; if you know your weight in pounds, divide by 2.2 to get your weight in kilograms
s = height in centimeters; if you know your height in inches, multiply by 2.54 to get your height in centimeters
a = age in years
g = gender = 1 for males, 0 for females


Knowing this number will help you calculate how many calories you burn while pretty much doing nothing. While websites and treadmills can give you numbers, they're never entirely accurate.;
, Losing a pound a week is totally reasonable and totally doable. In fact, much more and you'd be losing muscle and water. In order to lose this pound in 7 days, you need to cut 500 calories a day.


That's because one pound is 3,500 calories. 500 x 7 days = 3,500. You can do this with eating, exercise, or both. However, know that it's probably easiest to make a few diet tweaks and get a little active rather than starving yourself or spending hours at the gym.
 If you're going to keep it off, it will take time effort, and permanent lifestyle changes. Is there anything in your life keeping you from your goals? Be sure that you're in a place to successfully make these changes and that you're doing this for you, not anything or anyone else.


To stay committed and be successful, it's imperative that you stay focused. Changing habits is something that takes diligence 24/7. Because making these changes will affect your entire lifestyle, it's important to address everything else in your life, too. If you're worried about money or a relationship, you may need to take a step back. Tackle any other obstacles first -- not doing so will decrease your chances for success. Then when you're ready to concentrate on your weight, you'll be set up on the right track.
 This should come from you and you alone. After all, you're the only one who has to go through all the effort. What will make you stick to it? Keeping certain things in mind may help you stay motivated. Are you worried about health? Making a trip to the beach? Wanting to be able to be more active?


When you feel yourself slipping, call on these motivations. Put a note on your refrigerator, bathroom mirror or pantry door. If you're away from home a lot, tag an encouraging note on your computer. Do whatever would work best for you.
 Alright, so you're probably here to "lose a pound a week," we've determined that much. But how? Getting things as concrete as possible will help you know what to do (and what not to do).


Think about process and outcomes goals when you're nailing down what you want to accomplish. A process goal is what you do -- for example, "Do cardio 5 times a week." "Lose a pound a week" is an outcome. You don't necessarily need an end point (an outcome goal), but process goals are key to changing your habits. As long as your goals are specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and time-limited (SMART!), you're set. And don't forget to record your progress!, While, yes, this is ultimately your responsibility, having support can keep you going and going strong. Surround yourself with others who will encourage you and make it easier to meet your goals. If they can exercise with you or create meal plans, all the better. They'll also keep you accountable, providing you an extrinsic motivation you wouldn't otherwise have.


If you're not ready to go public about your weight-loss, keep yourself accountable by regularly weighing in and recording your diet and exercise progress in a journal.


