 Your immediate neighbors are the perfect people to begin with, then you can expand out further later.;
, Say: "Hi, I'm ___. What's your name?". That is simple enough. Pay attention and repeat back the name of the person you are meeting, and try to remember his or her name.
 Compliment what they're wearing, or comment on the weather. This sort of small talk is often good for getting people warmed up.
 Remember, you are just as strange to your new community as they are strange to you. A little self-expression and outward good humor can go a long way toward breaking down that barrier.
 Have a story or joke handy, or learn to make some simple gifts to hand around. Learn to make a cool paper airplane, a yarn doll, a friendship bracelet, or a friendship pin, or an interesting piece of origami. Bring in a favorite thing to share, such as a comic book. Food is also a good choice. Regardless of what you decide to share, it will help to open people up if you are willing to give something first.
 Listening to others is a good way to learn the community and start to understand the people in it. You may hear others talking about people who interest you. Ask if you can be introduced.


Jump into the conversation if you have something to add. Say, "Hey, I notice you were talking about ___." Then say what you have to say.
 These can be schools (your own or your children's), clubs, public classes, or events. You may need to ask around a little bit to find out where your new community posts local announcements.
 Ask around about sports teams, book clubs, volunteer organizations, and anything else that interests you. Having a common cause tends to unite people, and many organizations welcome new members.
 Find groups based on shared interests and form offline clubs in your local community.
 Probably people in your neighborhood are outdoors at some time during the day, perhaps in the afternoons when school is out. You won't meet new friends if you're just watching TV or at home in front of the computer, so get out there.
 Meet with one or two people at a time, or have a housewarming party or larger get-together.
 If you have children, that's another neat way to find other parents at your child's school or after-school activities. Very often schools send out e-mail directories of their students' contact information for playdates and birthday parties.
 If you have a dog, that's a wonderful ice-breaker. It is heart-warming to watch pet owners swapping stories while their dogs yap away at each other in their own lingo.
 Local friends can be found at your place of worship or work.
 Most libraries have book clubs, meditation classes and other fun activities for adults. Regular attendance at these events can definitely lead to some great friendships forming.
 Meet locals at the supermarket, box stores, etc. Go on to form friendships from there. Never underestimate the power of the Big Box Store to bring unexpected joy into your life, apart from savings and coupons!

, Volunteering is another way to meet people - ask your place of worship or your children's school if they need a pair of extra hands to help out events and they will gladly to take you aboard in these times of budget cutbacks. Area museums, hospitals, food banks, libraries, etc., also need volunteers and they provide orientation sessions for new volunteers. You might get free parking as a perk!

, Sometimes, that's all it takes to get people's attention or perhaps catch their interest, especially if you're from someplace distant or interesting.
 As soon as you start talking to somebody, be on the lookout for similar interests to yours. Does he like to listen to music? Who? Who's her favorite author? Do you play sports? It doesn't have to be an exact match, just common ground you can use to start a conversation.
 If you see someone who seems bored, lonely, or unhappy, ask what's up and whether you can help.


Be approachable. Others might just come to you.






Be positive. Even if you're not completely at home yet, try to be confident, outgoing, and reasonably cheerful. Remember, you can't score if you don't shoot.
 If you're new somewhere, you probably have every reason to ask people to help you find your way. Where are the restrooms? The parks? The good shops? What restaurants, schools, teachers, clubs, or programs should you check out? You'll not only get good, inside information, you'll start conversations. People love to share their opinions.
 Anything from, "Cool shirt, where did you get it?" to "I've really enjoyed talking to you" can be just the amount of encouragement someone needs to remember to talk to you again. Be casual, and don't go overboard. Just drop in a sincere compliment whenever it seems fitting.
 Buy a drink for the next person in line at the drink machine. Offer to help if you see someone working or struggling with something. It's amazing how quickly offering to help can break down barriers. Or, try volunteering some of your time with any community organization that needs it.
 If people see you having fun, they might be inclined to join you.

