 For the optimum security, your home needs to be outfitted with strong deadbolts and door locks to keep your stuff and your family safe. You can do this yourself, as door locks are easy and inexpensive to replace. Once you do, always lock them and instruct your family to always lock them.


It's possible that older residents likely have kept a copy of your key, so it's good to change the locks if you've just moved in, to help prevent theft.;
, Having an alarm reduces the likelihood of a break-in, and makes the effects of a break-in much more minor. You can engage the alarm when you're away, as well as setting it to night or stay mode, for your own safety while you're in for the night. Invest in a system that will alert the police (or fire station) immediately and your home phone should receive a call from them asking if everything is all right.


Shop around for the best monthly monitoring prices. The brands you probably know from television cost four times per month more than other companies that are probably local to you. Knowing the pricing of other companies will help you negotiate a lower rate.
Be sure to use the alarm each time you go out, and change the code every year or two, using something hard to guess but easy to remember for the code.
If the alarm company offers signs for windows or lawn, use them. The whole idea is to make your home less attractive for an easy theft.
 You can help prevent theft at your home by putting a clear thick window film on your ground floor and basement windows to keep them from breaking-in. There are clear, frosted and reflective (mirrored) films, depending on your privacy needs. This is commonly used in earthquake country to prevent shattering, and is also useful to resist a break-and-enter type of theft.
 Help your neighborhood by getting to know the cars and habits of your neighbors. This may seem like a little thing, but thieves really do target places where they think they are blending in or not noticed. Once they know someone is very aware of them, they will feel uncomfortable and will quickly move on. As you probably can't be home all the time, this works best if you can encourage your neighbors to do the same.


If you see someone strange or a strange vehicle near your house, go out and offer to help them with directions (pretend to think that they are lost) or otherwise engage them "how are you, how is your day." Be polite and never challenge them ("what are you doing here") as a confrontation could be a risk to safety. A thief will talk as little as possible and then move on to the next neighborhood.
 If they arrive at your door, go outside to talk with them, locking your door behind. Many thieves use some excuse to come into the home to get some idea of what to steal. Going outside will help deter them. If they ask, politely say no.


If they claim to be from your town government, ask to see ID first and take their picture using your mobile phone. A real government official won't be upset by this and may even congratulate you on being safe.
Always document strangers who come around or seem suspicious in some way. Take a quick picture just to have it in case something happens in the future.
 Dogs, even small dogs and docile animals, can help to deter theft. Thieves don't want to mess with potential dog-alarms and bites. If you're concerned about security at your home, consider investing in a family pet who will have the added benefit of barking its head off any time someone comes around with ill intent. This can help you feel safe and provide you with an added layer of security.
 Be sure to put away bicycles, radios or anything of value away when you're not using them or done for the day to reduce their visibility to the passerby. Expensive tools, shoes and other things should never be left out where they could be easily taken.
 Never leave coins, paper money, wallets, radios, mobile phones or computers visible through the windows of your car. Take them inside and store them properly. This can encourage vehicle theft, and possibly more.
 There's no need to broadcast that you've got a big plasma screen television inside and a new Macbook sitting on your desk. Thieves will be much less interested in gambling with what you've got inside if they can't see it. There's no sense in drawing attention to what you've got.
 If you are one of the lucky ones with a garage and you keep anything like tools, bicycle or expensive vehicles in it, keep it closed most of the time to prevent anyone passing by taking mental inventory of what you have as incentive to possibly break in later.
 Increase night visibility around your home by employing outdoor lighting. Modern LEDs are waterproof and use much less wattage than conventional outdoor lighting.
 Consider removing any bushes that are growing against the home providing hiding spots. If you have a fence, keep the gates closed and put up no trespassing signs, which suggests to thieves that you're taking security seriously.
 Don't publish personal information such as your telephone number, address, and detailed lists of things you own and your daily activity. If you let everyone know you're out of the town for three days, your new stereo could become an attractive theft option.


If you post a picture in the place you live, be careful not to let the GPS turned on, so everybody will find out where you live.

