 This will help you cope with the stress of school easier.Participate in a team sport as a way to be active and meet new people. Also, you might be more likely to keep it up if you know your teammates are depending on you.
Try activities like walking, jogging, hiking, or biking if you prefer more solo activities. This can give you time to think and work on calming yourself.
 Dealing with stressful situations in school can make you feel bad about yourself or look at yourself in a negative way. In addition, worrying about how you look can stress you out. Don’t let it. Make an effort to do things that boost your self-esteem and self-image.Use positive self-talk. For example, look in the mirror and tell yourself, “I am cool and funny. I can handle school and the stressful situations of school.”
Hang around people that boost your self-esteem and make you feel good about yourself.
Write a list of your positive characteristics. Post it somewhere that you can see it easily and on a regular basis.
 Learning to manage your emotions and self-soothe can help you deal with stress in a positive way. When you are feeling overwhelmed, you can used certain techniques to calm yourself, clear your mind, and figure out what you need to do to resolve your feelings.Some actions you can take when you are stressed include taking a break, slowing down and pacing yourself instead of rushing through something, and asking for help. Remember that nothing will change unless you do something differently.
Ask yourself the following questions: What am I reacting to?; What am I really upset about?; What are other ways I could deal with this?; Am I putting too much importance on this?; Is this going to matter in six months?
Ask yourself what you can change about the situation. Can you change your environment, the situation, and/or how you react?
Take deep breaths when you need to calm yourself quickly. Inhale deeply so that your belly puffs out, not your chest. Hold the breath for a moment, then exhale slowly. Repeat until you start to feel calmer.
Notice your "red flags." What are some signs that you are approaching stress overload? Do you eat more? Have trouble sleeping? Snap at your friends and family? Identifying these things can help you realize when you need to start using your calming and relaxation techniques.
 Take some time out of your schedule and do something relaxing.This will give you a moment to clear your mind and calm your body.

Do something you enjoy like playing a quick game on your phone or watching an episode of your favorite web show.

Meditate for a few minutes. Try to focus on your breathing or counting. Try to let all other thoughts simply pass without dwelling on them.
Call a friend or hang out with them for a little while. Do something fun that both of you enjoy like going to a movie or for ice cream.

