 If you live at home, make sure you take an active role in keeping it clean, particularly your room. But your parents will appreciate if you do the laundry, clean the dishes, and generally pick up after yourself and others. Helping to keep the home clean shows a lot of respect and it takes some of the load off of your parents.


If you don’t live at home, stop by once or twice a week to help out. Do a couple of loads of laundry or dishes, run the vacuum around the house, or cut the grass for them., You were probably the recipient of your parents’ taxi services for most of your life. Now, you can return the favor. Offer to take them to where they need to go, especially if they are aging and driving has become difficult for them. Even if they are still able to drive well, having someone offer to chauffeur them around is a sweet gesture.


Remember to stay respectful, especially if your parents are older. They may not like the fact that they need help driving. Asking their permission to drive them around, instead of telling them that you are, can make a big difference in how your offer is received., As your parents age, they may be unable to take care of their home as well as they could before. Instead of having them call a handyperson to make household repairs, offer to do them yourself. If you are unable to, hire someone yourself so that your parents don’t have to spend the money.


Your parents may not be forthcoming about what they need help with because they don’t want to burden you. As such, you may have to ask them directly how you can help. If they still won’t tell you, you may have to do some inspecting of the home yourself, or ask other family members if they know if something needs to be done., Your parents have likely been paying for you for a long time. If you have the means, treat them when you can. Taking them out to dinner or paying for a vacation together is a great way to thank them for what they’ve done and to show your affection.


If you have elderly parents who are on a fixed income, pay some of their bills if you are able to. Or you can pay for groceries, expenses for their pets, or whatever you can to take some of their financial burden off of their shoulders. Or, if you notice they are struggling, attempt to work out a plan with them to help manage their finances.