 Most checks that were written by a legitimate business have one edge that is rough or perforated. Examine the sides of the check to see if all sides are smooth. If they are, it might have been printed on a computer., Look on the front of the check for the logo of the bank where the checking account is held. If you don't see a logo, the check is likely fake. If the logo is faded or faint, this is probably evidence of the logo being copied from another source. This signals a fake check as well.


If the logo seems legitimate, look for an address. You need to check the validity of the bank address, which you can do by going online to the bank's website or calling the bank. Make sure each part of the address is correct.
If the check has no address or just a PO Box, the check is likely a fake., Any legitimate check issued by a bank has a check number. The check number appears at the top right hand corner of the check. If the check does not have a check number, the check is fake.


If it does have a check number, check the number against the number in the magnetic ink character recognition (MICR) line. The MICR line is the line of numbers at the bottom of a check printed by the issuing bank that gives all the relevant numbers for a check. From left to right, the long string of numbers contains the routing number, the account number, and the check number. The check number should match the numbers on the far right of the line. If it doesn't match, the check is likely a fake.
If the check number is low, from 101-400 on a personal check or 1000-1500 in a business check, the check may be fake. This signals a new account, and 90 percent of fake checks are written from new accounts., The MICR line appears at the bottom of every check issued by a real bank. Rub your finger over the line to check the feel of the ink. Also look at the ink's quality. The special ink used for the MICR line is dull and should print smoothly. If it is raised or shiny, the check is fake.


You also need to examine the routing number in the MICR line. This will be the first series of numbers in the MICR line. Go to the Federal Reserve Bank Services website and search the routing number of the institution issuing the check. If it exists, check the information of the bank against the name and address given to you by the Federal Reserve. If it doesn't match, you likely have a fake check., Real checks are typically printed on thick, sturdy stock paper. Rub your fingers along the check. Notice the thickness of the check. Bend the check back and forth, noticing the resistance the check gives. If the check is thin and flimsy, it is likely a fake check.


Fake checks are also typically printed on shiny paper. If the check is not printed on matte paper, it might be fake.
You can also try an ink test. Dampen your finger and run it across an inked area of the check. If the color smears, it was printed on a color printer and is fake., Most signed checks have a consistent signature. Look for gaps in the signature, a digital appearance or shaky and erratic pen strokes. These are signs that may indicate the signature was forged or scanned from another source and printed.


This doesn't always mean it is a fake check, but you should look for other clues if the signature seems forced.There are some instances where a stamp is made up to sign checks, which can make it look printed or irregular. Be aware of this issue.
 A few irregular aspects of a check can show it as being fake:


Look for an address of a payee. Notice if it is typed instead of printed on the check.
Check for spelling or typing errors within any of the printed areas.
Match the amount of the check with the spelled out amount.
Pay attention to areas where things have been added or erased from the check. If you see anything out of the ordinary in these areas, you might have a fake check.