 When a person lies, their mouth usually becomes dry at the same time as a result of the anxiety and nervousness from lying. In response to this, the liar might purse their lips or make a sucking motion.If you see white on their lips, it’s an indicator that they are pursing their lips and may be lying.;
, Our brains subconsciously give away little clues through our behavior when we lie. For example, it is common for people to cover their mouths when they tell a lie or to hide their eyes from the person they are lying to.If a person puts their hand in front of their mouth, this can be an indicator of a lie.
The most common way that someone shields their eyes is by closing them. This doesn’t include normal blinking – but prolonged eye closing counts.
 Liars often have a spike in anxiety levels because they are nervous about hiding the truth and being caught in a lie. The body feels the need to dissipate this anxiety and it often manifests in nervous fidgeting of some sort.This can include grooming gestures like pulling your hair behind your ear, adjusting your tie, or straightening your skirt.It can also include hand to face motions like pulling on your ear, wiping your forehead, or adjusting your glasses.
Additionally, this might manifest as tidying up the area around you like straightening the pencil on the desk in front of you, repositioning your phone, or moving a glass of water.
 When people are lying, the brain often gives little indicators through the eyes because the person is uncomfortable or anxious about the lie. Watch for rapid blinking or eyes darting back and forth as signs of lying.Eyes darting back and forth indicate that a person feels trapped and they are looking for a way out – this could be both physically (they want to get out of the room and get away from the situation causing them to lie) and emotionally (they want to get out of telling the truth).
People blink about once every ten seconds. If someone blinks more frequently than that, it could be an indicator that they are lying – especially if they blink 5 or 6 times rapidly in a row.
 If a person usually speaks slowly and deliberately but they are talking very quickly and jumbling their words, it’s probably a sign that they are lying. Watch for changes in verbal behavior as a sign of lying.If you are trying to determine if a person is lying and you don’t know them very well, try asking them some questions that you know the answer to (like their name or profession) to gauge how they speak normally. Then ask them about the thing you think they might be lying about.
A person’s normal behavior in low-stress conditions is called their “baseline.”

, People who lie typically try to distance themselves from the lie. This means that they typically refrain from using personal pronouns about themselves like “I,” “me,” or “mine.” Sometimes they will have to use these words in normal speech, but watch for decreased usage compared to how they normally speak.Liars might also use “him” and “her” instead of people’s names more frequently.
 Sometimes people who lie give indirect, long-winded responses to straight-forward questions that could have received a simple answer. Rambling is a sign of nervousness that often occurs when someone is lying.Of course, you should consider the person’s normal manner of speaking. Some people just ramble when they speak normally. So keep this in mind.
 The liar will seem nervous, speak quite quickly, and want to change the subject or leave as soon as they can. They may get defensive if you repeatedly ask them probing questions such as "Are you sure?" and "Is that the complete truth?" because they want to deflect attention away from the lie.
 The more questions you ask them, especially questions requiring depth and detail, the more uncomfortable they will become because they will have to make up more and more. They may contradict themselves or lead themselves into a trap.It is very hard to completely fabricate a detailed story on the spot so look for chinks in their armor. If you really give them the third degree they might even eventually crumble and admit they are lying (though don't rely too heavily on this happening).
Ask them several times to explain the sequence of events. This is very hard to keep straight for someone who is lying and it is likely they will make a mistake.
Ask them small details about the thing they’re lying about – like what color their shirt was or how they felt when they saw someone.
 If the person you suspect of lying has lied before, they are more likely to be lying now. Think about how the person would normally act in this situation and compare it to their suspected lie. Try reflecting on the kind of excuses they have come up with for specific situations in the past.For example, if you are a teacher and you think your student is lying about why they haven't done their homework again, compare their excuse to previous excuses to see if they always tend to be elaborate, far-fetched, or related to a particular reason.
 If you’re having trouble figuring something out, an honest person will help you brainstorm to come up with an answer. A liar will not want to give you any more details or information than they are required to.Try asking questions like, “Can you think of anyone else who might have had access to this computer?” If the person tries to help you figure out another possibility, they are probably telling the truth. But if they say they have no idea or react negatively/aggressively, they are likely telling a lie.

