 Try to drink at least eight ounces of water every two hours. 2 litres of water is the daily recommendation for the average adult. You can also supplement with glucose-free sports drinks that have electrolytes. If you drink caffeinated beverages, you should also drink 1 litre of water for every cup (1 fluid oz.) of caffeine.Water helps ease congestion caused by colds, preventing postnasal drip that can irritate the throat, and keeps your throat from drying which can cause coughs.
Not getting enough water can also lead to dehydration which can cause headaches, irritability, dizziness, irregular heartbeat and shortness of breath.
 Certain foods can slow down your body’s healing process, impair the immune system and increase inflammation. They may also cause gastroesophageal acid reflux, which can make your cough worse. Try to cut back on or avoid these foods:Refined carbohydrates such as white bread, pastries and donuts.
Fried foods
Sugar-sweetened beverages such as soda or energy drinks.
Red meat such as veal, ham or steak and processed meats such as hot dogs.
Margarine, shortening and lard.
 Some foods can help reduce inflammation to help ease a sore throat. If your cough is caused by stomach acid reflux, try eat more green vegetables, whole grains, nuts and oil. You may want to cut back on eating fruits with citric acid, since they may trigger gastroesophageal acid reflux which aggravates your throat. Switch to a Mediterranean diet. It mostly consists of foods that help reduce inflammation, like:Fruits (such as strawberries, cherries and oranges.)
Nuts (like almonds and walnuts.)
Green leafy vegetables (such as spinach or kale which are high in antioxidants.)
Fatty fish (like salmon, mackerel, tuna and sardines.)
Whole grains (such as brown rice, quinoa, millet, oatmeal and flax seed.)
Olive or canola oil

, If your cough is a symptom of a cold or viral infection, strengthen your immunity to help your body heal faster and avoid future risks of infection. Research has shown that vitamin C plays a vital role as an antioxidant and in promoting immune function, lowering risk of various chronic diseases. You can take Vitamin C as a dietary supplement, or you can add vitamin-C rich foods to your diet. Good natural sources of vitamin C are:Sweet red or green peppers
Citrus fruit such as oranges, pomelo, grapefruit, limes or non-concentrated citrus juices.
Spinach, broccoli and brussel sprouts
Strawberries and raspberries
Tomatoes

, Probiotics are microorganisms that are naturally found in your digestive system and certain foods. Studies have shown that they can help reduce the severity of cold or flu symptoms, like cough, sore throat, and nasal congestion. They can also reduce the length of your recovery period. You can get probiotics from yogurt, certain types of milk, soy products and as dietary supplements.Talk with your doctor before taking probiotics if you have a weakened immune system or are currently taking immunosuppressant drugs.
Probiotics also help boost the production of cells that fight infections and suppress stomach acid reflux.
 Coconut oil has antibacterial and antiviral properties. 2 tablespoons of coconut oil, three times per day will often shorten a cold or flu to last only 1 to two days when otherwise it would have lasted 8 or 10 days. , Zinc is an essential trace mineral found in many foods you eat on a regular basis. It has antioxidant properties that help protect cells in the body from damage caused by bacteria and viruses, prevent future infection and strengthen the immune system. You can take a daily dose of 10 - 15 mg of zinc in a supplement, like zinc sulfate. Or you can get it from a healthy diet. The best dietary sources of zinc include:Oysters, shellfish, shrimp, crab
Red meats
Poultry
Cheese
Beans, sunflower seeds
Pumpkin
Tofu and miso
Mushrooms
Cooked greens

