 Some states require you to have a state-issued permit to harvest.If you are harvesting on private property, get permission from the property owner before you start.Always take your permit with you when are out harvesting. You are required to show your permit if you are requested to do so.


Some U.S. Forest Service National Forests issue harvest permits for wild ginseng while other National Forests prohibit the harvest of ginseng. Check with the National Forest in your area to know whether ginseng harvesting is allowed.The harvest of wild ginseng on U.S. National Parks is strictly prohibited.
 You are only permitted to harvest mature ginseng plants. Mature ginseng plants are at least 5 years old and have 3 or 4 prongs. Also, look for plants with red berries. You can also count stem scars to determine the age of the plant.For every year of growth, a stem scar will appear on the root neck of the plant. The plants you harvest should have at least 4 stem scars.
You don't need to remove the plant from the ground to count stem scars. Simply, remove the soil from around the area where the root neck is.If the berries are still green, the plant isn't ready for you to harvest.
 You will need a license to sell and/or export your ginseng. If you plan to ship your ginseng out of state, it must be certified by the State or Tribe where you harvested the roots. If you plan to ship your ginseng internationally, apply for an export permit from the US Fish & Wildlife Service.Your international shipments will only be permitted if you harvested the roots according to all regulations and the shipment is not detrimental to the survival of the American ginseng population.
 If you plan to export your ginseng, you must apply for a permit through the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.There is a form for multiple commercial shipments and a form for for a single shipment. In addition to your permit, you must have State or Tribal documents that certify that you legally harvested the ginseng.Once your application is approved, your Master File is established. You will then have to get single-use permits for each of one your exports.
Your application to export wild ginseng will be valid for one year.

