 Lift your heels up so that only the balls of your feet are on the floor. Hold this position for five seconds and then lower your heels. Repeat this movement 10 times, making sure that your breathing is natural and at a regular pace.;
, Hold this position for five seconds and then lower your feet. Repeat 10 times.
 Lift one leg slightly so that it is straight, and rotate your foot clockwise at the ankle 15 times and then counterclockwise for another 15 times. Repeat this action with your other leg.
 With one hand, grasp the elbow of the opposite arm and gently pull to one side. Hold the stretch for 15 seconds. Repeat on the other side.
 Place your left hand behind your right elbow and gently press the elbow toward shoulder. Hold the stretch for 15 seconds. Repeat on the other side for 15 seconds.


Only perform this stretch if there is no one sitting next to you (or if the person next to you is a close friend or relative who doesn't mind), as this will cause you to extend your arm in front of them.
 In a confined space, contracting muscles can be an excellent form of exercise without moving too much.


Contract your abdominal or gluteal muscles. Hold them in place for a few seconds, then release. Repeat this as many times as you feel comfortable during your flight. This will help to strengthen and tone your muscles.
Contract your pubococcygeus (PC) muscles while sitting in a manner similar to Kegel exercises. These muscles stop the flow of urine, so the exercises help improve bladder control. For men, this exercise can help ameliorate erectile dysfunction and improve sexual performance. For women, try Kegel exercises while seated.
 This is a good opportunity to stretch and move while standing in line.


Stand with your feet slightly apart and your hands stretched out in front of you (if it's possible), or place your hands on your hip. Bend down at the knees and do a sit up. Come back to standing position. Repeat about 5 times. Doing this helps to flex the knees and gets blood flowing through the legs and hips.

Stretch. Stand with your feet together and bend down at the waist to touch your feet. This stretches and relieves back muscle tension.
 If the aisle is completely empty, stand in the aisle. Grasp armrests on either side of you. Tighten your abdominals and lift legs straight in front of you, using only abdominals and arms to lift legs. Do not jump. Repeat for sets of 10. Beginners, try smaller sets for this. It works quads, thighs, and abs all at once.

