 Well, everyone knows that Bill hates fans dressing like him- so to prove you're a real fan of his, don't! It's a very simple rule. But sometimes you like some styles that could be the same as him not because you're trying to copy him. That's fine (e.g. Criss Angel, Adam Lambert and Andy Sixx, Black Veil Brides);
, Do not believe anyone you see on any of the above sites (or any you can think of) claiming to be Bill (or any of the other members). They have said several times in interviews that they do not have personal sites, or even MSN, so delete anyone who claims to be them- they are lying! However, the band does have an official Facebook page.
 He has the Tokio Hotel logo on the back of his neck (he got it when he was 15), he has the star tattoo on his abdomen (he got that when he was 16) and he also has 'Freheiht 89' for his 18th birthday (as a present to himself). It represents his freedom, and how is now free to do all of things he couldn't do before, due to laws. He has also gotten a tattoo up his left side saying "Wir werden nie aufhören zu schreien. Wir zurück zu den Wurzeln." In English it means "We will never stop screaming. We are going back to the roots/origins." His newest tattoos are both on his hand. One tattoo says "0630". It's a twin tattoo, and it matches Tom's tattoo. It represents the time of his birth, 06:30. His other hand tattoo covers his entire hand, as a skeleton hand. It also features a yellow flower and a bird. According to Bill, it represents "life and death, power and strength, Beauty and perishability, love and bond, equality and distinctions."

, He has his right eyebrow, his tongue pierced, his left nipple pierced, snake bites, a septum piercing, three lobe piercings on his right ear and one lobe piercing on his left.
 September 1st, 1989. (same as his twin brother Tom).He likes the letters R and S the most.
 So you know they don't eat meat anymore (see interview here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GFpg3_IqYkc)

,,, Bill now has a faux-hawk type hair style, and he is now platinum blonde. Bill changes his style and his look often.

