 If you were denied asylum by an Asylum Officer, then you will receive a Notice to Appear before an Immigration Judge. You must be sure to show up to court on the day specified.The first hearing you will have is called a “Master Calendar Hearing.” Even if you are represented by a lawyer, you must personally attend all hearings.;
, This hearing is similar to an arraignment in criminal court. The government will state the grounds for your removal. In response, you will explain why you should be granted asylum.This hearing typically lasts only several minutes. You will schedule the dates for your individual merits hearing and any other deadlines for submitting documents (such as a witness list) to the court.You have the option of accepting an “expedited removal” schedule. This will speed up the appeals process. If you accept, then your merits hearing will be scheduled within 180 days of when you submitted your asylum application. If you choose not to accept expedited removal, then you will not be granted work authorization as you wait for the resolution of your appeal.Accordingly, you should think about how much time you need to prepare for the merits hearing and whether or not you need to work to support yourself as you wait.
 At the master calendar hearing, your name and Alien Registration Number will be called. You (and your lawyer) will go to the front of the courtroom, where the Immigration Judge will read the government’s charges to you. You must admit or deny each one.Some of the charges will include: the date you entered the country, if you overstayed your visa, or if you entered the country illegally.Other charges could be that you are barred from asylum for certain reasons, such as having committed a violent crime.
Be sure to deny any charge of fraud.
Read your Notice to Appear to see what each charge is. Then talk with your lawyer about how you will respond.
 After deny or admitting charges at the master calendar hearing, you will then be able to tell the judge what relief you are requesting.Since you are appealing an asylum denial, you will probably request asylum again.


The judge will ask you to designate a country to be removed to (in case you fail to win asylum). Do not name your home country. Remember, you are claiming asylum because you fear persecution in your home country. If you agree to be removed there, then you are essentially admitting that you do not fear persecution. Instead, say nothing or pick another country.
 The Immigration Judge (IJ) will hear your appeal. The hearing itself could last anywhere from a few hours to several days. It will be like a trial. You will present evidence and the government will challenge your evidence. The judge will listen to testimony and decide whether or not you deserve asylum.You need to convince the judge that you deserve asylum as defined by the law: that you cannot return to your home country because you have been persecuted or because you fear persecution on a protected basis, such as religion, race, etc. Look at your original application for asylum (Form I-589) to see on what grounds you claimed asylum.
The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) will also be present to oppose your appeal. You should expect DHS to argue that you should be removed.
Be sure to bring the following documents with you the day of the merits hearing:a complete copy of your asylum application
proof of your identity (such as a passport)
the Notice to Appear issued by DHS
any original documents that you have not yet submitted to support your case



, You want to put forward a strong case before the Immigration Judge. The strength of your case will hinge on your ability to be honest and credible. You must tell a consistent story before the judge. This story must also match what you stated in your asylum application.You should have a lawyer represent you. This attorney should prepare you for your questioning at the hearing. Your attorney and the IJ will ask you questions before DHS gets a chance to cross-examine you.
You can prepare for your hearing by rereading your application and bringing any errors to the attention of your lawyer. Otherwise, you need to know your story inside and out.
 As you testify, try to remain calm. Sometimes, the Immigration Judge will be rude and might cut you off. Never show anger. Instead, always listen to the judge and respond politely.


The DHS lawyer also could be aggressive.After all, DHS wants to remove you from the country. You should be prepared for the lawyer to try and trip you up in your testimony or to ask you repetitive questions.
You can prepare by asking your lawyer if he or she is familiar with the IJ and the IJ’s mode of questioning. You can then prepare for aggressive questioning by doing a mock examination.
 You can have witnesses testify on your behalf. You will need to submit a list of witnesses to the court before your merits hearing date.The court should inform you of the deadline.


You and your lawyer should decide which witnesses would be effective. Witnesses should support your claim that you have suffered persecution (or fear persecution) in your home country based on a protected characteristic such as religion, race, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group.For example, you could have family members or friends testify. They can corroborate why you fear persecution in your home country. Specifically, family members might have seen you being persecuted. If so, they should testify at the merits hearing.
You could also have experts testify as to the conditions in your country. Experts can be very important, as the Immigration Judge does not understand the political situation in your home country. An expert, for example, could explain why people of your religion or race are being persecuted.
Medical experts can also testify as to your physical or psychological state. If you were tortured, for example, then an expert can explain the effects of that experience. A medical expert can testify as to scars, mutilation, or physical impairment., You can also submit documents to the court. The documents must be accurate, preferably the originals. You can expect DHS to test the authenticity of the documents, so make sure not to submit anything that isn’t truthful.Documents must also support your claim that you have been persecuted or fear persecution based on a protected characteristic. For example, you might want to introduce newspaper or magazine articles that show persecution of political dissidents in your home country. Or you might want to introduce medical examinations which show the physical or psychological effects of prior persecution.
You also want documentation that shows your membership in a particular group that is being persecuted.For example, if you are claiming persecution because of your political opinion, then you should submit evidence that shows your participation in a certain political movement: op-ed articles you have published in your home country, photographs that show your participation in marches and protests, etc.
Your attorney may also choose to submit a legal brief. This brief explains what the legal issues are in your case.
Try to get all relevant documents before the Immigration Judge. After this hearing, you will not be able to present new evidence. In other words, this is the only level of appeal at which you can present evidence such as witnesses or documents. During other appeals (e.g. before the Board of Immigration Appeals), you cannot introduce new evidence.
 After hearing testimony, the judge should issue an oral decision. If you are unhappy with the result, then you can appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals. You must appeal within 30 days of the judge’s oral decision.Be aware that the government can also appeal if you win.This means that the government can get the IJ’s decision overturned if it can point to errors that the judge made.
You can probably remain in the country while you work through your appeals. However, you should give some thought as to how you will support yourself as you wait.
 You have 30 days from the date of the Immigration Judge’s decision to file the Notice of Appeal with the BIA. The BIA must receive the Notice within 30 days, so mail it as soon as possible. You can download a form Notice of Appeal form from the Department of Justice at http://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/pages/attachments/2015/07/24/eoir26.pdf.


You must serve a copy of your Notice of Appeal to the Assistant Chief Counsel at the Department of Homeland Security.You should have this person’s name and address from court papers filed before the IJ. You can hand the Notice of Appeal to the Assistant Counsel or mail it. If you send it by mail, then use certified mail, return receipt requested.
Include a filing fee of $110. If you cannot afford to pay the fee, then you must fill out a fee waiver request form (EOIR-26A). You can get the fee waiver at http://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/pages/attachments/2015/07/24/eoir26a.pdf.
 You need to explain to the BIA that the Immigration Judge made an error when denying you asylum. Your written brief will explain the relevant law and point out how the IJ did not properly apply the law to your factual circumstances.


You will need to hire a lawyer to draft a compelling brief. Legal briefs require thorough knowledge of immigration law, which you will not be able to gain from independent research.
Generally, you are not allowed to submit new supporting documents at this stage.You cannot have witnesses testify either. Instead, the BIA will look at the transcripts of the hearing before the Immigration Judge and read the briefs.
 The BIA should issue a written decision. It can either grant you asylum, deny you asylum, or send the case back down to the Immigration Judge to hear again.


You will have to wait probably a year or more to get your decision from the BIA., Once your appeal is denied by the Board of Immigration Appeals, you have the option of continuing to appeal. Your next step would be to appeal to the United States Court of Appeals.This is a federal court.


The appeals process before the Court of Appeals is very similar to appeals before the BIA. Your lawyer will draft a brief and point out legal errors that warrant reversal of the BIA’s decision.
Your attorney may also travel to the court to deliver an oral argument.
If you lose at the Court of Appeals, you can appeal to the United States Supreme Court, which is the final court in the appeals process.
 When you first appear before the Immigration Judge, he or she should give you a list of free or reduced-cost lawyers.You can certainly contact any attorney on the list and ask if he or she will represent you. However, you should realize that pro bono attorneys are swamped and you very likely will not find anyone to represent you for free.


You can also look for legal aid organizations or law school clinics to assist you. For a list of low-cost attorneys in your area, you can write to the American Bar Association Commission on Immigration, 105 Connecticut Avenue, NW, Suite 400, Washington, DC 20036. You can also call 202-442-3363.Finally, you can look for a private lawyer. For information on how to find an immigration lawyer, see Find an Immigration Lawyer.
 If you decide to go with a private attorney, you should schedule consultations with at least a few. If you are being held by USCIS, then your consultation will have to happen over the phone. Be sure to ask prospective lawyers the following:


How much experience have they had with immigration appeals?
What are your chances of success with your appeal?
How much does the attorney charge?
Can you hire the attorney to do only certain tasks (like write an appellate brief) but handle the remainder of your case yourself?

, If you need assistance from your home country’s consular office, then you can find the contact information by visiting the U.S. Department of State’s website at http://www.state.gov/s/cpr/rls/fco/c61467.htm. You will be provided with a physical address and a telephone number.


Only reach out to your country’s consulate if you feel safe doing so. Because you fear persecution in your homeland, you may not want your country’s representatives to know where you are. Accordingly, you should use your best judgment.

