


First, you need to know what kind of music you want to make. You can also do that after you have the members. If you want to get famous, metal might not be a great choice, since it's not exactly mainstream, it's harder to get noticed (though it pays off more if you do get noticed). Rock or pop might be better if you're really aiming for fame, but remember that the music has to suit you, for it to work (more easily). Be sure that you know the types of music and what they require.
Find people willing to play with you. They don't even have to be good (yet), though it would really help. Pick a front woman (that's usually the vocalist, since they already have to use their voice), that's the person that does the talking in the beginning of shows etc. The common, basic setup exists of a vocalist, a guitarist and a drummer. A bass player isn't required, but definitely recommended. Keys (piano, keyboard) are optional, just like any other instrument. Music is a creative thing, so let your imagination go free and come up with an original setup. Make sure the instruments go well with each other though. Originality will definitely get people talking about you, automatically getting you more known.
Think of an original name for the band together. Something catchy, that people will remember. Nothing too difficult, something simple and obvious can be great! (Metallica; how simple do you want it?) Something random can work out really well too, just make sure your band will be found when people search for it online and don't get that random thing all the time (of course in the beginning your site won't even be found by the search engine at all, but that'll change as you get more known). Make sure another band doesn't already have the name you want. Be really careful with that, cause you could get sued for using a name that's already claimed. Band names with two words usually work best.;
,


Writing a song isn't just the lyrics, it's the music too.
According to some (and I must say, I agree) most bestsellers are really bullshit, so making shitty songs may work. It's true that the majority of the population doesn't really care about what it is, as long as it's catchy and they're able to sing along. Remember: Las Ketchup, etc.
As you get a little more known (or even before that), do work on at least some decent songs. Making a hit might be fun, but you want to be famous, meaning: you want to be remembered. So just a hit won't work for you, you'll have to write good songs too to keep attention (Metallica, Michael Jackson).
, Tell people about it, anyone you know (and don't know). Friends, family, people in your class(es) at school, at work, people you've met online... Anyone. And tell them to tell other people about it too. You never know who has the right connections.



Get a site and have it look professional. That doesn't mean it has to be boring, but it should be easy to navigate, not all chaotic and it has to be easy to read (no spelling and/or grammar mistakes all over the place, some crazy unreadable font or the background image making the text nearly invisible).
As you probably already know, Myspace is a good, easy start. Having your own site is good too, but don't waste any time on that yet, till people at least remember your name. Put some songs on it or complications/just (the best) parts of songs.
Use the right keywords on your site and register your site/Myspace in directories and major search engines (Google, Yahoo, MSN-search etc.)
Exchanging links with other (starting) bands works too.
Get on forums, sites and chatrooms. Don't go spamming or trolling though! It's really annoying, gives you(r band) a bad name and it'll probably get you kicked or banned.
 People like to see who/what they're listening to. Make pictures of the band (and of each member separately) and pick some for the Myspace. If you all have some time, make a video for one of your songs. Just a video that introduces you all could work too.
 (Skate shops, music stores, certain clothing stores etc.)

, Ask people if they have any connections I was talking about in step 1.
 If you want to become a famous band, obviously none of you can have it. Of course it doesn't matter if one, some or all of you do, but make sure to get over it before you get asked to perform. Practice by not skipping classes where you have to show and tell, do speeches in front of the class and when there's someone needed to talk in front of a group, volunteer. You'll find out that being well prepared is the key. It'll also gain you experience of standing in front of a group, knowing what it takes to get you into it, how to get the crowd pumped, what you have to do to not fail etc.
 In the basement, as a street artist, at school shows, talent shows, at youth centers, open bars, birthdays, maybe even funerals or weddings. At other places that vary per facility there might be a possibility to perform too (a mall, a garage, bowling center etc.). Invite all your friends, ask them to bring people to and don't make them pay for it. You can ask for donations though. If you're not good, your audience will get what they paid for, right? Also; you're just starting out, so people will be less likely to pay for a band. Think about it; would you? If they like it, they'll tell people about it and they'll want to hear more of you.
 That's different for every band. Some have a certain image (Marilyn Manson, Slipknot), a special move (Michael Jackson), a piece of clothing (a hat, a tie, anything) worn in a certain way, a line they always say or sound they make.
 Always remember to stay humble and remember you're still just a regular person, with all the needs of any other human being. Never forget where you came from and who supported you.
 Although they make your life easier and luxurious, my opinion is to always think twice before you buy something (for yourself) and consider whether you really need it or not and if you could spend your money on something better. (I'm striving for minimalism, I'm not trying to push my opinions on you, but just advising.)

, You have the ability to reach out to people. Your fans and especially people who might idolize you will definitely follow your example. Don't abuse this 'power', but rather use it for good. The more people you have listening to you, the less effort it takes to make the world a better place. Besides, doing good things (standing up for human/animal rights or the environment, even just being associated with it) is a great promotion as well.

