 If enthusiasm or a sense of community seems to be lacking at your school, then you may want to increase extracurricular opportunities. There can be something for everyone to get involved in—the sky’s the limit! Campaign to increase participation in activities that your school currently offers, or start a new club if there is interest. Some of the many possibilities include:Sports
Cheerleading
Art Club
Drama Club
Garden Club
Technology Club
Future Business Leaders
Mock trial
Chorus
Volleyball Club

, if you feel that your school needs improving because it is boring, don’t give up hope! Talk to teachers, school administrators, and students about developing ways to make learning fun and more engaging. If the goal is to innovate and improve your school, then everyone will be on board and willing to develop ideas., If you feel like your school would be improved if everyone tried to be more eco-friendly, there are many opportunities to take action. Talk to members of your school community about gathering support for ideas like:Choosing eco-friendly school supplies

Making sure that recycling bins are available at your school
Replacing paper towel dispensers with blown air hand dryers
Starting a compost pile
Planting trees for Earth Day
Having an end-of-the day check to make sure that lights are turned off, windows are closed, and that other techniques to conserve energy are being used.
 There are many conversations going on now about improving school meals and eating healthier in general. If these issue are important to you, try leading a campaign to ban candy, junk food, and soda vending machines on your school grounds. You can also talk with your school officials about how to offer healthier choices at meal times., If there is a project at your school that needs financial support, whether it is painting a mural or purchasing school supplies for needy students, you can help start a fundraising campaign. There are lots of ideas, such as:


Holding a garage sale
Asking local merchants to contribute coupons or gift certificates that can be sold in a raffle
Hosting a silent auction for student artwork
Hosting a game night with an entrance fee

