 The siblings of an autistic child may be jealous of the time their parents spend with the autistic child, or feel that they aren't important anymore. You can help support the family by serving as a sounding board for the siblings' frustrations.Siblings often feel guilty for negative feelings they may have toward their autistic sibling, particularly if they've been told by their parents or other authority figures that they should look out for their brother or sister who has special needs.
Emphasize to the siblings that these feelings are natural, and that it's okay to have them. Work with them to find positive ways to deal with these thoughts and feelings.
Encourage siblings to talk about their feelings if they have that comfort level with you, and validate them by listening and letting them know it is natural and okay to feel the way they do.
 Hanging out with the siblings and engaging in fun activities with them makes them feel valued and important themselves. Support the family by volunteering to take the siblings on outings or to sporting events or practice.For example, if one of the autistic child's siblings enjoys baseball, you might find a community baseball league they can join. Offer to help the parents with sign-ups or to take the child to practice.
Ask the siblings about their interests and express genuine enthusiasm for their activities.
When visiting with the family, take care not to ignore the siblings in favor of the autistic child. Take time to greet each child individually and ask them about their life.
 It's often important for parents to spend quality time with each of their children. If one child is autistic, it may be difficult for the parents to focus on the other siblings when the autistic child is around.This can breed resentment in the child's siblings, because they'll feel like no matter what happens, an event becomes all about the autistic child instead of about them.
Resentment and negative feelings also can cause the siblings to feel guilty, because they love and care for their sibling and believe these negative thoughts are improper.
You can support the family by taking care of the autistic child while the parents spend quality time out with the siblings doing something that is particular to them and their interests.
 Siblings typically feel protective, and want to help the autistic child succeed. Let them know how they can help their parents and their autistic brother or sister feel comfortable and loved.Make sure to get the approval of the parents before making these suggestions to the siblings.


Encourage the siblings to build a closer relationship with their autistic sibling by helping them understand how to communicate and interact with the autistic child.
Explain sensory sensitivities to them and help them identify ways to make an environment more comfortable and inviting so their autistic sibling will feel safe interacting with them.
Emphasize to the siblings that even though their autistic sibling may require more time and effort, they all are loved equally and are just as important.

