 Ask your parents about their cultural beliefs and opinions. Your parents’ answers may explain why they feel the way they do about other cultures.If you can get your parents’ to explain their concerns, you can address those concerns. Then you can get your parents to accept your friends from other cultures.


For example, you might ask your mom, “How do you feel about people from different ethnicities? Do you think there are major differences? Why?”
Or, you could try, “Dad, why do you feel the way you do about people from other cultures?”;
, When you look only at the differences between cultures it can create an ‘us versus them’ mindset. It may be easier for your parents to accept your friends from other cultures if they can see the things that the different cultures have in common.Make a point of showing your parents how your friends’ cultures are similar to your own.


For example, you might point out that your Baptist friend comes from a large family just like your Muslim family.
You might try something like, “Lucas has lots of aunts and uncles like me. Even though there are differences in our families, we all like to have big family dinners!”

, They may have some misperceptions about other cultures that you want to clear up. Making fun of your parents, calling them culturally insensitive, or being disrespectful when you correct them will only make your parents defensive.You can get your parents to accept your friends from other cultures if you gently and calmly explain cultural facts to your parents.


For example, if your mom says, “But, all those people are trouble” when you tell her your friend is Hispanic, don’t get upset and call her a racist.
Calmly explain that there are good people and bad people in all cultures.
You might say, “Mom, you’re right. Some people are trouble, but ethnicity doesn’t automatically make someone bad. It’s the choices they make.”

, The more experience your parents have around people of different cultures, the more your parents will understand about different cultures.Try to include your parents in cultural events in your community so that they will have an easier time accepting your friends from other cultures.


Visit a museum that has cultural artwork on display or attend a cultural play, music performance, or other cultural event.
Introduce your parents to foods from different cultures. For example, make your salad Mediterranean-style by adding tabbouli, olives, and fresh cracked pepper.
You might also mention that your friend is interested in your family's culture, such as by saying something like, "Jake is really interested in learning more about the food we cook at home." Or, "Sarah took a survey of religion classes and she's really interested in Judaism now."

