 Get the yellow fever vaccine if you live in, or are travelling to, the parts of South America or Africa where yellow fever is present. The vaccine is approved for people over 9 months old. Get the vaccine at specific centers that provide it, which you can find through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) yellow fever clinic finder website.


Some countries require that you get the vaccine or a booster dose in order to travel there. If you’ll be travelling, check the CDC’s travel page.Ask your doctor whether it’s safe for you to get the vaccine if you’re pregnant or breastfeeding, over 60 years old, or have HIV without symptoms.Do NOT get the vaccine if you’re allergic to any part of it, have symptomatic HIV or other immune system disorders, have cancer, or are taking immunosuppressant drugs or recently had a transplant.
 Avoid mosquito bites to prevent transmission of yellow fever. Any time you are outdoors in an area that has yellow fever, wear EPA-registered (Environmental Protection Agency) insect repellent on any uncovered skin.Reapply the repellent if you start to get mosquito bites. Apply it as directed on the container.


Use repellent that contains DEET, picaridin, IR3535, or oil of lemon eucalyptus for best protection.
Don’t put repellent over cuts or wounds, or into your eyes. Wash off repellent with soapy water when you go indoors.It’s safe to use insect repellent on children. However, do not use oil of lemon eucalyptus on children under 3 years old.
 Wear long-sleeved shirts, pants, and socks when outdoors. Spray insect repellent that contains permethrin over your clothes to deter mosquitoes from biting through the fabric. You can also purchase clothing that is pretreated with permethrin – a repellent you can use over clothes but not directly on your skin., Though many mosquitoes are most active from dusk to dawn, one type of mosquito that transmits yellow fever is also active during the day. Protect yourself around the clock by wearing repellent and appropriate clothing any time you’re outdoors. When possible, sleep in an air-conditioned room with closed or screened windows, or under a mosquito net.