 A hearty salad might mean not using the stove which could be safer for some kids. Make sure you have all the required equipment before picking a meal to prepare.;
, Make sure it isn't too difficult. You may need your parent's help. There are lots of recipes and how to articles online.

. You may also ask for permission., If you don't have the specific ingredients, ask your parents to make a quick stop to a grocery store or choose a different recipe. Or, if you are an older kid, go to the store with the book or craft a quick list.

. Ingredients may come in different quantities. Just pick up the one that suits your meal plan., It can be huge when measuring out salt, pepper or any other spice. Use too much and the meal can be ruined.

. In this case, "tsp" means teaspoon and "tbsp" means tablespoon. The main difference is the sizes of the two spoons. In some recipes especially online ones, tablespoon may be represented by a capital T and teaspoon by a lower case t., Before you even begin, read over all the ingredients and instructions to make sure you understand and that you don't make a meal-altering mistake. Remember, you count more than the meal, so if you feel uncomfortable touching a hot pot or the oven, don't be afraid to ask your mom or dad for help. Or, if you are an older kid, do searches on the internet for a better understanding of the meanings of things. Phrase it how you would say it. Chances are you are not the first with the same question.


If while making the dish you sense that the food is not looking like mentioned in the recipe book, consult with someone who knows about the situation or you may taste a little and either take it off the heat if the dish is cooked or leave it on for a little longer if it tastes raw.
One way to know whether the food is getting cooked is the smell. When the dish smells like it is cooked, mostly but not always, it is a sign of it being ready. You may still taste it before stopping cooking.
 Once the heat is on, the ingredients must be ready otherwise you may keep the power on till the ingredients are washed, peeled, chopped etc. Also, you do not want to burn those ingredients already on the heat source.

While preparing a dish which requires spices to be added in hot oil, make sure that the spices are not let to heat for too long. Letting it cook when it turns dark brown or black should be avoided as it signals it being burned. To avoid burning, you must add the next ingredient to it.
If after preparation you feel that there is excessive spice or salt to the dish, you may add a cleaned potato cut from the center to the dish. Potatoes are said to absorb excessive spices, chili or salt from the dish.
 (Just in case something goes not as expected in what you are preparing).

Potatoes tastes good when cooked after boiling or when just fried till brown. It could work as a quick fix just in case you need to.
Make a simple dessert. Cut a few fruits and make fruit salad. It is healthy and the more the color to the fruit bowl, the more wholesome it will be. You may add some mint leaves for garnishing, or sprinkle some lemon juice or chocolate sauce as per what is available.
 Most likely, they will love it and thank you for being so nice! Food always tastes better when its made by someone else.

