 Keep your face clean and bacteria-free by washing it at least twice per day and after heavy sweating. Use a gentle cleanser that is ideal for your skin type (whether that be dry, oily, or combination).Talk to your doctor about cleansers for acne-prone skin with ingredients such as benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid.
Wash your face from the hairline to below the jawline. Avoid harsh or abrasive scrubbing, but do be sure to really massage your facial skin with the cleaner in a circular motion. Most people don't spend enough time washing their face and leave dirt and debris behind.Always wash your face at the end of the day to remove any makeup, sunscreen, or other remnants of the day. Use an oil-free makeup remover before washing to make sure that all makeup comes off and you're not just moving it around your face when you wash., To prevent long-term skin damage, avoid staying out in the sun for too long without sunscreen. You need sunlight to synthesize Vitamin D, but too much exposure to the sun’s ultraviolet rays can damage your skin. Moreover, exposing acne spots and scars to the sun causes them to darken and derails the healing process.Additionally, if you are using anti-acne cream therapies, like benzoyl peroxide and salicylic acid, or taking certain oral medications such as doxycycline or isotretinoin (Accutane), your skin is more vulnerable to damage caused by UV light.Before heading outside, put on sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher. Note that there are a range of facial sunscreens on the market designed for acne-prone skin. Many of these are oil-free and contain salicylic acid.Try to stay out of the sun during its peak times, between 10a.m. and 2p.m., For a long time, it was believed that vitamin E helped scars heal faster. But recent research suggests this is not the case. In fact, applying vitamin E directly onto a scar can hinder the healing process. In one study from the University of Miami, vitamin E had either no effect or worsened the scars for 90% of patients., Smoking narrows blood vessels and depletes oxygen from the skin, thus slowing down the healing process. To avoid bad scarring, allow your body to heal naturally and to its fullest capability. It's important to quit smoking in order to minimize adverse interference in the healing process.As added incentive to quit smoking, be aware that smoking also accelerates the aging process in the skin!, Drink at least eight glasses of water daily. Water helps to detoxify the body and shed dead skin cells. Staying hydrated is a simple, healthy, and natural way to detox your body and may even alleviate future acne and scarring.For an added boost, add slices of lemon to your glasses of water. Rich in citric acid, lemons help to keep your body and skin healthy. The vitamin C in lemons also has antioxidants and anti-inflammatory properties and promotes the formation of collagen in the skin, and can thus help prevent acne and scarring.Lemon juice is also a natural lightening agent, so may also improve the appearance of any existing scars if applied to the scars (sparingly)., It was long-held belief that diet had nothing to do with acne and that acne was a function of genetics, hormones, and stress. However, the American Academy of Dermatology is now taking a second look at what they had once considered a “myth": the link between acne and certain types of carbohydrates or dairy products.However, the Academy is very clear to note that this link is weak at best and that there is not yet conclusive evidence of how diet may impact acne development and scarring.


That said, however, maintaining a healthy, balanced diet full of mineral- and nutrient-rich foods is a good idea to keep your skin and body healthy. In particular, try to incorporate foods high in antioxidants (vitamins A, C, and E) because these promote healthy and fresh skin and prevent skin damage. Anti-oxidant-rich foods include carrots, butternut squash, mangoes, leafy greens, citrus fruits, nuts, seeds, etc., This is hard to do, but the biggest key to preventing and reducing acne scars is to wait. A few weeks after you have a breakout and scarring occurs, new blood vessels move into the scarred area and rejuvenate and nourish the skin. You'll know this is happening because the scar will look pink. Eventually, collagen will also start form and fill in the scarred area.If you suffer from cystic acne, scars can take a whole year to fade. It may be difficult to wait, but try to be patient.

