 Carry around at least some of your homework with you. Whenever you find yourself doing something that doesn’t use your total concentration, pull out your homework and spend some time on it. This is particularly easy to do with reading assignments. If your assignment is more complex, just scribble down a few notes to get the brainstorming process started.Lunchtime is a great opportunity to work on an assignment and so is the commute home, as long as someone else is driving. If you have a part-time job, take advantage of the slow moments.
If your instructor gives you time during the class period to study, take advantage of it. It is especially important to make good use of study halls if you are an athlete.;
, Log in all of your assignment details in one specific location. You can use a paper planner (sometimes given out for free at schools), the calendar function on your phone, or even a downloadable app. The point is to get a realistic idea of what your work week should look like.This system only works if you keep up with it. Spend time each Sunday evening looking over your planner and making sure that all dates and assignments are entered in correctly. Estimate if you’ve allowed for ample time for each activity.
Some people prefer to schedule their week down to the hour. Others prefer to create a basic “to-do” list for each day. Try a few different approaches to see what works the best for you.Consider using an app, such as iHomework, to keep track of your assignments and deadlines. This one, in particular, will alert you when an assignments is almost due. Many homework apps are free with some available for a small fee., As you consider planning or when you sit down for work, jump in to the most critical items at first. The deadlines for these assignments will only get closer and you don’t want to procrastinate. Keeping them in the forefront of your mind will help you to complete them quickly and efficiently.For example, if a paper is due tomorrow it gets priority over a worksheet that you must complete by next week. Don’t get distracted by the idea of multitasking, try to focus your attention on one project at a time.
 Make homework time a part of your everyday routine. If you plan to study while out, determine exactly when that is possible and maintain that schedule. If you plan to study at home, assess your workload when you first walk into your door and decide how much time is needed to complete everything. You can also simply set aside 1-3 hours a night allowing you to possibly get ahead as well.When creating your schedule consider when you work the best. Some people prefer to work late into the night while others enjoy working in the morning. There is nothing wrong with getting up early to get a jump on homework as long as you can stick to that schedule.
 Divide up your homework time with quick pre-planned breaks. Depending on the project that you are working on, it is a good idea to aim for a 5 minute break each 30 minutes or one 15 minute break per hour. Set a timer on your phone to make sure that you don’t work through your breaks.Get up and move around during your breaks. You’re probably sitting while working so now is the time to get the blood flowing and re-energize. Take a quick walk. Eat a healthy snack, like some almonds, and drink a bit of water too., As you look over your planner and daily schedule, think about what you would like to accomplish each day, each week, and even each month. Be realistic as you set these goals and understand that you cannot possibly do an excellent job at everything all of the time.When a major research project is due a good goal would be to complete the research part of the process well in advance of the final deadline, giving you time to write. This is a realistic goal and it breaks up a larger project, making it seem more doable.
Part of setting goals is keeping your priorities in order. Recognize those activities that can wait until the weekend, such as shopping, and do them then. Also, keep an eye on your extracurricular activities to make sure that you can still achieve your academic goals while participating.