 Well, if this is your first character, then play for at least a week on your own before reading this. If not, then read on!;
, If you want a character with high HP and good attacks in your early stages, then you want to be a warrior. Warriors are good at training and are often invited to guilds and parties, and they are very expensive characters. Warriors, especially spear man, are natural mobbers, and thus, easy to level during your first and second job advancements.
 If you want a character with high DEX and Good Mob attacks, then choose bowman. They have very quick range attacks and they deal a very good amount of damage. They are one of the cheapest characters to get and they are very good people. 1st Job bowmen can get a skill that gives them up to 160% speed and at 2nd Job, they can summon different familiars.
 If you want a character with high LUK and DEX, then you want a thief. They also produce very good range attacks, and can use knives and daggers whenever they want. Thieves are one of the most popular jobs in Maplestory, and are envied by most people. They are usually very expensive, but if you get past that part, then they aren't so bad.
 If you're looking for a character that has very high MP and does very good damage when using mob attacks, then you want a magician. Magicians do very well in leveling until about level 15, then it's very hard to level for about 5 levels. Magician is thought of as the lamest job for many people. But they are very powerful range attackers and mob attackers. They have very high attack and are used in Party Quests very frequently because of their long range attacks. Note: Magicians are not to be used to kill, or steal from, any other player (especially warriors). Clerics can heal, make portals, and add buffs for their party members, so if you become a Cleric, you may be exploited.
 Pirates use guns and knuckles to attack their way up. They are very fast attackers, have mob attacks in 1st job, their skills are interesting, and have a good dash attack. Like the thief, making a pirate can be expensive, but they have godly skills (Gunslinger)

, The Cygnus Knights are similar to Explorers (Warrior, Mage, Thief, Bowman, and Pirate), but their skills have an element related to them. The classes are: Dawn Warrior, Blaze Wizard, Wind Archer, Night Walker, and Thunder Breaker. Remember, each class has their own advantages and disadvantages. When you reach Level 120, you get the option to make an Ultimate Adventurer (they start at level 70, have a skill related to your Cygnus Knight Skill, start with 500k, and have a unique set of equipment). Because of their skill cap at 120, they cannot access the Henesys Ruins (requires level 160) and join a Cygnus Expedition.
 They are a class which use mobbing skills. Unlike other Warriors and Dawn Warriors, they use pole arms. In their first job, they have a movement skill called Combat Step. Arans have a good knock-back and in their 4th job, they get a skill that can reduce their damage from monsters. However, for most skills, they require a huge combo. They also have wolf mounts starting at level 50, growing in size and awesomeness until level 200.
 Evans are like most Magicians, but they use their dragons to attack. They have advancements every 10 levels and every advancement gives you new skills. They have more HP than regular Magicians, Blaze Wizards, and Battle Mages. Evans can resurrect their party members in their 10th Master. However, they don't have a healing skill, and Magic Guard, Magic Booster, and Critical Magic requires skill books, which requires NX to buy.
 Dual Blades are thieves who uses daggers and katanas to fight. They have fast attack skills and mobbing skills. Dual Blades have a special skill in their 4th job that allows them and their party members to get a higher chance of getting critical attacks. However, like the Evan, you will need to buy mastery books for Slash Storm, Tornado Spin, Mirror Image, Flying Assaulter, Sudden Raid, and Thorns. Sometimes if you buy the mastery books, you get a special skill for mastering it or coupons for katara scrolls. You can still get the books for free, from the Gachapon or Free Market. These books have lower success rates than the Cash Shop books.
 The Resistance are Magicians, Bowmen, and Pirates (Gunslingers) with a twist. Resistance Members have a skill that combines Dark Sight with Nimble Feet. They also have a skill that gives potions up to 30% more HP and MP.


Battle Mages use staffs and use physical attacks with magic to attack monsters. They can teleport in their first jobs and have a skill that increases the attack of their party members. They have a skill similar to the Magician's Genesis, Blizzard, and Meteor called Dark Genesis.
Wild Hunters are bowmen who use crossbows and ride a jaguar while attacking. Wild Hunters have a skill that can capture and summon monsters which can be used to help fight monsters. In their 3rd job, they can blind and trap monsters. They can also remove the need to use bolts in exchange for MP. Wild Hunters obtain a colored Jaguar mount starting at Lv. 10. (Red, Blue, Black, Purple, Beige, etc.)
Mechanics ride a machine and use guns (not shown) to attack monsters. They have mobbing skills in 1st job, which can be useful for leveling up. Unlike Wild Hunters, the Mechanic's machines aren't fast, but they have a skill that is similar to the Aran's Combat Step skill.
 As a beginner, they have 3 exclusive skills. The first one gives them 12 inventory slots at the beginning and 12 more slots at their second job advancement, the second skill allows them to swim faster and not drown, and the final skill gives them +15 of each stat and a bonus 5% HP and MP. They have unique buff skills that can boost up their stats (Ex. Monkey Magic).
 Just like the Cannoneer, they have 3 unique skills (charm and jump boost, go up ladders faster, and be fast). They have a 10% EXP boost, and start at level 10 instead of 1 like every other class. Mercedes don't use arrows, instead they use "Infinite Magic Arrows", a special arrow that can have Hidden Potential. However, they can be frowned upon on because they have kill-stealing skill. Mercedes mastery books are hard to find, and even though you found one, they are really expensive.
 Similar to Mercedes, they start at level 10 instead of 1. Just like the Cannoneer and Mercedes, they have a bonus skill that can be transferred to another character (10% more damage to bosses). Demon Slayers use something called "Demon Force" which is similar to Mana points.

