 You may already have a large network without realizing it. Make a list of all your family members, friends, acquaintances, professors, and other people you know. Write down what their careers are. Contact people in your personal network who are already involved in jobs in finance. Even if they are not doing the exact job of your dreams, they might be able to connect you with someone who is.Write your contacts a personal email that says something like, “Dear Davis, I hope you are doing well. I wanted to contact you because I am looking for a job in banking, and I know you work as a loan officer. I was wondering if there was any advice you could give me about the process. Any contacts you could put me in touch with would also be greatly appreciated. Thank you!”

, When you are meeting someone who may prove to be a valuable contact, ask them for their business card. Keep these cards safely in your wallet or purse until you are able to contact them. As soon as you are home, put their email into your contacts list. Store all of your business cards somewhere safe where you can find their information when you need it., Network online by creating profiles on professional networking websites. Banking employers will check these sites when an opening is available. Be sure to list the banking industry as your primary area of interest. Include an updated resume and current contact information on your profile.


LinkedIn is a popular site to network with potential employers in the industry. Send friend and contact requests to people you know in the industry. This will help keep you informed when there is a job opening. Do not send requests to strangers.
Some professional organizations, such as the Association for Financial Professionals, also offer networking via their website.
 When you meet someone, you should send a follow-up email the same or next day. This will remind them of who you are, and it will give them your contact information. Stay in touch periodically. You can ask contacts for more information, request a meeting or interview, or simply wish them happy holidays.


A good follow up email states something like, “Dear Karen, Thank you so much for taking the time to speak with me. I found your advice very helpful, and I will take it into consideration as I continue looking for jobs. Thank you again, and I hope you have a great week! Best regards, John Smith.”

