 If you don't have a specific place or destination in mind, this will free up more options about where you can enjoy your weekend. While your usual favorite vacation spot might be booked to the hilt, treat this as an opportunity to discover somewhere new. As such, when searching for places to visit and stay, be prepared to say yes to destinations that are showing up as "available".;
, If your desired destination in the USA is booked out, as well as your second and third choice destinations, move farther afield and visit over the border. Destinations in Canada and Mexico are not as likely to be as booked out for this weekend.


Although Canada is celebrating Victoria Day on the same day, Canada's peak tourist season doesn't get underway for another two weeks (mid-June).
 Again, be flexible as to where you might end up but if you can grab yourself a flight at a great price that goes somewhere interesting, your mystery weekend can be a lot of fun! Just be sure to check that accommodations are also available at the other end (or perhaps you have family or friends who need some housesitting done).
 The price of fuel, dining, hotel charges, and events might be more over the weekend. You will need to budget for these possible increases or find ways to work around them:


If you've managed to score a hotel room at a premium destination, be aware that there may be additional hidden charges added in, such as internet access costs, etc.
Be on the lookout for discount gas stations or use your fuel coupons as you drive; fuel prices tend to go up a lot over the Memorial Day weekend.
Realize that dining will be both packed and possibly price-hiked. Many of the most popular restaurants will probably be booked out, so you need to strategize. Call ahead to see if there are any vacancies, and consider changing from dinner to lunch for your main meal, or turning up much later for a meal than you would normally. In terms of price increases, you'll either need to be ready to wear them, or you could mix up one or two expensive meals with lots of supermarket picnics or fast food take-outs.
 In some places you will experience a lot of waiting, from queues for ice cream and rides, to long traffic tails as everyone leaves for the destination and returns from it at the same time. This might be another reason for foregoing your usual destination and finding somewhere less frequented.
 It can be very disappointing and frustrating to realize that you've left long weekend vacation planning to the last minute. Fuming over it won't change it though, and it's best to just expect to get the most out of the weekend and to enjoy the choices you are able to make. Whether it's a flight to Acapulco, a trip to an unknown US destination, or simply a leisurely daily amble down to your local festive park, make the most of it and remember the purpose behind the weekend.


Consider holding a brunch for your neighbors or friends who also didn't plan to go away on time. Make the most of the lovely weather and the people around you to spend time lazing about!

