 Tell him that you'd love for him to meet your parents and that you think it is now the right time for this to happen. Ask him if he's ready to do this and if he feels okay about it. If he's good for this to happen, that's great; if not, let him have more time before asking again later.;
, Explain to them that you'd like to bring home your boyfriend to meet them. Ask them if they'd like to just chat for a short time if they'd prefer to sit-down occasion together, such as a meal at home or a meal at a restaurant. Come to an arrangement that works for both of you and that won't overwhelm your boyfriend.


Tell your parents all the good things about your boyfriend. Answer their questions and help them to build a picture of the person they're going to meet shortly. List all of his good qualities!

, It's best to accompany him rather than to expect him to turn up on his own and hope that things will be okay. If you're with him, he'll feel a lot more comfortable and can ask you questions before arriving at your parent's place.
 Encourage him to not feel nervous, worried or freaked out. Explain that your parents are excited to meet him, that they've heard a lot of good things about him and that they're lovely people whom he'll like.
 Introduce him to your parents and your parents to him. Break the ice with a few pleasantries about how nice it is that everyone is getting together at last and how much you've looked forward to your parents finally meeting your wonderful boyfriend.
 If you need to leave the room to get refreshments, offer for him to come get a drink with you, make sure it is with you as he may well not want to be alone with your parents at this point. This will, of course, depend on the type of person he is––if he is the sort to talk forever and gets along with anyone, this won't be such an issue. On the other hand, if he's shy and finds initial conversations difficult, be there for him and make things easier.
 For example, if your boyfriend likes baseball and so does your dad, that's a great topic to launch into. If your mom loves traveling and your boyfriend is into backpacking, there's somewhat of a mutual interest for discussion.


Think ahead of the meeting to come up with commonalities that you can weave into the conversation for everyone to talk about.
 In turn, allow him to answer them by himself. If you try to jump in, it'll show a lack of confidence in his ability to speak for himself and will possibly suggest that you're trying too hard to make him seem perfect. Let your parents discover who this person is at their own pace; they can handle it.
 Encourage your boyfriend to ask your parents questions too. You might even give him some prompts of things to ask about before turning up for the meeting.
 Keep it casual and enjoyable. Importantly, don't raise controversial, personal or challenging topics––the last thing you need is an argument on the first meeting. Your parents will learn about the stronger views your boyfriend may hold all in good time. For now, it's all about making a good and sound impression.

