 The "flagpole" or directional vector or a wind barb shows you which way the wind is blowing.Make sure that north is oriented up. Just like a map or a compass rose, a wind barb plot is typically drawn with north at 0째 and south at 180째. You can learn the direction of the wind by reading the angle of the barb vector in degrees. The dotted end of a wind barb staff shows where the wind is going, while the top or "feathered" end shows where the wind is coming from.A wind barb vector that points to 135째, in the bottom-right quadrant of the plot, indicates that the wind is blowing southeast.
A wind barb vector at 270째, pointing to the left of the graph at a right angle to north, is blowing due west.;
, You can tell how hard the wind is blowing by looking at the "barb," line, or symbol at the end of each wind direction vector. Wind barbs use a kind of tallying system, and each distinct shape/line length denotes a different speed.A small, open circle indicates that the winds are calm.This usually means that the wind speed is less than 2 miles per hour.A single short line (half line) or "feather" represents 5 knots of wind speed.
A single long line (full line) or "feather" represents 10 knots.
A fully blackened triangle, "pennant," or "flag" on the barb represents 50 knots of wind speed. If there are more lines or symbols next to the fin, then the wind speed is greater than 50 knots., If the wind speed is anything other than 5, 10, 15, 20, or 50, then you will need to read the speed from a combination of symbols. The symbols should begin with the highest relevant barb, at the end of the wind vector. Thus: if the wind speed is greater than 50, then the tally will begin with a black triangle. If it is less than 50, then the tally will begin with a line.


Two full lines in parallel would represent 20 knots of wind speed. One full line and one half line would represent 15 knots. Three full lines and one half line would represent 35 knots.
One black triangle and three full lines would represent 80 knots of wind speed. Three black triangles, two full lines, and one half line would represent 175 knots.

