 After plating your meal, rinse the skillet with hot water. To remove any cooked-on food, try using a kitchen towel or nonmetal brush with a mild abrasive, like coarse salt. Do so while the pan is still warm. The goal is to preserve the nonstick surface a “seasoned” pan has built up. If necessary, use a few drops of a mild dish soap on a sponge - but only do so occasionally. Never bleach your skillet or wash it in a dishwasher.Never allow your skillet to soak. In short, scour, rinse, and dry the pan as soon as is convenient after cooking.
Use steel wool only to remove any coating that becomes sticky, or to remove any rust deposits as soon as they develop. Re-season the pan in these scenarios.
If you’re serving directly from the skillet, be sure to clean it immediately following your meal. Never allow anything wet, such as a fruit pie or frittata, to be served from the skillet. Transfer the food to another dish and wash the skillet immediately., Your skillet’s greatest enemy is rust. The greatest risk of developing rust is related to insufficient drying after cleaning. There are several theories about the best way to dry a cast iron skillet. At a bare minimum, thoroughly wipe down the inside and outside of the skillet with a dry towel.Designate one of your kitchen towels to be used exclusively to dry your cast iron. This will prevent other towels from getting heavily smudged, and will ensure you’re not dirtying your pan with unknown towel contaminants.
 Every couple times you wash your skillet, wipe down the well of the skillet with fat, such as flaxseed oil or lard after drying. This will likely be enough to keep your seasoned skillet’s non-stick surface in good shape. In those cases where you have to remove some of the coating to remove stickiness or a bit of rust, do a more involved re-seasoning.Apply a film of fatty material - ideally flaxseed oil - to the entire surface of the pan, inside and out. Bake the pan at 350˚ for one hour, with foil or a baking pan on the rack beneath it to catch drips. Allow the pan to cool completely in the oven.
A teaspoon of flaxseed oil is plenty for a 10-12in (25-30cm) skillet. Apply whenever the skillet looks visibly dry., Putting away other pans that are still wet may wind up getting water on your cast iron and causing rust. Prevent this by storing your cast iron separately, perhaps by hanging it up. If you do store your skillet with other cookware, place a sheet of paper towel in the well of your skillet to collect any water that sneaks into it.Always let the skillet cool to room temperature - in part to absorb any added oil - before putting it away., This is pretty much the only thing you shouldn’t ever use a cast iron skillet for. Boiling water will increase the likelihood of your pan rusting, the cast iron worst case scenario.