 Sometimes co-owners hit an insurmountable obstacle in trying to sell their property and want to take legal action against one another. Before you do that, however, make sure you’ve exhausted all other options. In most cases your co-owners are family members or friends. A legal battle to force a "partition" (division of the property) can poison relationship for years to come, so explore the alternatives first. , While you should make every attempt to negotiate with the other owners, there are other ways you can avoid taking them to court. For example, even if mediation is unsuccessful, you can attempt to sell your interest in the home to the other owners or a third party. Be aware that a third party can also force a partition. While you wouldn't be involved, there might still be some hard feelings aimed at you.
 At this stage things may take a turn toward the courtroom. As in any legal proceeding, you should seek the advice of an attorney at the earliest possible stage. Since you haven’t yet initiated a lawsuit but you’ve decided to pursue a legal remedy, you should speak with an attorney experienced in real estate law at this point. , If you can’t sell your share to another owner or a third party, and efforts at mediation have come to naught, you can force a partition of the property. As long as you hold a tenancy in common or a joint tenancy, a partition is an absolute legal right. As long as you can prove ownership, the court will almost certainly grant your request.The Petition for a Partition (or Complaint for Partition) is a legal document. You’ll file it at the clerk of court’s office in the same county where the property is located. The document should contain the address and a description of the home, a list of the other owners and their respective shares, and a statement of facts explaining why you are entitled to a partition. The latter doesn’t have to be anything more than your claim on the deed and the unwillingness of the other owners to sell the home. , Lis pendens is a Latin term that means “lawsuit pending.” It serves as notice that legal action relating to real estate is imminent. While most private citizens don’t keep track of lis pendens, banks and creditors do, and it serves notice of the petition to any creditors who may have an interest in the property. In most jurisdictions you’ll file a notice of lis pendens at the county land-records office. Most states have sample forms online, so use a search engine to locate one.
 Your next step is to serve the other owners (the defendants in this action) with a copy of your Petition. You must have a neutral third party conduct the service of process. It’s usually best to hire a process server or the local sheriff’s office to conduct the service.If you’d like to know more about serving court papers, read Serve Court Papers.


The defendants will have a period of time (usually a month) to respond to your Petition with an Answer. Once the Answer is filed with the court, the judge will set a trial date. In the meantime, both sides will engage in discovery just as they would in any civil case. Discovery is the stage of a lawsuit when the opposing sides find out what evidence the other side has. Discovery is a complex process with many rules. If you have not yet retained an attorney, you should do so now.If the house in question is a rental property, the court may appoint a referee to collect rent and manage the property while it is in dispute.
 Finally, you and the other co-owners will meet at trial. As long as you can each prove you have legitimate title to the property, the court will order a partition, and the house will be sold. However, just because the house sells doesn’t mean that you’ll get everything you want. If the defendants can prove financial liability on your part—such as embezzling rent, owing debts to the other owners, or willful damage to the property—your share will be reduced accordingly.