 There are three primary ways to communicate emotions (particularly anger); they fall into the categories of “passive,” “aggressive,” or “assertive.” Learning to use assertive communication can help you communicate with others in a healthy way.Passive communication involves becoming progressively angry about something without actually dealing with the problem or confronting the situation in any way. Passive behavior can often lead to secret revenge or other negative behaviors (known as passive-aggressive behavior). Aggressive communication involves becoming so angry that you have an outburst that likely seems like an overreaction to the situation from the outside. Aggressive outbursts can also be paired with violence.
Assertive communication is a healthy, respectful way to address and confront the person or situation that is causing you to become angry.
 Part of assertive communication is acknowledging that your needs as well as the needs of the other person (or people) involved are important. This takes the focus off of you and shows that you are appreciative of the needs of others. For example, if you are about to get mad at your husband because he did not pick up dinner on his way home, you could start your conversation by saying, “I know that you have a lot of different responsibilities that weigh on you” (acknowledging his needs). Then you could say, “I also have a lot going on, and when you forget to pick up dinner, it messes up the schedule that I had planned.”

, Using “please” and “thank you” can go a long way towards seeming respectful of another. Treat the other party with respect, acknowledging that he has a side to the story as well. For example, instead of immediately getting mad at your husband for not picking up dinner, you might say, “do you have an alternate plan for dinner?” He may have come up with another idea. Even if he did just forget, asking with curiosity about an alternate plan is kinder than immediately demanding, “where is the dinner you said you would pick up?!” when he walks in the door.
 Remember to think of any actions you would like the other party to take as requests, not demands. This will help you word your request appropriately. It is important that you are specific and that you do your best to stick to the actual facts. For example, you may say, “I know you just got home, but would you mind going back out for a few minutes to pick up dinner so that we can all eat together at home?”

, While you do want to provide factual information, it is okay to include the way that you feel when you are expressing your anger. You can emphasize words like “I feel like” or “it makes me feel,” which may help prevent the other party from becoming defensive. For example, you could say, “I feel very frustrated that you did not pick up dinner because it makes me feel like I have to come up with an alternative solution on my own. I feel pressured to make everything perfect all the time, and this is stressing me out.”

, Ideally, you and the party to whom you are expressing your feelings can collaborate on a solution to the problem that is making you angry. Unfortunately, you cannot control the actions of others, and you may need to seek a solution on your own.For example, you may ask your husband if he has an idea for providing dinner. You may decide to go out to eat. He could volunteer to go back out and pick something up, or he could give you a break by watching your kids or cleaning up the house while you run out to pick up dinner. Alternatively, he could cook dinner. There are many solutions to this problem, but the important part is coming up with one together that works for everyone.

