 Hot liquids help loosen and break down mucus in your sinus packages. This can relieve the painful "pressure" feeling that often comes with sinus infections. Plus, the warm sensation of the liquid can help soothe sore throats and stimulate blood flow for quicker healing. Good choices include:


Tea: Many find that honey, ginger, and lemon are especially soothing.Hot chocolate
Soup: Something thin like chicken noodle soup is usually best.
Hot water on its own or with lemon and/or honey
Try to avoid drinks with caffeine in the afternoon or evening as these can make it hard to get to sleep as well as can be dehydrating. A good night's rest is especially important when you're sick.
 Using a warm compress on the bridge of your nose. The warmth from the compress will help to make you feel better and it should also make it easier for you to blow your nose.


Place a washcloth in a bowl of hot water or place it under hot running water. Be careful not to burn yourself.
When the cloth reaches a comfortable temperature, place it across your nose and allow it to sit there until the heat is gone. Recline in a chair or lay down so that the cloth will stay put.
 Some foods (generally ones that are spicy or pungent) are great for "opening up" your sinuses. This will lead to mucus production and a runny nose in the short term, but it should help clear your head and reduce your discomfort. Good choices include:


Foods with plenty of red/cayenne pepper.
Foods with hot sauce (sriracha, etc.) added.
Especially "minty" or "cold"-tasting foods like peppermint, spearmint,
Horseradish.
 A humidifier will help to keep the air moist as you sleep, which will help to make you more comfortable. You may also want to consider adding a few drops of eucalyptus oil to your humidifier. Doing so has been shown to have decongestant, antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory properties, which should help to clear your sinuses and aid in prevention of a sinus infection., Sucking on lozenges for a sore throat may also help to you’re your nasal passages and help you feel better. Lozenges that contain zinc may also help to shorten a cold if you start taking them within the first 24 hours of symptoms.Use these lozenges as needed to keep an irritated throat feeling good.


Be careful about the number of lozenges you take. While they can provide comfort in small amounts, taking them in large doses or for more than five days can lead to an upset stomach or an unpleasant taste in the mouth., While hydration is always important, it's extra-important when you're feeling sick. Try to keep a bottle of water handy at all times and take sips throughout the day. The more you drink, the better your body will be able to help you fight your infection.


In addition, water helps moisten the mucus membranes, lessening congestion and discomfort., When you're sick, you should aim to get quality rest — and plenty of it. Sleep is a vital part of your body's natural recovery cycle that can't be ignored. It's your body's time to rest and "repair" itself. When you're not getting enough, it becomes hard for your body to deal with diseases and infections that are affecting your health. If you can, set your normal bedtime back two hours and your wake-up time ahead one (unless you're still going to school or work) to ensure you get lots of rest. If you have a hard time getting to sleep due to your sinus infection, try some of the following strategies:Use a nasal strip to open up your air passages.
Take a shower before bed (the steam will help open your sinuses) as well as help relax you.
Sleep semi-upright so that mucus drains out of your head. Try to prop up your whole upper body, not just your neck, as this is uncomfortable and can actually close your airway.
Use a mentholated medicine (like Vick's,peppermint essential oil, eucalyptus etc.).
 Nothing makes a sinus infection worse than a raw, irritated nose from over-wiping. If your sinus infection is causing a runny nose, invest an extra dollar or two in a box of extra soft tissues. Select a product with lotion or cooling agents built in. These can soothe and moisturize your nose as you wipe, preventing discomfort.
 Nasal irrigation is the process of pouring a saline solution into one nostril so that it drains out the other. As it passes through your sinuses, it can help to moisten and clear sinus infections.If desired, you can use nasal irrigation as an occasional method of clearing your sinuses quickly. However, studies suggest that if used too often it can actually be counterproductive, so try to limit your usage to periods of between one and three weeks.See below for instructions:


Warm 4-8 oz of distilled or sterilized water on the stove or microwave. It is crucial to use clean water for nasal irrigation — using dirty water can introduce harmful microbes to the sinuses. If in doubt, you can always boil water, then allow it to cool.
Add the water to a nasal irrigation pot or bottle. Neti Pot is the most famous brand, but similar alternatives exist.
Add premixed saline mixture to water. This is usually sold alongside the pot or bottle itself. Follow the directions on the packet to mix the saline.
Irrigate in each nostril, turning your head and allowing the water to drain out of the opposite nostril and into the sink.
 A wide variety of so-called "natural" cures are sold online and in brick and mortar stores for treating sinus infections. These supplements are made from small amounts of herbs and claim to offer relief from painful sinus symptoms without the chemicals in traditional medicines. While some swear by these remedies, there is a general lack of scientific evidence for the effectiveness of most herbal supplements. In addition to this, these remedies aren't usually held to the same standards of quality control as "real" medicines, so use them with caution.


You can find herbal supplements online with a quick search engine query. Just a few remedies that are claimed to help with sinus infections are:

Eucalyptus (in bathwater)
Peppermint oil (in bathwater)
Garlic (eaten)
Echinacea (in tea)
Turmeric (in tea)


Be very careful with supplementation as they are not monitored by FDA for purity and efficacy.

