 Often, when a person is extremely annoyed by someone else, it has a great deal to do with the person who is annoyed, not the annoying person. Consider a session with a therapist or taking some time on your own to identify what it is that really bothers you about this person. Write it down or state it out loud — Is it because they are loud? They choose inappropriate topics of discussion? They stand too close? They are unpredictable? How touchy they are?


Pay attention to the moments when you have no patience for this person. Your stomach may tighten up, and you may start having thoughts that sound like, "I can't believe they... Don't they realize... How can they be so incompetent...."Once you have identified what you dislike about the person, ask yourself if there is something behind this. For instance, is the trait that annoys you about the person actually a reflection of a personal trait you don't like about yourself? Is it a reminder from the past — something a family member or former partner used to do that now sets you off?

, Being patient is a skill that must be developed; it is not something you are born with.While your instinct may be to avoid someone who bugs you, this is a temporary fix and does nothing for your personal growth. Instead of finding ways to avoid someone you don't like, work on building up your patience and tolerance for minor annoyances. Consider your encounters with the person as a growth exercise in patience and assertiveness.


One way to increase patience is to rethink discomfort. When you find someone irritating, it's often natural to want that person to change or to avoid them, but the real issue is with how your mind is set. When you are around someone you don't like, try thinking to yourself: "This is uncomfortable but not intolerable." Remember that growth is not easy and can be uncomfortable., You may be afraid of hurting the other person's feelings, causing drama or a scene, or being uncomfortable, and think that avoiding them is better than facing them head-on. Usually, though, this method causes confusion for the other person, inconveniences you as you try to rearrange your life to avoid them, and never actually addresses the problem. Being assertive doesn't mean being aggressive or mean — it means you state your wants and need and you're completely open to hearing from the other person and considering their perspective.Being assertive means advocating for yourself instead of avoiding the situation and becoming resentful and hanging on to those negative feelings. Assertive communication is respectful, clear, and diplomatic.For instance, maybe you dislike your uncle because at every family event he brings up something embarrassing you did when you were five. Instead of avoiding him, you could talk to him one-on-one and say, "Could you please stop bringing that up? It's embarrassing and I don't like it."
Being assertive helps you realize your own power and the control you have over your interactions with others.
 If you find yourself in a situation in which you must be around a person you don’t like, try to make a graceful exit to remove yourself from the situation. Leaving might be the best course of action to maintain a respectful façade.


You can try giving a regretful excuse such as, “I’d love to stay and chat but I have to go take care of something.” Or you could say, “Unfortunately, I promised myself I would finish this work project tonight. I better be going.”

, Even if you don’t like someone, it is still important to be polite and considerate to them when you must interact with them. It is an ill reflection on you if you treat someone poorly.This doesn’t mean that you have to be over-the-top nice to the person you dislike. Instead, try being very matter-of-fact whenever you are speaking with them. This kind of behavior shouldn’t mislead them into thinking you like them, but it also won’t come across as overly rude.
 You can still easily interact with people you don’t like. But it is important to set up clear boundaries about how your encounters will go. It is up to you to decide how you want to treat others and to show (or tell) them how you want them to treat you.If you leave it up to the other person to set the boundaries, you might not like the outcome. So take the initiative and make it clear how you want to interact with them.
For instance, be clear about what is and is not ok to talk about, how you would like to be talked to (i.e. names, nicknames, voice level, etc.). You might say, "Sandra, it makes me uncomfortable when you talk about your family like that. Can we stick to other topics from now on?"

