 Talking with other people who struggle with endometriosis can be extremely helpful. Discussing the condition, sharing coping techniques, and venting your feelings in a supportive setting will make you feel better.Ask your doctor if she knows of any support groups in your area.
 Exercise prompts your brain to release endorphins and other substances such as serotonin, which make you feel good. In other words, exercise can help with the pain of endometriosis.In addition, exercise can help prevent endometriosis, though the jury is still out on what effect it has on an already existing condition.Try for at least 30 minutes a day 5 days a week or 150 minutes of aerobic activity a week. Aerobics activities include swimming, running, playing a sport, or climbing stairs, for instance. You should also do strength training at least twice a week., Reducing your intake of refined carbohydrates and processed sugars may improve symptoms like nausea, bloating and fatigue.Most women with endometriosis should include extra sources of iron in their diet (such as beans, peas, and dark, leafy greens) to supplement the iron lost during menses. Talk to your doctor about testing you for iron-deficiency anemia.


Try to eat foods that are known to be anti-inflammatory, which may help control symptoms. Tomatoes; olive oil; green leafy vegetables (such as spinach, kale, and collards); nuts (almonds and walnuts); fatty fish (salmon, mackerel, tuna, and sardines); and fruits (strawberries, blueberries, cherries, and oranges) are all anti-inflammatory foods that you should incorporate into your diet., Keeping your body as healthy as possible may help you manage your symptoms more effectively. Aim to consume a variety of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins.If you are unsure about how to eat healthfully, consider making an appointment with a nutritionist. He or she can help you put together an ideal diet plan.
Also, try to skip common food allergens. For instance, preservatives, corn, and soy are common food allergens., Meditation may help you cope with pain more effectively.Deep breathing can be especially helpful in relieving pain.One simple method of meditation is deep, relaxed breathing. It involves focusing on just your breathing, blocking out all other thoughts and sensations. Close your eyes. Count to four in your head as you breathe in through your nose, hold for four counts, and count to four as you breathe out. Continue doing this exercise until you feel yourself relax. Also, meditation can help you cut down on stress, which in turn can help your symptoms., If you think you may have endometriosis, it's important to see your doctor before implementing at-home treatments. Your doctor can diagnose whether or not it is endometriosis and help you get on medication you may need.In other words, if you have excessive bleeding during periods, bleeding between periods, or very painful periods, it's a good idea to see your doctor.