 You can use any web browser on your computer to visit this site.;
, Use your Facebook account and password to log in. The login fields are found on the upper right corner of the page. Click the “Log in” button to proceed.
 Click your name on the header to reach your Timeline page. Your current profile picture is clearly enlarged towards the top left part of the page.
 Hover over your current profile picture, and click the “Upload Profile Picture” link that will appear. A window will appear.



If you want to choose from your photos, click on the option and sort through your photos to choose the best one.
If you choose to take a photo, tap the camera button, press "take photo" and then click "set as profile picture."
If you choose to upload a photo, click the “Upload Photo” box at the top of the window. The file explorer window will open. Select the photo from your local computer that you want to use as your new profile picture, and click on it. The selected image file will be uploaded to Facebook.
 Once it’s uploaded, you will be presented with the Crop Photo window. Here you can resize and reposition the photo to fit the profile picture box. Click the “Crop and Save” button to commit to your new profile picture.


Resizing—Use the scroll bar below the photo to zoom in or out of your photo. Use this to enlarge or minimize the area to be covered in the profile picture box.
Repositioning—There’s a box on the photo you’ve uploaded to show you the area being covered in the profile picture box. Click and drag it to reposition the picture.
Skip Cropping—If you want your profile picture as it is, automatically cropped by Facebook, click the “Skip Cropping” link at the bottom left corner of the window.
 Go back to your Timeline, or any page on Facebook, and you will see your profile picture updated. The photo will also be added to your “Profile pictures” album on Facebook., Look for the Facebook app on your mobile device and tap on it.
 Tap your name on the header toolbar, and you will be brought to your Timeline screen. Your current profile picture is clearly enlarged towards the top part of the screen.
 Tap your current profile picture, and short menu will appear. Tap on “Upload Photo”. Your mobile device’s media gallery or camera roll will be brought up.


Tap the folder where the photo you want to be used as your new profile picture is located. Browse through your pictures and tap the one you want to use.
 Once it’s uploaded, you will be presented with the “Set Profile Picture” window. Here you can resize and reposition the photo to fit the profile picture box. Use your fingers to scale and reposition the profile picture.


Tap the “Done” button to commit to your new profile picture.
 Go back to your Timeline, or any screen on Facebook, and you will see your profile picture updated. The photo will also be added to your “Profile pictures” album on Facebook.
 Before you sort through your photos, have your mind on a look you're going for. Do you want it to be sexy, mature, professional, fun, sporty, or just plain silly?


There's a fine line between sexy and provocative. Make sure not to make your picture look too illicit or people may get the wrong impression of you.
You can look professional while smiling and showing your fun side.
Sporty photos can be a great way to boast your accomplishments. Just don't pick one that makes you look too sweaty or worn, unless you're really proud of your hard work.
Your photo can include a close friend or family member. Just make sure you stand out in some way so people know which person in the photo you are.
If you want the world to know that you love your significant other, choose a picture of the two of you. However, avoid posting anything too mushy or people may roll their eyes.
 Sort through your existing photos to see which one is best. Some places to look include:


Your treasure trove of Facebook photos. You may be inspired to use an older photo if you're feeling nostalgic or if it's for a special reason.

For example, if it's the holiday season, you may play around with the old photo of you at the ugly Christmas sweater party from the year before.


If you're feeling nostalgic, look through your photo album. Yes, there was a time when you could find photos between the pages of a real book--not Facebook.

If it's Mother's Day, or your father's birthday, post a photo of yourself as a little kid with your family. These photos are a big hits and get a lot of "likes."


Your friends' photos. Your closest friends may have captured some great memories while you were hardly paying attention.
 Once you find the photo that gives you the look you were going for, you're almost ready to go.


Sometimes you may not end up with the photo that shows the look you were going for. You don't have to stick to your original plan if something sparks your fancy.
Don't overthink it. Remember that you can change your photo any time you want--and it only takes a minute.
 If none of the photos you have are doing the trick, try your hand at taking a new photo.


Ask a friend or roommate to take a picture of you.
You can also try your hand at a self-pic. Before you do, though, learn how to Take Flattering Photos of Yourself.
It may be easier to use a web cam for the photo, but using a camera may give you a higher-quality photo.
 After you take or find the perfect photo, ask a trusted friend what he or she really thinks. Don't be afraid of the truth.


See if your friend understands what look you're going for in the photo. If you think the photo is mature and your friend thinks you look like you're twelve years old, you may want to try again.
Not everyone has to be pleased with your photo. Your mother, for example, may have a different idea of how you should represent yourself. However, your photo shouldn't be so extreme or provocative that it makes your parents cringe.

