 Place 2 pounds (approximately 907 g) of ground beef in a large skillet on the stove, and brown it on medium-high heat. Use a wooden spoon to break up the meat into pieces that are equal in size so they’ll cook evenly. Cook for approximately 10 to 15 minutes to ensure that all of the meat is brown, with no traces of pink.Make sure that your skillet is large enough to hold 2 pounds of meat. If the ground beef is crowded in the pan, it may not cook evenly.
You can substitute ground turkey for the beef if you prefer.;
, Once the beef is browned, mix in 2 cups (approximately 473 g) of diced onion, 1 cup (approximately 237 g) of diced green bell pepper, and 1 cup (approximately 237 g) of diced red bell pepper. Keep the skillet on medium-high heat, and saute the mixture for 3 to 5 minutes or until the onion and peppers become tender.Stir the mixture with a wooden spoon periodically to ensure that the vegetables cook evenly and don’t stick to the pan.
 When the beef, onion, and pepper mixture has sauted for several minutes, mix a packet (approximately 1 ¼ oz. or approximately 35 g) of taco seasoning into the skillet. Make sure to stir the contents well so the seasoning is fully incorporated into the beef mixture.If you prefer to use homemade taco seasoning, spoon in approximately 2-3 tablespoons (30-35 g), depending on how spicy you want your soup, in place of the packet.
 Once the taco seasoning is completely mixed into the ground beef, onion, and peppers, transfer the mixture to a large stock pot or dutch oven and set at medium heat.Make sure the pot is large enough to not only hold the ground beef and vegetables, but the other ingredients that you’re going to add. It should hold at least 3.5 quarts (approximately 3.3 L).
If you prefer, you can cook your taco soup in a large slow cooker instead of on the stove.
 After you place the ground beef mixture in a pot, stir in 1 16-ounce (approximately 454 g) can of mild chili beans, 1 15-ounce (approximately 425 g) can of pinto beans that have been drained and rinsed, and 1 15-ounce (approximately 425 g) can of whole kernel corn that’s been drained, and 1 4-ounce (approximately 113) can of diced green chilies. Stir well to combine the ingredients.You can also add olives to the pot. Try mixing in ½ cup (approximately 118 g) green olives and/or 1 4.5-ounce (approximately 128 g) can of black olives that have been drained and sliced.
 The soup really starts to come together when you add the tomatoes. Stir in 1 14.5-ounce (approximately 411 g) can of stewed tomatoes and 1 14.5-ounce (approximately 411 g) can of diced tomato with green chilies. Once the tomatoes are incorporated, add 1 packet of ranch salad dressing mix and stir well.If you want your soup to have a thinner consistency, you can substitute 1 15-ounce (approximately 425 g) can of tomato sauce for the stewed tomatoes.
 Once all of your ingredients are combined in the pot, turn up the heat to high. Allow the soup to come to a boil, which should take approximately 10 minutes. Look for bubbling in the pot to know that it’s boiling.If you’ve used a slow cooker to make your soup, allow it to cook on low for 6 to 8 hours.
 After the soup has come to a boil, reduce the heat to low. Let it simmer for approximately 1 hour, so the ingredients have time to break down and the flavors can fully meld.If you’re in a rush, you can eat the soup after it’s simmered for as little as 15 minutes, but the flavor will be better if you wait the full hour.
 When you’re ready to serve the soup, spoon it into bowls and garnish with the usual taco or chili toppings. Shredded cheddar cheese, sour cream, chopped green onions, diced jalapenos, and tortilla or corn chips all make delicious toppings for taco soup.The recipe usually yields approximately 8 to 10 servings, depending on how large the bowls that you serve are.

