 These include bleaching and coloring, straightening, and perms. Heat from straightening irons or blow-drying can also cause hair loss.


Hairstyles that pull your hair tightly can cause "traction alopecia," in which follicles are damaged over time. If you feel scalp pain, avoid pulling your hair back into tight ponytails or other styles that pull the hair.;
, Ask your parents whether there's a history of hair loss in your family. The most common cause of hair loss in adults — male or female pattern baldness — is genetic. However, a combination of genetics and hormones can start this sort of hair loss in your mid-teen years.Recent studies show that genetic hair loss can be inherited from either parent in both boys and girls., Some amount of shedding — about 50 to 100 hairs per day — is completely normal. However, stress or traumatic events (accidents, surgery, illness) can cause excessive shedding.Normally, excessive shedding goes back to normal within six to nine months, but constant stress can cause it to progress to permanent hair loss., Teenagers often play with their hair absent-mindedly, twirling or tugging on it. In some cases, this may be a symptom of a disorder called "trichotillomania," in which people pull out their hair when nervous or distracted.Though the behavior is usually unconscious, it leaves sufferers with bald patches.The disorder is often caused by stress. See a therapist or a hair and scalp specialist called a "trichologist" for proper diagnosis and treatment.
 There are many illnesses and conditions that could cause hair loss. Hormonal conditions like uncontrolled diabetes, thyroid disease, or polycystic ovary syndrome can interfere with hair production. Those with lupus can also experience hair loss.


Eating disorders like anorexia or bulimia can starve the body of essential proteins, vitamins, and minerals needed for hair growth. Some vegetarian teens also lose hair if they don’t get enough protein from non-meat sources.
Athletes are at a higher risk for hair loss because they’re more likely to develop iron-deficiency anemia. Anemia can then result in hair loss.
One cause of patchy hair loss, often with scaling and broken hairs, is ringworm of the scalp, called tinea capitis. It is not very common in teens, but it can occur. This is caused by a fungal infection and is treated with oral medications and special shampoos.
 One or more of these patches on your scalp may point to a skin disease called "alopecia areata" that causes hair loss. It's an autoimmune disorder in which your own immune system damages hair follicles.Luckily, it can be treated, and hair usually regrows within a year. Still, some sufferers lose their hair repeatedly or even permanently.If unchecked, alopecia areata can sometimes progress to full baldness or even complete loss of all body hair, though this is rare.See a dermatologist for a proper diagnosis, which may involve simple examination of hair under a microscope or may call for a skin biopsy.The condition is not contagious., Chemotherapy for cancer is a medical treatment particularly well-known for causing hair loss. However, many prescription drugs — including some used to treat acne, bipolar disorder, and ADHD — list hair loss as a side effect.Diet pills that contain amphetamines can also cause hair loss. Show your doctor a detailed list of all current medications, both prescription and over-the-counter, to see if they might be causing your problem.

