 In order to maintain a strong, healthy body that is fully energized, you need all kinds of minerals, vitamins, proteins, carbs, and even fats. Unfortunately, you cannot get everything you need from just one food, or even one food group.Current recommendations say that about half the food you eat should be fruits and vegetables and more grains than protein.The amount of calories you should take in per day varies by age, gender, and lifestyle.Don't skip meals, particularly on a game day. You get calories from the food you consume, which is then turned into energy for your muscles to burn. If you don't eat enough while exercising, you can suffer from exhaustion and hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar.While prepackaged sports foods like granola or protein bars are convenient, the best foods for you to eat are going to be unprocessed foods, either raw (when possible) or home cooked.5-6 hours before your game, eat a larger meal, ideally one high in complex carbohydrates.Try corn, rice, wheat bagels or other starchy foods, which are known for being good sources of complex carbs.Have a light and healthy snack like peanut butter or yoghurt before you play., The human body is roughly 60% water and needs it for a lot of different things, including cooling off.If your body starts to run low on water, you become "dehydrated." People who become severely dehydrated may suffer dizziness, fever, headache, delirium, and even pass out.The amount of water you need to drink on a daily basis depends on your age. 5 to 8 year olds need 5 glasses or 1 liter of water a day. 9 to 12 year olds should get 7 glasses or 1.5 liters a day. Teenagers should aim for 8 to 10 glasses, or 2 liters.Adults should have between 2.2 and 3 liters everyday.In hot and humid weather and before and during exercise, you will need to drink even more water than usual.When not exercising, you should almost always choose water above any other drink. Although some drinks like fruit juice or sports drinks do have good things in them, like vitamins or electrolytes, they're also loaded with sugar and calories.You can tell how your hydration is by looking at your pee: if it comes out dark yellow or amber, you're not drinking enough; if it is clear or pale in color then you're in good shape., Sleep helps to keep you healthy, strengthens your immune system, speeds up recovery from injury, and promotes growth.This includes muscle repair and growth, which is exactly what athletes need to perform better.Without proper rest, you may find yourself feeling sleepy, slow, and unalert while trying to play.


How much sleep you need depends on your age. Kids 6-12 years of age need 9-12 hours and teens from 13-18 years old need 8-10 hours.Adults need 7-9 hours of sleep every night.Keep to a set schedule even on the weekends to reinforce your body's natural sleep-wake cycle and promote better, deeper sleep at night.It can be especially challenging if you're very excited or nervous to sleep well. Try distracting yourself from your nervous thoughts by reading a book, telling yourself a story, writing in a journal to exorcise the thoughts, or listening to calming music. If you still can't sleep, try taking a short walk or a hot shower before trying to sleep again.
Avoid electronic devices which emit light, like smart phones, TVs, computers, and tablets. The light these items put off makes it harder for you to sleep, which may result in fatigue the next day., Before you step foot on the court, pitcher's mound, or even just plain exercise, be sure to adequately warm yourself up. A good warm up should last between 15 and 30 minutes and not begin too far in advance. It should get your heart rate up, stretch your muscles to increase your range of motion in your joints, and incorporate drills and exercises specific to your sport to prepare you for the game's demands. Start by getting your pulse up first, follow that by stretching, and end it with your drills, like dribbling, passing, or serving.You can ask your coach for help with determining a good warm up routine, including the proper sport specific drills are most beneficial to you.
 Nobody is born knowing how to dribble a basketball, hit a homerun, or stop a quarterback sneak. After you have learned to do something, you then need to develop a muscle memory for it. Muscle memory is when a specific movement is repeated often enough over time so as to make it performed without conscious effort.As you improve you will find your self-confidence, enthusiasm, and energy for the game increasing as well.
Ideally, you should at least attend as many of the official practices with your team as possible. This helps build your relationship with your team and your coach so you can all perform better as a whole.
When possible, practice with family and friends on days that you're not officially practicing with your team. The more practice you have before the game day, the better.

