 It's the easiest way and simplest reaction when the immature person is trying to get your attention or a reaction. By responding to the behavior, you're giving in to what she wants and reinforcing her immature actions. Ignoring her will likely make her frustrated with her unsuccessful attack on you, and cause her to give up.


If the immature person is losing her temper or trying to pick an argument, it's important for you to disengage from her efforts to upset you.
Look away from her. Turn your head or avert your eyes. Just don’t acknowledge her presence.
Turn your back to her. Even if she circles to face you, turn around again.
Walk away. Move with a purpose, avoiding her as quickly as possible until she stops following.
Try an e-ignore approach. Talking to someone or bothering someone who is constantly on their phone or tablet is very difficult. You’ll be so engaged you won’t notice them.
 If the person won’t see reason or won't go away, you may need to be slightly confrontational and tell him that you cannot engage with him any further. Gather up all your courage and politely ask him to leave you alone, while simultaneously removing yourself from the caustic environment. Try one of the following approaches:


Let him off easy by deflecting, “Please leave me alone right now. I’m not in a good mood.”
Get to the point and tell him what you’d like, “Leave me alone.”
Try a forward approach, “I'm not arguing with you. This conversation is over.”
Use the broken record technique. Simply repeat your refusal to engage over and over, "This conversation is over." Remain calm while employing this technique and try to walk away.
 It is possible the person doesn't realize she is being immature. Part of maturing is learning to deal with younger and/or less mature people. Confronting the immature person bothering you and letting her know her actions are inappropriate may cause them to avoid you.


Being straight-forward could help, “I do not appreciate your behavior. Please stop.”
Simply inform her of her behavior, “You’re being very immature. Stop bugging me.”
Form your reply as a question, “Do you realize how immature you’re acting right now?”

, While you may be tempted to respond to the person immaturely as well, giving him a taste of his own medicine, this could seriously backfire. If you are interacting with this person in a work situation, your immature behavior could get you in trouble. In addition, it might actually be dangerous to egg on an immature person who is also aggressive or has a temper. When you feel tempted to react to the person, be the mature one and disengage and walk away from him.
 If the person is aggressive and won't stop bothering you, consult with a lawyer or the police. No one is allowed to harass or touch you. These people need outside influences to stop bothering you, and they probably won't until someone is able to exert influence they can't deny. There are a few possible options:


Use your social support network. If contact with the person is unavoidable, find a friend, family member, teacher or school administrator, boss, or anyone you trust, and ask for help.
Tell the person you’re going to call the police. The threat of authorities may intimidate him enough to stop bothering you.
Call the police. If you fear for your safety and/or the person is harassing you, threatening you, stalking you, or has been violent, the police may be able to intervene, or you may be able to file a police report. Make sure you take detailed notes about each incident so you have a record of the harassment and how long it has been going on.
Harassment includes threats; repeated telephone calls, texts, email, leaving notes or other contact; following someone; blackmail; slashing car tires.Consider filing a harassment restraining order. Laws very by state, but you can talk to the police or a lawyer about your options when it comes to filing for a restraining order.

