 Trim them to about 6 inches (15.24 cm). The greenery you choose is totally your choice. You can even mix!









It takes a whole lot less than you would think. You can make a door wreath with three 3 ft (.9 m) long branches (give or take). Cut the branch ends into 6" (15 cm) pieces before you start. The only necessity is that you cut them before you use them -- Pine, Ivy, Boxwood, Magnolia leaves, Holly, etc. all work.;
, The embellishments you use to spruce up your wreath can totally change the feel and create a more classic or funky vibe.









There is nothing wrong with a simple green wreath. Attaching a red bow at the bottom is just as festive as spraying it with glitter and going to the nines.
 Get a wire coat hanger and fashion it into a circle. If you're not keen on this idea, you can buy wire frames in different shapes and sizes at your local craft or floral shop.









A single wire frame is good for a thin, delicate wreath. But if you're going for a show-stopper, stick with a double wire frame -- it allows your wreath to be more lush-looking and full.
 Take one end of the wire and twist it around the frame to hook it. No fancy Girl Scout knots needed; just make sure that puppy is gonna stay in place.









Don't cut! You'll be using one long strand of wire this entire time. Don't worry -- it won't be seen through the greenery.
 Place them where the floral wire is attached. Lay a small bunch of your greens on your frame, and wrap your floral wire securely around the stems at least three times. Don't cut the wire yet!








, Take a second bundle and cover the stems of the first bundle with it, at a slight diagonal. Wrap wire around the stems of each bundle and keep on adding same-sized bundles until you've gone full-circle.









Once you have completed the circle, tuck the last bundle under the first bundle. Adjust the greenery and stems as necessary.
 Tuck it under the nearest bundle, secure it with a knot, and cut. Leave a few extra inches before cutting the end. If you'd like to make a hanger, form a loop at the end of the wire and twist it around itself.
 Tie a knot in each piece when you are finished.
