 Perhaps you have a clear idea of exactly how bare you want to be, or maybe you’re not quite sure. If you’re party to the latter, it is best to figure out exactly what you want. Keep in mind that hair removal can take a lot of time, so if you’re hoping to simply be bathing-suit ready, it may be best to keep the amount you take off to a minimum.


Do you hope to remove just the hair that is exposed outside of your underwear?
Do you want to take off a bit more, and go for the ‘landing strip’ or a sculpted triangle?
Is it your goal to go Brazilian and remove it all?;
, As with all hair removal, you want to make sure that there is nothing that might hinder or slow the process. Additionally, it is good to be hygienic, especially in the nether regions. Take a moment to wash up, removing any loose hairs or dead skin cells. Use an exfoliator to smooth out the skin and open the pores up a bit, making hair removal easier.
 Nair is great because it doesn’t require much effort; just slather on and leave it be. However, it will take a much longer time (and thus be potentially more harmful to you) if your hair is very long and thick. Expedite the nair-ing process by trimming all your hair to about ¼ of an inch. Use a pair of nail or sewing scissors, or use an electric razor specified for use on the bikini.


Even if you don’t intend on removing all the hair in your bikini area, it might be nice to trim it all. This will keep longer hairs from poking out the sides of your panties or bathing suit bottoms.
 Although you can use nair on dry skin, soaking your bikini area with a bit of warm to hot water will open up the hair follicles and make removal easier. Sit in a hot bath for a few minutes or hop in the shower. Towel dry off so that you skin is just damp before applying the nair though, so that it doesn’t just slide off.
 Squeeze some of the cream out onto your fingertips, and spread it over the area of desired hair removal. Spread it only as thick as necessary to cover the root of the strands, but not so thin that you can see your skin through it.


If you are removing all of your hair in the Brazilian style, test a small patch of more sensitive skin prior to slathering your entire pubic area with nair.
Avoid getting any nair inside the vaginal canal or near your rectum; if inserted internally, the nair can cause an infection.
 Have a timer or clock handy, and keep track of how long the nair is on for. The directions on the bottle will likely suggest a time of 3-5 minutes before rinsing.


If at any time the nair causes a burning or stinging sensation, rinse it off with warm water.
 No two people have the same hair, so the 3-5 minute range may be too little or too much time depending on your hair and skin type. Rinse off a small patch of the nair; if most or all of the hair comes off and leaves little to no stubble, you are finished. If your hair is still mostly attached or only a small portion rinses off, then wait a few more minutes before rinsing.


Do not exceed a total of 10 minutes of nair application (no more than an additional 5 minutes after the first 5 minutes).
 Use a steady stream of warm water or a dampened washcloth to wipe away all the nair and hair. Make sure that all of it has been removed, so that you don’t end up burning your skin or getting an infection.
 After putting your skin under so many chemicals, its probably a bit inflamed and dried out. Use a moisturizer for sensitive skin to replenish any lost nutrients and to minimize razor burn.
 One of the benefits of using nair is that it keeps your hair gone for longer than shaving. However, unlike waxing, the grow-back period is anywhere from 3-6 days after the first nair use. Maintain your naked bikini by using nair 1-2 times a week.

