 The number of carrots you will need depends on how much shredded carrot you need for your recipe. Keep in mind that you can always shred more if one shredded carrot is not enough. Some general equivalents include:one large carrot = one cup of shredded carrot
one pound of carrots = two and half cups of shredded carrots;
, Run the carrots under cool water and use your hands to scrub the outside of the carrots.This will help remove any dirt, chemicals, or germs on the outside of the carrots.


Make sure you use full sized carrots. Baby carrots are hard to shred by hand and you also run the risk of shredding your fingers.
 Take the washed carrots and place them on a cutting board. Cut off the top and bottom tip, about ¼ to ½ inch on each side. Then, using a vegetable peeler, remove the skins of each of the carrots in turn./images/thumb/e/ea/Shred-Carrots-Step-3-Version-5.jpg/v4-550px-Shred-Carrots-Step-3-Version-5.jpg
/images/thumb/e/ea/Shred-Carrots-Step-3-Version-5.jpg/v4-300px-Shred-Carrots-Step-3-Version-5.jpg









If you don't have a vegetable peeler, you can use a knife. Just be careful not to take too much of the carrot away with the peeling.
 There are two common types of graters, the box grater and the plane grater. You may have one in your kitchen already, or you may need to pick one up at a kitchen store or at a department store.



Box grater. The box grater is a larger grater with three or four sides and a handle on top. The sides have different sized holes. This is so you can have for different sized pieces when you shred the vegetables.

Plane grater. A plane grater is a flat, rectangular grater with a handle on one side. You should use whichever one you need for the size of shredded carrot that you want., You will want to use your grater on a clean surface in your kitchen, such as on a counter or island. You may also want to place the grater on a cutting board or over a large bowl to catch the grated carrots. Make sure that whatever you use will catch the carrot shreds as you grate them.
 Once you have positioned your grater, grab a carrot and hold it in your hand. Put the bottom edge of the carrot against the side of the grater near the top. Gently apply pressure to the carrot and move your hand down the side of the grater. Once you get to the bottom of the grater, move your hand away from the grater and move the carrot back up to the starting position. Continue this motion until you finish shredding all the carrots.
/images/thumb/6/66/Shred-Carrots-Step-6-Version-3.jpg/v4-550px-Shred-Carrots-Step-6-Version-3.jpg
/images/thumb/6/66/Shred-Carrots-Step-6-Version-3.jpg/v4-300px-Shred-Carrots-Step-6-Version-3.jpg









When you get to the very end of a carrot, watch your fingers as you shred. The edges of the grater are sharp and will cut you if you rub against them. You can also use a sharp knife to cut the small remaining piece into thin strips if you don't want to cut your fingers.
Be careful not to push too hard on the carrots. You can break the carrot in two and possibly injure your hand.