 The first step in taking your child for a back to school checkup is scheduling an appointment. To schedule the back to school checkup, call your child’s doctor's office. Be sure to call well in advance to ensure you get an appointment before the school year starts.Set a date and time that is convenient. This will involve checking your own schedule and checking your child’s schedule. This might involve coordinating with other children and adjusting your other responsibilities, as this time of year is typically very busy for pediatricians.
For instance, you should find out if your child will be at summer camp during the date and time when their back to school checkup is scheduled, in which case you should reschedule the appointment.;
, If you have not been to the doctor your child will be seeing for their back to school checkup, your insurance information will not be on file. Therefore, you’ll need to bring your insurance card with your policy number and a photo ID.Check the doctor or hospital’s website for information about which insurance is accepted. If you cannot locate a list of insurance providers that the doctor accepts, contact their office for more information.
 If your child has had any health issues or problems since their last visit to the doctor, write them down on a list, or bring in copies of any medical records you may have. Unless your child was treated by the same doctor who will be administering the back to school checkup, bring associated paperwork, too, such as bloodwork results or other medical records. Make sure to note any allergies your child has, as well, including any allergies to medication.Your list should also include important life changes such as the introduction of a new sibling or the loss of a friend or family member.
 If you have questions about your child’s health, you should feel free to ask them when you take your child for a back to school checkup. For instance, you might want to ask your child’s doctor:Is my child growing at a normal rate?
Is my child at a healthy weight?
My child has a strange habit. Is it normal?
What can I do to ensure my child remains healthy?

