 This means think about whether this is a ghost story or a crime novel, a creepy haunted house or a murder scene. This is going to be the biggest decision to make for the duration of your novel.;
, These characters are the meat and potatoes of your novel. You will need a protagonist, an antagonist, sub-characters, and a background for each one! How many details you include will depend on how many times that character appears in the story. If the guy behind the grocery store counter is only noticed once, don't detail him out too much. Give a description and maybe a name. But if he's your main character, include details right down to if they drink coffee and when! A good template to use is:


Name, Age, Height, Weight, Role in Story, Eye color, Hair color, Skin tone, Habits, Identifying feature, Past, Present, Future, and Theme Song.
 Or, base your characters around your plot. A strong plot has a beginning, middle, and end. The beginning should be an introduction to future events and the life of your character. The middle should be the problem your character must face and should include a high point where an important decision must be made (or a climax), and the end should be a cool down that wraps up loose ends and leaves readers hungry for your next great work!


If you get stuck on finding a plot, read some of your favorite mystery novels to get ideas. Also, keep your eyes and ears open for new ideas and topics to write about.
Use a system of ten scenes to map out your plot. Write each scene separately and connect them with pages in between. Scene one should be an opening scene. Two through four should be complications, and five should be point of no return complication. Six through ten should be solutions and wrap ups.
 Whether you're writing crime or ghost stories, you need clues as to what is actually happening. in crime novels, they should be very subtle, like a cigarette butt at the crime scene, or a misplaced item that can't easily be moved. In a ghost story, they should be shocking, like the sudden disappearance of a person in the dark or a ghostly hand on one's shoulder. Read some real life accounts of crime scenes to find out what the little things are that give people away.
 It doesn't have to be perfect, it has to be the bones of your story. You can go back and add some flesh and skin later but for now, let's focus on the bones! Let the writing come easily, don't filter it. Just start writing your ideas down.
 Look over your work and rewrite, and rewrite, and rewrite until your head hurts and your wrist cramps up at least twice! Make it the best you can make it, and be prepared for the next step, publishing.
 Be prepared for a no! Not everyone gets their first mystery novel published! It takes time and effort. Try again and after four "No" responses, make some changes and try again.

