 Sometimes when we're feeling down or lonely, we feel even greater desire to isolate ourselves from others. Resist this urge to avoid or ignore others. While there may be certain people you want to avoid, try connecting with those in your past that love and support you.Reach out to an old friend who you haven't spoken with in a while. Talk by phone, text, or in person.
Spend time one-on-one with friends and family or in small groups of three or four people to have a more personal connection with them around the holidays. Sometimes large parties or gatherings can feel isolating if you're not feeling connected to the people there. Being in a smaller group may make it easier for you to relax and connect with people.
Try putting grudges aside and opening up to others who care about you. Give yourself ample time to recover after these gatherings if they are difficult for you, but don't avoid them.
 Sometimes we ignore, or are too busy to connect with, our acquaintances or neighbors. Instead, make a point to talk or spend time with them. Reach out and talk with new people, rather than distancing yourself.Offer some holiday treats or goodies as an icebreaker to open up the conversation.
If you're feeling shy, try making the conversation more about them. Act as a good listener and often people will feel more at ease.
Avoid putting your emotional baggage on new people. Try getting to know them in a general way first through common interests.
 Helping others in your community can help you connect with something bigger than yourself. It can be a reminder that there is much to be thankful for in life. It can also feel rewarding on a personal level and make you feel better.Find a cause that you believe in, and talk with the organization about how you can contribute your time and skills.
Consider charities such as Toys for Tots or the Salvation Army which often have volunteer needs during the holidays.
If you have a talent for crafts or playing music, use those talents to make gifts or host a small concert for those in retirement and nursing homes, for example.
 Finding groups with common interests or similar challenges as yourself can help you feel grounded and hopeful during the holiday season. Consider joining activity groups that keep you focused on the positive.Consider activity groups online such as Meetup.com, where you can find a variety of people with different interests. You may have an opportunity to meet new people and share common interests.
Connect with your church, place of worship, or a community center. There may be holiday activities that foster connection and community. This can help to alleviate loneliness.
 If you're struggling with a recent life transition such as divorce, a recent death, or family crisis, consider reaching out to support groups in your community. Support groups provide a sense of camaraderie through shared challenges or life experiences.


Connect with a counselor in your area about possible support groups through them or elsewhere that fit your needs.
Search online or via local counseling centers for listings of support groups in your area or region.
See a support group as a safe space where you can express yourself without judgment.
 Visiting a new place with a friend or significant other may help to combat loneliness during the holidays. By getting out of your usual environment and exploring somewhere new, you can have some great new experiences. You may also meet some new people and make new friends along the way.