 After a few years, daffodils can multiply into thick clumps and get a bit too crowded. This occurs when the original, single bulb multiplies into a clump of several conjoined bulbs by producing offspring known as ‘offsets’.


This can result in fewer and smaller blooms, so it’s a good idea to thin and spread this clump out by transplanting and dividing the narcissus bulbs.
Dividing the bulbs also means that you can spread your daffodils over a larger area. You will need to do this every 7-10 years to get the best out of your daffodil patch.
 The best time to transplant your daffodils is in the early summer, when the growing season has ended and the flowers' foliage withers away and turns yellow or brown.


If you leave it much later in the year, you may not be able to find your daffodils as the plant will be dormant and any visible signs of life will be hidden below the ground.






As a result, it's important to take action while there’s still some of the plant visible above ground.
 As you dig, you'll need to be very careful in order to avoid damaging the bulbs. You’ll also need to dig quite a distance from the plant in order to avoid slicing through it accidentally.


Bulbs are usually planted pretty deep, and over time daffodil bulbs can wriggle even lower into the soil, so expect to dig pretty deep – maybe a spade’s depth.
 Once you locate the bulb, gently part it from the earth as carefully as possible, trying not to damage any roots. Gently separate the bulb clumps by twisting and pulling them apart with your fingers.


Keep as many of the divided bulbs (also known as offsets) as you want to replant. Be aware that the very smallest offsets may not flower within a year.






Discard any bulbs that are damaged, mushy or show any signs of rot.
 It’s best to replant the bulbs as quickly as possibly, however they should survive for a few weeks above ground if the delay is unavoidable.


Store any bulbs you aren't planting immediately in a cool, dry place. One ideal way to store them is in a paper bag in a dark corner of a garden shed.







