 This may be done by first typing the numerator (the top number of the fraction), the forward slash key (/), and the denominator (the bottom number of a fraction).An example would look like 5/32.


If you want to type a whole number with a fraction, simply type the whole number followed by a space, and then include the fraction following the instruction above. For example 1 1/2.;
, There is a feature that will convert a fraction typed using the forward slash (as in the step above), and convert to a fraction symbol, which features the numerator and denominator separated by a horizontal bar.


This function is usually on by default. However, you can check to make sure it is on by going to "Word Options", in the dialog box that appears click, "Proofing", and then click "AutoCorrect Options". There, you can turn AutoCorrect on or off, and you can also edit when and how it corrects certain things.Be aware that this function may not work for all fractions.
 A few common fractions have keyboard shortcuts that you can use by holding down the Alt key and typing the code numbers.


1/2 = Alt+0189

1/4 = Alt+0188

3/4 = Alt+0190


, You can also create a fraction in Word by using the equation function.


Place the cursor where you would like the fraction to be.
Press Ctrl+F9 at the same time to insert a pair of field brackets.
Place the cursor inside the field brackets, and type EQ \F(n, d). The "n" is the numerator and the "d" is the denominator.
You must use all capital letters, and follow the EQ with a space.
Press the ⇧ Shift+F9 at the same time to create the fraction.
 In Word, you can format the font so that it appears as superscript text or subscript text. This will allow you to manipulate the font so that it appears as a fraction.


Type the numerator, and highlight it.
Select Format from the menu, click Font, then select Superscript.
Press Ctrl and the space bar to clear the formatting for the next step.
Type a forward slash (/).
Type the denominator and highlight it. Select Format, then Font, then Subscript.
Press Ctrl+Space to clear the formatting again and move on with your typing.

