 If you feel tingling or pins in your toes, remove the tape and try again. The tape should feel firm and secure when you are done so that you can move your ankle from side to side and up and down.


Use 1-1/4 inch athletic tape for the best results.
 Take a long piece of athletic tape and attach it just above your interior ankle bone, the knob of bone on the inside of your foot. Wrap the piece of tape under your heel and then connect it to your opposite ankle bone, ending it just above the ankle bone. The tape should form a “U” shape around your foot.You should feel the tape pull down on your inside ankle bone, and then up on the outside ankle bone.
 Make a few more of these U-shaped tape stirrups to keep your ankle secure, overlapping each piece of tape by roughly a half inch.
 For the following steps, do not cut out a lot of long pieces of tape and attach them to each other. Take one piece of tape and leave it on the roll. Wrap 6-12 inches of tape, then pull more off the role, cutting the tape off only when you are done.
 Adhere your tape under the arch of your foot, and then bring it up and over the top of your foot. Continue this wrap around your arch 2-3 times, overlapping each layer of tape, for added stability, as you move towards your heel.
 This is the key motion for stability. Coming from the bottom of your foot, wrap up and over the top of your foot. The tape will cross over the curve where your foot meets your lower leg and then continue around the back of your lower leg.


This will look a little like the beginning of a figure eight.
 Your tape should now be around the back of your lower leg. Cross it down around the front of your foot, coming diagonally back down around towards your arch. Bring it under your arch and back to your ankle joint, the back around your lower leg. Repeat 2-3 times, overlapping half of the tape each time., After coming around the back of your lower leg the third time, continue taping up past your ankle, overlapping the tape up to the edge of your pre-wrap. The entire stirrup should be covered with tape, roughly 3-4 inches above your ankle bone.
 Cut off a few small pieces of tape to cover your heel with a “C” shaped brace, coming around the back of your foot and bottom of your heel. Cover any last bits of exposed skin., You want a limited range-of-motion in your ankle. You should be able to move up and down and to both sides, but you shouldn’t be able to move as far as you would without the tape. Jog lightly on it to make sure you can run comfortably without pain., While the basics of taping an ankle are easy, perfecting your work takes some practice. Focus on applying the tape with even pressure, using as few pieces of tape as possible to wrap your foot. It can help to ask a friend to be a “dummy,” allowing you to tape their ankle as practice.


Apply gauze or protective pads on the front and back of your ankle to prevent blisters.
Wrap your foot and ankle with pre-wrap to protect your skin.
Wrap 2-3 long pieces of tape from the inside of your ankle to the outside as U-shaped stirrup straps.
Cover your ankle bone with tape from front to bottom, back to top.
Overlap the tape by half an inch as you cover your foot and lower leg., The easiest way to remove the tape is with a tape removal blade, but ordinary scissors will work if you do not have one. Insert one of the blades between your skin and the pre-wrap and then carefully cut around your ankle bone to remove the tape. It should come off in one piece.