 To make paint with the fewest ingredients possible, simply use a 2 to 1 ratio of powdered sugar to water. Before mixing, boil the water so the sugar dissolves more easily. Then combine 2 parts sugar to 1 part hot water in a mixing bowl. Stir them together until they combine into a thick, grainy mix.The mixture should be on the thicker side so it doesn’t run. However, feel free to add either more sugar or water as desired to make the paint as thick or thin as you’d like it.;
, For a paint with a milkier complexion, start by combining 3 cups (360 g) of powdered sugar with 2 tablespoons of light corn syrup in a mixing bowl. Once combined, add 2 to 3 tablespoons of milk, plus 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract, and stir until the paint is evenly mixed.Again, the paint’s consistency is up to you. For a thicker consistency, use less milk and vanilla extract. For a thinner consistency, add more.
 If you’re content with all of your snowflakes being the same shade of white, go with it. To add more variety, however, consider spooning in some glitter to make your snowflakes sparkle. Also, think about creating a couple different batches of paint and adding drops of a different food coloring to each one.For instance, for a holiday-themed picture, you could use red, green, and white glitter and/or food coloring for Christmas, or blue and white for Hannukah.
For a more wintry picture, you could use white, silver, blue, and purple glitter and/or food coloring.
 Avoid thinner paper, since the paint might bleed through it before it dries. Depending on how thick your paint and snowflakes are, thin paper might also bend under the weight of it once hung up. To avoid this, paint your card on cardstock or thicker material like cardboard or foam board.Unless you used food coloring to create a very dark paint, choose black or similarly dark cardstock for contrast to make your white snowflakes pop out.
 Regardless of which recipe you used, all the ingredients are edible. So feel free to forego brushes and just finger-paint!The one exception would be if you included glitter in your paint and very young kids are joining in the project, but if everyone’s old enough to be trusted not to lick their fingers, then go for it!, Remember: no two snowflakes are alike. Make each of yours stand out from the rest by using variously sized fine brushes. Create individual snowflakes of different thicknesses. Then, to be even more ornate, use your thinnest brushes to create more delicate branches to each thicker snowflake., Instead of using brushes, fill a piping bag with your paint. Create your snowflakes by squeezing the paint out of the bag through an icing nozzle. Decorate your cardstock just as you would ice a cupcake or other pastry., Create a temporary snowflake by applying strips of painter’s tape directly to the cardstock, or use poster putty to stick paper cutouts of snowflakes to it instead. Then paint all of the exposed cardstock with a wide brush. Once you’re done, remove the tape or cutout before the paint dries them to the cardstock.Paper cutouts will need fine brushes to paint the cardstock through their lacy pattern.
Painter’s tape can be applied in whole strips or trimmed down into finer shapes.
 This may take a couple days. Find a suitable level surface to lay the cardstock where it won’t get in your way. Remember: the paint is made of sugar, which attracts pests, so cover your painting if possible.Placing it in a sealable plastic container will help keep the bugs out.
 Sugar paint is only temporary. Expect it to start cracking and flaking off after a couple weeks if left as is. To make them last longer, apply a layer of Mod Podge or similar product over the paint once it dries.This will also make it less appealing to pests.
 If you’re inclined to, frame your artwork with a picture mat. However, don’t use frames with glass or plastic covers. Sugar paint allows you to create snowflakes with depth, so your paint will be raised from the cardstock. Avoid squishing or cracking it with transparent material.