 SMILE stands for Simple, Meaningful, creates Imagery, has Legs and evokes an Emotional response. If you can incorporate most of these standards you will have a company name that resonates with potential customers.Create a name that is "Simple." The name should imply a single, easily comprehended thought to your customers and clients. Any name that relays complex concepts should be ruled out immediately. Compaq Computer worked well when small PCs and laptop computers were first introduced.Pick a company moniker that is "Meaningful." The company name will be how customers learn about the purpose of your business. The name must give customers an immediate understanding of what you do or the service you provide. Victoria's Secret is a good example.
Select a name that creates "Imagery." Customers should get a mental picture when they think of your company's name. Discard any ideas that do not instantly create an image in your mind. For example, Subaru Outback gives one an image of a rugged car out in the wilderness.
Ensure your potential name has "Legs." The name should be strong and clear enough to carry the brand to the customer's mind. Additionally, a name that can be used with many marketing opportunities or slogans is beneficial. For example, who could ever forget the Piggly Wiggly supermarket?
Choose a name that evokes an "Emotional" response. Empower or engage the customer with your name. Save the Children catches our attention and encourages us to help.
 SCRATCH stands for Spelling-challenged, Copycat, Random, Annoying, Tame, Curse of Knowledge, and Hard to Pronounce. Company names with any of these characteristics will turn off potential customers and may affect future sales.Get rid of a name that is "Spelling-challenged." Don't use any name that is difficult to say or spell. For example, Hephaestus is the Greek god of blacksmiths, but you would probably not want to name your metal works company after him.
Refrain from being a "Copycat." Naming yourself something similar to your competition will only confuse your company with another. For example, IVM is way too close to the well-known IBM.
Avoid names that are "Random." Random names that do not provide a connection to your purpose or product are disadvantageous. An example would be The Red Company. Is this someone's name who has red hair, or could it be a company that sells paint or clothing?
Reject a name that is "Annoying." Picking a name that seems forced or is irritating to hear or say will not encourage potential customers to frequent your business or purchase your product. A restaurant called Spageddies comes to mind or an ice cream shop called Udders.Dismiss names that are "Tame." Names that are missing inspiration or passion are useless and miss great marketing opportunities. "The Cloud" might define what a business is about, but it certainly lacks passion.
Stay away from industry jargon or the "Curse of Knowledge." If your name only addresses information known by industry insiders, keep searching for another name. For example, Amphenol might only be recognized by other pharmaceutical companies.
Set aside any names that are "Hard to Pronounce." Names that are difficult to say or rely on specific punctuation should be set aside. Most people do not know how to correctly pronounce "croissant" much less spell it.
 Many states have online databases with names of companies that have already been taken. Check with your state's Secretary of State or the Department of Finance and Taxation.


The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office offers a free online Trademark Electronic Search System database. You can enter the registration name of any trademark you find into the Trademark Applications and Retrieval Database to find out if the trademark is currently registered or has lapsed.Consult the Thomas Register. This directory lists business names and registered trademarks. It's available online or your local library will have a printed copy.