 While honey bees can create hives in all sorts of spaces, most naturally occurring hives don’t respond well to having honey harvested from them. Store bought hives are designed to allow you to collect the honey with minimal effect on the honey bees.Langstroth Hives are the most commonly used in the beekeeping industry because they provide movable frames that won’t interfere with the bees inside when removed.
Langstroth Hives will not stick together because they were designed to provide passage for the bees in the gaps between the movable pieces.
Top Bar Hives are designed to be more shallow and sit higher for people who have trouble bending over and may be a good choice for people with back issues.
Ware Hives are shaped a bit like a house and can be difficult to manage large colonies in, but are great for small hives.;
, You can keep one colony in most typical sized housing lots. While many people think that means their backyard may be big enough to house a hive of honey bees, there are some other things you will need to consider before placing your hive.Find out if there are any zoning requirements for keeping a bee colony in your local area.
Make sure no one in your family has a bee allergy.
Let your neighbors know about your hive to see what concerns they may have about their families or health.
 You will want to keep your honey bee hive off of the ground to make it easier to access and prevent the wood from rotting. A good hive stand will stand about eighteen inches off the ground to protect the hives from wild animals as well.A typical hive stand is made of treated 2x4 pieces of lumbar laid across stacked cement or concrete blocks.
Consider putting down mulch, gravel or stones under your hive stands to limit the mud you will have to deal with.
 Honey bees are not the most aggressive species of bee, but their sting can still be quite painful. You will need to purchase honey bee keeping protective equipment to prevent them from stinging you as you check on them and harvest the honey.A simple hat and veil is often enough protection for most beekeeping activities.
A light jacket offers additional protection and is often enough for regular beekeeping needs.
A full suit with gloves is advised for times when the weather is rather windy or the bees seem aggressive.
 A smoker is a cylinder with bellows attached that houses a slow burning fire. As the fire burns, you squeeze the bellows so smoke comes out the nozzle. This smoke is an excellent way to calm bees down as you work around their hive.








Burning pine needles, old burlap, wood or purchased smoker fuel are all effective methods of calming bees down.
Smoke tricks bees into thinking they need to escape a fire and interferes with the pheromones they use to communicate within the hive.

