 Crystal red shrimp come in 7 grades from the cheapest to most expensive: C, B, A ,S, S+, SS, and SSS. As the shrimp move up the grades, they become more delicate because of inbreeding.SSS grade is the highest grade of shrimp. For the most part, the higher grade shrimp has the most white coloration and the least red.
A grade C crystal red shrimp is probably the best shrimp for beginners, since it’s relatively inexpensive. It is characterized by transparent white and blotchy red coloration.
 For optimal breeding, crystal red shrimp should be kept in a species specific aquarium. However, they can be kept with tetras, live bearers, other peaceful community fish, and other dwarf shrimp.Since crystal red shrimp have such specific water quality demands, it may be best to keep them alone in their tank. Mixing them with other fish can risk potential future generations of shrimp.
Keep in mind that placing them in tanks with other bee shrimp will cause offspring to revert to their wild form. This is undesirable and should be avoided if you plan on keeping the tank for more than a few shrimp breeding cycles.
 Your shrimp can become shocked if introduced to the water too quickly. Transfer them from the pet store bag to a bowl before putting them in the aquarium.When you bring your crystal red shrimp home, take them from the pet store bag into a large bowl. You should use the same water from the pet store bag to maintain their aquatic environment.
Slowly introduce the aquarium water into the large bowl using a siphon. After about 30 minutes, begin to introduce your crystal red shrimp into the aquarium with a soft mesh net.
If your shrimp don't move when placed into the aquarium or only float at the surface, there is a problem with the water quality. Remove the shrimp immediately and retest your water for appropriate temperature, nitrate, and ammonia levels.
 These shrimp are not very particular about their food source. Premade shrimp food works best, since it gives them the nutrients they need. Algae wafers provide them with the algae necessary for their diet.It's important to not overfeed your shrimp. Only give them enough food to last a few hours and feed them only a few times a week. Follow the directions on the shrimp food container for the appropriate quantity of food.Sometimes, it may be a good idea to not feed your shrimp for a few days. This will allow them to cleanse their system and for you to make sure the water quality stays high., Vegetables are also a good food for red crystal shrimp, but only blanched vegetables, which are boiled vegetables doused with cold water. This will make the vegetables soft enough for the shrimp to eat.Spinach and zucchini are great vegetables for red crystal shrimp. They keep their diet healthy and will help develop their red and white stripes.
Seaweed is also a good vegetable for crystal red shrimp. It's very rich in nutrients and is easy for them to eat.

