 A daily schedule should include plenty of time for your daily activities, study time, and even time to plan what you're going to wear. A lot of stress is the result of feeling rushed or hurried. If you aren't a morning person, schedule time every evening to plan ahead what you'll be wearing to school the next day. Set aside time for completing homework assignments every afternoon.A schedule can be written down for you to see, or it can be memorized. The benefits of writing a schedule down is that it's more likely to make you feel accountable to holding to it. Also, there's the benefit of being able to "check off" items that are finished.
You can also use a variety of schedule apps to create structure for your day.
The reason that using a schedule addresses stress is because it allows you to know what work you're supposed to be doing, and where you're supposed to be doing it. You won't have the stress of making those decisions at the last minute.
 A calendar is a great organizing structure for reminding yourself of project deadlines, events that will disrupt your daily schedule (such as doctor appointments or visits from Grandmother). Keeping it in a public place allows for your family to know what you have scheduled.If you have a project that will take several days or weeks to complete, use a calendar to divide your larger project into smaller steps.
Using a calendar for accountability helps prevent the feeling of stress that comes from last-minute cramming for a deadline.
 Setting aside a particular work area for yourself will help you feel less stressed. Find a workspace that's free from noisy distractions, where you feel you can focus on your work. Have a supply of visual reminders, markers, and materials you might need while you're studying.Remember that your organizational system doesn't have to look like anyone else's. The important thing is that it works for you.
If you're working on a computer, consider turning off your internet browser, or setting limits on yourself so that you don't end up spending your study time on other online activities.
 Having your phone nearby when you're studying can prevent you from staying focused on your schoolwork, even if you're not looking at it. If your phone is on, you can get texts or messages from friends - and even if you're not, your attention will be distracted by the possibility that someone might call. Instead, turn your phone off (or put it in "airplane mode") so you can be fully attentive to your studies.If you are too distracted by having your phone nearby, consider putting it another room (still turned off).
This is also true for your other screens, including tablets and computers you're not using for your schoolwork.
 The most effective length of time to schedule for studying is 40-90 minutes. If you study more than that, your attention will be weaker. If you study less, you won't have sufficient time to focus your attention. Use a timer if you need to to set limits around your study time.Take a 10-minute break away from your workspace after every study session.
During breaks from studying, stand up. Move around. Exercise helps with your concentration when studying.
 If you have an assignment that feels overwhelming, break it down into smaller parts that you know how to do. Be specific. Rather than scheduling "work on history test," write, "read pages 112-224, and write 6 study questions on the material."If you have a long paper, you might start by writing an outline. Then write 5-8 pages on each topic listed in your outline. Combine these short papers to make your long paper.
If you're studying for a large test, break down the material into manageable steps. You can study by topic, by chapter, or by subject.
 If you are the kind of person who waits until the night before a major project is due to get it finished, or reads the whole book the night before a test, you know how stressful that can be. An extra burst of intense studying at the last minute can help you get through exams, but the best studying relies on information learned in the weeks beforehand.Use a calendar to schedule study time for a major project 2-4 weeks ahead of time.
You might need to become a little bit of a hermit for a time, but using a calendar can remind you that you'll be free to socialize after the deadline has passed.
 Everyone needs help sometimes. If you can't figure out how to get organized, ask someone to help you. Another person can take a fresh look at your workspace, and see ways to organize that you can't.


You can always borrow ideas from the way another person has learned to organize her workspace. Look online for ideas, or notice the way your friends organize their own study spaces.
If hiring a professional organizer is a possibility for you, this might be an effective way to get a new system in place. The difficulty is that, unless you learn how to use this organizational system, you'll bring your old habits into the new space and quickly develop the same habits you always had.

