 If you know how to quilt, a blanket makes a great homemade gift. Personalize the blanket to fit the person you're giving it to. For example, you might use a checkerboard pattern where every other square is decorated with things that have to do with the person who's getting the gift. For example, if your friend is a mountain climber, you could decorate one square with a picture of a climbing carabiner.


When you're picking out fabrics, consider the occasion. For example, if the blanket is a Christmas present, you may want to use green and red fabrics, or if it's for Valentine's Day, you can use red and pink. If it's for a birthday use the person's favorite colors.
See our main article on making quilts for more help.
 This is another good choice for Mother's Day. To make the most basic version of this gift, grab a small jar, decorate it however you wish, and place a good-quality candle inside. For a more professional look, you can even fill the jar with liquid wax and put the wick in yourself. If you do this, try adding a small amount of perfume or fragrant materials like lavender to give the candle a pleasing scent.


If you have construction paper and paint, you can decorate your jar for a "stained glass" effect. Cut the paper into a shape or design that makes sense. Glue it or tape it to the inside wall of the jar. Paint the inside of the jar with a thin layer of paint and allow it to dry. Carefully peel the paper out and its shape will be imprinted on the glass.
 While it can be expensive to have a picture professionally framed, this method lets you give a memorable gift for fairly cheap. Have a picture of a happy memory shared by you and your friend and have it enlarged to portrait size at a photo developer's. Buy a cheap frame from your local craft store (it can even be made out of cardboard). Decorate it with doodles, quotes, glitter, or whatever else you want before you put the picture in.
 Clothing that you knit or sew yourself can make the perfect gift — whenever your friend wears it, they'll think of you. Knit hats, head warmers or socks can be some of the simplest projects for beginners since they can be knit by following the patterns on looped guides called "looms." However, with a little sewing know-how, you can make more complex clothes. For example, a worn-out pair of jeans can become a stylish new jean skirt. There are many, many projects you can try — it's up to you to pick one your friend will like.


Don't feel like you have to make a piece of clothing — accessories can often be quicker, easier and just as appreciated. For example, a duct tape wallet makes a durable yet stylish gift.
 This is your chance to really let your creativity shine. Paintings, sketches, pottery, sculptures, and many other forms of art can make unique presents. You can even try making a non-physical piece of art, like a song. Don't be afraid to give a piece of art that's not perfect — it's the effort and creativity that count.


For one piece of wall art that's fairly beginner-friendly, you'll need spraypaint, a small sheet of plywood (2' × 2' max), and a yard or two of wooden dowel material. Cut the dowel into a few narrow strips, spray paint them, and glue or nail them to the plywood to make a frame around the edge.
Next, cut the dowel crosswise to make many small pegs that are almost the same size, but not exactly. Spraypaint these pegs different colors. Use wood glue to stick them inside the frame randomly until it is completely full. When the glue dries, you'll have a uniquely textured, multicolored piece of art to give to your friend.

