 You should try to stick to a regular brushing schedule so your mouth stays clean and free of bad-breath-causing bacteria. Brush your teeth twice a day, once in the morning and once at night. Brush after meals (though you should wait 30 minutes to brush if you consumed something acidic, as this softens tooth enamel). Use toothpaste that contains baking soda and brush in small circles in the front and back area of your teeth for two to three minutes.You should also get in the habit of flossing your teeth every day. This will ensure any food between your teeth is removed. If food debris is not removed between your teeth, bacteria will start to feed on it and this could lead to bad breath.;
, You can find tongue scrapers at your local drugstore. You can also use your toothbrush as a tongue scraper by brushing your tongue during your daily brushing sessions. Your tongue is a breeding ground for bacteria and removing this bacteria will help to promote good breath.Use the tongue scraper or the toothbrush to gently scrape your tongue. You should notice a white film coming off of your tongue as you scrape it. You want to remove this white film so your tongue appears pink and fresh.
Make sure you scrape your entire tongue, not just the center.
Scraping with a toothbrush is not as effective as using a tongue scraper — one study found that scraping with a toothbrush reduced bacteria by 45%, while a tongue scraper reduced bacteria by 75%., To freshen your breath quickly, you should try to gargle mouthwash once a day. You may gargle mouthwash after you have eaten and between brushing and flossing. You may go for commercial mouthwashes, though you should avoid mouthwashes that contain a high alcohol content and other additives, as this can dry out your mouth, which can cause bad breath.For a natural mouthwash, you can rinse your mouth with water and a few drops of peppermint oil.
You can also rinse your mouth with black or green tea. Studies have shown that rinsing your mouth with black or green tea helps to suppress the growth of bacteria in your mouth that cause bad breath.
A mouth rinse should not be considered a substitute for brushing and flossing.
 Oil pulling is a method of freshening your breath using oil and some patience. This is an Ayurvedic method that works by using the oil to pull out the microorganisms in your mouth that can cause bad breath.To do oil pulling, you will need one teaspoon of coconut, sesame, or sunflower oil. Swish the oil in your mouth for 20 minutes to help “pull” the bad-breath-causing bacteria out of your mouth. Then, spit out the oil and enjoy a fresh mouth.
If you are doing oil pulling for the first time and can't swish for a full 20 minutes, that's okay. Do it for as long as you can, then increase the time until you reach 20 minutes.
Oil pulling should be done as a complimentary treatment to regular brushing and flossing. If you use oil pulling you must still brush and floss.

