 It is very important to read the instructions accompanying your synthetic hiking gear. Often a particular type of synthetic material will need to be treated with special care owing to its constitution - not all synthetics are alike. Some are able to be washed in a machine, some are not. Some can be tumble dried; some should not go anywhere near such a machine. If there are separate instructions that come with the gear, file it away for future reference. Often the best place is to use a shoebox that once stored your hiking boots and leave it with your stored hiking gear.;
, Generally, raincoats and other items made from Gore-Tex or similar synthetic materials are machine washable, in cold water (never use hot!), using specially purchased Gore-Tex cleaning products or a very gentle powder detergent that has no bleach content. Specialized products for washing are available at outdoor stores. Often Gore-Tex etc., will require an additional heat step to seal in the restored hydrophobic qualities; an iron or a tumble on low heat might be appropriate. Again, refer to the instructions.
 Hiking shoes and boots should always be clean and in good repair. Your life could depend on it. These should be cleaned so as to improve their hydrophobic capacities. Again, refer to the manufacturer's instructions but generally it is likely that you will need to purchase a good cleaning product suited to the synthetic material that they are made from.
 They should almost always be professionally cleaned, because the down gets wet and clumps together, losing the insulating properties. Read the manufacturer's instructions first. The down may or may not be of synthetic origin. If it is of natural origin, you will be fine washing it in lukewarm water. If the manufacturer's instructions allows it, a bath is a good place as you can submerge it in water with the appropriate cleaning solution recommended on the label, or very soft soap such as Ivory Flakes, without unnecessary agitation. Down needs a soap which is not harsh and has low surfactants. Knead it gently, release the bathwater and do a rinse. Fill and knead again before releasing all the water. Allow to drip dry over the bath without squeezing. A good way to do this is to rig up a clothes hanging device like a hammock. The item should dry flat so that the down doesn't settle. If it does, it will either dry rock hard, or it will dry from the outside, and the inside could mold and rot. Synthetic down can be cleaned similarly unless the label advises otherwise.
 It is happy with cold to warm water. Turn it inside out to reduce pilling. Avoid washing with anything else as the fleece will attract fluff and will also leave fluff on other items of clothing. Fleece can also be tumble dried, although it is good to air dry it for freshness. Pilling gets worse with repeated washes.

