 To serve reheated potatoes that are as moist as a freshly cooked dish, allow your potatoes to thaw first if you've frozen them. This way you can stir in additional cream more easily. If you reheat frozen potatoes straight from the freezer, allow extra cooking time in the beginning until they've warmed and softened enough to stir the cream in effectively.;
, First, pour some cream. Bring it to a simmer. Stir your mashed potatoes into the cream evenly. Continue to stir until the potatoes are heated through. If needed, add more cream and wait for it to come to a simmer, then stir it into the potatoes.Depending on the amount of potatoes you’re reheating and the size of the pan, it’s best to start off with too little cream than too much. At the very least, use enough to coat the bottom of the pan.
Use a food thermometer to check the potatoes’ internal temperature; for health reasons, the potatoes should reach at least 165º before they’re safe to eat., Grease your skillet with cooking oil. Set the burner to medium heat. Once your skillet’s hot, scoop your potatoes in. Flatten them into a pancake so they cook quicker. Stir them up frequently and flatten them again until they’ve heated through.


The cooking oil should add some moisture to your potatoes. However, if they're still drying out, mix in some cream to rehydrate them.
Use a food thermometer to check the potatoes’ internal temperature; for health reasons, the potatoes should reach at least 165º before they’re safe to eat., Preheat the oven to 350º. Transfer your potatoes to an oven-safe dish. Stir the potatoes with a small amount of cream to rehydrate them. Cover them with either the dish’s lid or aluminum foil. Once the oven’s reached the desired temperature, place the dish inside. Cook for roughly 30 minutes. Depending on the amount of potatoes you’re reheating, check them every 5 minutes starting at the 15-minute mark to see if they’ve already heated through. Stir in more cream if the potatoes are drying out too much.Use a food thermometer to check the potatoes’ internal temperature; for health reasons, the potatoes should reach at least 165º before they’re safe to eat., Transfer your potatoes to a covered, microwave-safe dish. Stir in a small amount of cream to rehydrate them. Cook them in your microwave at half-power for a couple minutes. Uncover the dish, stir your potatoes, and sample to judge the heat. Repeat as needed until your potatoes reach your desired temperature.Use a food thermometer to check the potatoes’ internal temperature; for health reasons, the potatoes should reach at least 165º before they’re safe to eat.