 This is just what you'll write your story on, so it's suggested to purchase a journal, planner, or binder in order to keep your writing safe. Some people may prefer to write in a digital format, but since part of the goal of this activity is to write just one sentence a day, without editing or changing your direction from past days, writing on paper is preferable in many ways, so you're not tempted to change past sentences.

Pick paper or a notebook that you'll be able to keep safe and whole for several weeks or months, and that has plenty of room for a complete story.;
, Ideally, this should be a place that you spend time in every day and a time that will allow you to think about your sentence without anxiety. Here is where you'll write each sentence every day. The place does not have to be poignant or significant to you personally (in fact, some of the best writing is done in the drabbest and boring of places). However, it often helps to pick a place and stick to it, so writing a sentence a day becomes part of your routine.

On the Subway in the morning or afternoon.
During a slow class. (If you choose to write during class, make sure that being distracted with the project won't hurt you academically, and be subtle enough to where you aren't being disrespectful or obtrusive to the class.)
During a free period, tutorial, break, or independent study.
At a coffee shop or library that you go to frequently.
 You don't need to have a plot, layout, or big-picture idea of the story, just an idea to go off of each day.

For instance: One day, a person dies and discovers that life is heaven, and the afterlife is hell (and everyone's clamoring to get inside a soul to live again). Do you have a sentence? Great! Write it down, and close the book for tomorrow and carry on with your day!

, Here are examples of days you should consider not writing:

The weekend: If you aren't going to the location (school, work, the subway, etc.), you may not want to write that day. It is paramount that you confine your writing to your schedule, or everything will fall apart.
If you feel ennui: Feeling bored is natural, and may facilitate the writing process. However, if you feel a meaninglessness of life or overwhelming negative emotions, it's likely not a good time to write. While taking your pains out on your story may seem like it'll spice it up, more than often, you derail the story or make it too personal.
If unable to function creatively: Hemingway didn't sip down those "Death in the Afternoons" before writing his stories, only after (to quell his roaring feelings of despair). Similarly, if you're feeling too anxious or tired, your sentences will suck.
 More than halfway done with your story? Feeling stuck and need to switch it up? It might be time to get creative with the approach:

Write more than one sentence a day.
Write really, really, really long sentences.
See fragments and participles as viable sentences.
Write under distress or extreme emotion.
Quote random books, articles, images, or real-life dialogue.
Change the perspective: Get meta! Write from the perspective of the writer, or from an omniscient god-like figure, or maybe even a cat (Virginia Woolf often wrote from different perspectives, and with the "stream of consciousness").
Write using surrealist qualities.
Write in an ergodic style. Use the format of writing to convey or communicate some idea outside the range of literature, or just confuse the heck out of your audience.
Switch the protagonist for the antagonist.
Do anything that you want!

, It will probably take 6-7 months. Look back in glee at the amazing literature that you have created. You can choose to edit your piece or leave it raw.

Pros of editing: You refine the story in order to fix glaring grammatical mistakes, omit superfluous sentences, repair the structure, or use better quality diction.
Cons of editing: The story will not be entirely truthful to you or your readers because you will have fixed it in post.

