


Click the link that says “Sign Up” at the top right side of the page. Alternatively, there may be a pop-up window asking you to sign up, which you can complete.
Enter all of the information that the sign-up sheet requests.
 However, the upload page gives you other options, including from mobile and from iPhoto.


Choose the button that says “Uploader” to upload from your computer.
A window will pop up for the uploader. Click the orange button that says “Choose files...” Note that you can only upload JPEG files.
Choose the album to which you would like to add the photo by creating a new album or choosing an existing album.
When you are ready, click the orange button that says “Start.”
You may upload more photos when you are done, if you would like, by clicking the purple “Upload more” button.
 You can do this with an email or directly to a website.


In your account, click on “Share” in the top right corner.
You can share your photos in an email. Type in the email addresses to which you would like to send the photos, type up a message to the recipients, and then add the photos you want to send by clicking the white “Add pictures” button. When you are ready, click the orange “Send” button.
You can also share your photos to Facebook. Describe the photos as part of the Facebook status update, create an album name, and then add pictures by clicking the white “Add pictures” button. Then, click the orange “Post” button when you are ready to share them to Facebook.
 This is another way in which Shutterfly makes it easy for you to group share your photos.


Click the “Share” link in the top right corner when you are in your account.
Scroll down to the box that says “Share sites” and click the orange “Create a site” button. You can choose what type of site you want your share site to be, such as Family, Classrooms, or Travel.
Click “Make a site” on whichever type of share site you want to create. On the next page, create a name for your site, which can also become the URL for your site. Then choose whether your share site will be accessible only by the people you choose or whether anyone with the URL will be able to see the photos on it.
Choose a design for your site from the templates they provide. Then, click the orange “Create Site” button at the bottom of the page.
When your site has been created, you can add pictures to it in the “Getting Started” pop-up window. Click the orange “Add pictures” button in that pop-up. If you already have the pictures you want to add to the share site on Shutterfly, you can click Shutterfly; otherwise, you can upload from your computer. To add from your computer, you will need to click the link that says “Click to add photos.” Then, choose the photos you want to upload from your computer. Click the orange “Done” button when you are ready.
To add more photos at a later date, click “Pictures & Videos” on your share site and then “+ Add album.” You will have the same options to choose photos as before, so choose the applicable option to add additional photos.
 Then, you can share photos to your share site directly from your phone.


Once the app has downloaded to your smartphone, open it.
Add photos by tapping “Photos” on the menu. Then, tap the plus sign (+) in the top right corner on the next screen.
Select the photo you would like to upload by tapping it. Then, on the next screen, tap the checkmark in the circle so that it turns blue. This tells the app that you want to add this photo. Next, choose the album to which you want to add the photo and tap the orange “Upload” button.
You will be taken back to the menu, but when you tap your “Photos” link again, you will see your photo added to the gallery. The photo will appear on your share site.

