 If possible, place all of the clementines inside a plastic mesh bag. Loosely twist the top opening of the bag closed to prevent the fruit from spilling out.


While convention recommends storing clementines in plastic bags or airtight containers, doing so could actually cause the fruit to become moldy or soft much quicker. Mesh bags allow air to circulate around all sides of the fruit, thereby minimizing the threat of mold.Strictly speaking, you do not need to place the fruit in a mesh bag when you store it as long as you keep it in the right part of your refrigerator. The bag keeps things tidy and prevents bruising and other similar damage, but you do not need to worry too much if you cannot find a mesh bag to use.
 Regardless of whether or not you have bagged the clementines, you should place them inside the crisper drawer, also called the “fruit drawer” or “vegetable drawer,” of your refrigerator.


The humidity level inside the refrigerator's crisper drawer is different than it is inside the rest of your refrigerator. You may not be able to control the humidity, but if there is a control dial on the drawer, set it to “low” to help prevent the fruit from getting moldy.
 Look through the clementines every one or two days and remove any that appear to be going bad early.


If the fruit is just beginning to get soft, you should use it that day. Fruit that has gotten too soft or has begun to decay should be discarded, though.
You should separate fruit that has already gotten overripe from fruit that is still fresh. Overripe fruit releases a gas that speeds ripening in other, nearby fruit, so your remaining clementines will spoil faster if you keep a rotten one mixed in with the rest of the bunch.
 When stored in this manner, most clementines will last anywhere between one or two full weeks. You might be able to get a few extra days out of them past this if the conditions and fruit are both ideal, but it is somewhat uncommon, so you should exercise more caution when consuming clementines that are more than two weeks old.

