 Breathing is relaxing and can divert your attention from the pain of mild cramps. You can do this while doing something else that will divert your attention, such as watching a television show.


Focus on your breathing. Use a fast and shallow breathing rate, following a one-two (breathe in fast, breathe out fast) rhythm.
 Alcohol or any caffeinated or carbonated drink can add to abdominal pain.Sip water or clear fluids., Take a walk around your house, or in the garden. This can be helpful when you find that sitting or lying down is uncomfortable.


You may find it best to avoid abdominal exercises while experiencing cramps due to the discomfort, especially because cramps may result from exercise itself if you push yourself too hard. Know your limits.
 Some evidence suggests yoga may help with stomach issues such as irritable bowel syndrome.If you're familiar with yoga, consider some poses that open up the abdominal region. Depending where the cramps are, consider fish pose or reclining hero. Downward facing dog can also be helpful.


If your cramps are muscular in nature, exercise your abdominal muscles at another time and merely stretch them in the cobra pose. Any position where you are facing up, looking forward or facing the ceiling will result in a minuscule amount of abdominal tension.
 Place a heating pad, heated wheat bag, or hot water bottle on your stomach to give temporary relief. While some advice suggests not to apply the heating pad to your abdomen in case this brings on nausea, other advice considers this to be appropriate.Decide on which approach best suits your needs through your knowledge of your own preferences and responses to the application of heat.
 Allow yourself to pass gas. If you are at work or somewhere this might be embarrassing or inappropriate, just excuse yourself and go to the restroom. You do not want to allow yourself to become bloated or let the cramps become more serious and painful by holding in your gas.
 A warm bath can also help with some cramping.Don't make it too hot, just comfortable.

