 Place the milk or cream in a small saucepan and set it on a burner. Turn the burner to medium heat and allow the milk or cream to warm. Do not let it come to a boil; warm it just until you see steam rising from the saucepan.;
, In a small bowl, whisk the egg yolks until they are well beaten. Whisk in the sugar, flour and salt until they are fully combined with the yolks.
 Slowly pour the warmed milk or cream into the egg mixture with one hand, while whisking constantly with the other. When you've finished pouring the milk or cream in, transfer the whole mixture back to the small saucepan. Place the saucepan back on the stove.This process tempers the eggs and prevents them from getting cooked by the warm milk.
If you can't use one hand to pour and one to whisk, it's fine to switch back and forth until the milk has been poured out.
 As the pastry cream slowly heats, keep whisking it constantly to remove any lumps and prevent it from burning or sticking to the pan.
 As you whisk the pastry cream, it will begin to thicken. It will take on a heavy cream-like texture, then begin to look custard-like. When this occurs, take the pastry cream off the burner and stir in the vanilla extract.Continue whisking constantly, until you can see drag marks when you pull the whisk through the pastry cream.
Another way to check to see if the pastry cream is finished cooking is to stop whisking for a second and look for bubbles popping. If you see a few large bubbles rise to the surface and pop, it's time to remove the pastry cream from the heat.
 Place a strainer over a large bowl and pour the pastry cream from the saucepan through the strainer. Use the back of a spoon or a spatula to help push the pastry cream through the strainer into the bowl.
 Cover the bowl of pastry cream and place it in the refrigerator to cool. It's ready to use when it has completely cooled.To keep a skin from forming over the cream, place the plastic wrap directly on the surface of the cream.
 Also called profiteroles, this delicious treat consists of a light dough baked and stuffed with plenty of pastry cream. The puffs are then stacked and drenched in a rich chocolate syrup, caramel sauce, or powdered sugar.


Try making a cinnamon pastry cream and topping your cream puffs with caramel sauce for a unique treat.
In place of a birthday cake, you could stake cream puffs in a pyramid and pour chocolate sauce over the top, allowing it to drip down.
 Éclairs are made of choux dough that is formed into tiny (or large) logs, filled with pastry cream, and slathered in chocolate icing. It's a popular French treat that has rightly gained a place in bakeries across the world.
 Cannolis originated as an Italian treat and they're much enjoyed around the world. To make a cannoli, a rich dough is rolled into a hollow log shape and fried, then filled with cinnamon-spiked pastry cream. The cream is often mixed with pistachio bits or mini chocolate chips for added texture.,