 Verbatim Reporters speak into a mouthpiece during the trial and transcribe their recordings later. As of September 2015, only 37 states allowed voice reporters in the courtroom. Although verbatim reporters do have avenues of employment open to them other than court reporting, if you want to be a verbatim court reporter, this should be the first thing you check., The list of schools that offer instruction in Verbatim Reporting is smaller than those offering purely stenographic court reporting. Although many of the verbatim training schools offer online courses, if you must be in an in-person classroom, you should investigate other types of court reporting. Find a list of accredited verbatim reporting schools at https://nvra.org/nvra-education-affiliate-listings.
 The equipment for voice reporting is more expensive and more extensive than that for stenographic reporting. Over the course of your training, which will take 6 months to a year, prepare to spend between $1800-$2200 on equipment alone.The tuition costs for any program will of course be much larger, but prepare to spend between $4,000 and $7,000 for tuition at a program endorsed by the National Verbatim Reporters Association.
 Since voice writing--in which the reporter speaks into a mask and it is automatically transcribed onto a data file--is relatively newer than stenography, states that allow voice writing usually allow the NVRA to test and certify that verbatim reporters are ready to work in the field. Testing requirements for the NVRA exam are similar to that required by the NCRA.For the most basic certification, the Certified Verbatim Reporter (CVR), you must score at least 70% on the written portion of the test, and take dictation with real-time transcription with 95% accuracy at:


Literary at 180 wpm
Jury Charge at 200 wpm
Testimony/Q&A at 225 wpm
The written test has vocabulary, spelling, punctuation and legal and medical terminology. The dictation and transcription tests assess your speed, accuracy and ability to work silently.
The Certificate of Merit (CM) requires higher levels of knowledge, speed and accuracy.
The Real-Time Verbatim Reporter (RVR) certification test assesses your real-time transcription, CART reporting and captioning skills.

