 It may sound too simple to work, but it’s the most important part of working through the rough patches in your relationship. In short, ask questions to figure out how your partner is feeling, and be ready to listen.If you’re hesitating to initiate a conversation, it’s probably worth doing so. While sometimes challenging, even hard conversations are ultimately likely to strengthen your relationship together.
The best question may be the simplest. Try asking your partner, “Hey, what’s been on your mind lately?” whenever it seems like they have something to say, or are behaving emotionally.
Think about your own answers to the questions you want to ask. You might realize that there are some specific things you want to bring up too.;
, It may simply feel as though distance has grown between you. However, it’s better to ask - and easier to answer more specific questions. For instance, ask something like, “We haven’t been as excited to see each other recently, and both of us are coming home later in the evening. Can we sit down and talk about how we’re both feeling?”There may be a concrete reason that’s wearing on your partner. For example, maybe they've simply been stressed about work. Feel free to talk about changes you perceive in one another's behavior. This will help prevent either of you from worrying when a bit of distance between you is coming from something temporary and unrelated to your relationship.
 Steer conversations towards identifying the issues that you can work on together. This will help strengthen your bonds to one another. There are a lot of things that can get in the way, including your emotions. If you’re feeling insecure about your relationship, for instance, admit it.For example, “Hey, I’ve noticed we don’t kiss each other anymore before leaving for work. Maybe it’s silly, but I feel frightened that we’re growing apart."

, If something you did led to the tension between you, it's vital that you offer your partner a sincere apology. In order to do so, make sure you explicitly express regret, acknowledge your own responsibility, and request forgiveness.Depending on what you have done, you should also likely convey your intent to change your behavior.
For instance, say something like, "I'm genuinely sorry that I haven't been around for you as much lately. It's something that I realize has contributed negatively to our relationship. I intend to be around more frequently, and to be more accessible to you when we're together. I really want to make this work."

