



Your left hand works the WASD keys to control your characters movement. WASD refers to the letters W, A, S and D found on every standard keyboard.
Most people will rest their ring finger on the A key and their pointer finger on the D key. Your middle finger rests on the W key, but also controls the S key when needed.
We use the WASD keys because the arrow keys are not ergonomic to use in conjunction with a right-handed mouse.

Your right hand uses the mouse to look around or aim. Typically the mouse buttons will interact with the game environment, shoot or do other actions.;
,


Characters in first-person games don’t move around like people in the real world. They actually move more like a car with a really tight turn radius.
When you move around, you can imagine that the mouse is like your steering wheel and the W key is your accelerator pedal.
To move from one end of a room to the other, you:

Look with the mouse where you want to go, and then
Press the W key to move in that direction.


No matter what, the W key will always move you in the direction you’re looking.  If you hold down the W key and move the mouse back and forth, your character will also zig and zag back and forth.



The W key is the workhorse of the WASD quartet, but the other keys are useful, too. This is particularly true for games where you need to move around quickly to avoid enemy attacks.
The S Key—This key does the opposite of W. This is your character’s reverse gear. S will always move you in the opposite direction of where you are looking.
The A and D Keys—These two keys are used for what is known as “strafing.” A will always move you to left of where you’re looking and D will move you to the right. These keys are useful if you want to continue to look in a particular direction while moving either left or right. Along with the S key, A and D allow you to move in a direction other than the one you are looking.
CTRL, Shift, Tab—These keys are frequently used in games to do special actions. Some examples might be crouching, throwing a grenade or switching a weapon. The easiest way to hit these buttons is with your left pinkie finger.
Space Bar—The space bar is most commonly used to jump, but it might be used for something else or it might not be used at all. The easiest way to hit the space bar is with your left thumb.



Many other keys on your keyboard may be used in the game. Some examples: I is often used to access your inventory, M often opens up a map, J is sometimes used for a journal. The number keys are often used to switch between items or weapons. There’s no particular finger for hitting any of these buttons.

