 All-purpose suits are suits that can be appropriate for nearly any occasion. These suits are great for people that don’t need to wear a suit very often and are sometimes called “wedding-funeral” suits because they are meant to be appropriate at either occasion or anywhere between.These suits need to be versatile so they will be appropriate for most formal occasions.
All-purpose suits are designed primarily to be worn to weddings, interviews, and funerals.
Skirts are considered appropriate for more scenarios than pant suits are for women.;
, In order to choose a good color or color scheme in a woman’s suit, you’ll need to determine whether you intend to wear a skirt with your suit jacket or pants. Each is appropriate for most situations, but there are some unwritten rules about each.Skirts are often considered a more appropriate choice for interviews, though that is not a universal rule.
Pant suits are considered less formal in some circles, but are commonly accepted in most situations that skirts are.
Purchasing separates can allow for more combinations of colors.
 Grey suits are considered extremely versatile because the color scheme is appropriate for most formal situations. Charcoal grey has some specific connotations that you should be aware of before purchasing and wearing one:Charcoal grey can make you seem older and more experienced, so it’s a good choice for young professionals.
Some see charcoal grey as a color that denotes loyalty so it’s an excellent color for meetings with your boss as well as formal social occasions.
 Navy blue suits have a lot in common with charcoal grey. They are both considered the most versatile suit colors and are appropriate for nearly all formal social and professional occasions. For the most part, choosing between these colors is a matter of preference, but there are some subtle differences.Navy blue may be a more common all-purpose color, which means it could be considered even more widely accepted.
Navy blue is considered a suit to “fit in” but not to stand out. It’s great for understated personalities or those who want to be judged based on what they do, rather than what they wear.
Women’s navy blue separates can often be matched with light grey garments for increased wear.
 The black suit is the last of the three common “all-purpose” colors but is widely considered to be the least versatile of the bunch. The primary limitations of a black suit have to do with matching your complexion and accessories to it.Black suits are best for people with dark hair and dark complexions.
Black can be matched with greys to reduce the formality and soften the look of a suit for women.
Black suits are a bad choice for those with very light complexions or red hair as the contrast can be stark.

