 To apply for a gun dealer's license, you will need the FFL application and Certificate of Compliance forms. The paperwork can be obtained from an ATF office or from the Internet.


Call the ATF field office located in Florida 1-305-597-4800 to receive the forms by mail. (If you call, you will now be directed to visit the website and print the paperwork yourself.)






If you live in the Miami area, obtain the forms in person at the ATF field office located at 11410 Northwest 20th Street, Suite 201, Miami, Florida, 33172.
To print the forms from the Internet, visit the ATF website provided in the Sources section of this article, then click on the links for the application and Certificate of Compliance located on the right-hand side of the website.





;
, The ATF will use the fingerprint cards to run your criminal background check.


Ask the FDLE office for 2 copies of the fingerprint identification cards. Some offices may require you to pay a fee to receive the fingerprint cards.
If you need assistance with locating the nearest FDLE office, call the FDLE headquarters at 1-850-410-7000.
 The photographs must be at least 2 inches (5.08 cm) in length and 2 inches (5.08 cm) wide.
 The application fee will differ depending on the type of guns and weapons you plan on selling at your establishment.


Obtain 200 dollars (145 euros) for the fee if you will only be selling handguns and non-destructive weapons.
Obtain 3000 dollars (2177 euros) for the application fee if you will be selling weapons that are considered to be destructive devices; such as grenades and bombs.
 If you plan to pay by credit card, you will have the opportunity to print your credit card information on the application.
 The application will require you to enter information such as the name and address of your business, the type of weapons you plan to sell, the names of business partners if any, and information about your criminal history, if any.
 This form will require you to indicate your United States citizenship status.
 Once the FFLC receives your application and additional paperwork, they will send all your paperwork to the ATF field office located in Miami.


Place your gun dealer's license application, Certificate of Compliance, the fingerprint cards, pictures, and fee into an envelope to send to the FFLC.
Mail the envelope to the ATF headquarters office at: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, P.O. Box 409567, Atlanta, Georgia, 30384-9567.
 The IOI will meet with you to inspect your business premises and make sure it meets the zoning requirements for your Florida area. The IOI will also speak with you about gun dealer's licensing laws.


Since the state of Florida does not have any specific licensing requirements, the IOI will ensure that you fully understand the federal laws regarding holding a gun dealer's license.
 After your meeting with the IOI, the IOI will submit their recommendation regarding your application for the gun dealer's license over to the FFLC. After you have passed the background check, you will receive your gun dealer's license within 60 days.

