 Go to the iTunes store and follow the "Download" prompt, or go straight to this page: http://www.apple.com/itunes/download/.


Before pressing "Download", note the checked box "Email me New on iTunes and special iTunes offers." Uncheck if you don't want this to happen, otherwise leave it.
Click on "Download Now". Wait for it to download, then follow your computer's prompts to update your iTunes - you will need to install, add any passwords, and agree to Apple's terms and conditions. (Note: Quit iTunes before installing the new version.);
, It will look quite different from your previous iTunes. It will probably spend some time "creating artwork thumbnails". Let it run!

,


If this is your first time using Ping, you will need to activate it and you may be prompted to update your browser - if so, follow the prompts on your computer screen. You will also need to identify yourself and key in your password.
Click "Turn on Ping".
 Fill out the information about yourself when it asks you to "Create Your Profile". You can upload or take a picture, tell where you live, write a little about yourself.


Select the genres of music you like. You can choose to have these displayed automatically, manually, or not at all. Check the one that you prefer.

You can also choose how people can follow you and what should be displayed on your page. Note! If you choose to allow people to follow you, they can see your profile information including your purchasing activity.
 Ping makes it easy to follow artists.


Find a favorite artist by searching from the Ping homepage or selecting one that Ping has chosen for you. Key the artist's name into the search field, or select one recommended by Ping.

Click on the "Follow" tab located next to the artist's name.
You will also be able to see what your favorite artists likes.
Keep an eye on status updates from your favorite artists. You can follow their feed, including seeing any photos or videos that they upload.
Feel free to add comments and join into conversations with your favorite artists. You can read your artist's reviews and also leave reviews of their work; your reviews are linked back to your Ping identity and others can read them too.
 You will be able to know what your friends are listening to, and be inspired by their music choices if you follow them.


Find your friends. Use the "Search People or Artists" search field to find your friends (or potential friends), or you can search by Facebook or by email. Alternately, follow people Ping recommends. Open a name you know and then click on the "Follow" tab and they become a part of your network. Hopefully they'll follow you back!
As with your favorite artist, you'll be able to see what your friend is listening to and recommending.
Check your friend's follows and followers. Perhaps you'd like to follow some of them too.
 iTunes Ping includes a service for keep you updated on when concerts are occurring. You will also be able to tell if your friends are going.


This service allows you to connect to purchasing tickets for a concert from Live Nation.
 These charts let you know what others in your network are listening to. You can check by song or album.

