 How do they differ from the competition? What do your competitors do better? Understanding the strengths and weaknesses of what you have to offer will help you improve your business and your marketing techniques.;
, Who purchases your product or service? Where do they live? How much disposable income do they have to spend?


Compile a list of what defines your ideal customer.
You may have more than one target market. For example, a shoe store may advertise inexpensive gym shoes to parents of young children while also marketing pricey dress shoes to the business crowd.
Examine your customers and the purchases they make. Find out who is buying your product or service and create a profile for each type of customer.
 Effective advertising campaigns can be costly; you need to know how much you can realistically spend.



Newspapers offer a wide price range from inexpensive classified advertising to pricey full color ads.
Radio reaches a wide regional area and typically appeals to particular demographic groups.
Web site marketing offers tremendous variety from inexpensive do-it-yourself sites to high dollar, innovative technology. Web sites reach the widest audience and offer the potential for international business transactions.
Social Media is the least expensive advertising available. An investment of time to build a large social network may pay off in sales.
Direct Mail is traditional advertising that has grown with the times. Mailing lists targeted by almost any criterion you choose are available for purchase.
Email can be an effective marketing tool, but beware of strict compliance rules. Commercial email that defies the CAN-SPAM Act may incur penalties of up to $16,000 per occurrence.
Television is a powerful advertising medium, but it's often too expensive for small businesses. Small cable channels usually provide the most cost effective option for this type of advertising.



Write down the specific goal you intend to accomplish. ("Increase sales by 15% before the end of the fiscal year" or "Gain 50 new customers this month.")
Choose a medium to begin your marketing campaign. (Ex: Direct Mail)
Develop the materials you'll use in the campaign. In this example, it could be a series of letters with increasingly enticing offers for your latest product.
Determine a time frame for implementation. How often will you mail? Do the letters need to coincide with local or calendar events? Allow time for delays and test marketing. Patience is an essential; successful marketing campaigns can take a year or more of careful planning.
Test market the campaign. Before you commit extensive resources, it's wise to test the market to see how well-received your advertising will be. Testing keeps costs minimal while you hone the campaign. In a case of direct mail marketing, you might send the materials to a control group consisting of a random 5% of your mailing list.
Evaluate test marketing results. Use this information to edit the materials (or the campaign itself) as necessary. If results are unclear, consider test marketing on another control group. You need strong, consistent results in order to predict a successful campaign.

