 Chakras are compared to discs that lie horizontally in your body and spin. They correspond with different glands and their hormones, so some traditions say that there are actually more than seven Chakras according to the number of glands in the human body. Each Chakra bears so many attributes that they can't be listed here, so here's just a short overview:


Crown Chakra (pituitary gland): on top of the head, purple. Consciousness, spirituality.
Third-Eye Chakra (pineal gland): forehead, indigo blue. Perception, intuition, willpower.
Throat Chakra (thyroid gland): throat, blue. Communication, inspiration.
Heart Chakra (thymus gland): heart region, green. Love, compassion, healing.
Solar plexus Chakra (Langerhans-islets, adrenal glands): navel, yellow. Personality, power, wisdom.
Sacral Chakra (ovaries, testes): genitalia, orange. Sexuality, creativity.
Root Chakra (gonads, adrenal medulla): anus, red. Survival, instinct, stability.;
, Make yourself comfy in a room or a place outside where you are alone and where it is silent (aside from natural sounds). Switch off your phone and your door bell so you won't get disturbed. Make sure your clothes aren't too tight or scratchy. Close your eyes so you can concentrate on your body.
 Some experts recommend to stand up during this meditation, but you may as well lie down on a blanket or sit on a cushion. Take deep slow breaths and relax your muscles.
 This is necessary to determine which chakra is blocked or otherwise not alright. Sometimes it's obvious beforehand, but some issues can be related to different chakras. Always start with the root chakra and end with the crown chakra as this means going from the most "primitive" part of the body (survival) to the highest developed one (consciousness).
 Imagine the chakra as discs or lotus flowers. Breathe in and visualize light flowing into the chakra, making it glow with energy. Breathe out and imagine all your stress flowing out of the chakra. Repeat if necessary, then move on to the next chakra.
 In the simplest terms, aligning chakras means getting them all to rotate clockwise. A chakra that stops spinning or spins the wrong way could be associated with physical ailments, or with telling lies. One way to re-align a chakra like this is to meditate and visualize it turning clockwise, correcting the flow through your body.
 After energizing the crown chakra, continue taking deep breaths. Open your eyes slowly and calmly return to your everyday life.

