 Stenciling is a great way to add simple or complex designs to walls. You can even go back over the stencil with a second color to add shading. Be sure to give yourself plenty of time for this project, however, as stenciling can take a while. Here's a list of what you will need:


Wall stencils
Painter's tape or repositionable spray adhesive
Foam roller or good quality stencil brush
Acrylic paint or wall paint
Paint pan or paint palette
Paper towels;
, You can place it anywhere you want. If you want to cover your entire wall with the design, you can start off by placing it in the top left corner of your wall or right in the middle of your wall. Once you know where you want your stencil, trace the corners lightly with a pencil. You can also outline the corners with some painter's tape.Consider using a level tool to ensure that your stencil is straight. It looks like a metal or plastic ruler, with a short, fluid-filled tube in the middle of it. The air bubble inside the tube moves around as you tilt the level about. Your project is leveled if the bubble is in the middle of the tube.
 You can do this by taping it to the wall along the edges with painter's tape. You can also spray the back with a repositionable spray adhesive, wait for the adhesive to get tacky, then press the stencil against the wall.


Consider sealing the edges off with a few rows of painter's tape, especially if the design on your stencil is close to the edge. The painter's tape will prevent you from accidentally going over the edges of the stencil and painting the wall by mistake.
 Acrylic paint would be great for small areas, but if you are stenciling your entire wall, you might want to consider some wall paint instead. Choose a finish that matches the original finish of your wall: glossy, satin, eggshell, matte, etc. Do not pour too much paint out at once, or the paint will dry before you can use all of it. This way, you won't be wasting any paint.


If you are using a foam roller, pour the paint out onto a paint pan. Foam rollers are great for covering large stencils and large areas.
If you are using a stencil brush, pour the paint out onto a paint palette. Stencil brushes are great for covering small stencils. They are also good for designs with multiple colors.
 You don't want to apply too much paint all at once, or you might get drips. The paint may also leak under the stencil and create blotches. Because of this, it is much better to apply many thin coats of paint rather than one thick coat.


If you are working with a stencil brush, you can tape several folded paper towels onto the wall next to your work.This way, you can hold the palette in one hand and the brush in the other. Everything will be close by. Just make sure that your paper towels are folded thick enough so that the paint does not bleed through them and onto the wall.
 Apply the paint using light to medium pressure. You don't want to press down too hard with your brush or foam roller, or you will squish the paint out and create blob.Work with one color at a time, and use a fresh paint roller or brush when you do.


If you are using a foam roller, simply roll back and forth lightly across the pencil.
If you are using a stencil brush, lightly tap the brush over the stencil.
 At some point, you will probably need to reload the roller or brush with more paint. Do this only when your roller or brush completely runs out of paint.Whenever you dip your roller or brush into paint, be sure to tap the excess paint off onto a paper towel.


If you accidentally painted outside the stencil, wipe the paint off using a damp paper towel or a baby wipe.Consider adding some shading to your design using a stencil brush. Use a slightly darker color to do this, not straight black. This will look more realistic. A great places to use shading is around the edges or tips of your design., If some paint got under the stencil and onto the wall, use a damp Q-tip to clean the excess paint off. If there are any gaps along the edges of your design, use a thin paintbrush and some extra paint to fill in those gaps.If you painted a design, such as a branch with flowers and leaves, your stencil may have left some gaps between the different shapes. You can fill those gaps in using a thin paintbrush and extra paint for a more authentic, hand painted look., If you plan on reusing the stencil, double-check underneath it. If any paint got underneath the stencil, you might end up transferring that paint into your wall. If you see any leaked paint, wipe it off using a damp paper towel.
 If you attached your stencil using painter's tape, pull off the old pieces and use new ones. If you used repositionable spray adhesive, you may need to re-spray the back before you press the stencil down again.
 Refer to the label on your paint can or bottle. Just because something is dry to the touch does not necessarily mean it is fully dry. Most acrylic paints will be dry in 20 minutes, while some may require up to two hours. Latex wall paints will require a much longer drying and curing time.

