 Set the stove to medium or medium-low. Drop a little of your preferred fat into the pan (use no less than one tablespoon to keep the pan slick). You're ready to proceed when you hear a quiet sizzling.









There are many different types of fat you can use here. Just a few include:



Butter or margarine
Canola or olive oil
Bacon grease (convenient if you just cooked bacon for your breakfast in the same pan)



;
, Grab a bowl, cup or ramekin big enough to hold your eggs. Break the flat side of each egg on the rim of the container and let the contents drain into it. To save time, do this while waiting for your pan to heat up.


Don't crack the eggs directly into the hot pan. If you do this, it's easier to break the yolks or cook your eggs unevenly. You also have less control over where they will lie in the pan., Pour your eggs from the container into the hot pan. Immediately lift the handle so that the eggs slide to the far side of the pan. Wait about 10 to 15 seconds so the bottoms of the eggs have a chance to set together, then slowly lower the handle so the pan sits level on the stove. Jiggle the pan slightly to keep the eggs from sticking or carefully move them with a spatula.









Setting the eggs together at the far side of the pan keeps the whites together in a single thick "clump" rather than having them run all over the pan. This keeps the eggs from cooking unevenly.
 Now, let the eggs cook without disturbing them for a minute or two. You want the bottoms of the whites to be fully set (but not hard) before you proceed. Depending on your pan and the level of heat you're using, this will take anywhere from about 45 seconds to two minutes.









Keep your eyes on the edges of the whites — they are thinner than the center, so they will solidify first. When you notice that the edges are solid, you can proceed even if the whites in the middle are still a little liquid.
 When the edges and bottom are solid but the white around the yolk is still clear, slip a spatula under the eggs. Lift them away from the pan and turn them over with a single quick twisting motion of the wrist. Set them down as gently as possible so you don't break the yolks. It is OK if you accidentally "fold" one of the edges under the center. This doesn't affect the finished product much.









If you're bold, you can also flip the eggs with the pan itself. To do this, push the pan away from you and jerk the far edge up sharply. Bring the pan up to meet the egg as it turns. This is tricky, so use a spatula if you're not an experienced chef.
 The second side of the egg should not cook for very long. Count to 10, then slide the spatula under the eggs and re-flip them. The "top" side of the egg should now just be barely set.


Cooking this side of the egg for only 10 seconds is crucial. You want the tops of the eggs to solidify just enough to contain the yolks while keeping them runny.
 Congratulations! Your over easy eggs are done. Transfer out of the pan to a plate and serve with toast, bacon, hash browns, or other breakfast favorites.








