 A System Restore should not delete any of your personal data, but having a backup of your most important files is recommended in the event that something goes awry. Click here for some tips on quickly backing up your important files.
 A System Restore rolls back your computer's settings to a determined restore date. Anything installed between the restore point date and the current date will be uninstalled, and any settings and registry changes will be reverted.
 If you're using a mouse, move your cursor to the upper-right corner of the screen.


If you're trying to perform a System Restore because your computer will not load Windows, click here.
,, The System Restore utility may take a moment to open. Click Next > to see your available restore points.
 System Restore will display your most recent automatic restore point, as well as any you may have created manually. You can check the "Show more restore points" box to display older restore points.


Each restore point will have a short description of the change that occurred. This can help you narrow down the correct restore point if you know or suspect what is causing the problem.
 This will let you know which programs may need to be reinstalled after performing the system restore.
 This may take a few minutes, and the computer will reboot automatically once the restore process is finished.
 Once the restore is complete, start using your computer to see if it is running better. If things are worse, you can undo the restore process by opening the System Restore utility again.
 This is usually caused by a corrupt restore point. Run System Restore again and try to restore from a different point. If you continue to receive the same errors, you will most likely need to perform a full factory reset. Follow the instructions in the next section., Some viruses can infect your system restore points, rendering them ineffective in getting rid of the virus. If you've tried your system restore points are are still experiencing problems, you'll want to perform a full factory reset. See the next section for detailed instructions.

