 Your Jersey Wooly rabbit will need a cage with a minimum size of one square foot per pound of full grown rabbit. The Jersey Wooly rabbit averages around three pounds, so your cage needs to be at least three square feet in area. The width should be one and a half times the length of the fully grown rabbit, while the cage length should be three times the length of the bunny.That is the room just for the rabbit itself.The cage will also need to have room for a litter box, her food and water dishes, and a box for her to rest in, so aim for at least six square feet of floor space in the cage.
Make sure not to place your rabbit in an aquarium or a cage with solid walls. This restricts airflow and can harm your rabbit.;
, Because your Jersey Wooly rabbit has small feet, the wrong floor can cause her to get injured. Your Jersey Wooly can get her feet stuck in a wire floor. Make sure to give the bunny cage a solid floor instead of a wire floor. Wire floors may also cause sores to form on the bottom of your rabbit’s feet.Carpeting or wooden flooring along the bottom of the cage works well, as does a piece of fleece fabric. Fleece won’t block the digestive tract if the rabbit eats it.
 You need to make sure you provide your bunny with a sleeping area. Your rabbit will eat the bedding, so make sure you make it from a material that is safe for her to eat. Safe materials to make bedding from include meadow or timothy hay, natural fiber blanket made from natural fibers, or other organic products.Provide enough bedding so she can move it around and burrow in it.


Don’t use harmful materials for bedding, such as straw, cardboard, newspaper, wood shavings, sawdust, cat litter, or cedar or pine products.
 Your rabbit needs a place to go to the bathroom. Put a litter box in your bunny’s cage. For your small Jersey Wooly rabbit, you can use a medium sized plastic cat litter pan. Place fresh hay inside the litter box and rabbit-safe bedding under the hay.The litter box needs two sides: a kitchen side and a bathroom side. Your rabbit will nibble hay in her litter box, so the kitchen side will contain clean hay away from the bathroom side.


You should confine her to this cage until she is consistently using the litter box.
 Rabbits are naturally skittish and like to hide from predators, loud noises, or other things that scare them. You need to provide hiding places for your Jersey Wooly rabbit. This can be any enclosed space away from sounds, lights, and drafts. Make sure the hiding place has two openings, otherwise your rabbit won’t use it.


Good hiding places are cardboard boxes and tunnels made out of cardboard tubes.
You can also purchase rabbit hiding places from the pet store. Hiding places can be anywhere in your house as long as they are away from high-traffic areas., Choose one room to let your rabbit roam around freely in. This room needs to meet all your rabbit’s needs, so it needs a litter box, a hay feeder, food dishes, and water bowl.


Inside the room, you can set up cardboard houses, bunny condos, puppy pens, or rabbit cages., One of a rabbit’s favorite activities is chewing. In the bunny room, cover up wires or remove them completely. You can place electrical cords in hard plastic tubing split lengthwise with the cords tucked inside. Place cords behind woodwork or trim, wrap them in spiral wrap or use concealers to keep them out of sight., Since your rabbit will love to chew, she will chew on trim, door edges, furniture, wallpaper, sheetrock, and carpet if you let her. Protect the room by putting boards over places your bunny can chew that she shouldn’t.To keep your rabbit from burrowing up into the furniture, put cardboard or 2x4s under it. Cover the wall with clear plastic panels to keep the rabbit from chewing.
To discourage your rabbit from chewing on inappropriate objects, give her an acceptable chewing toy if she tries to chew on something else.
 Make sure your rabbit has a lot of toys and objects to chew on. You can leave out alfalfa cubes, cardboard tubes stuffed with grass hay, fresh apple, willow, or aspen branches, or rolled up cotton towels.


You can make homemade toys for your rabbit, like a cardboard box stuffed with hay, cardboard rolls from paper towels, gift wrap, or toilet paper, or multiple cardboard boxes lined up to make a rabbit tunnel. You can also stuff a paper sack with shredded newspaper (and a few treats) to give your rabbit a digging adventure.
 Hay is the food your rabbit will eat the most of during the day. The Jersey Wooly rabbit needs high quality grass hay. Grass hay should be fed in unlimited amounts. Don’t feed your rabbit alfalfa hay as a meal or part of her daily diet. It should only be fed to a rabbit as an occasional treat.Give your rabbit fresh hay every day. Never let it get wet or spoiled.
 Rabbits also eat pellets, which contain all the nutrients a rabbit needs. An adult Jersey Wooly rabbit can have ⅛ to ¼ cup of pellets daily.Give your rabbit fresh pellets every day.
 Your rabbit needs green leafy vegetables provide fiber and moisture to her diet. You can feed your rabbit bok choy, broccoli stems and leaves, carrot tops, dandelion greens, and all kinds of lettuce, except iceberg lettuce. Feed your Jersey Wooly ½ to 1 loose cup of these a day, spread over three to four servings., You can give your bunnies treats daily, but in limited quantities. Because the Jersey Wooly rabbit is so small, feed her only a tablespoon of treats a day. Treats include fresh fruit and starchy vegetables, like carrots.Don’t feed your rabbit any other human foods, especially corn or other grains.
 Your rabbit needs access to a water dish in her cage. Rabbits can drink from a sipper bottle or a ceramic dish. Rabbits tend to prefer ceramic dishes.Make sure there are multiple water dishes in your rabbit room.
 Bunnies like clean spaces. Make sure to keep your rabbit’s bedding clean. Check it regularly, once every day or two, to make sure it doesn’t need changing. If your rabbit goes to the bathroom in the bedding, she needs a larger area to roam and move around.


Clean the litter box every day. A rabbit will avoid a dirty litter box. Throw everything away in the litter box, wash the box, and replace the bedding.
Unclean bedding can lead to fleas, flies, and other pests, which can be harmful to your rabbit.
 Your Jersey Wooly rabbit will live a healthy life as long as a proper diet is fed to her. However, take your rabbit to the veterinarian once a year for an examination. The vet will check your rabbit’s teeth to make sure they are wearing properly or see if they need to be trimmed.If your rabbit refuses to eat or drink, has diarrhea, does not poop for a day, has eye or nasal discharge, drools, shows swelling, has reddened skin or fur loss anywhere on the body, does not hop or move like normal or is unable to use back legs, has dark, red urine, or a fever of more than 105 °F (40.6 °C), you need to take her to see the vet., Rabbit’s should be neutered (if male) or spayed (if female) at four to six months of age. This has many benefits, such as eliminating unwanted pregnancy, aggression, urine spraying, and reproductive system cancer and infections.