 There are times when your cat will behave in a way that needs disciplining. Just as it's crucial to let your cat know he's doing something right, it's equally important to show him what not to do. It's important to be consistent, so your cat recognizes his actions as bad behavior every time. Use a special tone of voice when your cat acts badly. There's no need to shout or yell because this may scare your cat too much. Instead, establish a harsh tone that lets your cat know he has done you wrong. He'll recognize it every time he acts badly.


For effect, add his name to your complaint, such as saying "Bad Spike!" in a particularly harsh, even tone. This will help your cat recognize that he has erred, the downside of this method however, is that your cat may associate his name with bad behaviour. , There are two ways that you can remove your cat from a situation where he is misbehaving. You can isolate your kitty. If your cat is prone to eating your dinner, for example, you can exile him to your bedroom during dinner time. Though his meowing by the door may break your heart, it'll teach him not to repeat his mistakes.


You can also remove him from the room after grabbing scruff of his neck. If your cat is being feisty with you and biting or scratching, you can grab him by the scruff of the neck and say “no.” If he keeps being bad, pick him up and take him to a different room, still saying no.
Never pick a cat up by the scruff. It may hurt your cat and he may be able to hurt you by scratching you. Be aware that cat bites can quickly turn into a dangerous infection., To get your cat to stop doing a particular action, use a well-timed squirt of water from a water bottle to deter unwanted behaviors. This can include behaviors like jumping on counters or biting plant leaves. This should be done stealthily so the cat does not know that the squirt came from you. Try squirting the cat when he isn't looking at you or his back is turned from you. Otherwise, the cat will associate you with the water and be wary or fearful of you after an ill-timed squirt.


Some people think aversion therapy does not work on cats, but it can be effective, depending on your cat., You can set traps for your cat to prevent him from indulging in bad behavior. For example, if your cat is prone to attacking your toilet paper roll, place an empty water bottle on top of the roll, so it will fall and scare him if he tries to play with the roll. If your cat is prone to jumping on the kitchen table, set up double-sided tape or tinfoil over the surface, so he associates it with an unpleasant sensation. These physical scares may give him the discipline he needs.There are even scat mats which can be purchased, which send a gentle electrical tingle through the cat’s feet when they are stepped on.
 No matter what punishment you give your cat, it's important to be firm. Though you may have the cutest cat in the world, it's important to show him that you're serious about his bad behavior. You also need to be consistent. Each time the cat does something that is not acceptable, you need to quickly react so he associated the bad behavior with the punishment. If you leave the punishment for later, he won't know why he is getting punished and may become afraid of you.

