 If your cat vomits, especially several times a day, and seems under the weather, then this is significant. If the cat either refuses water or vomits after drinking water, then he/she should be seen by a vet.Many cats are happy vomiters, meaning they throw up from time to time (once or twice a week) as a means of cleansing their system. This is nothing to worry about in a cat that's active, responsive, behaving normally and eating well., A cat should produce formed, sausage-like feces. Diarrhea is liquid feces that have no shape, and is definitely abnormal. If the cat is otherwise well, it is acceptable to wait 24 hours to see if the cat has merely eaten something that has upset his/her tummy. However, if he/she is vomiting, off his/her food, listless, or lethargic, or has blood or mucus (a jelly like substance) in her stools, then she should be seen by a vet., Lethargy, or lack of energy, can indicate fever, breathing difficulties, or the cat being in pain. This is subtly different from the cat sleeping more, because the cat is awake, but doesn't have the energy to interact or participate in daily activities. If the cat is lethargic and breathing quicker, he/she should see a vet.Take note of your cat’s personality. If your cat is unusually tired and loses interest in exercise and regular daily activities, this could be a sign that your pet is undernourished or ill.
 If your cat is breathing very quickly and shallowly or with his/her mouth open, and has not been exerting him/herself, you should take your cat to the vet. You should also try to gauge how labored the cat's breathing appears. If you notice his/her stomach muscles heaving, in order to breathe, see the vet.Sometimes purring can confuse the respiratory rate (it makes the rate appear faster), so try to count her breaths when he/she is not purring or asleep. The normal respiratory rate in the cat is about 20 - 30 breaths a minute, and should be at the lower end when relaxed.
 All of these may be symptoms of a neurological disorder or ear infection. If present, your cat should be brought to the vet immediately. Your cat is an agile creature who is nimble on his/her feet. If this changes and he/she becomes clumsy, or holds his/her head on one side, then the chances are something is wrong. These changes could signal a stroke, high blood pressure, or even a brain tumor, so a trip to the vet is advisable., Most lumps or abscesses are benign, but if there is oozing or tenderness it will need to be checked. Also, pay attention to bad smells that can come from infected scratches. Again, get your cat checked. If left untreated, the infection can cause blood poisoning., Examine the eyes (as well as the nose) for any excessive discharge. If your cat constantly appears to be crying, she may be allergic to something or have a sinus infection. If discharge is present with excessive drinking/urination, lethargy, and a lackluster coat have your cat checked by a veterinarian for possible kidney failure.


Also check pupil dilation. Some illnesses cause cats’ eyes to dilate and remain that way. You should take your cat to the vet immediately if you notice that your cat’s pupils remain very dilated.
 Specifically, look for any discoloration in the gums. If you notice that your cat’s gums, particularly those with black gums, have become very pale, then your cat might be sick. You should also smell your cat's breath. If there is an odd smell that is not caused by something you are feeding your cat, then there may be a problem.