 On the main Sierra Club website, sierraclub.org, there is a listing of all 64 chapters and 372 affiliated local groups that exist throughout the country.You also can click on the "Near You" link near the top of the page to find out about events going on in your general area. You may have to enter a location for best results.
From the chapter page, you can click on the name of the chapter nearest you to go to the local chapter's website.;
, You can join Sierra Club directly through your local chapter, or through the national website. If you join at the national level, you will automatically be enrolled as a member with the chapter nearest you.There typically isn't any difference between joining locally or joining nationally. However, the new member welcome package may differ somewhat.
Keep in mind that since Sierra Club engages in political activities including legislative advocacy and lobbying, your donation is not tax-deductible. This is the same whether you join through a local chapter or the national organization.
Regular membership if you join through a local chapter requires a minimum donation of $39. There are different membership levels available if you want to contribute more.
 Each chapter has a list of events posted on its website, so you may be able to find something in which you'd like to participate. Events include nature hikes and backpacking outings, as well as activist and social events.If you see an event in which you're interested, you can click on the name of the event to view details or find out who you need to contact to participate.
Many local chapters have regular meetings, which you can attend to meet other members and find out about events or activities in your area where you can volunteer.
 From your local chapter's website, look for a contact page or information about local groups. There should be information on one of those pages about how to call or email to get more involved.When you email, introduce yourself and say that you are interested in volunteering with the group. List your background or credentials, if relevant. Keep your initial email brief.
For example, you might write "Hello Mr. Green, My name is Sally Strider. I found your email on the website for our state's chapter of Sierra Club. I just became a member and was interested in volunteering to help the organization. I recently completed by bachelor's degree in Environmental Sciences. If I can assist on upcoming projects, please let me know!"

, As with most things, you will get as much out of your membership with Sierra Club as you put into it. Bookmark the website of your local chapter and check the calendar regularly.If you want to actively support Sierra Club and make a difference, try to attend as many meetings and events as possible. Even general chapter meetings give you a chance to meet others in the organization, and retreats or day hikes allow you to learn more about the wild places around you.
If you have an idea for a project that would be good for the chapter to undertake, do a little research on it and speak up at a chapter meeting. For example, if you know of a nearby stream that has become clogged with garbage, you might organize a clean-up.

