


Articles should be well written, engaging, and informative. They should present a new angle on a specific topic. A good hook in the beginning along with useful information will make people want to continue reading it. Your article should be useful, entertaining, or otherwise valuable.
A well-written article with good content will attract more traffic, meaning many readers will visit your site. This makes your article more attractive to link marketers (people that link their sites to yours) and increases the likelihood of advertisers wanting to use your page for their advertisements.
Google search engine provides a great weight on the title of articles and blogs. That is why it is crucial that the keyword phrase is present on the title as an important part of an effective SEO content.;
, This is important so that your publisher can include it in the metadata of the page, which is part of the HTML code.


It will be very helpful for the readers and Google ranking if the article is divided with subheadings, as readers appreciate it more when they can read an article with ease. As an important reminder, most people who browse the sites are only skim-reading on the internet. That is why with a subheading they are likely to finish the article and stay on the page for a longer period.
Keywords and key phrases are words or phrases that people would use to search for information on the topic which you are about to write. For example, key phrases for an article on moving could be "packing and moving" or "loading a moving truck," while keywords could be "moving," "relocation," or "relocating."
Key phrases and keywords are registered by "spiders," which are scripts that search engines send out to every page on the Internet. Spiders "crawl" across web pages and websites and analyze them for content and quality of content. One way they do this is by registering the keywords and key phrases to determine the subject of a page; but they also detect how often each keyword or phrases are used, whether a page is grammatically correct, and what types of inbound and outbound hyperlinks there are. Hyperlinks are links to other pages that are somehow relevant to your topic.



Make sure it's grammatically correct with no spelling mistakes.
Give your article a title.
Break it up into short paragraphs with subheaders.
Use the most important keywords and key phrases as early in the article as possible, preferably in the first sentence, and in the first paragraph.
Do not overuse keywords or key phrases. Intersperse them naturally throughout the text in the natural reading rhythm of the article. The recommended keyword density is 1-3% .
Include the most important keywords and key phrases in titles and subheaders.
If it makes sense in the text, put keywords and key phrases in bold or italics.
If too many keywords are present on the content, Google search engine will assume that the keywords are stuffing. Do not make a rookie mistake and place those keyword phrases on the 155 - 200 words
If the title includes the keyword phrase, the first sentence of the article should also have the keyword. To break the redundancy, try starting the article through a question. As the keyword is already inserted in the sentence, all you have to do is BOLD it. This will emphasize the keyword and it will make a huge effect on the Google algorithm as it scans the article.
Similar to the first sentence, the keyword should also be present in the last sentence to emphasize the keywords more.



Hyperlinks are links to another web page that is relevant to your topic. You can highlight a word or phrase and add the web address to which you want to link. Make sure every link is a quality website that offers sound information and easy navigation.



Even if you have written a great article, you must let the world know about it. Simply, share a link to your new article on Facebook, Twitter or Tumblr and encourage friends to re-share it.
Turning keywords into a clickable link allows Google search to emphasize the keywords more and it should be done at the beginning and end of an article where the keywords are mostly located.
 Sharing it yourself like in the "Build Links to your Article" step is a great way to start, but making it easy for other people to share can get you even more publicity!

