 The American Academy of Physician Assistants (AAPA) is the largest national professional society for PAs in the U.S. The AAPA maintains a “job link” website that helps bring PA job-seekers and employers together. You can search posted job openings as well as uploaded PA resumes.According to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, PA jobs in the U.S. are expected to grow by 38% between 2012 and 2022, so there should be no shortage of job openings and an increasing number of freshly-minted PAs for the foreseeable future., Regular job websites can be used to locate PAs seeking employment, but there are also sites that focus largely or even exclusively on physician assistants.Search widely across multiple platforms to increase your odds of finding the right person for the position.


Since the demand for PAs is generally greater than the supply, you may need to work a bit harder to find the right person. Taking the time to conduct thorough searches is likely to pay off for you.
 When you’re looking to hire a physician assistant, sometimes it’s easiest to go right to the source and recruit PAs who have just or are just finishing their programs. There has been a significant increase in the number of PA programs in recent years in order to meet the rising demand for PAs, so ask people “in the know” which ones tend to produce the best-prepared graduates.


For reference, How to Become a Physician Assistant provides a rundown of the educational and training process for PAs. Briefly put, PAs (in the U.S.) generally obtain a bachelor’s degree, then complete a three year PA program, then must pass the PANCE exam for certification and get licensed by the state in which they practice.
 The concept of physician assistants was developed at Duke University in the U.S. in the 1960s to deal with the primary care physician shortage that was already underway (and has only grown more severe since). It was modeled after the fast-track doctor training used by the U.S. military during World War Two, and is focused on providing general medical training that is ideal for preventative care services.State laws in the U.S. require that PAs work under the “supervision” of physicians, but in practical terms this usually means that the supervising physician must be available for consultation by phone. Ideally, PAs operate as part of a collaborative team with physicians and other care providers.
Essentially, PAs have the skills to provide care relatively autonomously, but are trained to function best within a collaborative care system — which is becoming increasingly critical to modern healthcare provision.