 If you find yourself consistently missing out on opportunities because of your fear of heights and have already tried facing your fear, you might want to consider more long-term options. Explore these options in depth realizing they may help you seize opportunities.


Studies have shown that various forms of treatment you might encounter in therapy, such as Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy (CBT), are helpful in managing specific phobias like acrophobia., There are numerous schools of psychotherapy, ranging from the traditional psychoanalytic method to existential and alternative approaches. The goal of any therapy program should be to help you safely and gradually lessen your fear while teaching you how to control your anxiety. Therapy may or may not be coupled with medicinal treatments. Ultimately, you must decide which type of therapy is the best option for you. But, there are things you should consider when choosing a therapist, including:


Accreditation. Before beginning a therapy program, look into the education and certification of those therapists and counselors you are considering. Try to find a therapist or counselor who is licensed in his or her field, and with some type of expertise in phobia/anxiety treatment.
Experience. Try to find a therapist who has been in practice long enough to generate a number of happy, healthy former patients. If you can, talk to some. Ask them how effective and comfortable their experience was and whether they would recommend their therapist. Think twice about therapists who seem inexperienced or are unable to back up claims of success.
Method of treatment. Most reputable therapists use modern, scientific techniques that have been subjected to peer review in legitimate medical publications. But, holistic and alternative methods have been researched and are widely effective for some people.
 Once you think you've found a suitable therapist, schedule a meeting and see if the therapist is a good fit. Different therapists may take different approaches to tackling your fear. But, nearly all will first ask you to describe your fear, asking questions about how long you've had it, any problems it's caused you, etc. Be completely honest with your therapist. The more information you can supply, the easier it will be to treat you.


Also, be sure to communicate with your therapist as to what techniques do and do not seem to be working.
 You'll probably learn how to confront and control your anxiety. This doesn't try to remove your anxiety, but to make it more manageable. With a therapist, you'll learn to cope differently and begin to master your thoughts and feelings. Eventually, you'll learn to be more at peace with what you can and what you must learn to accept.
 One way that some (but not all) therapists approach phobias is to desensitize patients by gradually increasing their exposure to the stimuli that cause the fear, starting with relatively small experiences and slowly increasing sensation so that the patient develops a tolerance.For example, you might simply imagine standing at the edge of a cliff. Then, when this becomes manageable, you might look at a picture taken from a high vantage point. In recent years, virtual reality has offered therapists many exciting possibilities for safely letting patients overcome a fear of heights gradually in a controlled environment.Eventually, when the patient has made significant process, the patient may take a plane flight or some other act that initially would have caused great fear.
 Many therapists will assign take-home readings and exercises to reinforce mental and physical techniques you have been taught. You will be asked to challenge your own negative thought patterns and work on coping strategies on a day-to-day basis.


Homework may include activities like breathing exercises, thought experiments, and more.