 It contains many of the cards you need. Three copies are recommended.

The good cards are: Blue-Eyes, Maiden, White Stone, Honest, Dragon Shrine, Silver's Cry, Trade-In, Cards of Consonance, One for One, Call of the Haunted, Rider of the Storm Winds, Darkstorm Dragon, and Azure-Eyes.;
, White Stone of Ancients, Sage with Eyes of Blue, Dragon Spirit of White, and Blue-Eyes Spirit Dragon are must-haves. Master with Eyes of Blue, Protector with Eyes of Blue, Mausoleum of White, and Blue-Eyes Twin Burst Dragon are good to have a few copies of., You need 3 copies each of Blue-Eyes, White Stone of Ancients, Sage, and Maiden, as well as around 2 Dragon Spirit of White, White Stone of Legend, and Effect Veiler. Other useful monsters are Master, Protector, Glow-Up Bulb, Mausoleum of White, and Keeper of the Shrine., The Blue-Eyes deck relies a lot on its spells. You will need 3 copies of Silver's Cry, Dragon Shrine, Melody of Awakening Dragon, and 2-3 Trade-In. You can also use 2-3 Cards of Consonance, along with 3 each of the White Stones. If you use enough Maiden and Sage, Mausoleum is a good addition, along with Terraforming. 1-2 Beacon of White can help OTK., 3 Twin Twisters (or MST), 1 Soul Charge, and 1 One for One. Maybe 2-3 Maxx C and 1-2 Solemn Strike.,

Synchros: If you have Blue-Eyes Spirit Dragon, a good number of your extra deck slots will be dedicated to its effect, which tributes itself to summon a Light Dragon Synchro monster. Get 2-3 Spirit and 2 Azure-Eyes Silver Dragon, 1 Stardust Spark, 1 Black Rose Moonlight Dragon, and 1 Michael the Arch-Lightsworn. Crystal-Wing Synchro Dragon is a good addition because you can summon it by turning Spirit into a Level 7 Synchro and tuning it with a Level 1. You can also add Cloudcastle to revive used Azure-Eyes and make Phantom Fortress Enterblathnir.
Xyz: Blue-Eyes can make Rank 8 Xyzs like no other deck. Get Hope Harbinger, Felgrand, Lancelot, and Alsei. If you can get Galaxy-Eyes Dark Matter or Galaxy-Eyes Full Armored, use them with Tachyon. Other good cards include Heliopolis, Aegaion, and Giant Grinder.
Fusions: Twin Burst can be summoned easily without needing a fusion card. If you include a fusion card, like Dragon's Mirror, you can summon First of the Dragons, Blue-Eyes Ultimate Dragon, and Five-Headed Dragon.
 Include cards like Black Luster Soldier - Envoy, Dark Armed Dragon, Lightpulsar and Darkflare, Wyverburster and Collapserpent, Eclipse Wyvern, and Chaos Sorcerer. Also run mill cards like Raiden and Lyla, Kuribandit, and Card Trooper., Use cards like Hieratic Dragon King of Atum, Gaia Dragon, other Rank 6s, and whatever Synchros you can make in your Extra Deck., A deck built around it can be rather inconsistent, however. Use cards like Elemental Hero Prisma, Fusion Tag, and King of the Swamp to replace the fusion materials, as well as Black Luster Soldier (the original), Polymerization, and Dragon's Mirror. You can also add cards like Burst Stream of Destruction (to use with Prisma), Emergency Call, and Pre-Preparation of Rites + Black Luster Ritual to search Black Luster Soldier., It has a rather underwhelming effect and a ridiculously hard summoning condition, but you can build a fairly good deck around it, and it will be pretty cool when you summon it. Use the fusion replacement and support cards from the Dragon Master Knight build, and Melody of Awakening Dragon for searching Shining.