 In some instances, you may be trying to continue or revisit a dream that you had several nights or even weeks before. Start by getting your body ready for slumber, with eyes closed, body totally relaxed and breathing under control. Let your breath begin a natural rhythm. Shut out all thoughts unrelated to the dream you’re attempting to access.Make sure there are no unnecessary distractions in the room around you, like a television or radio that might make falling asleep difficult or wake you unexpectedly.
If you’ve been keeping a dream notebook, it can be helpful to review it prior to falling asleep so that the images remain firmly planted in your thoughts.
 Run your mind over the textures of the remembered dream, all of its sensory elements and the way it made you feel when you first experienced it. Put yourself back in that original emotional state. As you pass into sleep, think of your consciousness as in transit with the desired dream as your destination.
 Imagine that the dream you wish to relive is a scene from a movie being projected in your mind over and over again on repeat. Work through each individual section painstakingly, immersing yourself not only in the atmosphere of the dream but in the familiarity of the cycle.


The most clearly remembered details from dreams are usually taken from the end of REM sleep, right before you wake up. If you’re trying to carry on a particular dream, try to time the cycling of the remembered dream so that you fall asleep with the most vivid details fresh in your thoughts. Combine your dream visualization with calming regulated breathing techniques, and play through the most memorable parts of the dream slowly in your mind, like a film being played back at half speed., With any luck, you’ll pass successfully into sleep during the process of recollecting the details of your dream and consequently find yourself in a kind of variant of the original dream, complete with the same basic features but differing in the way that it plays out. With practice, you’ll gain further control over the structure of your dreams, revisiting the same type of dream multiple times, changing the action and outcome of your dreams and even choosing what to dream about.


If revisiting a certain dream doesn’t work on the first try, don’t get discouraged. It may take many attempts before you’re able to recreate a dream.
The practice of training oneself to moderate one’s dreams is known as “lucid dreaming”, thought by many to be a little-known way of exploiting the unconscious processes of the mind that take over when we’re asleep.