 There are many situations that may require an observed test. If you hold a Commercial Driver's License and provide a specimen that is outside of the acceptable temperature range or shows signs of tempering or it requires an immediate, observed retest.. Some employers require an observed collection for professionals (doctors, nurses, etc) who have been a history of drug or alcohol abuse. You can of course always refuse to provide an observed specimen, but there may be repercussions including job loss.
 At least ten states (Arkansas, Illinois, Maryland, Nebraska, New Jersey, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Virginia and Texas) have outlawed the sale of synthetic urine or adulterants for the purpose of passing a drug test. Be aware of this as you consider your options.
 Employers are currently allowed by law to require that workers submit to urinalysis or saliva screening to be considered for employment and/or to retain their employment. States have laws which often limit how and when testing can be done, such as requiring that the company have a written policy or that 'random' testing not be used.However, some circumstances when you are most likely to be tested include:


During the hiring process. You do not have to submit to a blood test as a job applicant. However, a potential employer can make passing a drug test a requirement of a conditional job offer once it is extended to you.If you are a pregnant woman in the hospital. In the United States, some states have required pregnant women to be tested for illegal drug use as part of their prenatal care. The US Supreme Court ruled the secret testing of women unconstitutional in the case of Ferguson v City of Charleston, in March 2001. However, women who arrive to deliver in a hospital have their blood tested routinely. A delivering mother could face endangerment charges or even worse if traces are found in her blood.If you operate a vehicle or heavy machinery. Jobs where lives might be put in danger when an employee is impaired--such as construction or truck driving--often require routine tests for impairment.If you exhibit suspicious behavior. If you commit an accident in the workplace, have slurred speech, or behave erratically, your employer might require you to take a drug test as a condition of your employment., Laws vary from state to state and change frequently. You can find out the details of your state´s drug testing laws by contacting a trade organization, your state government or an employment lawyer. Your right to test workers for drug use depends on several factors. Drug testing also falls under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), which includes several key features:


The ADA makes it illegal for any employer to test a prospective employee without first making a conditional offer of employment.
The ADA also says you can't discriminate against prospective employees on the basis of past drug-related problems. Then again, you may refuse to hire people if you have reason to believe they will return to substance abuse or endanger the safety and health of your workers. If you aren't sure how to proceed with an applicant who has a history of drug abuse, consult an attorney. The ADA doesn't prohibit asking a person with a history of substance abuse to enroll in a rehabilitation program before joining your firm., There are a number of false rumors and unsubstantiated claims about passing drug tests. There are also a number of commercial products that promise customers they will be able to pass a drug test without backing up these claims with evidence. Common myths include:


Secondhand smoke. Cut-off levels are set so as to keep one failing due to casual secondhand smoke.
Poppy Seeds. The current recommended cutoff level was raised from 300 ng/mL to 2,000 ng/mL in 1998 in order to avoid false positives from poppy seeds You would need to eat a whole loaf of poppy seed to register for even one day.Bleach. Adding bleach to nullify a urine sample will change the pH and flag the sample as being tampered and you will fail. Drinking bleach will blind you and maybe kill you. Aspirin. Aspirin has been claimed to create a false negative for THC. This only works under ideal circumstances and only for certain kinds of test. It is not a guarantee of passing.
Bleaching and redyeing your hair will not remove the metabolites from hair during the hair follicle test. However, natural blondes are more likely to pass a hair follicle test.

