 Make sure you order from a pizza restaurant that accepts orders over the phone for delivery or pickup/takeout. Check the website for the pizza place, or call their phone number to briefly ask if they do deliveries or will let you order something in advance and pick it up when it’s ready.


If you want the pizza delivered, check to make sure that you live within an area that the pizza place will deliver to. If you’re outside the city limits of where the restaurant is, for instance, that may be beyond their maximum mileage for deliveries.
Make sure you also have a type of payment that the pizza restaurant accepts. For instance, you will likely want to have cash for a delivery and not plan to use a check in stores that don’t accept them. Have several types of payments ready just in case.;
, Choose whether you’d like to have your pizza delivered straight to your door, or simply go pick it up from the store location. Deliveries are great for convenience, while carry-outs are good when you’re on your way somewhere.


Note that the potential downside to delivery is that there may be an extra delivery fee added to the cost of your food, and unexpected delays can occur with your driver.
The potential downsides to a pickup/carry-out order are that you have to get to the location to pick up the pizza yourself, which may take longer. This may be a particular challenge if you don’t own a car, can’t get a ride, or can’t use public transportation.
 Consult an online or paper menu for the pizza place you wish to order from to make your selections. Or choose an item that is common or that you’ve ordered before, like a plain cheese pizza.


Consider pizza size, type of crust, toppings, and any other options available. You may need to ask how large a size of pizza is to determine what you’ll need, but otherwise the choices are entirely up to you.
Look for menus online from most chain pizzerias. Take note if they have certain items that are only available in-store and not for delivery or takeout.
 Don’t forget about drinks, appetizers, desserts, or any other dishes that you may want along with your pizza. Consult the menu to find out your options.


Also consider the specifications you may need to make when you order on the phone. Decide on a Small, Medium, or Large beverage, for example, or the kind of dressing you want on a salad if given the option.
Take a look at the menu, website, or any promotional material you may have received or heard about that provides a special offer or discount on ordering other items with your pizza, or even additional pizzas. You might want to add to your order to take advantage of a deal.
 Make placing the order easier for yourself and the person taking the order by knowing exactly what you want, which can be difficult with a large group of people or large order. Write it all down on a piece of paper you can look at while you’re on the phone.


Make sure everyone in a group comes to a firm agreement on the order before you place the call, and they understand they can’t make changes or additions once you’re on the phone. You can even go into another room to find some peace and quiet for the call if you need to.Don’t hesitate to write down any order, even if it’s a small one, as it can help you to remember and speak more clearly when on the phone.

