 The entire text of the advertisement can give you clues as to whether statements made are discriminatory, or have discriminatory intent. Rarely will employers place ads that are blatantly discriminatory.In other words, you likely won't see an advertisement that says "Irish need not apply," but this was the type of statement frequently included in job advertisements before anti-discrimination laws were passed.
However, you might see a listing calling for "recent college graduates." Employers are prohibited from discriminating against anyone over the age of 40 on the basis of age.
Although technically you could attend college at any time in your life, it is more likely that recent college graduates are in their early 20s, and that the employer is trying to say that they want younger applicants.;
, Employers are forbidden by federal law from including language in their job advertisements that indicates they prefer certain types of applicants over others on the basis of the applicant's race, religion, age, or other factors.Rarely will discriminatory preferences be explicit in a job advertisement. In most cases, you'll have to read between the lines or consider what a particular phrase means about the type of the person who is being sought out for the position.
An indication of preference can be a matter of context rather than the explicit wording of the advertisement.
For example, if the employer only posts their job advertisement on Christian websites or in churches, that could be considered preferential discrimination. The job is only being advertised to Christian applicants, since members of other religions are unlikely to frequent a church.
Preference also can be indicated by the use of incidental language. For example, if the advertisement begins with the word "Shalom," it could be interpreted as discriminating on the basis of religion, because it indicates a preference for Jewish applicants through use of a Hebrew greeting.
 Preferential language is not the only way an employer can discriminate in a job listing. Federal law also prohibits using language that might be interpreted to discourage certain types of applicants from applying.Language indicating a preference can include corresponding discouragement as well.
For example, a job advertisement that states it's a "great job for students" may discourage older people from applying, and could be seen as age discrimination. It also could be seen as indicating a preference for younger applicants.
Context comes into play with discouragement as well, although this often is more of a preference.
For example, it can be difficult to argue that a job advertisement published solely at Christian churches discourages applicants of other religions, since those applicants likely would never even see the advertisement.
 If you feel the language in a job advertisement is questionable, one of the easiest ways to successfully analyze it is to have other friends or family members read it and get their impression about the language.Give them all the information they would need to see the discrimination. However, if you're looking for a truly unbiased response, don't tell them you believe the advertisement is discriminatory before they've looked at it.
You also can ask them questions about the advertisement. For example, you might ask "Do you think saying the job is great for students discourages older applicants?"
If the person you're asking about the advertisement is a member of the group you believe the employer is discriminating against, you can ask them if they would feel welcome or comfortable applying for the job if they met all other requirements.
 Often a company will advertise for the same job, or for other available positions, on different job boards or websites. Finding other advertisements can help shed light on whether the text you've found is discriminatory.Finding other advertisements can help with a contextual claim. For example, if you saw a job advertisement posted on the bulletin board at your church, you may be inclined to believe that it indicates the company is discriminating on the basis of religion.
However, it may be that the company posted the advertisement in a lot of different places, including major online job boards, and the advertisement only ended up on your church bulletin board because one of the company's employees is a member of your church.
On the other hand, if a job advertisement is only published in locations or on websites that target a particular group of people, such as only on women's interest websites that men are unlikely to visit, that may provide evidence to prove the company's job advertisement is discriminatory.
 Attempting to apply for the job, or talking to someone who works at the company, can give you some insight into why the discriminatory language was included in the advertisement.You don't necessarily have to apply for the job to get the information you want. You can simply call and tell the person that answers the phone that you'd like to speak to someone about the job advertisement you saw.
For example, you might say "Hi, I saw your job advertisement in today's newspaper. Can you connect me to someone who could answer a few questions about the available position?"
You also might want to ask to speak to the person responsible for creating or posting the ad.
When you talk to someone, think about what you want. The language may have been unintentional, or they may have been unaware that the language they used sounded discriminatory.
In cases of mistake, it may be enough that the company is willing to remove or reword the advertisement, perhaps publishing an apology for the language used.
 Employers may mistakenly believe that certain traits are required for the particular position they need to fill. Understanding more about the job requirements and the company's business can uncover these mistaken assumptions.While most employers are prohibited by federal law from using discrimination or discriminatory language in job advertisements, discrimination is allowed in some instances.
For example, religious companies and organizations can require potential employees to be practicing members of their religion.
Organizations for handicapped or disabled people can express a preference for applicants of the disabilities they assist.
Additionally, there are some jobs for which certain traits or characteristics are a requirement of the job.
For example, a company that staffs home nurses for elderly people may be specifically looking for female nurses to work with female clients, for privacy reasons and out of respect for the comfort of their clients.
 Typically, an employer will argue that they have a non-discriminatory reason for indicating a particular preference or discouraging certain types of applicants.Typically, if there is a clearly non-discriminatory reason for the company's preference, it should be stated outright in the advertisement itself.
For example, an advertisement for home nurses might state "Out of respect for the personal privacy of our female clients, we are only accepting female applicants at this time."
However, companies don't always state outright the reason for the preferential language. To be fair, it may be that the employer has merely come up with a non-discriminatory reason after the fact to cover up unlawful discrimination.
For this reason, you want to brainstorm as many possible non-discriminatory reasons as possible, and then figure out how to show that they aren't legitimate or necessary.
Essentially, you want to be able to show that the stated non-discriminatory reason does not make it necessary for the employer to state the preference.
 Federal laws against discrimination in employment are enforced by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). The EEOC provides an online assessment tool on its website that you can use to determine whether you meet the basic eligibility requirements to file a discrimination charge.The online assessment tool will ask questions about the discrimination, including when you were first exposed to the advertisement.
You only have 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination (that would be the date you saw the advertisement) to file a federal charge.
Find the online assessment tool on the EEOC's website. Click the button to begin the first part, then make the selection to indicate that you have a complaint about a job application. This is the general choice for a position you've sought but for which you've not been hired.
Then you'll describe the type of employer that posted the advertisement and select the types of discrimination evident in the advertisement.
You'll have to estimate the number of employees the company has, as this is important for determining whether that particular company is covered by federal law.
Keep in mind that if the employer isn't covered by federal law, it still might be covered by your state's law.
When you've completed the online assessment tool, you will find out whether you're eligible to file a charge against the employer.
Keep in mind that completing the online assessment tool doesn't transmit any information to the EEOC, so it's not the same as filing a charge and no EEOC agent will contact you.
 You cannot file your discrimination charge online. Rather, you must file it with the nearest EEOC field office, either by mailing it or by taking it in person. The EEOC has a map on its website that you can use to find the field office nearest to you.The EEOC has 53 field offices located all over the country. However, if the nearest field office is too far away for you to make a trip there in person, you can always mail your information.
You also have the option of starting a charge by calling the EEOC toll-free at 1-800-669-4000. Your information will be sent to the appropriate field office.
 To file a discrimination charge with the EEOC, you must fill out an intake questionnaire and provide information about yourself and the employer responsible for posting the discriminatory job advertisement.Keep in mind that the questionnaire can take as long as two hours to complete. You will be expected to provide information about yourself as well as the employer that posted the job advertisement.
You also must provide a detailed description of the discrimination you found in the job advertisement. Include all facts you know, and be very specific.
You may want to attach a copy of the job advertisement itself to your questionnaire.
When you've completed the questionnaire, make sure you sign it and then make a copy of your signed questionnaire for your own records.
 When you've finished filling out your intake questionnaire, make a copy of it for your own records before mailing it to the nearest EEOC field office. You also have the option of taking your intake questionnaire to the field office in person.The EEOC recommends that you take your questionnaire to the field office in person if you live within 50 miles of the nearest location. Otherwise, feel free to mail your questionnaire.
If you mail your questionnaire, you can expect to hear from an EEOC agent within 30 days of the day they receive your paperwork.
If you take your questionnaire to the field office in person, however, you may be able to talk to an EEOC agent that day.
The EEOC agent will ask additional questions to fully assess the situation, and let you know what the next steps will be.
 Once your questionnaire is received, it will be evaluated by an EEOC agent who will send a copy of it to the employer. After receiving a response from the employer, the agent will investigate your charge.The EEOC agent will send you a copy of your questionnaire with a case number. You typically won't get a copy of any written response from the employer, however.
Assuming the agent believes you've shown evidence of discrimination, he or she will begin an investigation of the case.
During the investigation, the agent may contact you with additional questions or to request more information or documentation.
 In most cases, the EEOC refers charges to mediation. You and a representative of the employer will meet with a mediator to discuss the discriminatory job advertisement and come to a mutually acceptable resolution.Mediation is a voluntary process, so it will only happen if both you and the employer agree to it.
If you both agree to mediation, you'll meet with a mediator and each of you will have the opportunity to explain your reason for being there and what you hope to accomplish from the mediation.
After that, the mediator typically will separate you and the employer's representative into private rooms and move back and forth in an attempt to negotiate a resolution.
If a compromise is reached, the mediator will write up an agreement. Once both of you sign it, the agreement will be binding on all parties.
If you're unable to resolve the situation through mediation, the EEOC may take additional steps to investigate the situation further or file a lawsuit in federal court.

