 Diana is first introduced in the series as a beautiful young lady with hair the color of sunlight and moonlight woven together and emerald green eyes, but she is much more that what people see. How she acts is what makes most people like her. She is kind to everyone and tries to find the good in people. While at times it is easier to be slightly rude to others, it invokes a very good response towards you from others, so many would favor this. It's a bit hard at first, but later it becomes natural to you.;
, She is temporary leader of the Circle at the beginning of the books and is very passionate about being a leader. She makes the others see what needs to be done without much force (depending on who it is..) but is always very serious about the Circle. Being a leader can be managed with some hard work, but being a serious leader who is still kind and always sympathetic is difficult. Sometimes you may just have to dwindle the effect a bit so you don't overwork it.
 In the beginning after rescuing Cassie from Faye, Deborah and Suzan, she kind of adopts Cassie as her little sister. She is very caring and always willing to help others. She works hard at being the best person she can be, but she said herself that she doesn't know why people are so nice to her. It is always very rewarding to have a good caring attitude, at times it's hard to keep up, but that's where being strong willed comes in. People will look up to you for your demeanor.
 She's extremely modest, and if discussing Adam, her long time boyfriend, easily embarrassed. While you don't need to take the modesty too far and completely push people away from the truth, it's good to be modest. It gives off a selfless image.
 She is often referred to as the Princess of Purity by Faye. She is very good in all ways, and she is pure in every way. She doesn't take offense to things easily. This means that you'd have to have an even temper for the most part, or learn to control your temper. It's a good life skill.
 She is very forgiving towards everyone and is always willing to give a second chance to people. Being forgiving would lead to being able to put things in the past, forgive and forget kind of thing. It can be useful but also harmful at the same time-don't take it too far to where you regret it.

