 If you want to go off-roading, your UTV must be equipped with mud tires. This type of tires offer excellent traction and an aggressive tread pattern that can handle different elements like mud, rock, and sand. They are more expensive than the regular UTV tires.
 They provide additional ground clearance on the UTV. This upgrade is essential particularly while travelling on a challenging trail where the undercarriage might get damaged by different elements like water, rocks and sand., Aftermarket shocks are also a UTV must have. They perform better than the stock UTV shocks, providing an improved ride quality., They last longer than regular tie rod ends and offers an improved handling even through the harshest road condition., They are proven to boost the horsepower of the UTV and give it a more aggressive look and sound., LED light bars are a must for extreme riders who love to take their UTVs out for a ride during the night., This functional upgrade protects the rider from the getting wet during the rain. It also provides shade under the heat of the unforgiving sun., Windshields shield the rider from dust, rock and insects. UTV windshields are available in glass and plastic materials., Spending a long day in a bumpy trail can be very painful to the backside. Investing in aftermarket seats are a must. They are proven to be more comfortable than stock UTV seats., This prevents sticks, stones and other kinds of debris that you may encounter while riding through a trail., Roll cages are another favorite aftermarket upgrade. These are reinforcements that protect the rider and passenger typically during off-roading adventures, where accidents have high occurrence., These are heavy duty front and rear bumpers that offer greater protection to the UTV., They protect the undercarriage of the UTV from road hazards like rocks. Unlike the 4x4 vehicles, UTV skid plates are typically made of durable plastic that also serve as a shock absorber., Winches are a must have accessory. A heavy duty winch enables a UTV to tow or recover a vehicle out of deep mud.