 Start with the shaking. Walk on tiptoe on the spot and shake your body. Turn around. Massage light through the whole body and think the mantra "Light, Light, Light...".;
, Lie on the ground. Place your head on your hands. Raise your knees slightly and swing your feet back and forth. Count in the kidneys the numbers 1 to 20 "1,2,3,4,5...".
 Lie with your head on your hands and relax. Rotate the base of your body to the left and right, as far as it will go, back and forth. Focus on the spine.
 Move your feet and toes slightly. Circle your feet over the ground. Feel your feet. Relax.
 Come up and kneel down on the heels. Turn your spine to the right. Turn your head also. Turn to the left, the head as well. Massage the body from top to bottom. Rub all the stress and tension out.
 Rub the ground with your hands and think the mantra "Earth". Draw a circle of light around you with your hands. Sit in the circle of light. What color does the circle of light show? Yellow, orange, blue, green, gold, silver? Or just the beautiful color of the floor?

, Turn around and lie on your back. Move your feet as if you're riding a bike. Place your hands on your belly, lift your head, and make your legs turn to the right and left. Your head always shows in the opposite direction.
 Go into the candle position. Your feet point to the sky. Support yourself with your hands up at the back. Go on riding the bike with your feet, see the light around you, thinking the mantra "Light". Turn your head slightly to the left and right.
 Gently roll down from the candle into your meditation seat. Put your palms together in front of the heart chakra. Think the mantra "Om" in the belly, in the ground and move your toes, "Om, Om, Om .." Move one hand and send all beings on earth light. Think, "May all beings be happy. May the world be happy."

, Lie on your back and relax. Lay your hands on your belly. Move your feet and toes. Think "Om" in the body, legs and feet, "Om, Om, Om...". Send all people over the world your "Om". Feel the cosmos. Feel one with your world. Everything is fine the way it is. You do not have to be perfect. Rest until you feel well. Then slowly come back. Stretch and loll. You are back. Proceed positively through your day.
 Although it is in German, after reading this article you should be able to understand the general gist of it, as the article serves as a translation of what is depicted in it.

