 You don’t need a clinician to tell you that stress is no fun, but did you know that even a mild stress-induced mood disorder like sub-clinical depression can wreak havoc on your immune system? In fact, the duration of a stressful period has more effect on immunity than its severity.To fight stress, first recognize it and stop trying to battle it alone. Find ways to ground yourself and to let off steam constructively. Sports, exercise, a hobby and spending time with friends are all good ways to counteract stress. You might like to try guided imagery, yoga, or tai-chi; if you have a severe mood disorder, seek counseling and/or medication., Can you change the cause of the stress? Then, do so. In many cases though, stress links back to your job, money, or family. In uncertain times, changing jobs can be difficult, in which case, you must find ways to manage it better.


Managing stress that comes from work or family can be done by being more assertive about your needs and setting boundaries. Assertion and boundary-setting include learning to say "no" to tasks that overload your schedule, getting regular "me" time, and avoiding taking work calls when you are relaxing at home with family or friends, or vice versa.Other ways to manage work-related stress consist of working smarter not harder, which means breaking down larger tasks into smaller increments and delegating tasks to others, if necessary. Also, make sure to use workplace resources like trainings and professional development events to counteract detrimental practices that may impact your health and well-being., Getting a higher education can bolster your self-esteem and interest in the world. But it's not for everyone and it's not the only solution. Reading, traveling, taking fun classes, attending guest lectures, and meeting people from other cultures will do the same thing. Or try MOOCs––massive online open courses––these courses offer very stimulating ways of stretching your knowledge and abilities, in your own time. Ultimately, instead of running from new experiences, engage in them, and seek more whenever you can. After all, you only live once.
 Whether you choose stamp collecting or kickboxing, hobbies and extracurricular activities are necessary in the pursuit to enjoy life. Hard routines are counterproductive to spontaneity and surprise––leave a little flexibility in your schedule so that it doesn't become routine and humdrum. Do your hobby or activity because you love it, and because it gets you "into the flow", and not for reasons such as keeping up with other people or conforming to unrealistic social standards.


Research demonstrates that participating in leisure activities can have a positive impact on your physical and mental health and wellness. Benefits of hobbies include lower blood pressure, less cortisol, lower body mass index and greater perception of physical abilities., Putting your feet up and watching your favorite show at the end of the day is definitely a treat, but since passively watching a story doesn’t do much to stimulate your imagination, it can also leave you feeling restless and 'zombified'. For a change of pace, find a book that you can lose yourself in for a while. If you don’t consider yourself much of a reader, think outside the box and find something that relates to your hobbies: if you’re a baseball fan, pick up Bill Veeck’s autobiography; if you’re a biker, try Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance.


Keep notes of passages or ideas that really resonate with you. If you keep a notebook in your usual reading spot, ready to jot down such inspirations, you'll soon amass an inspirational collection of ideas that matter to you and may help direct your sense of purpose for years to come.
 Meditation reduces stress and promotes a calm feeling. Participating in a few minutes of meditation daily can promote a positive outlook and keep you feeling balanced and relaxed. It is important to maintain a good body posture and perform meditation in a distraction-free zone.

