 Make sure that all members of your household use the same words to train your puppy. If you are using different words from other members of your household, then your puppy may get confused and take longer to learn.For example, to train your dog to sit. Have everyone use the word “sit.” Don’t vary this command at all. In other words, don’t say “sit down” or “stay” to get your puppy to sit. Only use the cue word “sit” or your puppy may become confused.
 Make sure that you observe the rules that you have put in place at all times. Do not apply the rules half of the time or bend them on certain occasions.For example, if you do not want the puppy to get up on your furniture, then enforce this rule at all times. If you make him stay off the furniture during the week, but then allow him on the sofa over the weekend, he will end up getting up on the sofa more and more.
 Training works best when good behavior is rewarded. You can reward your puppy with a tasty treat, by playing a game with his favorite toy, or by making a fuss over him and praising him. Find out what makes your puppy the happiest and use this to reward him when he does something well.Reward your puppy right away. It is important to give your puppy his reward right after he does what you ask him to do.
Over time, you should phase out the treats so that your puppy doesn't get a treat each time he performs the behavior. Doing so teaches him to work harder because he can't take it for granted that he gets a treat every time. Otherwise, he may become lazy. Begin to reduce frequency of treats once your puppy is performing the desired behavior four times out of five.
 Clickers are an effective way to reinforce your puppy’s good behavior and let him know that a treat is coming. It is important to reward your puppy’s good behavior right after he has performed it, but it is not always possible to do so. Using a clicker in your training sessions helps you to reinforce good behavior even when you do not have a treat on hand.Start by teaching your puppy to associate the sound of the clicker with getting a reward.
 Yelling at your puppy or using physical punishment are not effective ways to get him to change his behavior. Your puppy will not understand what he is being punished for and this may lead to more bad behavior.For example, if your puppy makes a puddle on the floor, don't tell him off. If you do, he will just think that you are angry at him for going potty, rather than realize he has defecated in the wrong spot.
Instead of yelling at your puppy if you catch him in the act of defecating in the house, clap your hands to get his attention and make him stop. Then, take him out to his potty spot and wait for him to finish.
 Puppies can't concentrate for long, so keep the sessions short. You should limit your puppy’s training sessions to 5 - 10 minutes. Aim for 2-3 training sessions per day to reinforce the behaviors that you want your puppy to learn.Make sure that you use regular activities as opportunities to train your puppy as well. For example, you could ask your puppy to sit before you put his food down, or praise him when he toilets in the right spot outside.
 Doing so will make him more likely to respond to you at all times. If your puppy links his name to bad things (such as being told off) this may make him reluctant to come when called. Having a name you use only when he's bad will help you to avoid teaching your puppy negative associations with his 'good' dog name.Use your dog’s actual name when he is being good, but then designate another nickname for when he is being bad. For example, if your dog’s name is Charlie, call him Charlie whenever he is being good. If he is being bad, call him Chuckie.

