 You want to show yourself as a valuable employee and communicator. When talking with men you work with, you want to be respectful. Do not try and “one-up” or boast about your achievements. You do not have to stay silent about them, but practice humble language to show respect to those you work with. , Your time is valuable. When talking with coworkers and bosses, try and get to your point quickly. You do not want to waste time on details if they are not needed. If it is an important project or topic, you can fill in details as needed or request. This will make you look excellent at time management skills and respectful of other’s time.For example, instead of saying something like: "I'll get back to you," try and be specific. "I am not sure when I am able to get back to you, but I know I will send you out an e-mail by Friday."

, This may lead you to want to agree to more projects or ideas than you are comfortable with. Learn to say no to your male counterparts in a direct and respectful manner. Try some of these tips when trying to say no:


"Thank you so much for the opportunity, but I have three cases this week. Maybe if my schedule clears up a bit, I can take on the extra work."
"I would love to stay late tonight, but I have actually worked late every night this week. Can we schedule a meeting tomorrow to go over these notes?"
"Your ideas for this new newsletter are great, but I simply do not have the time to implement all of these changes. Have you talked to the design and marketing team? Maybe they can help."

, The workplace is a place of business. To be most effective in your communication, stick the facts. You want to be able to finish projects and show yourself as a capable employee or leader. Sticking to the facts shows others that you can focus on the task at hand. Use your knowledge and statistics to make a lasting impression:


"According to my report, sales went up 45% last year."
"We saved $25,000 last year by eliminating our direct phone service."

