;
,, Decide whom you want to invite and add their names/emails. By default, only those invited can see your event.
 Click on the "Event options" button next to the event title field.


Basic options. Decide if you'd like your guests to be able to invite other people and to add their photos to the event page.







Create an online-only hangout. Google Plus allows you to create Google Plus Hangouts as events -- so it's an online-only gathering between you and your friends. Under the advanced options, select "Google+ Hangout."







Make the event public. By default, Google Plus Events are only visible to those invited, but you can change it to be a public event under the advanced menu.







Add additional fields to your event. If you'd like to add a website, ticket seller URL, YouTube link, transit/parking information, or other details to your event information, check the "Show additional fields" option.
 Click on the "Change theme" button at the top to choose between premade Google Plus designs and your photos. You can also upload a new photo.
 You will be directed to your new event's page.
 Click on the red "Add Photos" button near the top of the event page, and find a relevant photo on your computer. Uploaded photos will appear in the event wall.


Google Plus also automatically creates a new album for all of the photos you upload to an event. That way, you can access these photos from your albums page and from the event page.
While other social networking sites force you to flip through each person's albums to find photos from a particular event, Google Plus has organized everything by event and by person, minimizing the annoyance of not being able to locate a specific photo.

If this is a yearly-recurring event or a regular gathering between a group of people, you can post pictures from the last time a similar event happened. Otherwise, it might be better to post photos from the event after the gathering has taken place.
 A blue box will appear above the event title to link you to the full-screen slideshow.


You can also share photos and videos to the event in real time with Party Mode on the Android app. Turn on Party Mode when you get to an event, and any photos and videos you take there can instantly be shared with everyone at the event.
 Posting the event to your profile may make it visible to people outside of the guest list, depending on which circles or individuals you choose to share the post with. This may be a good idea after the event has happened so you can share photos from the event to your circles.
 On the main Google Plus Events page, you'll find a link on the right-hand menu to view your Google Calendar. All Google Plus events that you have created and RSVPed to are automatically added to your calendar with any the existing Google Calendar content.

