 Good quality practice will provide scores and relevant professional feedback. This form of practice will offer a different and refreshing form of practice from the standard pencil and paper tests. Use different books and websites to ensure your child is prepared for a variety of different question layouts and styles. Think about investing in 10 minutes test books, as there can be quite tight times in the exam. Entering a mock exam is a good idea as your child will need to get used to the question format and style.;
, Ensure you have lots of rough paper, a few pencils and a watch. Get used to practicing with all these essentials so you’re used to using them when it comes to your real eleven plus exam. Parents should check with the relevant body to ensure that these tools are permitted in the actual eleven plus exam. Prepare for the "separate answer sheet, multiple choice"type of questions.
 Start well before sitting your real exam or selection test. The more questions they practice the more confident they will be and the more types of questions they will have seen.
 Parents should ask the school or LEA for information on what type of 11+ exam their child will be sitting. You have the right to ask what sort of questions will be asked, where the child will be expected to sit the 11+ exam and how long the test will be. Will the test be in the school or at another venue?

, This is important when they practice any form of question whether it is pencil and paper or online eleven plus practice. Even the internet based online eleven plus exams will require your child to do “rough work “ on a page. Don’t sit them down to a practice just before going out or when they’re going to be disturbed. It’s important to give your child your full attention both when practicing and when taking the real exam.
 Before sitting the 11+ exam they'll often be given practice questions to have a go at. They’re normally quite short and may have a worked example, so have try those to get a flavour for the type of questions they'll be given.


They'll need to practice various questions to be comfortable their skills are up to the required standard to sit the 11+ exam.
 The quickest way to do any calculations is often on a piece of paper. Have them use a big A4 sheet so they'll have enough room to do their work. Tell them to leave plenty of space so they're not cramming their work into the corner.
 Make sure you make a note of how much time you have and roughly how long you should be spending on each question.
 If you get stuck, don’t let the clock run down, move on, you might find the next question easier and you’ll pick up more marks by moving on.
 Some questions can be really time consuming and you may be better off coming back to it. Once you leave a question forget about it until you return to it later in the exam.
 Your eleven plus exam test score will be made up of a combination of speed and accuracy. It’s important not to haphazardly guess to try to finish all the questions. Work carefully and as quickly as you can. The more types of questions you practice the quicker you will get at each type.
 Make a mental note of what the labels are telling you so you have an idea of what information you have been provided with.

