 Cats are certainly adept at communicating when they’re angry—hissing, growling, flattening their ears, and fur standing on end is hard to miss.However, general aggression is just one of many behaviors associated with a frightened cat. Other behaviors to look for include:Hiding or running away
Freezing in place
Releasing anal glands, urine, or stool
Not using the litter box;
, Your cat may have a consistent set of triggers—such as sounds, people, etc.—that cause the fearful reaction. In many cases, you may be able to help the cat adjust by simply reducing the cat’s exposure to the trigger of the fear or aggression. Common examples include:Loud sounds or quick, unexpected movements
Strange or new environments
Unfamiliar people or animals
Active, unpredictable children
Stressful events (moving and trips to the vet, especially)

, For many stimuli that trigger a fearful response in your cat, the answer is simply to give your cat some time and space alone.If the stressful occurrence caused your cat to hide in her carrier or another favorite hiding spot, then leave her be. She’ll get over it accordingly.


Note that while a sound might make her hide for a few minutes, something like moving to a new home might make her scarce for days. Make sure she has access to food, water, and her litter box to use nearby.Trying to force your cat out of a hiding spot before she’s ready will only stress her out more and amplify the fearful response.Don’t take it personally as though she’s afraid of you.
When helping an aggressive or fearful cat after a move, you may want to introduce her to the new home one room at a time. Start with a calm secluded room where you can put her carrier, toys, food/water, and litter box (on the other side of the room from the food/water)., Cats respond to few things as well as food. If your cat has a fearful response to a friend or a new roommate who you’d really like the cat to bond with, then put that person on food and treat duty.Start by having the person fill the cat’s food dish and then simply sit on the other side of the room without making eye contact or otherwise paying any attention to the cat.Have the person move slightly closer over the course of several repetitions.


Have the person give her treats as well. Set the treat out where your cat can see it and then move away to a similar distance, moving closer over time. Your cat will begin to associate this person with good things instead of treating the person as a fear trigger.Remember to let your cat set her own pace. Luring her out is not the same as forcing her. Ultimately, she needs to choose to come toward the person.
 Cats love to be up above the action where they can look down and survey in safety. If the fearful response stems from an overactive toddler or a new animal in the house, then a cat tower where your cat can retreat is a great option.Even the option of a cat tower can help calm your cat. Your cat is much more likely to respond fearfully to a situation if she feels cornered. If she always knows that she has her tower to escape to, then she’s less likely to respond aggressively when she can just run away to her safe spot.

