 Choose a character or a type of person to dress as at a Renaissance faire, or just what type of look you’d like to borrow ideas from. Use this as your foundation for putting together an outfit.


Some common “characters” to dress as are peasants, pirates, wenches, and royal nobility.
It may help to sketch out a design on paper, or save images of pieces that you like and want to find, make, or otherwise emulate.
Note that while many people choose to dress according to the era, which is typically set in Elizabethan England at most faires, Renaissance faires have also become a gathering place for a wide variety of subcultures and cosplay (costume play) of all kinds, whether or not it relates to the time period.;
, Decide whether you’d like to dress as someone of lower or higher class, typically either a peasant or noble. Also consider if the type of person you portray has a specific job or trade.


For example, you might wear a dirty leather apron as a blacksmith, a flour-dusted apron and hat as a baker, and a typical “wench” outfit as the owner of a tavern or inn.You may also dress as a higher class person, or even royalty, who would not have worked in difficult trade or labor and would thus wear more high quality and expensive fabrics and outfits.
 Consider what you might be doing at the Renaissance faire, or what the character you portray might do as a leisure activity, sport, or performance. Take practicality in consideration with authenticity.


For example, you might be riding a horse, dancing, or working at a trade, all of which might warrant slightly different attire.
Keep in mind the weather on the day of the Renaissance faire as well. They are often held in summer, so you may not want to wear quite as many layers as might have been typical for some period outfits.
 Remember that if you are going for authenticity, you should look for fabrics that would have been available in the 14th-17th century, or at least closely resemble such. Consider both color and fabric type when purchasing your garments.


Look for earth tones like green, brown, beige, and rust. Choose pure white only when dressing as an upper class person, and purple only for the highest royalty. Avoid neon colors, patterns, and other bright modern shades.
Choose fabrics made with natural fibers or materials, as synthetic fabrics were not yet invented in this time period. Go for cotton, raw silk, linen, woven cotton, wool, and leather. Use velvets, satins, and brocades only for high class and royalty costumes., Add to your clothing with accessories made from leather or other natural materials that might have been seen during the Renaissance. Remember to keep it simple and period-specific if you can.


Try a simple leather belt and attach one or more pouches, also made of leather or a natural fiber, as a nice accessory as well as a way to hide away 21st century things like cell phones, wallets, and car keys!Don a tricorn hat for a classic pirate-type look, or a bonnet-like “muffin” hat for a female peasant costume.
Choose sturdy leather boots, if possible, or other practical footwear made of natural material.
Note that many Renaissance faire venues won’t allow real weapons inside unless you’re a performer, so opt for a costume sword or another decorative-only weapon for your accessories., Make your Renaissance faire costume yourself if you have the skill and the right tools and materials available. Seek assistance from another tailor or costume designer if you need assistance on unusual garments.


Check fabric and craft stores near you for sewing patterns for garments of the time period, like bodices, skirts, breeches, and doublets.
Look online for more sewing patterns, inspiration on the type of pieces you’d like to make yourself, or even suggestions on how to alter existing clothing to make it more period-accurate.
 Check out costume retailers or specialty stores for items meant to portray the Renaissance time period. You may only need to buy a few pieces to form a simple but authentic outfit.


Try thrift or secondhand stores, garage sales, or vintage shops for used costume or specialty items.
Check websites like Ebay and other locations that may be easier to search for specific items.
You can also buy clothing directly from sellers at a Renaissance faire, and either change your clothes there or save it for the next faire you attend.

