 It can be easy to judge people suffering from an eating disorder. It can be difficult to understand why someone is doing such unhealthy things to his or her body. Learning about what causes eating disorders and what the people suffering from them experience will help you approach a possible sufferer with empathy and care.



Talking to Eating Disorders: Simple Ways to Support Someone with Anorexia, Bulimia, Binge Eating, or Body Image Issues, by Jeanne Albronda Heaton and Claudia J. Strauss, is a highly recommended resource.
The National Eating Disorders Association is a non-profit organization that provides extensive resources for friends and families of those affected by eating disorders.The Alliance for Eating Disorders Awareness is a non-profit organization aimed at providing education and resources to heighten awareness of eating disorders and their impacts.The National Institute of Mental Health has a variety of excellent information and resources for individuals with eating disorders and their loved ones., Anorexia starves the body, and can result in serious health conditions. In females between 15-24, anorexia nervosa causes 12 times more deaths than any other cause.In up to 20% of cases, anorexia will cause early death. It can cause a variety of medical issues, including:Lack of menstruation in females
Lethargy and exhaustion
Inability to regulate body temperature
Abnormally slow or irregular heartbeat (due to weakened heart muscles)
Anemia
Infertility
Memory loss or disorientation
Organ failure
Brain damage

, Eating disorders are often a reaction to more complicated personal and social issues. They may also have genetic factors at work. Talking about your eating disorder with others can be an intensely embarrassing or uncomfortable topic. Make sure you approach your loved one in a safe, private environment.Avoid approaching the person if either of you is feeling angry, tired, stressed, or unusually emotional. This will make communicating your care for the person much more difficult., Using “I”-statements can help the other person feel less like you are attacking him/her. Frame the discussion as safe and in the other person’s control. For example, you could say something like “I’ve noticed some things lately that worry me. I care about you. Could we talk?”


The person may become defensive. S/he may deny having a problem. S/he may accuse you of meddling in his/her life, or harshly judging them. You can reassure them that you care about him or her and would never judge, but don’t get defensive.
For example, avoid saying things like “I’m just trying to help you” or “You need to listen to me.” These statements will make the other person feel attacked and encourage them to stop listening to you.
Instead, keep the focus on positive statements: “I'm concerned about you and I want you to know that I’m here for you” or “I am ready to talk whenever you feel ready.” Give the other person room to make his/her own choices.
 Using “I” statements will help you with this. However, it’s very important that you do not use other blaming or judgmental language. Exaggerations, “guilt trips,” threats, or accusations will not help the other person understand your true concern.For example, avoid “you” statements, such as “You’re making me worried” or “You’ve got to stop this.”
Statements that play on the other person’s sense of shame or guilt are also unproductive. For example, avoid saying things like “Think about what you’re doing to your family” or “If you really cared about me you’d take care of yourself.” People with anorexia may already feel an intense sense of shame about their behavior, and saying things like this could only make the disorder worse.
Don’t threaten the person. For example, avoid statements such as “You will be grounded if you don’t eat better” or “I’ll tell everyone about your problem if you don’t agree to get help.” These will cause significant distress and can make the eating disorder worse.
 It’s important to give the other person time to share how s/he is feeling too. Conversations that are one-sided and all about you are unlikely to be productive.Don’t rush anyone through this type of conversation. It can take time to process feelings and thoughts.
Reiterate that you do not judge or criticize your their feelings.
 The National Eating Disorders Association (ensure the any advice supplied applies in the nation you live in) has an online screening tool that is free and anonymous. Asking someone to take this test may be a “low-pressure” way to encourage them to acknowledge their problem.There are two screenings available through NEDA: one specifically for college students, and one for adults.
 Try to communicate your concern in productive ways. Emphasize that anorexia is a serious condition but is highly treatable under professional supervision.Destigmatize the idea of seeing a therapist or counselor by letting them know that seeking help is not a sign of failure or weakness, nor a sign that they are “crazy.”


People with anorexia are often struggling to find control in their lives, so emphasizing that seeking therapy is an act of courage and control over one’s life may help them accept it.
You can frame this as a medical issue, which may help. For example, if your loved one or someone you know had diabetes or cancer, you would encourage her/him to seek medical help. This is no different; you are simply asking them to seek professional help for an illness.
NEDA has a “Find Treatment” feature available on their website. This feature can help you find a counselor or therapist who specializes in anorexia.Particularly if the person is a young person or teenager, family therapy may be helpful. Some studies suggest that family-based therapy is more effective for teens than individual therapy, because it can help address ineffective communication patterns within the family as well as offer ways for everyone to support the sufferer.In some severe cases, inpatient treatment may be required. This is common when the person is so underweight that they are at a high risk of things such as organ failure. People who are psychiatrically unstable or suicidal may also require inpatient treatment., It is hard to cope with seeing a loved one struggle with an eating disorder. It can be particularly difficult if the person you're concerned about refuses to acknowledge that a problem exists, which is all too common with sufferers of eating disorders. Seeking help from your own therapist or a support group can help you stay strong.


NEDA has a list of support groups on their website.They also have a Parent, Family & Friends Network.The National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders (ANAD) has a list of support groups by state.Your physician may also be able to refer you to local support groups or other support resources.
Seeking counseling is particularly important for parents of children with anorexia. It is important not to control a child’s eating behaviours or use bribes, but it’s hard to accept that when you see any child at risk. Therapy or a support group can help you learn ways to support and help a child without making his/her disorder worse.

