 Test the hypothesis and compare it to other similar examples.Even if an author has done research and quoted respected experts, analyze the message for its practicality and real world application.
Examine the author's introduction and conclusion to make sure they match up as convincing and complementary elements.
 If the author has anything to gain from the conclusions demonstrated in the article, it's possible that some bias has been demonstrated.Bias includes ignoring contrary evidence, misappropriating evidence to make conclusions appear different than they are, and imparting one's own, unfounded opinions on a text. Well-sourced opinions are perfectly OK, but those without academic support deserve to be met with a skeptical eye.
Bias can also come from a place of prejudice. Note any biases related to race, ethnicity, gender, class, or politics.
 If the author makes a claim about another's work, read the original work and see if you agree with the analysis provided in the article. Complete agreement is obviously not necessary or even likely; but consider whether the author’s interpretation is defensible.Note any inconsistencies between your interpretation of a text and the author's interpretation of a text. Such conflict may bear fruit when it comes time to write your review.
See what other scholars have to say. If several scholars from diverse backgrounds have the same opinion about a text, that opinion should be given more weight than an argument with little support.
 Does the author cite an irrelevant text from fifty years ago that no longer holds weight in the discipline at hand? If the author cites unreliable sources, it greatly diminishes the credibility of the article., The content of the article is likely the most important aspect for your literary critique, but don't overlook the formal and/or literary techniques that the author might use. Pay attention to obscure word choices and the author's tone throughout the article. This is particularly helpful for non-scientific articles dealing with aspects of literature, for example.These aspects of an article can reveal deeper issues in the larger argument. For example, an article written in a heated, overzealous tone might be ignoring or refusing to engage with contradictory evidence in its analysis.
Always look up the definitions of unfamiliar words. A word's definition can completely change the meaning of a sentence, especially if a particular word has several definitions. Question why an author chose one particular word instead of another, and it might reveal something about their argument.
 If critiquing an article containing a scientific theory, be sure to evaluate the research methods behind the experiment. Ask yourself questions such as these:Does the author detail the methods thoroughly?
Is the study designed without major flaws?
Is there a problem with the sample size?
Was a control group created for comparison?
Are all of the statistical calculations correct?
Would another party be able to duplicate the experiment in question?
Is the experiment significant for that particular field of study?

, Use your existing knowledge, educated opinions, and any research you can gather to either support or disagree with the author's article. Provide empirical arguments to support your stance.While there is no such thing as too much good evidence, over-sourcing can also be a problem if your arguments become repetitive. Make sure each source provides something unique to your critique.
Additionally, don't allow your use of sources to crowd out your own opinions and arguments.
 In fact, the most interesting literary critiques often don’t vehemently disagree with the author; rather, they build upon or complicate the author's idea with additional evidence.If you do agree entirely with the author, therefore, make sure to build upon the argument either by providing additional evidence or complicating the author's idea.
You can provide contradictory evidence to an argument while still maintaining that a particular point of view is the correct one.
Don’t “take it easy” on the author due to misguided empathy; but neither should you be excessively negative in an attempt to prove your critical bona fides. Forcefully express your defensible points of agreement and disagreement.

