


If you are a boy, try the dark shades of green and blue, or the light ones. Baggy pants are an Earth-Boy favourite! Also, collars can rock the look!
Maybe an earthy slogan like "Save Our Trees" on a shirt looks good, and all Earth-Boys dig jumpers. Wool is a great pattern, and many like to knit socks out of them. Try hats or caps! No bright colors or neons!
If you are a girl, there are two earth styles for you, so choose which one shows your type of earthy. The first is casual. Bright blue and green, with splashes of pink and yellow look fantastic. Skirts and pants alike are good, and cardigans in a neon colour looks great on any Earth Girl. The second type is dark. This is similar to the boy style, but girly. Collars and jumpers are still favorites, but girls like to wear knitted cardigans or wooly hats.

You can wear dark greens and browns, and Earth Girls love to wear tights! Plain black shoes with no heels are good. Pimple remover is acceptable, and maybe clear lip balm, to ensure that you look presentable, but do not apply makeup. You are a natural girl, not a fashion horse!



, Give friendly waves, and practice giggling or chuckling (depending on gender). Be seen with many smiles, and don't hold grudges. Have many friends, and don't exclude anybody. Be a great boy or girl, and take care of the little kids. Even respect animals, and pet or wash them. Be a role model for people, and show good manners. Listen to your elders, and respect them. This is what an Earth Kid would do.
 If studying seems hard, get over it and keep trying. If you feel like you will never be popular, don't give in so easily! Work hard to achieve your goals, and fight until you drop! If you are putting a plaster on a little kid, don't leave when you see a disgusting green and black wound. Just stick a plaster, and shrug. It is like climbing a mountain; keep climbing until you reach the top!

, Always be positive about the future, and praise people for their work. If you trip over, that is because you did too much running, so monitor how much you run. If you get a bad grade, that is a chance to improve! If you are bullied, it shows that you are innocent and sweet, what an Earth Kid should be. Even if a kid is crying, they are learning the morals of the world. It is important to know how to cope with the bullying though.
 Don't rush! Most people don't date until they are 13, at least. Don't flirt randomly, stay true to the guy you love! When you have found the one, stand your ground. If he tries to coax you into doing something (drugs, shoplifting, illegal driving etc.), say no firmly. Even if he sounds desperate or angry, if you don't want to, don't do it. Even if he says you are a coward, you aren't. In a relationship, make sure to take things slowly.
 Don't do drugs or drink beer. Be nice to everybody, and give people chances. Always smile at people, even the ones you hate. Be mature; be nice and polite, and respect your mummy and daddy. Don't dress like a chav, or wear anything revealing. This is not innocence! Innocent people don't play pranks; they stick to rules.
 Earth kids don't take things harshly. Tell jokes and make silly faces, and brighten people's days. Lightly tease people, and joke around. Sarcastic comments are unacceptable - you need to stick to compliments, Ticking a little kid when babysitting can give the playful air that Earth Kids have. Stay polite, though! Don't be weird, just fun!

, Aim for A's and B's, although the occasional C is totally acceptable! Study hard and be an avid reader. Do your homework every night, and if you want to make it more fun, put hearts or stars on the i's and j's. Raise your hand to many things, and keep trying to answer things until the day is over!

, Don't find war or guns cool; find them terrible, and make sure not to buy guns. Don't make your hobbies hunting or boxing! Try swimming, flower picking, football, tennis, mushroom picking, badminton, horse riding, cooking, acting or singing! Many Earth Kids find this fun, and do these hobbies often. They encourage peace, too!

, If you really want to perfect the art, get the Earth Kid tone. For girls, sound high and fragile, yet soft and pretty. No edges, though! For boys, have a high yet deep voice, that sounds poetic and inspirational. Sing on an average basis, but not in school! Make your own songs and flaunt them!

, Some include Anne of Green Gables, Charlotte's Web, Holes, and other books of your liking! Be smart, and talk about these books often!

], It is important to have good eating habits.

