 Drinking can have negative impacts on your health. Even moderate consumption can lead to impaired judgment and a lack of coordination, which could cause you to lose your balance or make decisions that might hurt you or someone else. Drinking in excess, over time, could inflame your liver or give you cirrhosis (scarring of the liver). Alcohol consumption has also been linked to cancer of the breast, colon, larynx, mouth, and esophagus.Pregnant women risk miscarriage, stillbirth, or fetal alcohol spectrum disorders in their children.
 Drinking can be disruptive to your friendships and romances.When you drink, you might say or do things that under normal circumstances you would not. Think about your own experience with drinking and how it has affected your relationships with others. How do your friends and family feel about you drinking? Are you proud of yourself when you look back on things you’ve said or done when you’re drinking? Think about how drinking affects your relationships in order to develop a compelling reason why you should not drink.
 If you start drinking, you might have a hangover and be unable to go to school or work the next day. Even if you are able to get up and go, you might not be able to devote your full attention and energy to your work. This could hinder your professional or academic development. Think about your other responsibilities when you’re trying to talk yourself out of drinking., Alcohol is expensive.Instead of drinking, take the money that you would have spent on booze and put it in a little jar. When the jar is full, cash the money in and do something fun. For example, you might:


buy a new book
use the money on a short day-trip to the city with friends
go shopping
purchase new art supplies

, Alcohol has a lot of hidden calories. But unlike the calories from healthy food, alcoholic calories are empty and without any nutritional benefit. Alcohol has a high calorie density, second only to fat. People who drink – especially when they drink frequently – are at risk for developing a “beer belly” – a layer of abdominal fat. Think about how drinking is going to hurt your beach bod next time you’re trying to talk yourself out of it.
 Think about what your own faith says about drinking. If you are irreligious, ask yourself if drinking is compatible with your own ethical outlook. Will drinking help you meet your full potential? Does it have a positive impact on you and those around you?

