 If your significant other is needy, there may be a reason they feel so attached and clingy to you. Talk to them about why they feel this way. Perhaps it is caused by a past trauma or relationship, a mental illness, or severe insecurities from childhood.Don’t just write off your significant other as crazy or obsessive. There may be a reason for their behavior that you can find out and then work on fixing.
 Sometimes, neediness stems from anxieties or fears. Perhaps they have anxiety about being unable to keep you because they feel too boring, ugly, or not good enough. Sometimes, the person may constantly be worried about something happening to you or that you will cheat. If they suffer from phobias, they may extend that phobia to you. If this the case for your significant other, encourage them to get treatment for the anxiety disorder.


There are many ways to manage and treat anxiety and phobias. Suggest that your significant other see a therapist or psychologist. Psychotherapy, such as talk therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy, can help reduce anxiety symptoms.
Relaxation techniques, like deep breathing and meditation, can help reduce anxiety symptoms. Regular exercise, like walking or yoga, also helps manage the disorder.
 You may benefit from going to a relationship counselor. A counselor can help mitigate problems between you and your significant other. A counselor or therapist may be able to help uncover underlying issues in the relationship. When going into relationship counseling, you both should approach it with an open mind.The counselor may point out problems on both sides, not just on your significant other.
A counselor can help you find healthy ways to work through your issues.
 Much of your partner’s neediness may stem from their insecurities. Encourage your significant other to work on their self-esteem. Help your partner see them the way that you do.Feeling like they need to be with you always, that they’re not good enough, or feeling insecure may stem from a lack of self-confidence. Encourage your significant other to focus on themselves instead of you. They need to find their own interests and hobbies.
Help your significant other realize their good qualities. Encourage them to start seeing themselves as a separate, independent person outside of you.
Your significant other may need to get help from a therapist. A severe lack of self-esteem is a problem that may take months or even years to remedy.

