 Diet can help you protect and heal your lungs through the vitamins and minerals found in certain foods. Switch to organic foods as much as possible. Studies show that a number of different preservatives and additives found on in non-organic foods may be associated with asthma attacks, lung cancer, and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), which includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis.


These additives include sulfites, aspartame, parabens, tartrazine, nitrates and nitrites, butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) and benzoates. If you can't switch over to a full organic diet, try to avoid any foods that have these additives in them. Check the labels of foods to ensure you avoid these products as much as possible.
 When trying to heal and support your lungs, you should limit the amount of pre-packaged and processed foods you eat. This will help you limit your intake of additives and preservatives, which can cause breathing problems and increased lung sensitivity. You should try to make most of your food from scratch, though it may take some extra practice and planning.


You will be healthier if you cook more from scratch and use foods that have not been processed. This is because they retain most of the vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients inherent in the foods.
A way to tell if a food is too processed is to see if it is too white, such as white bread, white rice, or white pasta. Instead, eat whole grain breads, brown rice, and whole grain pasta.
This means that you should include only unprocessed complex carbohydrates. If you avoid white bread and other processed foods, you have essentially excluded any other carbohydrates. When complex carbs are processed, they are broken down into the simple carbohydrates that are used by the body., In your daily food routine, you should try to increase your portions of vegetables and fruit. Reduced amounts of fresh fruit and vegetables are associated with lung diseases, particularly with asthma and COPD. Fruits and vegetables contain high levels of antioxidants, which have been shown to protect against asthma and COPD and may protect against cancer.For the highest level of antioxidants, choose brightly colored fruits and vegetables, such as blueberries, raspberries, apples, plums, oranges and citrus fruits, leafy green vegetables, winter and summer squash, and bell peppers., When promoting lung health, you should limit your meat intake, especially red meat. If you do want to eat meat, make sure the beef is lean, preferably grass fed and hormone and antibiotic free. Eat poultry that's raised without hormones or antibiotics. You should also remove the skin.Poultry, such as chicken and turkey, are rich sources of vitamin A. People with vitamin A deficiencies are susceptible to bacterial infection in the lungs. Increasing your intake of vitamin A helps to kill harmful micro-organisms from the lining of lungs., You should incorporate more fish into your diet. You will gain more lung-healing benefits from fatty fish such as salmon, mackerel, trout, herring and sardines. Fatty fish contain omega-3 fatty acids, which promote lung health.


The anti-inflammatory property of omega-3 fatty acids helps increase the capacity to exercise, which improves lung health., As part of your healthy diet, try to include more beans and legumes in each meal. Navy beans, black beans, and kidney beans are good sources of protein. These beans, as well as legumes such as lentils, contain many of the vitamins and minerals needed to help maintain lung function.
 Consider supplementing your diet with extra minerals such as magnesium, zinc, and selenium. These minerals are necessary for proper lung function and improved health. Also, consider supplementing your diet with Vitamin D3 every day. Poor respiratory function is correlated with low Vitamin D levels.Always speak to a knowledgeable health care professional before taking any supplements and follow manufacturers' instructions when taking supplements.
 Beta-carotenes are found in natural foods and provide the building blocks for Vitamin A. The supplements, however, should not be taken if you smoke or are at risk for lung cancer. Some research indicates that beta-carotene supplementation may be associated with an increased risk of lung cancer in people who smoke.


There is no evidence, however, that ingesting beta-carotenes in everyday foods can increase the risk for cancer., Drinking lots of water keeps the lungs hydrated and free of mucus. It also allows for easy blood flow. Aim to drink 64 oz of water per day. Drinking enough water is also necessary to keep your mucus thin, which helps to prevent too much mucus from building up in your lungs and airways.


You can also increase your body's hydration levels by drinking herbal teas and juice. Any fluid that is non-caffeinated is considered part of your daily fluid intake.
You can also increase your fluids by eating fruit and vegetables with a high water content, such as watermelon, tomatoes and cucumbers.