 This breathing technique is considered to be an exact science that focuses on the regulation of prana (breathe) by stopping inhalation and exhalation. In a connected way, controlling your inhales and exhales enables you to better control your subtle prana, which in turn, allows you to control your mind.Controlling your mind through Pranayama removes impurities from your body. To achieve this level you have to practice daily in a quiet location free from external distractions.
 With diaphragmatic breathing, you will want continuously inhale and exhale without pause. This is the opposite of the Pranayama breathing technique.The diaphragm is the efficient muscle used in breathing. By strengthening the diaphragm through this breathing technique, you will decrease the rate of breathing, oxygen demand, and the exertion of less energy to breathe bringing stillness to your body.
Since breathing is interconnected to the nervous system as well as the mind, practice diaphragmatic breathing in the early morning and just prior to sunset for maximum effect.
 The primary goal of mindful breathing is to practice focusing on your own breathing. You must focus on every single inhalation and every single exhalation. This is known as mindfulness-of-breathing. In doing so, you will sharpen your concentration.If you have trouble starting out, try counting your breaths to get your mind in the right place.
When you begin, start by gently moving your attention towards the process of breathing. Choose to concentrate on each breath as it happens or on the rise and fall of your chest or abdomen. The point is to understand what it is truly like to breathe without altering the natural process.
When finished, try to stay connected to the present moment and expand your awareness to the environment around you. Contemplate your experience and remember how you feel at this very moment.
 Chakra breathing is designed to assist and improve the flow of energy throughout your body. This is possible because there are seven chakras located within the body. By concentrating on each of the chakras, you will be able to move energy throughout your body by connecting the chakra with your breath. This will create harmony, balance, and positive energy flow, keeping your body healthy both physically and emotionally.The seven chakra are: root chakra on the base of spine; sacral chakra situated in the lower abdomen; solar plexus chakra situated in the solar plexus; heart chakra located at the center of the chest; throat chakra in the throat; third eye chakra located at the center of the forehead; and the crown chakra at the top of the head.

