 Shower and wash your face every day for a bright complexion and clean hair. Brush your teeth every night before bed for a beautiful smile. Also remember to use deodorant, and consider keeping some in your backpack if you tend to sweat.


Apply facial sunscreen (SPF 30 or more) every day after washing your face so you can protect your skin. A facial sunscreen will not clog your pores.
Some girls find that sweat and body odor are easier to manage if they shave their armpits. This is not required in order to be attractive, and you can decide what's best for you.
Try out light perfume for a finishing touch.;
, Some girls like to wear a little makeup and others prefer the natural look. It's your choice. You may want concealer for acne, blush, lip gloss, and/or some eye makeup for fun. Feel free to experiment and find out what you like. There is no right or wrong with makeup.


Try tricks that don't involve makeup, like dripping water on your eyelashes to make them clump together nicely, or brushing your lips with a toothbrush so they look fuller.
 Experiment with different hairdos and accessories. Do you like ponytails, pigtails, braids, hair clips, ribbons, flowers, etc.? Some girls like to straighten or curl their hair, while others keep their natural texture. Figure out what works for you—up or down, fancy or simple. Find something that makes you happy and let your awesome hair shine.
 If you see something that you love, then wear it, no matter what the fashion magazines say. Wear colors and styles that make you feel happy, and the boost in mood will make you even more attractive.


Try asking a family member or friend to help you pick out colors that complement your skin tone when shopping.
It may help to learn what your body type is, so you can choose outfits that best show off your figure.
 You can look awesome in modest outfits or in more revealing ones. You decide what styles work best for you. Remember that clothes don't have moral value—modest clothes don't make you a "prude," and revealing clothes don't make you naughty or responsible for men's emotions. Dress in the way that makes you most comfortable and don't worry about it.


Sometimes girls get harassed (followed, solicited, grabbed, remarked on, threatened) by boys or men. This is not caused by outfits, but by guys who refuse to control themselves and overstep the bounds of human decency. You deserve an environment free of harassment, so if this happens, tell a responsible adult. No matter what your outfit is, other people's awful behavior is not your fault. Harassment is serious and deserves to be treated as such.
 Get at least 8 hours of beauty sleep each night (9 or 10 is even better), fill at least 1/3 of your plate with fruits and veggies, and stay active. Try joining sports teams, going on a walk with your sister each evening, or going to the beach with friends. A healthy girl is a beautiful girl.
 Posture matters not just because you look great, but because it'll help avoid backaches and other issues. When you walk, hold your head high, walk with a purpose, and let the world see that you're awesome. Practice a confident walk at home, and you'll start to really feel it, even if you don't consider yourself a confident person.


If you're disabled, that's okay. If you can't make eye contact, try looking at their nose, mouth, necklace, eyebrows... whatever is comfortable to you. If you use a wheelchair or walk differently (crutches, toe-walking, etc.), just use the best posture you can and practice your confident grin. Disabled girls are also capable of looking awesome.

