 They will be explained in order.;
, This is like the sun moving around (or more likely, the person moving around and getting the sun).


Click on the icon that looks like a sun.
Hold down the left mouse button (LMB) and move the mouse left to right.
Watch your form until it has the right look that you want.
 This is comparable to dimming the lights in a room, hence the lightbulb.


Click on the Primary Light Intensity icon. It is a lightbulb.
Hold down LMB and move the mouse left to right.
Watch your form until it has the right look that you want.



Click on the Light Angle icon. It is a smaller lightbulb with an arrow.
Hold down the LMB and move the mouse left to right.
Watch your form until it has the right look that you want.



Click on the Camera Rotate icon. It is a circular arrow.
Hold down the LMB and move the mouse around.
Watch your form until it has the right look that you want.

Alternatively, you can click off of the form and move the form around.
If you are close to the form and need to adjust it, use the Alt+LMB and move the form around.



Click on the Move Camera icon. It looks like the cursor icon that comes up when you press the other icons.
Hold down the LMB and move the mouse around.
Watch your 'room' and form until they are adjusted where you want them.

Alternatively, you can click off of the form, press and hold the middle mouse button (MMB) and move the form around.
If you are close to the form and need to adjust it, use the Alt+MMB and move the form around.



Click on the Zoom icon. It is a magnifying glass.
Hold down LMB and move the mouse left to right (or top to bottom).
Watch your form until you are as close as you need to be.
 Do this by selecting the icon with the RMB.
 Click on this icon to center your project and zoom in to where you are working.


Alternatively, use ⇧ Shift+A.
 This will focus on where your pen (or mouse cursor) is working.


Click on this icon to get a better focus on where you are working.
To do this on the keyboard, press Ctrl+Z.
 If you are totally lost and need to refocus everything, select this icon.
 This will take you from Orthographic to Perspective Projection.
 To do this, select the Grid icon that is shown here.
, Select this icon to switch in and out of full screen mode.

