 For the bulk of your photos, go for a background that is attractive, but not distracting. You want the focus to be on the prom attendees. If you want a few photos with something specific in the background, such as mural in your school, you can break the rule to get a picture like this. Otherwise, choose a background that is clean from distracting imagery.For outdoor photos, try a background where there are some trees and other greenery in the background.
For an indoor photo, look for an area in your home without a lot of clutter. Standing in front of a crowded bookshelf may not be a great photo, but you can try standing near the entryway of your home with just a wall behind you.;
, When taking photos, a steady camera can cut back on blur. Do not hold the camera in front of you with two hands. Instead, use a flat object to stabilize the camera as you take pictures. If you have one, use a tripod or monopod to take pictures., Outside, use the lowest flash setting possible. This minimizes circles around people's eyes. Inside, do not use flash. Instead, find a room in your home with good lighting. When flash is used indoors, photographs can create distracting shadows., If your camera has a white balance setting, use it. White balance settings let you choose different white balance based on the types of pictures you're taking. For example, if you're taking a picture in the shade, set the white balance setting to "shade."Your camera's instructions manual should give you specific guidelines regarding how white setting works for your camera. Precisely how you change the setting varies from camera to camera.
 If your camera has a zoom feature, play around with it while you take photos. Take some photos up close, but also take some from far away. Photos taken from a distance can flatter people's faces better and emphasize things like your outfits., In your home, opt for rooms with the best, brightest lighting. Outdoors, however, take advantage of natural sunshine but make sure it does not cause squinting. Taking pictures in the shade provides natural light without affecting your expressions., Never capture one pose from a single angle. Take pictures from a different angle. Take one picture from an upward angle, for example, and another from a lower angle. Take photos of prom goers off to the side as well as taking straight on pictures of people's faces.

