 Is somebody in your family allergic? There are many problems that may arise, but that's all okay. It is all going to turn out fine, as long as both you and your parents are willing to work around them.


Is somebody in your family allergic to cats? Don't worry, there are actually some hypo-allergenic cats out there! Research where you can find hypo-allergic cats in your area and go visit them. Bring along the person in your family that is allergic to them, so that you can see if they have an allergic reaction or not. If they don't, great! If they do, keep looking for other kinds of hypo-allergenic cats.
Does your landlord not allow pets? If this is the case, sadly, you're pretty much stuck. However, you can still get the cat owner experience, with someone else's cat. Become a pet sitter and look after other people's cats. Or, you could volunteer at animal shelters and work with the cats there. It's a win-win for both you and your parents, although not quite as good as really owning a cat.
Is a cat too much money? You've seen those pet store prices, and they can be pretty high. However, you can save a little money on the initial purchase of your kitty by going to your local animal shelter/rescue group. There are many great cats there that need a great home like yours. Because these animals need to be adopted, the prices for them are several hundred dollars lower than those pricey pet stores. If your parents decide that getting a shelter cat would be a good choice for your family, congratulations! You'll get the kitty of your dreams while being a cat-saver. Be warned that you'll need to pay for more than just the cat. You'll also need to buy its food, toys, vet bills, etc., which can rack up to a large sum of money.
Do your parents consider cats to be dangerous to the wildlife and birds? If so, suggest a cat run to keep the cat away from the wildlife and living indoors mostly.
Do your parents not want to deal with the litter box, and if you have other pets, such as dogs, are worried that they will get into it? Tell your parents you will keep it in your room and keep your door closed. Now this may seem like a bad idea because of the smell, but if you clean it daily, you shouldn't have too much of a problem.;
, Put this together in a talk to help explain these things to your parents. Hopefully, they will be convinced that getting a cat is a good idea.
 Tell them you will care for the cat, and you will use your own money to buy what is needed for the cat. If your parents say no, no means no. Quit bugging them and stop asking.
 If your parents don't think you're responsible or mature enough for a cat, try your best to prove them wrong. Do extra chores around the house. Look after your neighbor's pets while they're away on vacation. This will teach you a lot about animal care in the process, too. Look after your younger siblings/family members to show your guardian that you're responsible enough for a cat.


Respect your parents and help out around the house. For example, help wash the dishes, help clean up around the house, etc. Doing this may make your parents think that you are responsible enough to care for a cat.
 If you can't even take care of the pets you already have, then there's no reason why you should expect your parents to get you a cat.
 If your parents decide that your financial situation isn't suitable for a cat at the moment, you might just have to wait a few years until you can afford a cat. Do odd jobs and save up your money to show that you're truly dedicated to this outcome.
, If all else fails, write your parents a letter or make up a contract saying that you'll be fully responsible for the cat and that you'll take full care of it. Only do this if you are very serious about getting a cat.

