 It's all too easy to tell yourself "I'll start in an hour" over and over again until you've wasted the entire day. If you need to seriously study, don't procrastinate any longer. Stop whatever you're doing, go to a quiet, secure place with your study materials, and get started. Don't sabotage yourself by playing just one more video game, just one more TV show, and so on. The sooner you start, the sooner you'll be done and the more free time you'll have in the long run.


It's much harder to start doing something than it is to keep doing something. Once you break past your initial resistance, you'll find that it's much easier to continue studying.;
, Drawing notes will be easy to remember and fun, for example lets say if you have to remember the war of 1812 then draw some things you know about it. The first minute or two after you start studying are crucial, as it's extra-easy to give up during this window. To avoid this, start writing notes immediately, even if they're not good notes. Once you've actually made some progress (however minor), you'll find that it's much harder to stop than if you hadn't made any progress at all.


Don't forget that you can always re-write your initial notes late if you find that they're not helpful.
 Morale can play a huge role in determining whether your study session is a successful one. Get "pumped" early on and stay pumped throughout your studying. Below are just a few ideas for keeping yourself motivated - only you will know what works best for you:


Listen to rousing music - the same types of songs you might listen to before a sporting event
Move around - pace, do jumping jacks, shadowbox, etc.
Watch an inspirational speech
Change locations frequently - don't allow yourself to get bored with your surroundings

, It's easier to study if you know that you'll get something that you want eventually if you do so. Set yourself up for success by arranging rewards for yourself - after you study, of course. For instance, if you've got a sweet tooth, set aside some time after you study to make a trip to the local ice cream shop after a successful study session.
 When all else fails, let shame be your motivator! Tell your friends that you're going to study and get a good grade on your upcoming assignment. The fear of embarrassing yourself by neglecting to study can be highly motivating - as the assignment approaches, you'll probably start to feel pressure to study, which will make it easier to start doing so.


Better still, tell your friends that you want to study with them. This way, you'll have to either study (in the presence of friends who can potentially keep you on-track) or break your appointment. Either way, your friends will know.

