 Use sharp gardening scissors to cut all of the flowers that fall under the water line because it can promote decay in your flowers.Remove any leaves or flower petals that look bruised. If you have roses, do not remove the thorns as this has been shown to reduce the lifetime of the flowers.


Failing to remove damaged leaves or leaves that are under the water line can promote bacterial growth in your vase., Most flowers thrive with lukewarm water because the warm water molecules move faster than cold water molecules and make it easier for the stem to absorb water. As a rule of thumb, keep your water at 100째F to 110째F (37.7째C to 43.3째C).While this applies to most flowers, there are exceptions to this rule. Bulb flowers like hyacinths and tulips need cold water to survive., Bacterial growth and microorganisms thrive inside of a vase. Replace the water in your vase every two to three days to prevent this from happening. Scrub down the sides with a soft dish soap and remember to rinse it thoroughly before placing your flowers back into the vase. Other than promoting decay in your plant, certain bacteria are capable of entering a flower's stem and stopping water absorption as well.If you are using a chemical floral preservative, make sure to replace the nutrients as well as the water.
Use a bottle brush for a vase with a thin neck.
If you are having trouble getting to the crevices of your vessel, mix up a solution containing one part household bleach with ten parts water and allow the vase to soak overnight. Air dry your vase before refilling it with water.
 Hot and cold drafts can promote water loss in your plant and exposure to direct sunlight can cause it to use up all of its stored food.Set them in a cool place in your house that isn't near things like a radiator, television sets, or hot ovens., Commercial grade floral preservatives are available at most home and gardening, hardware, and florist shops. They contain a biocide which prevents bacterial growth, an acidifier which promotes water absorption, and sugar that acts as the plant's food.Replace the flower preservatives when you change the water in your vase.


Use recommended measurements when using floral preservatives.
Homemade flower preservatives usually have mixed results and should be avoided.