 Fill the mold to the line drawn earlier using warm tap water. Ideally, the temperature should be around 105 °F (41 °C). Use a thermometer to maintain a good average temperature.


Making gelatin takes longer with warm water as opposed to hot, but results in a clearer final product.
 The mixing process will take a significant amount of time, so make sure that you can comfortably mix for about twenty minutes. You’ll want to mix with a large spoon, wooden or metal.
 Use a 1-cup measuring cup to slowly add gelatin to the water. You need to be stirring constantly to avoid clumping. Add all of the gelatin over the course of about 10 minutes, sprinkling one cup at a time.


This step is much easier with two people. One person stirs, while the other slowly adds the gelatin. After the gelatin has been added, you can swap stirring duties to give your arm a break.
To improve the clarity, you can add cinnamon oil to the gelatin. You will need about 9 drops; 1 drop per gallon of water. Add the cinnamon oil about halfway through the stirring process.
 After the stirring is complete, there will be a little bit of foam on the top of the mixture. Gently scoops this out and discard. There should be no visible foam or clumps of undissolved gelatin in the final mix.
 You want to cool the mixture to about 36 °F (2 °C). Avoid freezing it, or else the blocks will become too cloudy. If you don’t get it cool enough, the gel will not get as dense as it needs to. Cool the gel for at least 8 hours, preferably overnight.
 Once the gel has fully cooled, gently turn the container over onto a clean flat surface such as a kitchen counter. Slowly guide the gel out of the container with your hands to help avoid cracking the block.
 Use a large kitchen knife to cut the block into two halves. Cut the long way so that you are left with two narrow blocks with the dimensions 6 x 6 x 20. Gently wrap each block completely in plastic wrap. This will prevent evaporation, which will affect the density and integrity of the block.


After wrapping the block, place a stiff piece of cardboard on each block and wrap it again. The cardboard will make transporting the block much easier.
Store the blocks at 40 °F (4 °C) or cooler until you are ready to shoot them. Transport the blocks in a cooler to help keep them at optimum density.
 Place the blocks on a stable flat surface. A piece of plywood on sawhorses will work. Adjust the blocks so that you shoot into a 6 x 6 square end. If you are firing a high-powered gun, place a cement block behind the ballistics gel to keep the force from knocking the block off of the platform.


Always follow proper safety procedures when handling fierarms.
Be careful unwrapping the gel, you don’t want it to crack just before you shoot it.
Ballistics gel is typically shot from about 10 feet (3.0 m) out.
There are three standard tests: Naked – nothing covering the block. Lightly clothed – two t-shirts covering the block. Heavily clothed – two t-shirts and two pairs of jeans covering the block.
 If you want to take photos of the results, paint the plywood that you placed the blocks on white. This will highlight the bullet fragments. You will be able to see the results best in bright sunlight.

