 Depending on the type of pet you have, and the type of food you feed your pet, you may need to clean the cage as frequently as once a week, or do a partial cleaning after feeding. For instance, if your pet eats fruit, remove any scraps or uneaten fruit as soon as they are finished eating.Flies, as well as other types of unwelcome critters, will be drawn to warm, wet parts of a cage in particular.
Be especially wary of any organic matter in the cage that might decompose, especially bits of food and plant material.
Use a natural cleaner in either spray or wipe form to fully clean every surface in the tank.;
, Your substrate may include mulch, soil, shredded paper, or a number of other materials that will readily soak up moisture and eventually begin to decompose. Whatever the substrate is, it needs to be replaced frequently. The specific type of substrate you use and pet you have will dictate the specific frequency with which the substrate needs to be changed, but stay on top of a consistent schedule.When replacing the substrate, remove everything from the cage and give it a deep cleaning with a safe, non-toxic cleaner. Take care the wipe down the corners and crevices at the bottom of the tank that bits of damp substrate may have nestled into.
Whenever you notice spoiled bedding or flooring, replace it. Get in the practice of replacing these materials before waste or moisture becomes prevalent.
 Dishes will allow for greater moisture to splash out and collect in the substrate and elsewhere in the tank, as well as a much greater likelihood that the water itself becomes an attraction to flies. If the type of pet you have allows for the use of a water bottle, do so. Of course, some caged pets will require bowls to lounge in and otherwise enjoy.Get a size-specific water-bottle for almost any furry cage pet from the pet store. These will most often be suspended on the side of your tank, to be easily access by both you and your pet.
 Whatever type of water feature or dispenser you use, be sure to change the water extremely often. Stale, stagnant water, can rapidly become an insect breeding ground, especially in warm environments. Further, provide your pet fresh water daily to ensure optimal health.With reptile tanks, which will likely be generally wetter and warmer than mammal tanks, be particularly conscious of the cleanliness of both the substrate and any mini bodies of water.
 Even if you have a screen-topped tank or a cage that allows small insects in and out, fly netting will still allow adequate ventilation while cutting down on flies’ ability to access the treasure trove that is your pet’s tank. Screens of this sort are especially important to consider when raising a rabbit in a cage of any type, as fly infestations can be fatal to rabbits., The buildup of ammonia from your pet’s waste will readily attract flies. Regular cleaning of the tank and replacement of the tank’s substrate will help you prevent the buildup of ammonia, but adequate ventilation is vital, as this will allow the ammonia that is inevitably present to be largely removed by circulating air.Keep the air in the room where you keep your pets moving with a ceiling or box fan.

