 If there is residue stuck to the floor, such as old carpet adhesive, remove it with a scraper.Starting off with a clean floor means you won't create a muddy mess when you start adding the cleaning chemicals, nor will you drive any of the grime down into the porous surface of the concrete.


Remove any furniture that might get in the way or could be harmed by the harsh chemicals you will be using.;
, Urine contains uric acid crystals, which are insoluble and bond tightly with the surface--in this case, the hard, porous concrete. Regular cleaning agents like soap and water won't bind to the uric acid, so no matter how many times you clean the area, those crystals stay put.An enzymatic cleaner will break down the uric acid and finally release it from the concrete.


Even if you think the smell is gone after using conventional cleaning products, it will only take a little bit of moisture (even just a humid day) to revive the smell of urine. The presence of water causes the uric acid to release a gas, which creates a strong, foul odor.Look for enzymatic cleaners made especially for the removal of pet urine (you can even get one specifically for dogs or cats).
 A UV or blacklight can sometimes reveal the site of an old stain, which can be helpful if you've already washed the floor several times and there's no visual sign of the urine. Turn off the lights in the room and hold the UV light one to three feet from the floor. The stain may show up as a yellow, blue, or green mark. Use a piece of chalk to mark the spot if you only plan to spot-treat the floor.If the UV light doesn't work, you can also try smelling out the spot. Air the room out and then simply sniff the room until you've zeroed in on the area.Though you probably want to pay extra attention to these spots, possibly treating them more than once, it is recommended you treat the entire floor so you don't miss any spots that didn't show up under the UV light.Treating the entire floor will also keep your floor from appearing spotty--if the treatment causes the concrete to lighten and appear cleaner, it will look better if the entire floor is a clean and uniform shade.