;
, Note the following:



Coloration: Murray Grey cattle range from a light silvery grey to a dark grey, though the primary preferred coloration is silver grey. The skin should be heavily pigmented or dark colored as this keeps away problems such as sunburned udders and cancer eye. The genetic standpoint of the coloration of this breed is not well understood, since multiple gene effects make it difficult to get a true breeding condition. It is thought that in addition to the basic color genes that are involved, dilution or modifying genes also play a definite role in this color pattern inheritance.

Body type and characteristics: They tend to be fine-boned but beefy, with the same muscling characteristics of a Shorthorn. They are a medium framed breed, similar in size to a medium-framed Angus, and do not get overly big like Continentals would.

Head characteristics: They tend to have a small head in comparison to the rest of their body size. They are naturally polled as well, with head shape similar to that of an Angus.

Other characteristics: They are originated from New South Wales, Australia, where a roan Shorthorn cow was bred to a Black Angus bull and was found to produce only grey calves from this cross. Interest grew in this grey cattle, and they way they out-performed Angus and Shorthorns, and efforts continued to make this into a breed. Consequently, Murray Grey cattle excel in the feedlot as well as in the pasture on only grass, and butchers started paying a premium for Murray Grey beef. Popularity grew, and so did the breed. Today, they can be found not only in Australia, but also in the USA and Canada.

They are also known for their small thrifty calves that grow like weeds once they hit the ground. Cows are great milkers as well, and this translates to great growths in the calves. They are highly adaptable, able to thrive and survive in a variety of climatic and environmental conditions, still keeping their condition and raising good calves. They are also very docile, which make them favorable in intensive grazing and feedlot conditions.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Murray Grey cattle, and compare them with pictures of Murray Greys in your cattle breeds book or on an Internet cattle breeds site.

