 Going for an easy walk not only can stretch out your muscles through motion and help you relax, but it may also ease cramps. Make sure to keep your walk low impact so that you don’t cause your muscles to tense up further.


Only walk if you are able to and don’t push yourself. This may only be possible after some light stretching.
Gentle walking can help stretch out your muscles. Swing your arms lightly and use long strides to get the full stretching benefits.;
, Gentle yoga can help stretch out your cramped back muscles more generally relax you. Even taking the time to do downward facing dog for ten breaths can help ease muscle cramps.


Try doing gentle forms of yoga to stretch your muscles and relax you. Types of yoga such as restorative and yin yoga help stretch out and repair muscles and relax the body.If you don’t have the time to commit to a full yoga session, do downward facing dog for 10 deeps inhalations and exhalations. Adho mukha savasana, which is the Sanskrit name for downward facing dog, is an important foundational pose in yoga that will not only loosen tight muscles, but will also relax your mind.Talk to your doctor before you begin any yoga practice to make sure you’re healthy enough to practice., Deep breathing, sometimes called pranayama, will naturally invigorate you and can help dissolve tension and tightness in your back muscles and uterus.Focusing on your breathing can deepen help you deal with the symptoms of menstrual pain quickly and effectively.


Deep breathing can help your body distribute oxygen to your body, which can help ease cramps and back pain. Inhale and exhale completely and in a balanced manner through your nose. For example, you would inhale for 4 breaths, hold for 2 counts, and then exhale completely for four breaths. You can vary the counts according to your abilities.You want to get the most out of your deep breathing, so sit upright, with your shoulders back, and refrain from slouching. Breath slowly and evenly by focusing from your stomach, pulling in your belly to expand you lungs and rib cage., If you have pain in your back, stretch out your lower back muscles. There are a couple of different ways to stretch that may help alleviate the cramps and pain.


Lie flat on the ground and bend your knees into your chest to stretch out your lower back muscles.
If you cannot lie down, you can do a similar stretch to ease lower back pain by simply bending forward and touching your toes.Don't force yourself to stretch if it’s not possible. It’s best to gently ease into the stretch. Only increase the stretch as the cramping ceases.
You might want to walk around between stretches to help relax yourself.
 Cramping causes an actual physical change in your back muscles and a massage can remove it so that your muscles feel relaxed.A professional masseuse can feel any cramping or tension in your muscles and massage them out.Some studies show that massage can release muscle tension and alleviate cramps.There are many types of massage available, but Swedish massage and deep-tissue massage are effective at relieving cramps.You can locate a qualified massage therapists either online or through a doctor’s recommendation.If you can’t get to a professional massage therapist, try self-massage., Some studies found that acupuncture or acupressure can help relieve dysmenorrhea. Schedule a session for yourself with a certified practitioner to help relieve menstrual back pain.Acupressure can help increase blood flow to your back and uterus, which may alleviate cramping.Acupressure or acupuncture may help balance out your brain’s hormone regulator, which can relieve pain associated with your period.