 Take the time to prepare for BUD/S in order to complete it and become a part of the elite group of Navy Seals. Before going to BUD/S, familiarize yourself with running, swimming, push-ups/sit-ups/pull-ups and maintaining a good diet. Upon acceptance into BUD/S, a Physical Screening Test (PST) must be completed. The test consists of a 500-yard swim done under 12.5 minutes, 42 push-ups in two minutes, 50 sit-ups in two minutes, six pull-ups without a time limit, and a 1.5 mile run in 11 minutes. These scores are just a minimum, so it is important to train hard to better your scores––the higher your scores, the better chances of completing BUD/S.;
, During BUD/S you will run many miles a week. Most of these timed runs will consist of four miles on the beach done in boots, and completed with a 32 minute minimum. Most candidates should be able to complete the four mile timed run right around 28 minutes. In order to get ready for the running in BUD/S, start many months before getting accepted into it. 


Start out running short distances at fast paces. This means running around two to four miles at six to seven minutes a mile. 
Increase your distance weekly between 10 to 20 percent, or when the distance is becoming easy for you. For example, start out running two miles, then add 0.2 to 0.4 miles the next time. Do not increase this by more than 20 percent throughout the process. Bear in mind that consistency is better than speed. 
Allow yourself two to three days off from running a week or try to run every other day. This does not mean you have to take a complete day off from exercise, just give your legs a break from running, in order to prevent injury at this time.
 Swimming is another essential skill you must master upon entering BUD/S training. The PST allows for a 500 yard swim of breast or sidestroke in under 12.5 minutes but really try to aim for a score of 9.5 minutes or better. 


Focus primarily on open water swims with fins. During BUD/S, you will be mostly swimming with fins on, so it is important to buy a pair of stiff fins, and to become comfortable with them while swimming.
Try to find access to a lake, or an ocean to gain the experience. First off, take the time to learn the stroke and master it. It is very important to be comfortable in the water. 
Swim between 1000 to 2000 yards a week. It is extremely important to master the stroke before adding length to your swims. Perfect form will help you gain speed and endurance.
 For the PST test you will need to complete 42 push-ups in two minutes, 50 sit-ups in two minutes, and six pull-ups with no time limit. These scores are minimums and will not do much for you if you are just hitting these marks. A competitive number for push-ups is 100, and 100 sit-ups, and 25 pull-ups completed. These should be your goals, because the higher you score on the PST the better you will make your chances of completing BUD/S. 


Complete these exercises at least four to five times a week. Given that the minimum scores should be exceeded, make those numbers your goals for the first week, and once you complete those, add to them. Then make your goal 100 push-ups/sit-ups, and 25 pull-ups, and once you hit that, keep going. Train yourself at this point to keep going. 
Practice makes perfect with these three exercises, practice them frequently, and master them just as you master the running, and swimming because they will be very important come time to go to Coronado and start your training.
 Diets are very important during this time of training and fitness preparation. During BUD/S you will be eating very fulfilling meals three times a day, and four meals a day during what is termed "Hell Week". Meals consisting of much more than you can eat are given due to all the calories lost through the exercises.


Eat healthy food. It is important to eat healthy, and in decent moderation. Do not eat junk even though you're training hard at this time. Good food will make you feel better and shape your body to be successful in your body weight exercises and most importantly BUD/S.  Failure to replace energy and fluids lost during one workout can really hurt you in the long run. 
For your diet, focus on carbohydrates, proteins, fats, and plenty of water. While you're training, increase you calorific/kiloujoule intake from carbohydrates. Be sure to consume 0.6-0.8 grams of proteins per pound of body weight while training. 
Be sure to drink plenty of water but mix in some sport drinks containing electrolytes to prevent over-hydration.

