 It's a gray app that contains an image of gears (⚙️) and is typically located on the home screen.;
, It's near the top of the menu, next to a gray gear (⚙️) icon.
 It's a stand-alone section near the middle of the menu.


If you've already enabled Restrictions, enter your passcode.
 It's at the top of the screen.


If the button reads "Disable Restrictions," you've already turned them on, and there is no need to tap it.
 Type in and confirm a four-digit passcode when prompted.
 Do so in the second part of the "ALLOW:" section.


Slide "Installing Apps" to the "On" (green) or "Off" (white) position to allow or prevent the installation of apps on the device.
Slide "Deleting Apps" to the "On" (green) or "Off" (white) position to allow or prevent the removal of apps from the device.
Slide "In-App Purchases" to the "On" (green) or "Off" (white) position to allow or prevent users from making purchases, such as add-ons or upgrades, from within the apps on the iPhone.
 It's in the "ALLOWED CONTENT:" section.
 Tap on one or more of the ratings to set the maturity level of the apps that can be opened on your iPhone. Now, only apps with the maturity levels that you've selected will appear on your device's home screen.



Don't Allow Apps causes most third-party apps to disappear from your home screen. Factory iPhone apps and some very basic productivity apps, like Google Calendar, will still be available.

4+ rated apps contain no objectionable material. It's a like a "G" rating for a movie.

9+ rated apps may contain mild cartoon violence. This is similar to a "PG" movie rating, and includes apps like Lego games.

12+ rated apps may contain infrequent, mild profanity, some realistic violence, or intense cartoon violence. They may also include mild suggestive themes and simulated gambling. This rating is similar to a "PG-13" movie rating.

17+ rated apps are essentially unrestricted, although the Apple App Store bans actual nudity. Unrestricted web browsers carry a 17+ rating.

Allow All Apps allows unrestricted access to any app on the device.

