 The best way to show that you don’t like her as more than a friend is by acting like it isn’t happening. If you just act normal while she’s making her feelings obvious, she will probably eventually realize why., Exhaust all other options before you tell a girl directly that you aren’t interested in her. Since she has feelings for you, she will most likely be hurt and embarrassed if you reject her so harshly. Keep your conversations with her relatively brief and don’t deviate too much from small talk. If this doesn’t do the trick, try hinting in one or more of the following ways to insinuate that you aren’t interested in a more subtle way:


Be unreceptive when she tries to make plans to meet up in the future.
Tell her that you’re in a relationship with someone else.
Tell her you’re really busy and don’t have time for a relationship right now., She will probably make small movements and position her body in a way that is welcoming. To show that you don’t feel the way she does, counter her movements. If she sits a little too close to you, scoot away from her a little bit.Also consider crossing your arms sometimes when she approaches you. This is a natural sign of resistance., If you’ve tried to be clear in other ways and she’s still being forward, it’s probably time to be direct. Remember to speak to her the way you’d like to be spoken to if you were in her position. Try using “I” statements to keep the conversation more about you. Listing reasons why you don’t like her is rude and will damage her confidence, so don’t do that. Instead, try saying one of these statements:


“I’m really sorry, but I don’t see you that way.”
“I think you’re great, but I’m looking for something else right now.”
“I’ve enjoyed talking with you, but I’m not really feeling a romantic connection between us.”, Since you don’t like her more than a friend, keep your texts friendly, but short and relatively infrequent. Texting her too much can give her the wrong idea, which could get her hopes up and make her feel more disappointed later on.

