 The sun’s UV rays are strongest between the hours of 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., so that’s when you’re at the greatest risk of getting a sunburn. If you stay inside during midday, you can avoid these dangerous rays and protect your skin. Schedule your outdoor activities, such as walking the dog or mowing the lawn, before 10 or after 4 whenever possible.If you aren’t sure how strong the sun’s UV rays are, pay attention to your shadow. When it’s longer than you are, UV exposure is low. However, when your shadow is shorter than you are, UV exposure is high, so you should try to stay indoors.
If you have to go outside when the sun is at its strongest, try to limit the time you spend outdoors. The less exposure you have to the sun, the less chance you’ll have of getting a sunburn.
 Sometimes, you have to go outside even during the sun’s peak hours, so the key to preventing sunburn is covering yourself with appropriate clothing. Long-sleeve shirts and pants cover more of your skin than tank tops and shorts, so they can help block the sun. The more skin that your clothing covers, the more protected you'll be.Loose-fitting clothing made of tightly woven, synthetic fabric, such as lycra, nylon, and acrylic, offers the best protection from the sun.
Dark clothing can block more sunlight than lighter colored items.
Some clothing is made of fabric that has built-in sun protection. The label will indicate the item’s UV protection factor (UPF), so you know how effective it is at blocking the sun’s rays. Choose clothing with a UPF rating of at least 30 for the most effective protection.
 The right hat is not only stylish, but can protect your scalp from a possible sunburn. Make sure to throw on a pair of sunglasses before you head out the door as well because it can be difficult to apply sunscreen around the eye area.While a baseball cap or visor offers some sun protection, a wide-brimmed hat with at least a 4-inch brim is the best choice because it will shield your scalp, eyes, ears, and neck.Choose sunglasses that provide 100% UV protection, so your eyes are protected from both UVA and UVB rays.
Make sure your sunglasses fit well and don't slip down your nose, exposing the eye area to the sun.
 When you have to go outdoors, choose areas where the sun doesn’t reach, such as beneath a large, leafy tree. If you go to a spot where there isn’t much natural shade, such as the beach, bring an umbrella, portable canopy, or tent that can shield you from the sun.Being in the shade doesn’t provide complete protection from the sun because you can still receive indirect sunlight that reflects off nearby surfaces, so you should still wear protective clothing and sunscreen to prevent sunburn.
 Some people assume that if their skin is tan, it won’t burn when exposed to the sun, so they lay out to establish a “base” to protect them. However, a tan doesn’t offer any real protection from the sun -- and tanning on a regular basis, whether in the sun or a tanning bed, can do long-term damage to your skin, so it should be avoided.If you want some color, the only safe tans are those that are the result of spray on or self-tanning products. However, keep in mind that an artificial tan doesn't provide any sun protection, so you must still protect your skin with sunscreen and other sun safety measures.

