 If you’re looking for a hearty meal option for Valentine’s Day, make a vegetarian lasagna with a few staple ingredients. This dish can be prepared ahead of time and then frozen so all you have to do on Valentine’s Day is pop it in the oven to cook. Serve it with a side salad and you have a delicious, simple veggie only meal.

If you’d prefer to make a lighter pasta dish for Valentine’s Day, try making a vegetarian pasta. You can make vegetarian pasta with frozen vegetables or use fresh vegetables instead. Make your own tomato sauce or buy tomato sauce premade.;
, Veggie burgers are a great option for a simple yet filling Valentine’s Day meal. You can make veggie burgers with black beans, lentils, or tempeh. Add seasonings like garlic, soy sauce, salt, and ground cumin to give the veggie burgers flavor.

Serve the veggie burgers on a bun with toppings like pickles, ketchup, mustard, lettuce, and sliced tomatoes. Add a side salad or homemade french fries for a complete, veggie meal.
 A yummy vegetable curry is a good option for a meal that is quick and easy to make. Start with a garlic and onion base. Then, add vegetables like potatoes, carrots, eggplant, and zucchini as well as spices like cumin, coriander, turmeric, paprika, salt, and chopped chilies. Finish with vegetable stock.

You can also make an Indian curry made with baby potatoes and tomatoes, known as Aloo Dum.
Serve the vegetable curry with a side of brown rice or naan bread.
 A veggie stir fry is another good quick meal option. Pack the stir fry with vegetables like mushrooms, broccoli, cauliflower, and snow peas. Use a sauce made of soy sauce, ground ginger, garlic powder, water, and cornstarch. Finish the dish with toppings like cashews or cilantro.

Serve the veggie stir fry with rice or noodles on the side.
 For a light but filling meal option, make a vegetable soup for Valentine’s Day. Use vegetable stock instead of chicken or beef stock to make the soup vegetarian. Put vegetables like carrots, potatoes, celery, green beans, and corn in the soup. Season the soup with garlic, salt, pepper, and fresh herbs like dill or thyme.

Another option is to make a barley and vegetable soup.
Serve the vegetable soup with slices of bread or a side salad.
 A savory vegetable tart made with ricotta and tomato can be a great meal option, especially for a meal that is light and easy to prepare. Use pre-made puff pastry for the crust or make your own pie crust. Then, fill the crust with ricotta cheese, tomato, parmesan cheese, and spices like nutmeg and oregano.

Serve the tart with a side salad for a fresh, hearty vegetarian meal.
 Vegetarian chili is a good one pot meal for Valentine’s Day. Use vegetarian beef or chicken sausages, tofu, or textured vegetable protein for added protein in the chili. Throw in vegetables like tomatoes, red peppers, and mushrooms into the chili. Add beans like black beans or pinto beans as well as spices like cumin, cayenne pepper, oregano, and chili powder.

Serve the vegetarian chili with bread or homemade cornbread on the side.

