 In order to save space, many laptops come with attached graphics processing units (GPUs) that are hardwired into your processor and motherboard. That means that in order to get a new video card for you computer you'd need to get a new processor, which is expensive enough that a new laptop is often the better buy. You need a PCI slot to upgrade your video card., Go online and search for your user manual, then flip to the "Specifications" or "Product Description" section. Look for "Graphics," and note what options your computer supports.
 To do so, go to your Control Panel → Hardware and Sound → Device Manager, or search for it in the Windows search bar. Click "Display Adapters" and see what comes up. If you see an Intel Chip, or the words "Integrated Graphics," then you have an attached GPU and you cannot swap your video card.


If there are two options, such as Intel graphics and an ATI or nVidia card, you have a discrete graphics card that can be swapped out.
If your only option under "Display Adapters" is the same make as the chip in the "Processors" section, you have an integrated GPU that cannot be upgraded., In 99% of the cases, you'll need to go straight to the manufacturer for an upgraded card. So HP users should check with HP, Dell with Dell, etc. Unless you have a dedicated, removable video card, you cannot just buy the newest video card online and plug it in. In your user manual there will be a list of acceptable chip upgrades, and you must choose one that works with your computer. Unfortunately, due to speed, software challenges, and even physical size, you will be very limited in the number of video cards you can purchase for your laptop, and your manufacturer will list them all., This is not an easy procedure, and it requires that you take apart almost the entire laptop and put it back together flawlessly. That is, of course, if you can even upgrade it. More often than not, swapping out a video card is not the most cost-effective way to upgrade a laptop, but if you're sure that is what you want to do, there are a couple of precautions you can take:


Take pictures at every stage. This will help you put everything back together.
Consult all the manuals and pictures of your computer before taking it apart. Know specifically what you have to take apart and how to put it back together.
Take anti-static precautions seriously.
Keep a clean, open workspace to prevent losing small screws or mixing up parts.