 A prime candidate for a career as an art dealer should be able to answer yes to the following:


Do you have a natural passion for art? Whether art connoisseurs or artists themselves, art dealers generally love the art world to begin with.
Do you have a natural ability for detecting trends in aesthetics?
Are you good at networking? You will need to make contacts of all sorts of art industry professionals if you want to successfully deal art.
Do you have a knack for making and handling publicity?
Can you tell the difference between different art periods, styles, movements and techniques?
Are you comfortable with taking risks? Those in the field of art are especially susceptible to economic downfalls and shifts in popular tastes.
Do you have enough capital to start as an art dealer and keep yourself afloat?;
, A degree in art history from an accredited university is the ideal starting point.
 There are several ways you can immerse yourself in the art world and build up enough experience to branch out and deal in art on your own.


Internships at museums or art galleries are a great way to get your foot in the door while you are still in college.
Get a job as a museum or auction house curator and work your way up.
If you are an artist, you already have a leg-up as far as industry experience goes.
 Atlanta, Georgia's highly populated capital, is especially saturated with art galleries and is therefore an optimal place to find work and make contacts in the art industry.


Atlanta, Georgia's capital, has many art galleries and museums. Try to settle in one of its art districts: Bennett Street Design District, Castleberry Hill Art District or Westside Art District.
Savannah is a popular tourist attraction for its historic charm, and is also home to many art galleries.
 Develop a rapport with and keep a running list of artists, curators, auction houses, critics, commissioners and collectors that you come into contact with. These industry professionals can either make or break your success as an art dealer.
, As an art dealer in Georgia, you may want to specialize in Southern folk art, civil war era art or any genre, style or artist associated with the South.
 Do you intend to run a gallery, or would you rather maintain an online presence and make a name for yourself among industry contacts?

, In order to officially be a licensed art dealer in Georgia, you must first register your business name (if you opt to use a business name) and obtain a license for business operation through the state of Georgia.

