 The simplest way to keep your cheese cool in a hot smoker or grill is to place a large pan of ice .Put a grate over the pan for the cheese to rest on, then skip down to the "Light a flavorful smoke source" step. If you don't have room for the ice pan, or you are concerned about the moisture slowing the smoking down, try the next step instead.


If you have the space, fill a colander with ice instead and put it over a pan to catch drips. This makes it easier to replace the ice.
Read the section on preparing the cheese if you haven't already.
 Take a clean, sturdy tin can, such as a soup can holding at least 10 oz. (300 mL). You'll use this as an undersize chimney starter, keeping the fire small and low-temperature.


If you have a large smoker, you may need to use a larger coffee can instead to get enough smoke density.
 If using ice, start the fire as normal, using three or four small charcoal briquettes (or an electric smoker's heating element). Use a pan of flavorful wood chips or pellets directly over the heat to create the smoke. (See the tips section below for advice on flavors.) If you are using the tin can, there are two options available:


Tin can method A: fill half the can with charcoal briquettes. Fill the next ¼ of the can with water-soaked wood chips, then the rest of the can with dry woodchips.Tin can method B: Punch a hole in the can near the upper rim. Stick a brand-new, soldering iron into this hole, then fill about half the can with wood pellets (no charcoal necessary). Plug in the soldering iron to start the fire.Never use a soldering iron that has been used for soldering, or the smoke will contain toxic chemicals.
 Adjust the air vents until plenty of smoke is produced, but the wood is burning slow and steady.
 With the smoke source at the base of the smoker or grill, add the cheese pieces over the top grate. Close the smoker or grill.


If the day is windy, you can cover the closed device with a tarp to keep the smoke inside., With these methods, it's a smart idea to check the cheese every 15 to 20 minutes, especially the first time you try it. Look for the following problems and correct them:


Maintain the fire by adding more charcoal every 30–40 minutes, or more wood chips or pellets whenever they run low. (Include both wet and dry wood chips if using tin can method A.)
If the cheese develops sweat beads, it is getting close to melting. Narrow the air vents or cool the cheese using the methods below.
If using an ice pan, replace ice water with fresh ice. On a cool day with a low fire, this may not be necessary.
 Cheese absorbs flavors easily, and does not need to be smoked as long as meat does. Turn the cheese over every 15–30 minutes, or at least once during the smoking process. Wait until the cheese has developed a darker "smoke ring" around its edges before removing from heat.


Soft cheese in a warm smoker can be finished in as little as 30 minutes, if you prefer a light flavor. One or two hours is more common.
Thick blocks of hard cheese smoked on a cold winter day may take as long as 4–6 hours. For your first attempt, 3 hours or less is recommended to avoid overpowering the original cheese flavor.
 Remove the cheese and wrap it in wax paper or parchment paper. Keep it in the refrigerator for at least a week so the smoke flavor mellows into a more attractive taste. Often, the cheese tastes better after two to four weeks refrigerated.


Do not wrap the cheese in plastic. If you want to prevent it drying out, wrap in wax paper, then place in an unsealed plastic bag.

