 Wink murder is a fun game to play with friends, family, and even strangers as an icebreaker. It works best if you have at least ten people, but no more than thirty, as the game may take too long., Wink murder is convenient because it can be played indoors or outdoors. That means you can play in your living room, on your deck, in the park, anywhere you can imagine. Just pick the location that works best for everyone playing.


Everyone will be walking around, so when picking a location the only thing you might want to consider is space. Make sure everyone has room to mingle and sit or stand comfortably.
 Pick one person to be the moderator. The moderator will stand out of the game to pick the “wink murderer” and facilitate.


Everybody can take turns being the moderator. That way, every person gets the chance to play.
 Everyone sits or stands with their eyes closed while the moderator walks around and picks a “wink murderer.” No peeking!


The moderator can tap a person’s shoulder to signify they’ve been chosen as the wink murderer. This method keeps it a secret to everybody else playing.
 Once the wink murderer is chosen, everybody stands up and wanders around the room. You can make casual conversation. Chat about the weather or what you ate that day.


To get into the game even more, everybody can pretend to be detectives and speak like they’re on a crime show. Your conversations can be about clues and predictions.
 The key to the game is that everybody must make eye contact with each other. While most people are just chatting and looking at each other, the wink murderer is trying to make eye contact and wink at you without others noticing. This is how he “kills you.”

, If you make eye contact with the wink murderer and he winks at you, you have been “killed.” Wait a few seconds after the wink murderer kills you and then pretend to die. Once you have died, sit off to the side and observe the game until it’s over.


Dying dramatically makes the game even more entertaining. Clutch your heart or gasp with loud noises and fall to the ground. See how creative and dramatic you can be.Make sure you wait a few seconds after the wink murderer kills you. If you die right away, you’ll give the mystery away too easily.
 While you’re chatting with everyone, pay attention to your surroundings and try to figure out who the wink murderer is. Just be careful you don’t make eye contact with the wink murderer.
 If there is a second, you yell the name of the person you suspect and the person who seconded you yells the name of the person they suspect. The accused must say “yes” (they are the murderer) or “no” (they are innocent).The seconder may guess a different person. In this instance, the seconder is only penalized if the first person guessed incorrectly too. If the person who originally shouted “I accuse” guesses the murderer correctly, the seconder isn’t penalized because the game is over.
You can say “I accuse” at any point in the game. Just make sure you have a strong idea of who the murderer is because if you’re wrong, you’re out of the game.
If nobody seconds you, you cannot guess. Wait a minute and then try to guess again.
If you were incorrect, you must leave the game as penalty and the game continues until the killer is identified. The seconder must also leave if they are incorrect.
If you were wrong but the seconder was correct, they win the game.
If you were right, the murderer has been successfully caught which means you win and everybody can start a new round.

