 On the day of the appointment, collect your child’s medical and insurance information. Don’t forget your list of questions. Go to your child’s doctor with your child.Plan on getting to the doctor’s office about 15 minutes before you’re scheduled to be there. This will give you some wiggle room in the event you hit traffic or have some unexpected trouble arriving.
There may be additional fees for not showing up to your child’s back to school checkup. If you need to cancel, do so ahead of time.
 There are many things that could be examined during your child’s back to school checkup. The specific items that your child’s doctor will be interested in examining will vary depending on your child’s age. But there are a few standard metrics that any back to school checkup should include.For a comprehensive list of checkup occasions and associated items for examination, check out http://kidshealth.org/en/parents/checkups.html?WT.ac=ctg#catcheckupsubcat.
 If your child has not been vaccinated against all or most major illnesses by the time they are school-aged, let your doctor know. Get your child immunized against illnesses like polio, hepatitis A and B, tuberculosis, varicella (chicken pox), measles, mumps, and rubella, as well as any others required by their school.Your doctor will let you know if and when your child needs vaccinations based on where they are on their immunization schedule.
Getting your child vaccinated is not only a commonsense health decision, it’s also law in many places. Most U.S. states, for instance, require that your child receive vaccination for certain illnesses before enrolling in school., Since you’ve made a big effort to write down your questions for the doctor, it is important to ask your questions when your doctor administers the back to school exam. Request clarification on anything confusing.Being actively engaged in your child’s health will send a good message to your child that they, too, should feel free to question doctors and other authority figures regarding issues that concern them.

