 Your doctor or other medical professional can accurately measure your blood oxygen level using advanced techniques and equipment. You may need to have your blood oxygen level tested prior to surgery or other medical procedures, or if you have certain conditions, such as:Sleep apnea
A heart attack or congestive heart failure
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
Anemia
Lung cancer
Asthma
Pneumonia
Cystic fibrosis
A current or possible need for mechanical ventilation to support your breathing;
, Talk to your doctor to make sure you understand the test, and ask questions any questions you may have about it. You can also help by letting your doctor know if:


You have or have had bleeding problems
You take blood thinners, such as aspirin or warfarin (Coumadin)
You are taking any medications
You have any known allergies to medications or anesthetics

, The arterial blood gas test is a routine procedure, and there is little chance of serious issues developing as a result of it.Potential minor risks include:


A small bruise at the site where blood is drawn from the artery. Keeping pressure on the site for at least ten minutes after the needle is removed will lower the chances of bruising.
Feelings of lightheadedness, dizziness, or nausea while blood is being drawn from your artery.
Prolonged bleeding. This is a potential risk if you have a bleeding disorder or are taking blood-thinning medicines such as aspirin or warfarin.
A blocked artery. If the needle damages a nerve or artery, it may cause the artery to become blocked. This is a rare problem.
 To measure blood oxygen with this method, blood must be drawn from an artery. Usually, one in your wrist (the radial artery) is chosen, although blood can also be drawn from an artery in your groin (the femoral artery) or from your arm above the elbow (the brachial artery).A needle will be used to draw the blood for the sample.


You will be able to sit for the procedure, and your arm will be extended and will rest on a comfortable surface.
The health professional will feel your wrist to find your pulse and to check the blood flow of your arteries (a procedure called the Allen test).
If you use an arm for dialysis, or if there is infection or inflammation at the intended test site, another area will be used for the arterial blood gas test.
An artery is chosen for this procedure because it will allow the oxygen to be measured before it enters body tissues, giving a more accurate reading.
If you are currently on oxygen therapy, your doctor may have the oxygen shut off for twenty minutes prior to the test (unless you cannot breathe without the oxygen) to help get an accurate reading of your blood oxygen level.
 Once he or she has selected a test site, your health professional will prepare the site and use a needle to take a blood sample.First, the skin on the test site will be cleaned with alcohol. You may be given a local anesthetic (by injection) to numb the area first.
The needle will be puncture your skin, and blood will fill the syringe. Make sure that you breathe normally while the blood is being drawn. If you were not given a local anesthetic, you may feel some slight pain during this step.
Once the syringe is full, the needle will be removed and gauze or a cotton ball will be put over the puncture site.
A bandage will be put over the puncture site. You should apply pressure to the site for five to ten minutes in order to stop any bleeding. If you are on any blood thinning medications or have bleeding problems, your health professional may instruct you to apply pressure for a longer time.
 However, you should be gentle at first with the arm or leg used for the blood draw. Avoid lifting or carrying objects for about twenty for hours after the test.


Contact your doctor if you have prolonged bleeding from the site, or any other unexpected issue.
 Once the sample is collected, your health professional will send the sample to a lab to complete the test. When the sample arrives at a lab, technicians can use special equipment to measure the blood oxygen level of your sample.The amount of time that passes before receiving the results of your arterial blood gas test will depend on which lab your sample is sent to. Your health professional will be able to give you this information.
In emergency situations, particularly if you are in a hospital, the results may be available within a few minutes. Ask your healthcare provider how long you can expect to wait to receive your results.
 The arterial blood gas test gives a reading of partial pressure of oxygen and carbon dioxide in your blood, which is more specific and useful to healthcare professionals than the percentages produced by pulse oximetry. Normal oxygen results are between 75-100mmHg (a unit used to measure pressure); normal carbon dioxide results are between 38-42mmHg.Your doctor will discuss the implications of your test results with you, including how your “normal” level may vary based on a number of factors, including:


Your elevation above sea level
The particular lab your sample was sent to
Your age
If you have a fever or low body temperature
If you have certain conditions, such as anemia
If you smoke just prior to the test

