 Locate the app on your app drawer or home screen, and tap on it.


If you don’t have this app, you can get it from Google Play.
 Tap the “Sign in” button to access the login page. Enter your registered email address and password into the given fields, and tap “Sign in” to continue.


You can also log into Magisto using your Google or Facebook accounts. After authorization, the app will direct you to the main app screen.
If you don’t have an account yet, tap “Create an account” and provide the necessary information to instantly get an account.
 The main screen will then display a plus sign in a circle on the bottom right corner. Tap on that to begin creating a movie out of your photos.
 Magisto will open up you gallery. Tap the photos and videos you wish to create into a movie. A tick mark will appear on the selected photos. Tap again if you wish to deselect any photo.


Tap the “Next” button on the top right corner when you are done. You should add a minimum of 5 photos for the best results, or at least 15 seconds of video footage.
 The next screen will display editing styles (e.g., love, birthday, etc.). This is like filtering and effects for photos. Scroll through the list, as there are several preloaded editing styles to choose from. Tap the one that fits your requirement and you will be directed to the Soundtrack screen.
 Magisto has several soundtracks preloaded on it. Scroll down the list. Tap on a soundtrack to listen to it; tap again if you want to use it for your movie.


If you want to choose from your own music list, scroll down to the very bottom and tap “Choose from my music.” Your music list will open where you can tap on the song you want to use.
 Add a title in the Title box at the top, and then tap “Make My Movie!” at the bottom of the screen to create your movie.


Depending on the number of pictures and videos you added, the movie creation will take a bit of time. You will be notified once your movie has been created. Once done, it will be saved in your Gallery.

