 Your specialists and their peers at a transplant center will determine if you are eligible to be put on the national heart transplant list. Ultimately, their goal is to find out if you are a likely candidate for a successful transplant. If they determine you are a good candidate, they will place you on the list. They will evaluate:Whether you are psychologically stable enough to handle the transplant process
Whether you have a strong support network that will be able to provide emotional support during the transplant process
Whether you are willing to take the steps to maintain your health during the process. For example, if you smoked, have you stopped for a long enough period of time?
Whether your health is overall good enough to survive the process and the transplant
Whether your condition is severe enough to warrant a transplant;
, Your standing on the list will be determined by your overall health condition and the condition of other people on the list. Ultimately, your need is based relative to the needs of others also on the list.


People who are the best possible match for a specific heart are much more likely to receive that heart.
Blood type is very important in determining where you are on the list. People with rare blood types have a tougher time getting a heart.
Overall health condition is very important. Doctors are very reluctant to transplant a heart to someone who may not survive the surgery. For example, factors such as stroke, infection, and kidney failure may disqualify you from the list. In addition, you may be removed from the list if your condition improves drastically.
In the United States, 3,000 people get on the transplant list every year. Unfortunately, only 2,000 hearts are available every year., The heart transplant waiting list is a list of people waiting for an available heart. Over the course of the year, people move up on the list, are taken off the list, or are added to the list. Consider these important facts:


As of October 2016, 4,100 people were on the list in the United States.
Many people die before suitable hearts are found for them.
People are put on the list (and their place determined) by a wide variety of medical factors.
There is no way to pay to move up on the list., You need to make sure that you don’t get complacent and that you stay active and up to date with your doctor. By missing appointments, you’ll deprive your medical professionals of the information they need to make sure you stay healthy while you wait for a new heart.


Maintain constant monitoring of your condition through diagnostics, regular physical checkups, and electronic monitoring (if appropriate).
Stay on your medications. Perhaps the most important thing you’ll need to do when managing your health is to stay on any medications that have stabilized your condition. Without your medications, it is possible that your condition could deteriorate. This could result in a life-threatening situation or you being moved off the transplant list.
Keep a medical alert wristband that lists your medications and your condition., There may be procedures you can undergo while you wait for a heart transplant that can make it more likely you make it to transfer. Procedures such as inotropic therapy, a biventricular pacemaker, and left ventricular assist device (LVAD) can ease the strain on your heart and improve symptoms related to heart failure. Talk to your doctor about your options for procedures that can support your heart health while you wait., While you wait for a heart transplant, you need to take steps to maintain your level of health. Ultimately, a decreasing health condition could lower your chance of receiving a heart. In addition, it could put you at risk of serious illness or death.


Consider working less, finding different work, or filing for long-term disability or social security.
Only engage in exercise that is recommended and sanctioned by your doctors.
Abstain from tobacco products and alcohol.
Watch your nutrition. Your cardiologist may refer you to a nutritionist or recommend a specific diet to stay on while waiting for a heart., You may also need to seek the counseling of a mental health professional. Ultimately, your condition will cause you a lot of anxiety and may even put you into a depressed state. A mental health professional will help you deal through these problems in a structured manner.


If you can, locate a mental health professional who has experience dealing with people on transplant waiting lists or with terminal conditions.
Visit several counselors, psychologists, or therapists before you choose one. Make sure you pick a provider with whom you are comfortable.
You may also consider the guidance of a religious leader, such as a minister, priest, or rabbi., You should also consider taking a variety of steps to stay as relaxed as possible. This is important, as your blood pressure and stress level may have a substantial impact on your overall health. Think about:


Practicing yoga or some sort of relaxing exercise. By practicing yoga, you'll work on techniques that will help you breathe better, lower your blood pressure, and put yourself in a better overall mind frame.
Learn how to meditate. Meditation is another great way to help you foster a better frame of mind. By meditating, you'll learn to clear your mind and become more relaxed.
Avoid activities that increase your blood pressure or tension level. This could include gambling, or watching sports or movies that are very stressful or suspenseful.
 Perhaps the most important thing you need to do while waiting for a heart transplant is to spend some quality time with your loved ones. This is important for a number of reasons. Perhaps most important is that you and your loved ones will need a lot of support during this very stressful time.


Rely on your friends and family for emotional support during this period. At times you may feel hopeless and you may fall into depression. Your friends and family can offer you a lot of relief.
If you can, be strong for your family. Depending on your family structure, your spouse or children may take your condition harder than you. Offer them love. For instance, if you have small children, tell them that you will always love them and nothing can change that., You should consider making alternate living arrangements to simplify treatment and to make it easier to spend time with family.


If you live far from an area where there are specialists to treat your condition, you should consider relocating. Being far from your doctors may prove costly and stressful.
Think about relocating or arranging housing in close proximity to extended family. Family may help you feel better before the transplant and they may assist you in recover.
If possible, try to find a location where you can obtain treatment and be close to family.
Look into charities and other services that help transplant patients find suitable housing in close proximity to their doctors., Regardless of your long-term outlook, you should take some time to make a will. Having a will may save your family a lot of heartache and confusion if something happens to you. In the end, you’ll need to have a will no matter what. It won’t hurt to use take this opportunity to make one.


Contact an attorney.
Talk to your significant other about your estate.
Always consider the welfare of your children when creating your will. You may have to designate someone to oversee any funds you leave for non-adult children., You may also want to put a little thought into your medical costs and the costs of other eventualities, like a possible funeral. By doing some financial planning, you’ll potentially save yourself and your family a big headache.


Remember, just because you’re taking some steps to plan your funeral, does not mean you will pass away. Consider your final costs, such as a plot, casket, and ceremony. If you don’t prearrange anything, let your friends and family know what you’d prefer.
Try to do a little accounting to see how much money out of pocket you may have to pay for your transplant expenses. Investigate all sources, such as a second mortgage, and fundraising through crowdsourcing websites like GoFundMe or Indiegogo.
Contact charities such as the Air Charity Network that provides free transportation for transplant patients.