 You should let your closest family and friends understand that you have an illness. Explain to them what the condition is and how it affects you. You might want to explain what causes it, how it is treated, and how it might affect your daily life. Ask them if they are willing to help work with you to manage your symptoms. This will let them know why you must do certain things, and they may be able to help you manage your symptoms.If you need time to rest or recuperate, let them know. For example, you can say, "I have Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. This means that I need to sleep every night, and I will probably need naps throughout the day. I don't want you to feel that I am ignoring you because I can't go out at night."
If you have a severe allergy, explain to them that you cannot have that specific food or allergen around you. You can say, "I could have a severe reaction if there are peanuts around. I would really appreciate it if you would not bring peanuts into the house, or if you could brush your teeth before coming to see me."

, Patient-to-patient support groups provide you with a network of others with the same condition. You might learn helpful tips about managing your condition, such as how to plan your day, reduce your symptoms, and cope with the bad days.Ask your doctor if they know about any local support groups. Local hospitals might also have a group you can join. If not, you can look on the internet for an online support group. You can even start one yourself.
 If you are feeling depressed or uncontrollably angry about your illness, you may need to speak to a therapist. They can help you manage your emotions in a healthy way that will allow you to focus on both your physical and mental health,Your doctor can refer you to a good psychologist. The American Psychological Association also offers a psychologist locator tool on their website., If you are struggling to find accommodation for your illness, you may need to contact a local organization, non-profit, or research foundation that specializes in your chronic condition. Some well-known organizations include:


Cystic Fibrosis FoundationAmerican Diabetes AssociationAsthma and Allergy Foundation of AmericaLupus Foundation of AmericaAmerican Cancer SocietyNational Fibromyalgia and Chronic Pain AssociationNational Multiple Sclerosis SocietyRobert Wood Johnson Foundation’s programs for Improving Chronic Illness Care