 Choose a space to meditate in that is quiet and free from distraction. The quieter and cleaner the space the less likely you will be distracted by other objects, sounds, or people. Quiet spaces can sometimes be hard to come by, especially if both your home and work are busy places. If this is the case, you may have to schedule your meditation at a time when a space is quieter than usual, like early in the morning or late in the evening.


You may want to start meditating in a place where you can adjust the lighting to be less distracting, especially if it’s bright.
Try meditating in your bedroom first thing in the morning or just before bed.;
, There are many options for seated postures in meditation. However, if you are just starting out, it is best to find a way to sit that is comfortable. Don’t worry about how your legs are crossed or in which direction your toes are pointed. Find a comfortable seat, which can even be a small stool or chair, and sit comfortably. If you are sitting on the floor, a mat, or a meditation cushion, try gently crossing your legs.There are five main sitting postures for seated meditation: full lotus, half lotus (crossed-legs), kneeling, chair sitting, and lying.Seated postures can also affect your flexibility. You may find that you need to change the way you sit over time.
Over time, you may find that you will need a meditation cushion to properly support your posture. Meditation cushions are relatively cheap and can be purchased through online vendors., Keeping an upright and solid posture will help you maintain attention and increase circulation. This may take some strength at first, but over time you core will adjust and be able to support you for longer amounts of time. A general rule for meditation posture is to stay straight and stay relaxed. Try to imagine that the top of your head is connected to a string and that the rest of your spine is hanging with gravity.If you notice that you begin to slouch or that sitting upright becomes uncomfortable, take a different posture or take a rest.
 Different styles of meditation call for different eye positions. However, it’s best to try to find what is most comfortable when you are starting out. Closed eye meditation can be advanced in some traditions and novice in others. If you decide to keep your eyes open, soften your gaze so that your vision almost becomes blurry. Try to focus on a specific point, preferably on the floor so that your gaze is lowered.Feel free to try both options during the same meditation session. If you feel as though keeping your eyes open is too distracting, close them for a minute or so.
 Hand positions can vary depending on which tradition you are meditating within. Instead of focusing on specific hand positions, simply rest the palms of your hands gently on your knees. Keeping your hands relaxed will in turn help relax your arms, shoulders, and neck. If you find that you are stretching your arms to place your hands on your knees, simply drag your hands back toward your body until you find a comfortable position.


Other hand positions include touching your thumb to your index finger, or touching your thumb to your ring finger.

