 The return or effects might be very quick, or it might take a long time. This is why effects happens years or decades after its cause.
Hatred does not end with hatred (or) an eye for an eye and the whole world turns blind.
The relevance behind these old quotes is because that if you continue to hate, or similarly be greedy or ignorant, this energy returns in a variety of different forms. Sometimes as is natural in human nature that other people may return this feeling to you, or it may occur as stress or illness and other such events, or the energy exerted by being angry or bearing grudges can change the shape and functionality of the brain. This means consequently neural pathways change to be more inclined to act or react with the same emotion in future, making it harder for a person to not fall into it and avoid more problems. It doesn't always happen immediately so we cannot always match up the responses to our action over long periods. So the best practical philosophy is hatred shouldn't be met with hatred, because it will just come back again and again. It could be balanced with tolerance or shrugging it off, or modified with goodwill.;
, It may seem logical on one hand, but sometimes it can be considered that after a simple cause and effect process, it ends there after the effect. But this is not the case in evidence as the effect can make a new result depending on the nature of interaction.


A simple example to compare against your own experiences: Once you might have been rude to someone and years later the result comes back to you. You might respond with aggression which has become a new cause for a future negative effect. The chain of events continues...

In a more logical context, if we respond to force (primary) with force (secondary), then the secondary force is a new action which will have a reaction of a new chain of events. But the primary force we experienced may had been a secondary type bouncing back from an earlier event and not truly a primary type after all. Because we handle some events ignorantly by responding with an unbeneficial response, such as anger or hatred, or desire for revenge & compensation, then the effect goes on. This often starts a search for the primary cause, which always seems to be ignorance of the facts of life and ignorance of what is actually happening in the mind at the time.
 Then you have eliminated a future effect from this chain as it’s now dead and defunct. If you had responded from a bad result with a new good action (such as tolerance), then a future good result comes, even if it may take decades.


There have been many thousands of chains of events in action in the past that resolved themselves or are either still reaching into the present and future or have since branched out creating new chains.
 To use common words, good things happen to bad people because they had good effects from the past coming into action now, but the results of all their present harmful actions will affect their future. The reverse also applies why unhappy things happening to good people because somewhere in the chain they had acted in ways that produced their future experiences.


The more good things gives a good future, but any bad actions will still come into play anyway. Bad effects, bad actions and more bad reactions will give a consistently bad future.
 If you have a small glass of water and pour a handful of salt into it, you can taste the salt easily. But put the same amount of salt into a swimming pool worth of water and the unpleasant taste is much harder to detect. Your actions can make the amount of water a lake, or a droplet worth. For some people, they have mountains of salt to go through as a result of old causes, their future is not too hard to predict.


The relevance is that the negative effect can be tempered with a surplus of positive effects to make it seem more mild, but the energy can still respond in its original strength if its not able to be tempered. Just like how salt is dense and can form pools of denser saltier water and less saltier water elsewhere, even in the same container, it still has the same effect. As cause and effects shape our habits and responses as well as how we think, feel, our health (etc) in the past, present and future – this makes the situation very complex to see through.
Action & intention are the cause as our thoughts & intention precede the action. We might do good things out of selfish intention, which does give either watered down good effects, or watered down negative results but still gives a result. Likewise bad things out of good intent. This can sometimes be observed in normal human environments such as when we spend time helping someone, but with the expectation of getting help back. The expectation is based in greed which creates bad effects, or reduces the good effects one might experience later.
 This serves to get an invaluable insight. Eventually you've seen the habit happen so often you can step in and stop that habit before harm is done. "A stitch in time" is a good metaphor to remember for this reason. It might take a little time, especially at the beginning but practice really does make perfect. After that, you become so familiar with the nature of the mind, you no longer feel stressed when problems or harmful feelings and thoughts arises at all as its just something else you can let go of.


While frequently told its still a good analogy to consider the lotus. It grows in mud and dirty water, but rises above it all to stand free. Its ultimately all up to you to stop the ways that will create bad effects, but the only way out is to see it, understand it and let it go, without responding with anger or other harmful feelings, but with understanding you can prevent future cause and effect chains or create good ones to make a more happier present and future.

