 This is very important. Young babies have limited ability to fight illness because their immune system isn’t fully developed. They are more prone to some serious bacterial infections such as kidney and blood stream infections, and pneumonia.If the baby has a fever on the weekend or evening after office hours, go to the emergency room.
 Contact the doctor of a 3-6 month old baby with a temperature up to 102 degrees F (38.9C) and who seems unusually lethargic, irritable, or uncomfortable, OR calla doctor if the temperature is over 102F (38.9C) with or without any symptoms.For a child 6 to 24 months, call a doctor if the baby’s temperature is over 102F (38.9C) and lasts more than one day with no symptoms. If the child has symptoms such as cough, diarrhea, cold, you may want to consider calling sooner depending on the severity of the symptoms., There are certain other situations when you may need to contact a doctor. This will depend on the age of the person and the symptoms they are having.


For a child over age 2, call a doctor for a fever up to 102F (38.9C) with vague symptoms (lethargy, restlessness, seems uncomfortable. Also, call a doctor for a temperature over 102F that lasts longer than 3 days and is not responding to medication.For adults, contact a doctor for a fever that is not responding to medication, is 103F (39.4C) or over, or that lasts over 3 days., If a newborn has a lower than normal temperature, which would be lower than 97F (36.1C), then you should call your doctor right away. Young infants may not regulate their temperature well when ill., for 3 days, or is accompanied by the following conditions:a sore throat for more than 24 hours
shows signs of dehydration (dry mouth, less than one wet diaper in 8 hours or urinating less frequently)
pain when urinating
refuses to eat, has a rash, or has difficulty breathing, or
has recently returned from a trip in another country.
 In some situations, you may need to seek emergency medical attention for a child with a fever. If a child develops a fever after being left in a hot car or another potentially dangerous situation, seek emergency medical attention if you notice that the child has:A fever and is not sweating.
A severe headache
Confusion
Ongoing vomiting or diarrhea
Seizures
A stiff neck
Irritability or noticeable discomfort
Any other unusual symptoms.
 Adults may also require emergency medical attention in some situations. Seek emergency medical attention for an adult if they have a fever and you also notice:They are complaining about a severe headache.
They have severe throat swelling.
An unusual skin rash, especially one that becomes worse quickly.
They complain about a stiff neck and have pain when they bend their head forward.
They are unusually sensitive to bright lights.
They seem confused.
They are coughing persistently.
They are complaining about muscle weakness or sensory changes.
They have a seizure.
They seem to be having trouble breathing or complain of chest pain.
They seem extremely irritable or listless.
They have abdominal pain when they urinate.
You notice any other unexplained symptoms.

