 Decide whether you want to make a career out of flying or if you just want to fly for pleasure.


If you want a career as a pilot, look for a flight school with several airplanes and full time flight instructors. These tend to be more structured and will get you done sooner than some of the more laid back type of schools.
If you want to fly just for fun and go at your own pace, you can choose a more relaxed-style type school. But, you may end up paying more money overall, since the longer you take the more money you will pay.
If you are going to be working on your commercial pilot certificate, strongly consider a Part 141 School versus a Part 61 school since you will only be required to log 190hrs of flight time if getting your commercial pilot training from a Part 141 School instead of the 250hrs if you are training at a Part 61 School.;
,,, Review the schools on your list online. Get an idea of each school's accreditation, programs, facilities, safety record and anything else that you feel is important in an aviation school search. Narrow your list down to no more than 8 flight schools, if possible, and request information from all of them, including the training syllabus you are interested in.
 Write notes comparing the positives and negatives of each school. Base your feedback on the characteristics that you consider significant when attending a flight school. Make notes of the bonus features at each school also, as these may be the determining factors if you are having a hard time choosing. You should jot down questions about things not mentioned or confusing.
 Use the process of elimination in your selection, based on your notes.
 This way you can put yourself in the environment of each school and meet the people you may be spending time with. Arrange a tour of the campus and flight department.
 If financial aid is a requirement, make arrangements to meet that administrator also. You can also arrange to meet with a flight instructor and interview the current students during the tour.
 You should bring your written list of questions. If additional questions come up during the meeting, write them down. Your goal is to leave each meeting feeling as if you have a complete picture of what it is like to be a student at the school.
 Determine whether you are still as impressed as you were when you read the school's informational packet. If you are more excited, then the school should be considered a finalist in your decision making. If the feeling is less impressive, then cross the school off your list.
 Look over your list of questions and responses from each flying school. Recall the feelings you got during each visit. Compare all your remaining schools in this manner and decide which one fulfills your ultimate goals.

