 It's very important to choose the right fabric for your sling, no matter which type you make. Be sure to choose a strong fabric that will not tear or lose its shape. It's also preferable to have a breathable fabric. Linen and denim are both excellent choices.Fabrics like flannel, muslin, quilting fabrics, and cotton gauze will not be strong enough.
Avoid fabrics with too much elasticity, such as jersey, as they will not provide the needed support and will stretch out with wear.
Don't use any type of rough fabric because it may harm the baby's skin.;
, If you are making a ring sling, you will need two rings that are 2.5-3 inches (6.4-7.6 cm) in diameter to hold your sling together and make it adjustable. You can purchase metal and plastic rings specifically designed for this purpose online. You may also be able to find sturdy metal rings at the hardware store, but you may have a difficult time finding a size that will work for you.Make sure your rings are at least 3/8 inches (1 cm) thick.
Keep in mind that rings that were not specifically designed for this purpose may not be as safe for your baby to put in his mouth.
Don't use D-rings, as these can slide through each other, causing your sling to slip.
Don't buy rings at a craft store, as these are not designed to be weight-bearing.If your ring has a weld, make sure it is not rough or it might tear the fabric.
 Slings can pose a serious suffocation risk if the baby is not placed correctly. To minimize this risk, make sure your baby is always in the proper position.Make sure the baby's mouth and nose are visible not covered by the sling's fabric.
Make sure the infant is not positioned in such a way that his chin is curled to his chest. In young infants, this position restricts the airway, limiting the baby's supply of oxygen.
Take extra care with very small babies and babies who have breathing problems (even from a cold), as these factors both greatly increase the risk that a baby will suffocate in a sling.
 To make a ring sling, you will need 2-2.5 yards (1.8-2.3 m) of fabric that is at least 36 inches (91.4 cm) wide. You will also need matching thread, a sewing machine, and two rings.


The exact length of the fabric needed will depend on the size of the sling wearer.
The width will depend on the weight of the fabric you are using. If you choose a lighter-weight fabric, you may want more than 36 inches of width.
 To get started, hem both long sides of your fabric and one short side by folding 1/4 inch (6.35mm) of the edge of the fabric onto the wrong side and sewing a line of stitches to secure.


Depending on the type fabric you use, you may be able to get away with not hemming. If the fabric frays, you will definitely want to hem.
 The next step is to pleat or fold the un-hemmed end of the fabric lengthwise. One of the easiest ways to do this is to fold the material back and forth along the long edge like a fan, making the folds slightly bigger than the diameter of the rings.


To ensure that they don't unravel during the next step, secure the folds by taping the fabric together. You can also secure the folds with straight pins or a loose stitch.
 Feed the folded or pleated edge of your fabric through the two rings. Then fold the edge of your fabric back over the ring so that that the wrong sides of the fabric are together and secure with a sturdy seam.


This is a weight-bearing seam, so make sure it is extremely strong. You may want to sew two straight lines approximately 1/2 inch (1.27 cm) apart to reinforce the seam. Zig-zag stitching can also be added to ensure the stability of the sling.
Once your seam is in place, you can remove the tape, pins, or stitches that were temporarily securing your pleats.
 To wear your sling, feed the short edge through both rings, coming up from the wrong side of the fabric, and then thread the end back through the bottom ring only. The sling will be worn around the body and over one shoulder, with the rings at the shoulder, forming a pocket for the baby.


Pull on the tail of fabric that was just fed through the rings to tighten the sling the desired amount to secure the baby in position.
If you find that your tail is too long, hem it.
 You can use the same type of fabric that you would use for the sewn version, or you can recycle a fabric item that you already have, as long as it is a strong enough fabric. Pashmina scarves work nicely, although they may not be long enough for everyone., You will need two rings for this sling, just as you do for the sewn version. To attach them, simply thread your fabric through both of the rings. Then, with the rings about twelve inches from one end of the fabric, thread the fabric back over the first ring and under the second.


If you are using very thin fabric and/or large rings, you can wrap the fabric through the rings this same way a second time for added strength.
 If you find that your fabric is bunched up after being threaded through the rings, gently pull it apart so that it is more evenly distributed around the rings. Your sling will not be as comfortable or as sturdy if your fabric is bunched.
 When you are finished, the longer end of the fabric should be long enough to wrap around your body and fasten in the rings securely. The shorter end of your fabric should be at least 10-12 inches long.
 You will need fabric that is at least 23.5 inches (59.7 cm) wide. (Many fabrics are sold in widths of 45 inches.) To calculate the length, measure from your shoulder to your opposite hip. Then double that number and add six. In addition to fabric, you will also need matching thread and a sewing machine., If you are starting with fabric that is 45 inches (114.3 cm) wide, cut it in half length-wise. Each of the resulting pieces will make one pouch sling.
 Hem both of the long sides of your fabric by folding the edge of the fabric down 1/4-inch (6.35 mm) onto the wrong side and securing with a row of stitches.
 Fold the fabric in half lengthwise, and then again widthwise so that the four corners are lined up. Then cut a small arc from the bottom (folded) area to the top edge, as if making half of a smile. Cutting all four of your corners at once will keep your arcs symmetrical.
 Now sew the four corners that you just rounded together using your sewing machine. This seam will be weight bearing, so it's best to use a strong seam, like a French seam.


For a French seam, start with the wrong sides of the fabric facing each other and sew a seam just above the raw edges. Then turn the fabric inside out and sew another seam just above the raw edges. Try to make this seam as narrow as possible. This should encase your first seam. Lastly, turn the sling right side out again and stitch the seam flat along the inside., To wear your sling, fold it in half lengthwise with the hemmed edges together, putting your head and one arm through the center. It should be draped over one shoulder like a sash with the edges up and the seam in the front. This makes a pocket in which to place the baby.

