 When we think it's our identity; unaware of our origin.


Understand mind identification and the voice in your head. Here's a practice: Just become aware of your thought activity. Can you see that this activity, or voice in your head, is automatic and never stops?This is the voice that you believe is "you." Realize that it's not you. It's your mind relaying an incessant stream of thoughts, based on conditioning it has had. The problems and suffering come when you believe that the hypnotic voice and emotions that accompany it, is "you" and you follow it.That's mind-identification or ego, and you become ego driven.

Know that the mind is an impostor that pretends to be you.It's just a human organ and it has been using "you" so far. This does not mean all the thoughts are painful or unproductive. In fact, some thoughts can be 'enlightening pointers,'but realize that you are not your cast spelling thoughts.You are the 'Presence' (subject) that sees that voice (object) in your head. When you 'see' the voice in your head, then it's not voice anymore but just a conditioned pattern. As ego implies unawareness.Understand form-identification. Identification with things like your looks, your body, your disease, your money, your religion, your skin color, your age, your nationality, and primarily your conditioning, etc. It's all part of form identification. It's a false sense of self that we try to get from things in our life. What will happen when you get old and lose your looks? What would happen if you lost all your money? Sooner of later you will have to relinquish these things anyway.It's not wrong to enjoy the good things you have. In fact, if you can truly realize the fleeting nature of all things,they will be even more enjoyable, because then you will have little or no attachment to them. It would be as though you enjoy things as long as they are there, but you won't miss them when they are gone as there is not fear of loss.
Ask yourself, 'If I lost the things or forms in my life, would I feel complete?' Feel the answer.;
, Just as a sports person has his or her gear, tactics, strategies, etc for a match. In the same way, you have your body, thoughts and mental conditioning as your gear to play in this playground, which is this world.Realize that it's just a 'gear' and it's not 'you.' Yes, this gear is essential, but that does not mean you should identify or get lost in it. You in essence are the space of consciousness where all these things arise and disappear.