

Watch your tachometer when at the starting line. Get your needle in the blue right when the race starts to get a perfect launch and gain some time against your opponents.



 

;
, A special marker for the Junkman Engine part will appear in the back room of the One Stop Shop in career mode. This code can only be enabled once per career.
 (Code: Result)

Left, Right, Down, Up, X, R1, R2, L1, L2 - All cars






Up, Down, Up, Down, Left, Right, Left, Right - Burger King Challenge






Up, Down, Up, Down, Left, Right, Left, Right - Castrol Ford GT






Left, Right, Left, Right, Up, Down, Up, Down - Castrol Syntec Ford GT






Up(2), Down(2), Left, Right, Up, Down - Free upgrades






Left, right, down, R1, L1, R2, L2 - No cops






L, R(3), Right, Left, Right, Down - Porsche Cayman







, Grab a perfect launch to gain a few precious seconds. When the needle turns blue drop the clutch and hold on.
 Get your needle in the blue right when the race starts to get a perfect launch and gain some time against your opponents.
 The selling price of the car is the same either way.
,, to stock. You will get a trade-in credit for the old custom parts and it will not lower the car's value when you sell it in the Safe House.
 Defeat the indicated Blacklist Boss to win the corresponding car. (Unlockable: How to Unlock)

Aston Martin DB9-Blacklist - Boss 7






Audi A3 3.2 Quattro-Blacklist - Boss 15






Audi A4 3.2 FSI Quattro-Blacklist - Boss 14






Audi TT 3.2 Quattro-Blacklist - Boss 15






BMW GTR (Race version)-Blacklist - Boss 1






Cadillac CTS-Blacklist - Boss 12






Corvette C6-Blacklist - Boss 5






Corvette C6.R - Complete 100% of the game






Dodge Viper SRT 10 - Blacklist Boss 6






Ford GT-Blacklist - Boss 4






Lamborghini Gallardo - Blacklist Boss 6






Lamborghini Murcielago - Blacklist Boss 4






Lotus Elise-Blacklist - Boss 8






Mazda RX-7-Blacklist - Boss 9






Mazda RX-8-Blacklist - Boss 12






Mercedes-Benz CLK 500 - Blacklist Boss 8






Mercedes-Benz SL 500 - Blacklist Boss 11






Mercedes-Benz SLR McLaren - Blacklist Boss 3






Mitsubishi Eclipse - Blacklist Boss 14






Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution VIII - Blacklist Boss 11






Mustang GT - Blacklist Boss 12






Pontiac GTO - Blacklist Boss 10






Porsche 911 Carrera S - Blacklist Boss 7






Porsche 911 Turbo S - Blacklist Boss 5






Porsche Carrera GT - Blacklist Boss 3






Porsche Cayman S - Blacklist Boss 10






Renault Clio V6 - Blacklist Boss 13






Subaru Impreza WRX STi - Blacklist Boss 9






Toyota Supra - Blacklist Boss 13






Vauxhall Monaro VXR - Blacklist Boss 10







, You will get two marks to use on several different things. Do not use them on the Uniques early in the game. Instead, use them on the middle or the left "Random" choices. They should always come out to either be a big cash bonus or the opponent's pink slip.
 After the race you will need to get away from them so that the win and money won will stay. To completely skip this sometimes tedious process after a race, wait until you see the "auto-save" icon at the top of the screen disappear. Once it has disappeared (completed auto-save), hit reset and reload your profile. The race will show complete along with the money credits in your bank account.


To get an extra $10,000 in career mode, have a Need For Speed Underground career game saved on your hard drive. After the prologue you will get $10,000.







