 If your former employee does not respond favorably to your demand letter, your next course of action if you want to fight the breach of the noncompete agreement is to file a lawsuit in state court.Your complaint describes the noncompete agreement and the conditions under which it was signed, and outlines the factual allegations that constitute a breach of that agreement.
Your complaint also asserts specifically the demands you are asking the court to award you as a result of that breach.
Typically employers ask for an injunction, which is a court order requiring the former employee to stop whatever behavior breaches the noncompete agreement – up to and including leaving a job with a competing company. You also may ask for monetary damages.
You may want to check the written noncompete agreement signed by your former employee to confirm whether damages for breach were specified within that contract.
At this point, if you haven't already, you need to get an attorney involved. Judges in all states look at noncompete agreements very skeptically, and tend to find in favor of the former employee over the employer.
 Take your complaint, plus at least two copies, to the clerk of the court that you want to hear your case. After you've paid the necessary filing fees, the clerk will stamp your documents, keep the originals for the court's records, and give the copies back to you.Once your complaint is filed, you'll have to take one of the copies and have it served on your former employee. Typically service is completed by paying a fee to the sheriff's department to send a deputy to hand-deliver the summons and complaint to your former employee.
Some jurisdictions also allow you to serve the complaint through the mail by using certified mail with returned receipt requested. The green card you get back when the documents are delivered constitutes proof of service.
You must file a proof of service form with the clerk once the documents have been delivered to your former employee.
 Once your former employee is served with your complaint, they have a short period of time – typically 30 days or less – to file an answer or other response, or you may be eligible to win by default.Don't expect not to get an answer. By this point, your former employee probably has retained an attorney who has explained that judges don't look favorably on noncompete agreements and they have a strong chance of winning the lawsuit.
More likely, you will receive an answer denying most, if not all, of your allegations, and asserting several defenses. You also may receive a motion to dismiss.
If your former employee files a motion to dismiss, you have a brief period of time to respond to this motion, at which point the court will hold a hearing to determine whether to dismiss your lawsuit.
 Filing a lawsuit shows your former employee that you're serious about taking action against their breach of the noncompete agreement, and they may be more willing to resolve the situation than they were when you sent your demand letter.Keep in mind that the odds typically are stacked against you if you follow the lawsuit through to trial. Your former employee may have requested a jury trial, and juries are even more sympathetic than judges are to the plight of employees over employers.
If your former employee makes some sort of settlement offer, it typically is in your best interests to accept it or to negotiate toward some compromise in which at least some of your demands are met.

