 There are many services that will print images on mugs for you to enjoy. However, not all of them offer similar prices. You may find that some services will cost less than others. Take some time to compare the quality and price of different printing services before choosing one.


Many printing services can be found on-line.
Make sure there aren't any hidden costs. For example, a service might display the cost of the mug and keep the printing cost separate.
You might be able to find promotional codes or coupons.
 Almost every printing service will require you to have the image you want to use in a digital format. These services will require you to upload the image you want to use before they can create the mug for you. Keep in mind that there may be additional requirements for your image file. Take some time to review what the printing service needs before they can make your photo mug.


Your image will need to be in a digital format.
Some services have image size requirements. Your image will need to fit within the printer's specifications for image size.
Some printing services only use certain file types. Make sure your image is an acceptable file type before uploading.
 Once you have a photo ready and have found a printing service you like, you can make an account and select the mug you want. Most printing services will ask for some basic information when you sign up. Once you've registered your account, you can find a mug that you would like your image printed on and start the ordering process.


You will likely need to provided your email address, shipping address, and payment information when registering for a printing service.
Many sites have a wide range of mugs and cups that they can print your photo on. Take some time and find one that interests you the most.
 Once you've found a mug that you like, you will need to upload the photo that you want printed. Most on-line printing services will have a clearly labeled button or option to upload the photo you want to use. Your image will usually be applied to create a preview image of what the completed mug will look like.


You may want to resize or edit your image if it doesn't fit the mug correctly.
Always review the preview image before ordering to ensure that your mug is exactly how you want it.
If you are having trouble, most printing services have a help department that you can contact with your questions.
 If you've uploaded your photo and are happy with how the mug will look, all that's left to do is finalize your order. After the order is placed, the printing service will create your photo mug for you and ship it to your address once it's completed. Keep some of these things in mind when finalizing your order:


Check for a refund policy in case the item is lost or broken in shipping.
Most packages will ship with a tracking number that allows you to follow the photo mug as it travels to your address.
Double check your order details before accepting. Make sure your shipping address is correct and that you've order the right quantity of photo mugs.

