 Surprisingly, scientists still don’t know exactly what causes brain freeze, but recent research has given them some very solid theories. Two mechanisms seem to be at work in your mouth when something extremely cold is unexpectedly introduced. (Remember, your body temperature is around 98.6°F, but the ideal serving temperature for ice cream is around 10°F!)When you quickly consume a very cold substance, it unexpectedly and swiftly changes the temperature in the back of your throat where your internal carotid artery and your anterior cerebral artery meet. This temperature change causes a rapid dilation and constriction of these arteries, and your brain interprets this as pain.When the temperature in your mouth plummets unexpectedly, your body quickly dilates blood vessels in the area to ensure a steady flow of blood (and warmth) to the brain. Your anterior cerebral artery (which is located in the middle of your brain, right behind your eyes) expands to carry this blood into your brain. This sudden expansion of the artery and influx of blood can cause a spike in skull pressure, leading to a headache sensation., Obviously, you're not going to give up cold foods just so that you can avoid brain freeze. Rather, let the bite or sip warm on your tongue before you let the substance touch the roof of your mouth. If you’re eating ice cream, use a spoon and angle it so that the ice cream doesn’t hit the roof of your mouth.Avoid straws when drinking cold beverages if possible. Slurping a milkshake through a straw could be your ticket to brain freeze. If you have to use a straw, angle it away from the roof of your mouth.
 Chugging cold beverages or eating half an ice cream cone in one bite may be fun, but it also makes you much more likely to succumb to brain freeze.One explanation for this is that eating more slowly keeps the cold from overwhelming the blood vessels in your mouth with sudden temperature changes.
 If you feel a brain freeze coming on, or if your mouth feels very cold, take a break from the food or beverage for a minute to allow your palate to warm up again.