 Make sure to send a thank you within the first couple of days after an interview. That way, the interview is still fresh in the interviewer's mind.Sending a thank you is a good way to channel your anxiety because it gives you something physical to do to help you get the job.
 Today, companies are often fine with an email thank you letter. You can use email unless you know the company to be very formal, such as they requested you send in your resume rather than submit it by email. Nonetheless, a mailed letter can show that you are committed to the position.It can be nice to write a short handwritten note, even. Just make sure your handwriting is neat, and write it out first somewhere else so you don't have typos.Mostly, though, you should only use handwritten notes with somewhat informal companies.
 Start with "Dear Mr./Ms." with the person's last name and a semi-colon. If you're sending a typed letter, include the formal heading, with your name and contact information, the date, and the employer's name and contact information above that.In an email, it's not as necessary, but you can still include it., Start out with thanking the person for the time it took to interview you. In the middle, talk about a connection you made with the interviewer or reiterate what makes you valuable. End the letter with another thank you and convey how much you would like to join the company.For instance, to note the connection, you could say, "Thank you for the time you took to interview me the other day. I was pleasantly surprised to find another OU grad. Go Sooners!"
As for what makes you valuable, you could write, "As we discussed, this job requires sharp attention to detail. With my work experience as an editor, I have the keen eye you need."

, You shouldn't be writing a dissertation. This note is just a short, simple way to remind the interviewer of your presence and to show that you really are interested in the job.Definitely keep it under a page. You don't want to overwhelm the interviewer. Five paragraphs is also a good maximum, if you're writing an email, but shorter is probably better.

