 There are a multitude of herbs that will help your skin heal its wounds, bruises, and scars. Bromelain, an enzyme derived from pineapple stems, also helps reduce swelling and pain. Take 3,000 MCU (2,000 GDU) three times a day, then reduce the dose to 2,000 MCU three times per day, for as many days as your doctor deems advisable.End use if you experience any side effects.


Take high-potency Vitamin B supplements to advance the healing of wounds. Follow the instructions on the bottle, and consult your doctor before taking if you are undergoing other treatment, such as chemotherapy, or taking other medications.Take 1-3 grams of Vitamin C daily to speed the repair of connective tissue. Vitamin C is integral to the production of collagen, so it can strengthen your skin as well as encourage the healing of wounds. Do not take Vitamin C if you are on medication for blood cholesterol or if you are undergoing chemotherapy or radiation.Vitamin C can also reduce bruising for those who frequently bruise. Try taking 400-800 mg daily, with flavonoids to increase effectiveness.Take 30 mg daily of oral zinc supplements if you have a deficiency, and apply a topical zinc medicine if not. Supplements are helpful for those with a zinc deficiency, and topical medicine containing zinc is helpful even when no deficiency has been diagnosed. Do not take zinc orally without consulting with a doctor.;
, Buy stabilized aloe gel and use it as you would Vaseline—many studies have found it to be more effective.Spread sea buckthorn oil on the dressings you apply to your wound. Sea buckthorn helps burns, and other skin injuries, heal more quickly., Taking a topical niacinamide (Vitamin B3) gel twice a day for two months may significantly improve acne. Tea tree oil has many of the benefits of acne medications such as benzoyl peroxide, but with fewer side effects. Take tea tree oil topically, applying a solution with 5% oil to your skin for 20 minutes twice a day. Wash off with tap water.


Treat rosacea and other acne with a zinc supplement. Take 23 mg three times a day for three months. If your treatment is successful and you choose to repeat the process, take a copper supplement as well, as long-term zinc use can cause copper deficiency.Treat cystic acne with guggul extract. Take a dose of 500 mg twice a day for results comparable to those of tetracycline., Plants such as lemon balm, peppermint, and aloe have been proven effective at healing cold sores. Buy an herbal lip balm or essential oil, or brew a tea from the leaves. They can speed the rate at which a sore heals, and reduce its inflammation. Lemon balm may reduce the chance a sore will return.Wait until your sore has scabbed over before applying herbs to it. Open wounds may become inflamed or infected.Take 200 mg of Vitamin C plus 200 mg of flavonoids 3-5 times a day to reduce the length of an outbreak.