 There are many issues you should bring to the attention of Human Resources. For example, you might want to complain about the following:

You haven’t been paid properly: your company might be withholding pay, not calculating it properly, etc.
You have not received what you have been promised under your employment contract.
Your boss or coworkers are bullying you. Some abuse doesn’t qualify as workplace harassment. Legally, harassment must be based on a protected characteristic, such as race, gender, religion, age, etc.Nevertheless, someone might bully you simply because they don’t like you, and you should report them.
For example, a coworker might say something that makes you uncomfortable. A random sexually-charged joke might not qualify as sexual harassment. However, there’s no reason to put up with it. You can report inappropriate behavior that makes you uncomfortable.
 You have to imagine the HR employee who reads your letter. They might not even know who you are, and they have no reason to believe you. For these reasons, you’ll need to fill your complaint letter with facts. Gather the following:

What happened, when and where. If you’ve been bullied, write down the details.
Who is involved (your immediate supervisor, coworker, employee in a different part of the organization, etc.)
How you attempted to resolve the issue. Did you talk to a supervisor? Ask HR for help already? Write down the dates and the names of who you spoke with. Also summarize any responses you received.
 You’ll want to write using a business letter format. Properly format your word processing document by choosing a legible font size and style (Times New Roman 12 point works well). Also use block paragraphing.


Contact HR and ask who to address your letter to. Your salutation should read “Dear Mr. Jones” or something equivalent.
 It’s best to get right to the point. State that you want to make a complaint and identify the substance of the complaint. If you work in a large organization, you should probably identify yourself as well.

For example, you can begin with something like the following: “I am a data processing clerk in our accounting office. I’m writing to complain that my total pay has been inaccurate for two months now.”

, Give the reader enough information so that they can effectively investigate.If you haven’t been paid properly, identify the pay periods. If you’re being bullied, provide a chronological discussion of the major bullying incidents. You can provide more detail later.


You can write something like the following: “There have been three major bullying incidents” and then write “Additionally, there has been low-level bullying, which I am happy to discuss in person with you.”

, Let HR know what attempts you have made to fix the problem and why you are unsatisfied with the results. If you’ve spoken to a supervisor, state so. Remember to provide dates.

For example, you can write, “On January 12, I told my supervisor, Kevin Jones, about my pay being wrong. Although he said he would investigate, my pay hasn’t changed and he doesn’t seem too worried about it. We are now approaching the two-month mark and I am still not being paid properly.”
Also let HR know how you have been feeling. For example, if you are being bullied, briefly explain how it has affected your health. Identify if you had to take time off or had to see a doctor., Ask HR to investigate and to contact you if they have questions. Sign your letter beneath the word “Sincerely” and keep a copy of the letter for your records.

If you don’t think HR has your phone number, you can include that as well.

