 The human brain operates by making neural connections. When we put our brains to use regularly, new connections are made and existing ones are strengthened; when we don’t, connections become dormant or decayed. Keeping your brain actively engaged will help it function at its peak now and throughout your life.Try new things. Create. Debate. Ruminate. Daydream. Keep your brain working and it will work better when you need it for studying.
 If you want to build muscle, you have to keep increasing the amount of weight you’re lifting. If you want to build brainpower, you have to keep challenging your mind. While some of the claims made by “brain training” apps and programs are dubious, challenging your mind with puzzles, games, new activities, and difficult subjects can help enhance mental performance.Actively acquire information instead of passively receiving it. This is the difference between taking a cooking class and watching a cooking show, or attending a political candidate forum and checking your news feed.
 Your brain is part of your body, so it makes sense that the healthier you are overall, the healthier your brain will be. Regular exercise creates greater efficiency in oxygen and nutrient supplies to the brain, and can enhance your mood and immune system, among other benefits.


Maximize the brain benefits when your exercise — when out walking, focus intently on the surrounding environment and try to mentally recreate it when you get back home., The human brain requires an incredible amount of energy (in relation to size) in order to function, and this requires fuel.Just like regular exercise, a healthy diet is good for your brain and the rest of your body. While there are plenty of claims about specific “brain foods,” focus on eating lots of fruits and vegetables, lean proteins, and whole grains, and limit refined sugars, unhealthy fats, and processed foods.


Don't study with either an empty stomach or a fully loaded one. Either scenario can be distracting. Have a light (and healthy) meal or snack instead.
 While the popular understanding is that the left side of the human brain controls logical thinking and the right side provides our creativity, the reality is far more complex.However, it is true that activities that spur both creativity and logical details simultaneously will invigorate more parts of your brain at once.


Playing a musical instrument is one of the most obvious — and enjoyable — ways to stimulate both the creative and logical aspects of your brainpower. To play effectively, you have to have precise timing and fine motor movements, but at the same time be able to improvise and think ahead.While the science behind many supposed left- or right-brain boosting activities is limited at best, doing things like juggling, playing board games, or attempting simple activities with your non-dominant hand will certainly give you a mental workout.