 Tilt your head to one side so that the ear you are cleaning first is facing the ceiling. Place your clean towel beneath your head, or on the shoulder of the ear being cleaned, to catch drips — whatever is more comfortable for you.
 Draw up some of your warm oil into the eyedropper, and drop about two drops into your ear. Allow the oil to sit in your ear, with your head tilted, for about 3 minutes.Do not push the dropper deep into your ear canal. Insert the tip gently into your ear and let the oil drop or roll down to your eardrum.
 Draw up several drops of the peroxide in your eyedropper, and gently drip it into the same ear. Let this sit for 10 minutes.You might feel bubbling, tickling, or itching as the peroxide works. It may also sound like crackling.
 When the bubbling has stopped and time is up, draw up some warm water with your bulb syringe. Tilt the ear you are cleaning over your sink. Hold the bulb syringe at a 45° angle to your ear, and gently squirt the warm water into your ear canal. Pull your outer ear up and back with your other hand — this straightens your ear canal and will let the water in better., Let the water, peroxide, and oil drain out of your ear into the sink or onto your towel. You may see earwax in the liquid coming out. Pull your outer ear up and back to allow for best drainage, then let go and wait for everything to drain out completely., Dry your outer ear with the towel. You can also use a hair dryer on the low/cool setting to dry your ear canal., Repeat the process on your other ear. Re-warm the peroxide and oil if they have cooled down.
 You might need to do this process several times to soften your earwax enough to remove most or all of it. You can try repeating the process over several days. See your doctor if your symptoms don’t improve after several attempts.


Once your ears are clean, you can do this cleaning process once a month.If you often struggle with excess earwax (and not another ear problem), you can use oil weekly to soften the wax. Use two to three drops in each ear, and flush it out with warm water.Peroxide is probably too drying to use weekly.
 If you get swimmer’s ear often and it’s been diagnosed by your doctor in the past, cleaning your ears with peroxide occasionally may help prevent infection.You can also try putting two to three drops of oil in each ear before swimming as a protective measure.