 If you have MS and want to try chiropractic care to help manage your symptoms, speak to your doctor.Chiropractic care can complement traditional medical treatment programs for the disease, but should not be a substitute for it.Your doctor can advise you if you are healthy enough to use chiropractic care as well as coordinate treatment with your chiropractor for the most effective management of your MS.


Be aware that your doctor may recommend foregoing chiropractic care if you have certain medical conditions in addition to your MS. Chiropractic manipulations are not safe if you have spinal-bone fractures or dislocations, spine trauma, severe disk herniations, osteoporosis, arthritis, or diabetes. You also shouldn’t have spinal manipulations if you take blood thinners.;
, Ask your doctor to suggest a chiropractor who can help manage your MS symptoms. If you are in an MS support group, you can also ask fellow participants to recommend a good chiropractor. You can also find a local chiropractor at https://www.acatoday.org/Find-a-Doctor. Some of the qualities you may want to consider in a chiropractor include:Is familiar with your symptoms
Can help you make changes to your activity level
Welcomes chiropractic care as a complementary treatment for your MS

, If you have find a chiropractor who you like or whom your doctor recommends, schedule an initial visit at the office. This will give you a chance to get to know the doctor, review your MS symptoms, and undergo any testing before chiropractic manipulations begin.Bring any relevant medical records with you. These can inform your chiropractor about your overall treatment and how to best treat your symptoms.
Tell the chiropractor about your specific symptoms and any areas that cause you any pain and discomfort, such as your lower back. Answer any questions the chiropractor may have for you.
Undergo diagnostic testing, such as X-rays, which can help your chiropractor locate specific areas on your spine that may require manipulation.
 During your initial visit, your chiropractor will assess your MS symptoms and discuss chiropractic treatment options with you. This usually consists of precise adjustments to the vertebral column to return it to proper alignment. Your chiropractor will adjust your spine over a series of regular appointments.Let your doctor know any areas that need attention during each visit. The doctor will make a record of these before making adjustments. This information can help your chiropractor target adjustments to best manage your symptoms. It can also help track your progress.
Use chiropractic care as long as you have MS symptoms. Discuss discontinuing chiropractic care with your doctor if you go into remission.
 Seeing a chiropractor regularly may help manage your symptoms of MS and even relieve pain and discomfort. When practiced by a licensed chiropractor, this complementary care is also safe. However, you should not expect that chiropractic care can change or slow the progression of your MS.Recognize that chiropractic care may be especially beneficial for lower back pain. It can also help realign the pelvis and spine so that your body is balanced and your muscles can work better.Be aware that there is some controversy about what chiropractic care can do for MS. Some chiropractors believe that correcting upper neck injuries may reverse the progress of MS.However, others, including the National MS Society, maintain that chiropractic care cannot alter or slow the disease’s progression. If you have any questions about this, speak to both your doctor and chiropractor., Spinal manipulations can help relieve symptoms of MS, including discomfort and muscle weakness. You may also experience some side effects including achy muscles, headaches, and fatigue. Let your chiropractor know if you are experiencing any side effects, pain, discomfort, or unusual sensations following an adjustment.Be aware that while chiropractic care is generally safe, in rare cases it can cause strokes from the manipulation of the neck, fracture bones, injure disks, and harm the nerves of the lower spine.

