 You cannot forward messages in bulk using the Yahoo! Mail web interface. You'll need to use a workaround if you want to forward a lot of messages at once, and using Outlook, or another client such as Thunderbird, allows you to do this the quickest.
 account to Outlook. You'll need to add your Yahoo! account details so that Outlook can download all of your Yahoo! messages to your computer.Open the "Account Settings" menu, which you can find in the File tab. If you're using Outlook 2003, click the "Tools" menu and select "Email Accounts".
Click the "New" button and select "Manual setup".
Select "POP or IMAP" and then enter your name and Yahoo! Mail address.
Select "IMAP" from the drop-down menu, then enter imap.mail.yahoo.com into the "Incoming mail server" field and smtp.mail.yahoo.com into the "Outgoing mail server" field.
Enter your Yahoo! Mail address again into the "Username" filed, and enter your Yahoo! Mail password into the "Password" field.
Click the More Settings... button, select the Outgoing Server tab, and check the box.
Select the Advanced tab and change "Incoming server" to 993 and set the encryption to "SSL". Change "Outgoing server" to 465 and set the encryption to "SSL".
 Outlook will begin downloading all of your Yahoo! Mail emails to your computer. If you have a lot of emails this could take a little while, but the process only needs to happen once.
 Your emails will be organized in the same folder system that you were using on the Yahoo! Mail website. Your folders will be displayed in the left sidebar of the Outlook window.
 You can hold Ctrl and click each individual email, hold ⇧ Shift and click two messages to select a range of emails, or press Ctrl+A to select all of the messages in the current folder.
 You'll find this in the Home tab of Outlook. You can also press Ctrl+F, or right-click on the selected messages and select "Forward". A new message window will appear.
 When you forward multiple messages in Outlook, each message is added as an attachment to a brand new message. Your recipients will then be able to open each attachment to view the original email. This is how Outlook works around the limitations of not being able to forward multiple messages at the same time.
 Add recipients to your new email message, and include a subject and a body explaining that the emails are attached to the message. Click the Send button, and the message will be sent from your Yahoo! Mail address to the recipients you entered.Your recipients will need to open the attached messages in an email client like Outlook or Thunderbird in order to read them, though many web email services will display all of the emails messages in a row when the message is opened.

