
The fact that you schedule your date in the morning almost always suggests it is not your day off or the weekend. So, make sure that although it is a work day, no important presentations, meetings or tests are coming. You'd better not risk having your date and/or your business arrangement ruined.


Find the right coffee shop.
One of the most difficult parts of this plan is finding the right place for your date. If it is a first or second date, you would probably prefer to have it over a cup of coffee. Unfortunately it is almost impossible to find a quiet place at that time of the day. So you should look for a smaller bakery or coffee house in advance or if possible, make a breakfast reservation at your favorite place. Another approach would be to arrive earlier and pick coffee for both of you to drink in the park after the other party arrives.

Pick a smart outfit.
Men are really lucky here. The business outfit only makes them look more attractive. Women, however, have to be more careful. It is perfectly normal to want to look stunning on your date, especially because the morning light is the most unflattering type there is. On the other hand, if it is a work day, you cannot wear your favorite short skirt and top or a cocktail dress. So you have to find a way to make your business outfit date-appropriate. Accessorise it with a stylish scarf, tastefully chosen jewelry and a matching bag. Do your hair using some styling product and put make up on (foundation, rouge and mascara should be enough) Do not overdo your appearance, no one expects you to look absolutely perfect before lunch.;
, Getting ready for a date is not a usual morning activity. However, make sure you arrive on time, especially if you were the one arranging the date at that time. It is stressful enough that you will have limited time and a work day ahead of yourselves. You can always read a paper or listen to some music if you are too early.

Be a sunshine.
This is a date like any other so make sure it goes smoothly, at least from your part. Do not yawn, complain or talk too much about work. Instead make a joke (for example how at this rate soon people will have to arrange their dates while grocery shopping or car washing) and have fun. Being easy-going is always appreciated in the dating business.
 They might take it as a sign that you literally put your romantic affairs before your work. And besides, it is your personal life after all. Keep it private so that you don't have to deal with mean office gossip.

Focus on your tasks.
It's absolutely amazing if your date went great despite the unusual circumstances. But try to forget it at least until lunchtime otherwise you risk decreasing your productivity and looking absent-minded or unprepared. Turn off your personal phone so that you don't be tempted to text your best friend or, even worse - your sweetheart(:

