 To ensure that the oven will be hot enough when you’re ready to bake the chicken, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) and allow it to heat fully.Pay attention to the oven so you know when it’s reached the desired temperature. It should beep or flash an indicator light to alert you.;
, In shallow bowl, mix 3 tablespoons (23 g) all-purpose flour with ¼ teaspoon (1.25 g) of black pepper together. Next, take 4 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves (approximately 1 ½ pounds of 680 g) and roll them through the flour and pepper mixture. Press the chicken into the seasoned flour to ensure that it’s well coated. Set the remaining flour mixture aside for later use. The flour mixture will stick better to the chicken breasts if you dry them slightly between pieces of paper towel before dredging them.Make sure to shake off any excess flour from the chicken before browning them. An excess of coating on the chicken may cause them to burn.
 In a large skillet, heat 2 tablespoons (30 ml) vegetable oil over medium-high heat.Add the chicken breasts to the pan, and cook until they are browned. That typically takes 3 to 4 minutes for each side.Make sure that the skillet you use is large enough to fit all of the chicken breasts in a single layer. If you crowd the chicken into the pan, it won’t cook evenly.
You don’t have to worry about the chicken breasts being cooked all the way through because they will finish cooking in the oven.
 Once the chicken breasts are browned, remove them from the skillet and place them in a single layer in a 9-inch (23-cm) square baking dish. Don’t grease the dish because the other ingredients will prevent the chicken from sticking during baking.Use tongs to transfer the chicken breasts from the skillet to the baking dish. That will keep you from burning yourself.
 In a medium saucepan, melt 1 tablespoon (14 g) butter over medium-high heat. Add 1 medium onion that’s been chopped to the pan, and cook for approximately 5 to 7 minutes or until the onions are tender.Stir the onions frequently with a wooden spoon or heat-safe spatula to ensure that they cook evenly.
 When the onion is tender, mix the remaining flour mixture left over from dredging the chicken into the pan. Stir the ingredients together until a thick paste forms., After the flour mixture is fully incorporated with the onions and butter, start to add the rest of the seasonings. Slowly pour 1 cup (237 ml) chicken broth and 3 tablespoons (44 ml) lemon juice into the pan. Next, sprinkle 2 teaspoons (5 g) dried basil and ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) dried thyme over the mixture. Mix well so all of the ingredients are fully combined.Take care when you’re pouring the chicken broth and lemon juice into the hot pan so you don’t get any splashback that might burn you.
 When all of the ingredients are well blended, bring the lemon mixture to a boil over high heat. Allow the ingredients to cook for approximately 2 minutes or until the mixture thickens and starts to bubble.Make sure to stir the sauce constantly so it cooks evenly and doesn’t stick to the bottom of the pan.
 Once the sauce is done, pour it over the chicken breasts in the baking dish. You may want to use a spoon to ensure that all of the chicken is evenly covered. Next, place a lemon slice on each breast and sprinkle 2 tablespoons (30 g) minced fresh parsley over the chicken as well.If you don’t have any minced fresh parsley on hand, you can substitute 1 tablespoon (15 g) dried parsley flakes.
 After the chicken breast halves are arranged in the dish with the sauce, lemon slices, and parsley, cover the dish with a lid and place it in the preheated oven. Allow it to bake for approximately 25 to 30 minutes or until the juices from the chicken run clear.If you don’t have a lid for your baking dish, you can cover it with a piece of foil.
 Once you remove the lemon chicken from the oven, it’s important to let it rest so the juices have time to settle. Give the chicken about 10 minutes to rest before you serve it.Make sure to spoon some of the lemon sauce over the chicken breast halves when you place them on plates for serving.

