 Protein is an important component of a healthy breakfast. This is in part because protein is digested more slowly than carbs, for instance, and will help you feel full longer. Lean, low-fat options are the best. For example, opt for low-fat Greek yogurt, soy or turkey sausage, or eggs.If your breakfast includes dairy products, opt for skim or low-fat options.
 In addition to protein, fiber is also extremely important, as this will help keep you nourished and satiated well into the day as well. Perhaps the easiest option is cereal - but read the nutrition facts. Beware of misleading portion sizes and high amounts of sugar in many cereals.Check the nutritional label of any cereals and only go with options that have whole grains listed as the first ingredient. Further, make sure your selection has less than 10 grams of sugar, at least 3 grams of fiber, and is free of artificial coloring.
 Though many breakfast options are rather sugary, these are not the best options. Aside from selecting options based on protein and fiber, opt for seasonings like pepper and turmeric instead of syrup or brown sugar.When you do want a bit of sweetness to something like oatmeal, use fruit or honey.
Cutting to the chase, skip the donut shop. The only thing worse than skipping breakfast in the morning is loading up on sugar and unhealthy fats with your first meal of the day.
 While egg whites are lower in calories and fats, it’s important to note that egg yolks do contain highly valuable nutritional components like protein, healthy fats, choline and a variety of vitamins. A good option for an omelet is one whole egg and one or two “egg’s worth” of egg whites.
 Drinking coffee in the morning will curb your appetite and may be causing you to eat less. Unfortunately, if you ride the caffeine train all day and don’t eat much, you’re metabolism will slow down, and you’ll risk storing a bunch of fat following an evening meal - which is likely to be larger than necessary if you hadn’t eaten all day.Further, you may be setting yourself up for failure by trying to get by on coffee alone. Not only is the coffee-only approach unhealthy, you’re even more likely to wind up caving in and grabbing one of those volleyball-sized cinnamon rolls when you go for a refill before eating something healthy.

