 These should be available at most grocery stores, but if you're having difficulty in your search, check specialty Asian markets. These frequently offer less expensive varieties than what you might pay for brand-named Orbeez.


The basil seeds will make very small, gelatinous water marbles. Basil seeds begin hard, black in color, and about the size of a grain of rice, but they will grow as they absorb water.Because they are so small, they are less of a choking hazard for small children.Tapioca pearls are usually small, round, and colored white or off-white, ranging from one to eight millimeters in diameter.Your homemade water marbles are made of natural ingredients, so it's OK if they are eaten. Make sure children have washed their hands before playing or eating water marbles to ensure cleanliness.
 Put the seeds into any container, but make sure it has enough room for the water marbles to expand.


You do not need to worry about adding an exact amount of water. Make sure that you have added at least four times as much water as your seeds. If there is extra water when your beads are fully grown, you can simply drain the water away.
Put a few drops of food coloring in the water. You can also use a teaspoon of drink mix or a natural alternative to food coloring, such as beet juice for pink or turmeric for yellow.
Let the seeds soak up the water until they have grown to your liking. It will take at least several hours for them reach full size.



Once boiled, let the tapioca pearls cool completely.
Like the basil seeds, you can color the tapioca pearls with food coloring, drink mix, or alternative colorants.
 They are great sensory stimulation for young children. Simply put the finished water marbles in a container and let your children play with them between their fingers.


Some of the games recommended for store bought Orbeez might not be ideal for your homemade batch. Starch can dry and leave a glue-like trail behind, so you should plan accordingly when you play games with your homemade water marbles. You might want to try:

Using your dyed water marbles to make art.
Cleaning hands before play and using your water marbles afterward as a treat in your own bubble tea.
Playing water marble checkers with different colors for different teams.
Water marble bingo, using the marbles as chips to cover squares that have been called.
 Like most foods, they will spoil (or sprout) if left uncovered or if stored for too long.
 You should be able to reuse them at a future time if you dry them out before they spoil.


Spread them out of a pan and let them dry out at room temperature. On a sunny day you could even set the pan outside in the sun to dry.

