 What temperature you set the oven to depends on the recipe that you will be using. Most cakes bake at 350°F (177°C).
 One pan should be a size smaller than the other. An 8-inch (20-centimeter) and a 9-inch (23-centimeter) pan would be ideal. You can also use two same-sized pans, but you may have to adjust your star later on., You can use any recipe you want, including a boxed one. To avoid making the cake too thin, double up your cake recipe (or use two boxed mixes). If you don't mind a thinner cake, you can use just one recipe., Most 8-inch (20-centimeter) cakes will take 37 to 42 minutes. 9-inch (23-centimeter) cakes will take about 40 to 45 minutes., If you need to, run a knife along the inside edges of the cakes to loosen them first. If the cakes formed domes on top, slice them off using a long, serrated knife., Begin by cutting the cake in half, then cut each half into thirds. Your start will have five points, so set one of the slices aside or eat it., You will end up with six triangle shapes. The edges that you cut off will be the bottom of the triangles.Save the scraps for another recipe.
 You can do this by cutting five corners off of the cake. The sides of the pentagon should be the same length as the bottom edges of your triangles.Save the scraps for another recipe.
 Place the bottom edge of each triangle against a side on the pentagon. You will end up with a star shape. If the wedges are too wide for the pentagon, you can cut them narrower., Filling this type of cake is tricky because it comes in so many pieces. If you want to fill your cake, use a long, serrated knife to saw it in half. Spread your favorite filling across the top of the bottom layer. Place the second layer back on top when you are done. Make sure that the edges match up.

You may need to saw the pieces individually.
 The easiest way to decorate this type of cake would be to pipe little stars all over it using buttercream frosting, a piping bag, and a star shaped tip.You can also spread a smooth layer of frosting over the cake using a cake decorating spatula instead. Another option would be to cover it with a sheet of fondant.