 Use a pair of side cutters to cut the line at the distribution block. This will allow you to put a socket on the fitting and remove it from the distribution block more effectively than with a wrench. If the fittings are stuck on, use penetrating oil to loosen them.The distribution blocks can be identified by the multiple brake lines running into them. They mounted near the front and rear of the vehicle and serve to distribute brake fluid from the main line to each of the wheels.
 There should be approximately four connections to the master cylinder (depending on make and model).These will need to be loosened by using a wrench or flare nut wrench. Be careful not to twist the lines or strip the connections., The steel brake lines are run along the underside of the car and mounted with plastic clips to hold them in place. You will need to remove the line without damaging these clips. The replacement line will need to fit back into the same clips., Once all of the connections are loose, you can pull the brake lines out from under the car. This will make it easier to measure out and cut the appropriate amount of brake line from your roll. , Steel brake pipes can be bought in rolls. This means that you will have to measure the old brake line, straighten out the roll, and cut the appropriate length of line. Be sure to compare it to the old brake line before trying to hook it up. Remember that it’s not a straight shot from one end of the car to the other, and that you have to follow the same path as the old lines., Fittings to connect the line to your distribution blocks or master cylinder should be installed prior to taking the line under the car. There are different types of brake line fittings. Consult your service manual to know whether to use tapered pipe threading, inverted flare fittings, or compression fittings., The new brake line should be run from the master cylinder to the distribution blocks in the same way as the original brake line. That means you will need to follow the path of the original brake line and use the factory mounting clips to clip the new line to the vehicle. Again, the new line needs to be exactly the same length as the old line., You should use the same type of fitting as the one you removed. Oftentimes, the fittings can be salvaged and put onto the new brake line. This ensures that you will have the right fittings for your connections., Use a wrench or flare nut wrench to reconnect all appropriate fittings to the master cylinder. The same applies here as the distribution block connects ― if you can reuse the old connectors that’s fine. If you cannot reuse the old connectors, make sure you get the correct type of replacement., You will likely drain all or most of the brake fluid from you vehicle while replacing these lines. It is important to use manufacturer recommended brake fuel to replace what has been lost and then bleed the air from your lines.