 If your workplace has a policy, read it. Even if you've already read it before, it may have been updated, or you may have forgotten important parts of it. Read it for a refresher.;
, Looking around the area you work in can reveal a number of hazards that can be dealt with, easily provided you follow through checking them methodically. Here are some suggested activities:


Check the batteries in your computer room's smoke detectors. Update them if needed. Install them immediately if you have none.
Check for fire extinguishers. Do you have them near your computing and server equipment in case of a fire?
Place monitors, keyboard and other computer equipment on anti-slip mats where needed.
Have you got anti-static features in place to prevent shocks? This is especially important if you work with the internal hardware.
Have you got power surge protectors in place for all computers and related equipment? If not, buy some today and install them immediately.
 Whenever you leave your room or office, can other people access or remove your computing equipment? If so, consider instituting practices that will prevent them from doing anything with your computer:


Put computer security posters in the office or room to remind everyone of their security responsibilities.
Use passwords to prevent unwanted access to computers.
Attach computers to the wall or heavy equipment by means of locks in order to prevent them from being removed. This is especially important for laptops and notebooks.
 A cluttered workspace and messy office can be the cause of sloppy work practices in relation to confidential information and the more at ease everyone has become with leaving confidential information lying about, the harder it becomes to break the slack cycle. Jump on it now!


Vacuum the computer keyboard and computer area to remove dust build-up. Wipe down the screens with anti-static wipes.
Ensure that all dust, including chalk dust, is not covering or inside computers and related equipment. Also remove pet dander, especially if your cat has a habit of sleeping next to your computer as you work.
Clean the heads on disk drives and other magnetic media drives.
Clean the area around your computer to remove clutter and to ensure that you know where all confidential files, discs, memory sticks, and other related confidential information actually is. Store everything securely.
 Use the tools at hand to keep your computer software, applications, and programs in top shape.


When did you last change your password? Do it today if you can't remember. Read How to choose a computer password that is hard to guess for more help.
Do a virus sweep. Read How to remove a virus if you find one.
Delete unneeded files. They use memory but also create clutter, making it both harder to find or spot problems, and providing more potential "gateways" for viruses to enter through. A regular clean up is cathartic.
Get rid of your Adobe Flash cookies. Read How to delete Flash cookies for the instructions.
Examine the audit files on your computers.
 If you're running a business or you're in the part of the organization that's responsible for computers, use this day to take inventories.


Check inventories of all computer stock in the workplace. Chase up any missing or borrowed equipment.
Check the inventory of computer utilities and packaged software.
Check the inventory of computer applications.
 Plan to give mini computer security sessions to staff and other people on this day. Send or hand out the new manual to people who need it.


Include all issues of privacy, use of social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter in a workplace context, etc. Be sure to discuss ethics and accountability for workers using external websites and internal chat and wiki facilities.
For those working from home or who use computers at home, read up on security concerns related to using social networking sites and change your settings to protect yourself.
Read How to manage Facebook privacy options for more information.
Know how to spot and avoid falling for online scams such as phishing, hoax emails, pretexting, etc. Teach members of your family, community, and coworkers how to spot these scams too.
 For every computer owned, back up the data. If you don't already back-up regularly, make today the day to draw up a plan to remind yourself to make regular back-ups, or use a program that will do this for you automatically.


Develop a total recovery plan for all computer systems that might need one.
Consider having several sources of back-up - online, cloud, USB sticks, hard drives, etc.
Check that trouble logs are in place on each computer and are being used and followed up.
 Carrying laptops, notebooks, and electronic data gadgets can lead you into trouble if you don't pay adequate attention. Things to do include:


Never leave a laptop or other electronic gadget in open sight in a car. Always store out of sight, or preferably, take it with you. And lock your car, even if all you're doing is paying for gas.
Remember to pick up your laptop, USB stick, or other electronic gadget after using it. Leaving it behind on a bar, in a cafe, or at someone else's house allows anyone access to the information on the item.
Avoid carrying laptops and notebooks openly in places where mugging and pickpocketing is known. While this is mainly of concern when traveling, always keep your wits about you.
Avoid placing open liquids such as soda or coffee near your computer. Spills can be very costly, not to mention dangerous to your data!

, You don't want an unscrupulous person resurrecting your personal data.


Read How to clean your computer to sell for more information.

