 Writers for travel guides such as Lonely Planet or Fodor's don't make a great deal of money, but the job requires travel to popular and exotic destinations around the world. New writers are often employed for the research, while veteran writers proofread and correct their text.Writers are forbidden by most companies to disclose the nature of their work to local businesses in order to prevent biasing their perspective.
Some guides offer royalties, while others pay a flat rate. Most companies require the author to deduct his travel expenses from his own pay, though this varies according to publisher.
 Travel magazines, corporate clients, and others hire freelance authors to create content for their publications, websites and blogs.Use freelance platforms such as Elance.com, Upwork.com or Writeraccess.com to search for travel writing opportunities.
If your writing is fast and accurate you might be able to support your travel habit by writing short travel articles for individual websites., While this won't bring in a great deal of money, particularly for the first year or more, the most successful travel bloggers may eventually bring in enough money to support their travel habit. The best travel blogs provide both practical travel information, such as the accessibility of public transportation, and personal experiences, such as relaying the disastrous experience you had riding the bus following a large meal at a restaurant where you didn't speak the language.Create a theme for your blog and stick to it. Choose a name for your blog that's easy to remember and which reflects the theme.
Chose a blogging platform. Wordpress.com is the most popular blogging platform.
Use a wide array of social media platforms to promote your blog. Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Tumblr, and others allow every post you create to be cross-posted within the social media network you're connected to.
Write about what interests you. You'll want your enthusiasm for travel to be carried to your reader through your words.
Once your blog becomes established, consider writing reviews. For example, if you're writing about backpacking in the Andes, contact companies which sell products you'd be willing to review on your blog in exchange for receiving free samples of their goods. Though this won't supplement your income, it will keep you from having to buy goods you'd be spending money on otherwise.
 Scheduling weddings in exotic locations around the world is an increasingly popular choice for well-heeled couples, and no wedding is complete without a wedding photographer. Working as a wedding photographer requires a good deal of start-up investment on your part, but once you've got the necessary equipment - computer, camera, lenses, editing software, portfolio, website, and, possibly, training - the possibilities are limitless.Try contracting together with destination wedding planners or companies who specialize in destination weddings.
Develop a niche market, and cultivate a brand that fits that market. This will allow potential clients to know what sort of work you do before they hire you, even if their destination is different. For example, you may want to focus on weddings held within native communities, photographing local customs, music and dance.

