 Keep the manual, do not discard it. Download the manual from the internet for ease of viewing. Also, heed the advice of others who own metal detectors on the care of metal detectors, as they will have some good advice for you.;
, Know what the warranty covers, for example, most warranties won't usually cover accidents and neglect.
 Buy a case or make a duffel type bag. Make a custom cardboard box, for your detector: you will need cardboard, paper glue, a box cutter, tape measure and tape


If you disassemble your metal detector when not using it, always remove the coil from the non-metal rod.
If you always have your metal detector fully assembled, keep it safe from damage - the metal detector is a somewhat fragile device because it is made from lightweight materials. At home, store your detector(s) so they will be safe, such as on a rack.
 Make your protective hood easy to remove and apply, by using a cord to attach the hood (like a chin strap for a helmet). A hood is space efficient, but if space is not a problem, use plastic foam sheets or cushioned fabric and wrap it like a bandage around the metal detector's main housing.



When using your detector, periodically check that the wires, if removable, are securely connected. Do not let dust, dirt, sand, water and especially salt water get into areas hard to clean. Check the wires so there are not excessive stressed at their connections. The headset wire and connection is not too robust, do not stress it.
If your wires, when not assembled, have delicate prongs, protect these prongs from breaking by using the prong shields that came with your detector.
 When metal detecting, be aware of any stress at the wire connections, and if there is stress, immediately adjust the wire wrapping on the pole.
 Use one that is light and well cushioned. At the very least, store your headphones in a doubled-up plastic bag.
 Unless you have a waterproof metal detector, buy a clear plastic hood or use a clear plastic bag for protection from water, sand and dust when necessary. When laying down your metal detector, keep it away from sand and dirt.

