 If you have a large bath, put it on to run now. If you don't, choose which moment during the facial you think it would be okay to put it on. Katniss soaks every time she gets remade, sometimes three or four times.
 Use warm water and any sort of liquid cleanser or soap. Rinse your face, rub in the cleanser and rinse it away.
 This will scrub away all the dead skin cells and leave your face looking more glowing. Simply scrub it into your skin and rinse it away.
 Fill a bowl with boiling water, lean over it, place a towel over your head and stay there for five minutes.
 Follow the instructions on the bottle or packet. For oily skin, use a clay mask, for dry, use a cream or gel. For normal, you can choose which you like the smell and feel of.
 Even if you have oily skin, simply use a light one. This routine is the real-world version of the facial polish which Katniss has.
 I would do this after the facial, so any smudges of face mask you missed can get washed off. If you choose to, you can add any product, such as bath oil, salts, bomb, or bubble bath, to the water. This would be accurate to the book, as Katniss always, always has products in her baths, some of which as described as vile.
 If you have curly hair, use it sparingly or not at all. With straight hair, you can use as much as you want within reason. Rinse out.
 Either simply use your ordinary conditioner, buy a deep treatment, or use an oil, such as olive. If you choose the last option, you will need to shampoo it out well.
 First, shave your legs and under your arms to remove all excess hair. You can skip this step if you wax yours.
 However, if you get any burning at all, stop and rinse off with cool water. Your legs are very sensitive after you shave them, and yours may not like your scrub. You can do this before shaving if you would prefer.
, Pull the plug.
, I would use a cocktail stick, but a more technical tool would be better.
 When you do this, remember to consider things like your job, if you play an instrument, and if you have kids.


File both sets to a nice shape. If you have a glass nail file, you can do it in the bath while your conditioner works to save time.






If you wish to paint them, apply a base coat of clear.






Alternatively, only add a very pale pink color, as you should look natural.
 If you don't wish to do this, let it air dry and skip this step.
 You can use any type- scented, unscented, after sun, aloe vera, whatever you like.
, If you aren't sure what looks natural, ask yourself 'Could someone's hair look like this with no work?'

, Cover blemishes or uneven skin with primer or concealer, but no foundation. Use a gloss with no colour but no lipstick. Use a clear mascara but no eyeliner. Try to look pretty but natural.

