 An infant’s pulse is stronger in the apical area, or left part, of the chest near the heart.You can choose any of the two in taking an infant’s pulse.


It is also strong in the brachial area, or the inner bend of the arm at the back of the elbow.;
, Infants have weaker immune systems than adults. Because of this, is it important that you rinse your hands with warm water and antibacterial soap. This will help to prevent you from transmitting any harmful microorganisms to the infant.
 When taking an infant’s pulse rate, it is helpful to use a stethoscope to allow you to hear the pulse. A stethoscope can be purchased at your local pharmacy. You will also need:


A watch that counts seconds.
Pen and paper.
 Doing this will help to keep the infant’s pulse rate from increasing, which could throw off the accuracy of your results. You can place the child between two pillows so that she cannot roll away, or you can ask someone to hold the infant on her back while you take the reading.When an infant is placed in a vertical position, blood flows to the lower extremities due to the force of gravity, which causes the heart to beat faster. The heart beats faster because the heart has to work harder to pump blood to the different parts of the body., Extreme emotions activate the sympathetic nervous system (a part of the brain that increases vital signs such as the heart rate, breathing and blood pressure). As a result, if the infant is unhappy, the heart rate will increase suddenly.If the infant begins to cry, soothe her and wait for her to calm down before you try taking her pulse.
 If the baby is wearing a dress or shirt with Velcro straps or ties, undo these so that you can expose the baby’s chest without removing the entire dress. To find the apical pulse:


Place your pointer finger on the middle part of the baby’s left clavicle, or collarbone (this is the long bone in the chest that is near the shoulder blade).
Glide your finger down slowly to locate the first intercostal space (this refers to the space between each rib).
Move down to the second and third intercostal space, until you reach the fourth space. This is where you should be able to feel the apical pulse most strongly. This spot is known as the spot of maximal impulse.
 Warm the stethoscope up by placing the large metal circle (this is known as the diaphragm) in the palm of your hand for at least 10 seconds.


Warning up the diaphragm will help to keep the infant from being startled by the cold metal and beginning to cry.
 Insert the earpieces of the stethoscope and place the diaphragm on to the apical pulse, or the fourth intercostal space. Again, this should be the fourth space you find between the ribs when you run your finger down from the baby’s left collarbone.


You should hear a loud “lub-dub” sound when you put your stethoscope over the apical pulse. The “lub-dub” sound is considered one whole beat.
 The count should start when the “dub” sound is heard.Get the pen and paper and record the number of pulses or heartbeats you hear in the space of 60 seconds.
Wash your hands thoroughly when you are done recording the pulse rate.

