 Once you've become an officiant, you can simply go by your name and credentials, or you can create a professional business name. This can be descriptive about your location or romantic. If you create a business name, check to make sure no other officiants in the area currently use the same name.You'll need to register your business and begin keeping track of business expenses and income. Consider working with an accountant.
 You should purchase your domain name and make sure your site is easy to navigate.Include pages about what services you offer, information about yourself, contact information, and positive references.


You should also set up a professional email account that you can list on your website. This is a good way to separate your work and personal correspondence and shows professionalism.
 This can be done inexpensively through online printing. You should also make a brochure to provide to potential clients. Pack it full of tips, sample vows and a bio about yourself that is warm and welcoming.Don't print your business materials on cheap paper or use low-quality printers. Clients will be looking for quality, and professional materials will lend credibility.
 Money well spent on advertising will bring dividends your way. Place ads in newspapers, on community boards at the library, and other public places. Work with a wedding planner or event coordinator who can then refer couples to you.Attend wedding and event shows that feature informative booths. Be prepared with business information for prospective clients.
 Offer to officiate for friends and family in order to get some experience. Keep information and reviews to put in a portfolio which you can show clients.Start your fee structure a little below the going rate in your area. Once you have performed a few weddings, you will have letters of recommendation to include in your brochure or portfolio and you can gradually raise your fees.


Consider offering discounts to veterans and the disabled. You will feel good about your decision, and others will benefit and thank you for it.

