 Drying meat at home carries risks if the bacteria are not adequately destroyed. As such, it is important to take all safety precautions during the preparation of venison jerky.When raw meat or poultry is dehydrated at home — either in a warm oven or a food dehydrator — to make jerky which will be stored on the shelf, pathogenic bacteria are likely to survive the dry heat of a warm oven and especially the 130 to 140 °F (54 to 60 °C) of a food dehydrator.Wash your hands with soap and warm water before commencing. Repeat hand washing throughout the process. Wash all implements and items used thoroughly as well.
Ensure that the venison has been kept refrigerated at 40 °F (4 °C) or slightly below.
 Place in an easily poured container.
 Leave to marinate overnight in the refrigerator. Either place it into a container with a lid, or Ziploc bags work just as well.


The venison pieces should all be cut the same thickness, with the standard being a 1/4 inch (6.35mm).This ensures that the venison jerky pieces will all cook evenly at the same time.
In line with USDA advice, consider steaming or cooking the venison to 160ºF (70C) before dehydrating it.
 Drain well.



Place the meat strips either directly onto the oven racks (line the base of the oven with foil to catch splatters), or placed on a cooling rack sitting on a cookie sheet brushed lightly with vegetable oil. Another neat alternative is to pierce each piece of venison with a toothpick and hang it from the upper rack of the oven.Place in the oven and leave to dry. This will take about 4 to 6 hours. If you've laid the jerky flat on a cookie sheet, it's important to turn the jerky about halfway, to ensure that it dries evenly. Otherwise, if it's hanging or sitting over the rack, it's good to stay.
It's a good idea to leave the door open just a few inches or centimetres to allow the moisture to escape., Leave to cool completely before placing into airtight storage; there should be no moisture present at all. Consume within 1–2 months., After marinating the strips, hang over a microwave roasting rack. Set the microwave oven to high. Cook for 4–6 minutes. For every half a minute after 4 minutes, stop the oven and check the consistency and color of the jerky. When it changes from brown to dark brown and looks like jerky (leathery), it's ready.;
,