 Most definitions of diaper define it as being a garment worn by babies. If I were responsible for writing the definition of diaper found in dictionaries I'd write something like this: "An absorbent, waterproof, protective undergarment made of either reusable or disposable material which is drawn up between the legs and fastened at the waist by tape tabs, safety pins, or other methods. It is designed for managing episodes of incontinence experienced by individuals of all ages, including babies, young children before they are potty trained, and adults, in addition to providing protection for individuals that wet the bed.";
, This could be either a one part episode or it could be divided into several shows. Some of the topics that could be discussed on the show include the following: the causes of bedwetting, how prevalent it is including the different age groups effected, a segment specifically discussing adult bedwetting, different treatments available for bedwetting and the pros and cons of each, as well as the different types of garments available to manage bedwetting. This segment would talk about the more common garments available to manage bedwetting such as pull-ups and "Goodnites" as well as other choices available to deal with the problem such as disposable tape tab diapers, pin-on cloth diapers, and plastic pants. In this segment representatives from different companies that sell diapers that fit older children, teenagers, and adults could come on and discuss the advantages and disadvantages of different types of diapers.
 There are some famous people who have come out and discussed their experiences with bedwetting but it might help reduce the stigma surrounding bedwetting if more celebrities discussed it. One celebrity that has been open about her experiences growing up as a bedwetter is Sarah Silverman. She's written a book called "The Bedwetter: Stories of Courage, Redemption, and Pee". She mentioned that she had to wear diapers for a while to manage the problem. In one section of the book she talked about how when she was 12 she and her mom hid some diapers in her sleeping bag before she went on a camping trip. She had this to say regarding this particular experience: "Surrounded by my tent mates, I subtly reached to the bottom of my sleeping bag with my toes and took care of business without incident, probably because in their wildest dreams(among the giggling and gossip and talk about boys), they would never guess that one of us was wearing Pampers."

, There are also nurses who specialize in incontinence. These nurses are called WOCN (which stands for wound, ostomy, and continence). They could also be a good source for recommending different types of garments available to handle bedwetting. By having medical professionals talk openly about adult diapers it might help alleviate the stigma of wearing these types of garments.
 The majority of parenting books seem to take a negative view of children over the age of 4 or 5 using diapers to manage their bedwetting. Most authors feel that older bedwetters should be taken out of diapers and put into underwear style garments such as pull-ups or "Goodnites". "Goodnites" were introduced into the marketplace in the summer of 1994. The thinking behind this product is that it would be less stigmatizing and embarrassing for an older child or teenager to wear, primarily due to its design which allowed the user to pull it on like regular underwear,as opposed to using tape tabs to fasten the garment like diapers.Eventually other companies starting making "pull-ups", including manufacturers of adult incontinence products. While these garments do work for some bedwetters, there are others who leak through these styles of garments and soak their bed. Also, even though these garments do pull on like regular underwear,for all intents and purposes they're diapers. That being said, the pull-on style products tend to be less absorbent and as a result less effective than the tape on style products for managing heavier forms of incontinence such as bedwetting. If the child or teenager leaks through the pull-on style products the parents should have their youngster wear diapers with tape tabs instead.
 In my opinion we have a double standard regarding this issue.
