 A person with hyponatremia, or low levels of sodium in the body, can suffer seizures from brain swelling. This happens when water flows into the brain because of a drop in sodium levels, in order to balance the level of fluid and salt. This leads to cerebral edema or brain swelling. The excess fluid now disrupts the ability of the neurons or nerve cells to transmit electrical signals. This disruption can cause abnormal electric impulses or activity in the brain and may aggravate the occurrence of temporal lobe seizures.


The recommended intake of sodium is less than 2300 mg a day.Foods rich in sodium are bacon, soy sauce, cured meat and fish, cheese, pickles, instant noodles, roasted and salted nuts, pretzels, eggs, biscuits and canned goods.
 Performing any kind of brain function requires several neurons or nerve cells in different parts of the brain to communicate with each other. They are able to communicate by sending electrical signals, triggering an inflow of calcium ions into active cells. Having a sufficient amount of calcium in the body aids in proper nerve cell communication through the use of electrical signals in the brain.


If the level of calcium in the body drops, it can result to a disruption in the electrical signals in the brain and may aggravate the occurrence of temporal lobe seizures.
The recommended intake of calcium is 1000 mg per day.Foods rich in calcium are cheese, yogurt, milk, sardines, spinach, kale, fortified cereals, oranges, soybeans and enriched breads.
 Magnesium is a well-known anticonvulsive agent that helps regulate the electrical activity in the brain. Low levels of magnesium can lead to abnormal electrical activity in the brain and may aggravate the occurrence of temporal lobe seizures.The recommended intake of magnesium is 350 mg daily. Foods rich in magnesium are spinach, nuts and seeds, mackerel, beans, lentils, brown rice, avocados, yogurt, bananas, dried fruit and dark chocolate.
 Omega-3 fatty acids play important roles in determining both the structural and functional properties of neuronal membranes. Omega-3 affects the membrane’s functions, which include electrical signalling, sensitivity of receptors and release of brain chemicals or neurotransmitters. If the level of omega-3 fatty acids is insufficient, the electrical signalling in the brain can be impaired and can result to abnormal electrical activity, which in turn leads to the occurrence of temporal lobe seizures.The recommended dose for omega-3 fatty acids is not more than 3 grams daily. Foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids are sardines, salmon, soybeans, flax seeds, walnuts, tofu, brussels sprouts, cauliflower, shrimp and winter squash.

