 There are many reasons why you might want to stay home. If you can determine the reason why you don’t want to go, you will have a much easier time convincing your family to let you stay behind.


Are you feeling sick or unwell? Are you worried about picking up germs or infections?Do you need some time alone?Are you too tired to participate in your family’s activities?
Do you need time to finish important work?
Do you not like the activity that your family is doing?;
, If you quit a family outing, you might end up hurting your family’s feelings. While missing out on a movie or a walk might not be a big deal, you might find yourself offending family members if you skip on a family dinner or if you do not attend a wedding. Carefully think over the situation. You might discover that it is more considerate to go along with the outing than to stay home.


Have your family members been planning this outing for a long time?
Who might be upset if you missed out?
Is this outing for a celebration or a special occasion?
Willing you be meeting people who you haven’t seen in a long time?

, Think about what you might do if you stayed home. Determine if you would be more productive staying home than going out. Some things you might consider doing:


Catch up on sleep
Finish work
Do chores
Fix broken appliances
Exercise

, If you decide that you need the time alone, you might feel guilty for quitting on your family. Try to avoid this self-doubt. If you have determined that the benefits outweigh the negatives, you shouldn’t feel bad. Instead, remember that you can join your family another time. You will also be much happier if you are rested and relaxed.Solitude can help increase your productivity, concentration, and self-awareness while improving your relationships with others.You can tell yourself that, "It's all right to do this. I need a mental health day for my own good."
Remember that you will have other opportunities to go out with your family. You can tell yourself, "It's ok to take me-time. I can make it up to my family later."

, Do not wait until your family is out the door to tell them that you will not be coming. Try to anticipate when you will need time to yourself, and let your family know as soon as possible. This will ease their disappointment, and it will make convincing them much easier.You can say the week before, "I know we were planning on going hiking this weekend, but I was thinking that I might stay home instead to catch up on work."
If it is last minute, apologize for the sudden change of heart. You can say, "I'm really sorry to do this now, but I'm not sure that I can come out to the beach with the family today. I'm really tired, and I need some time to myself."

, You will need to talk to your family to let them know that you want to stay home. Instead of telling them that you are staying, you should frame your request as a question. This lets them know that you are willing to listen to their objections.You can stay, “I was wondering if it would be all right if I skipped out on this outing?”
You might also phrase it as, “I hate doing this to you, but I’m not sure I’m up for going out today. Would you mind if I stayed home?”

, You should provide a reason to your family for staying home. Let them know why you want to stay as well as what you will do while you’re home. Being clear and specific with your needs will increase your chances of success.You can say, “I’m so tired, and I think I would fall asleep during the movie if I went. I might just stay here and take a nap.”
You might also say, “I have so much work to do, and if I don’t get it done now, I won’t be able to spend any time with the family later.”

, Your family might be disappointed that you are staying home. Find a way to make it up to them. Show them that by staying home, you will be able to help the whole family. You might consider saying:“If I stay home, I can put away the dishes and clean the kitchen.”
“If I can get some rest now, I will be much better rested to help out with the party on Saturday.”
“If I finish my work today, I can take the kids out to the park tomorrow.”

, If you are a teenager, you might need to convince your parents that you can be trusted at home alone. Convince your parents that you are old enough to be home alone. You might point out that being home alone will help you become more independent.You can say, “I promise that I’m just going to stay here and do my homework.”
You might promise to do chores. You can say, “If you let me stay home, I will pick up the living room.”
You can also tell them, “I think that I am old enough to stay home by myself. I’ve proven myself to be responsible, haven’t I?”

, If your family lets you stay home, you should thank them. Let them know how appreciative you are of their actions. Wish them a good time on their outing too. These small gestures can prevent resentment from building up.


You can say, “Thank you so much. I hope you all have a great time without me.”

, You may have made some promises when you asked to stay home. Do not shirk these duties once your family has left the house. Instead, make sure that you do everything that you promised to do. Determine how long your family will be out of the house. Schedule your time effectively. You might want to do your chores or work as soon as they leave so that you have plenty of time left over to relax.


If you said you would do chores, do them first. Get them out the way early so that you do not forget.
Do not ask to stay home and then leave the house to do something else. Meeting up with friends when you begged your family to stay home might be seen as a violation of trust.
If you wanted to stay home to work, do not goof off. Try to finish the work so that you do not have to cancel on another family outing.
 A twenty to thirty minute nap can reduce stress, increase energy, and improve your mood.You might feel happier overall if you get a little bit of sleep while the family is gone. With no one in the house, you can even sleep on the couch if you want to.
 Even if you have to do work or chores, take some time for yourself. Do the things that you can’t do when there are other people in the house.Maybe this is your time to read, or maybe there is a creative project that you have been trying to finish for a while. Perhaps you just want to catch up on your favorite shows. Enjoy the silence, and take this time to yourself. You might:


Water your garden
Write in a journal
Work on your car
Dance to your favorite music
Take a bath