 Unless you plastered your face with glue, odds are your moisturizer, cold cream, or facial cleanser can take your makeup off just as effectively as any legitimate makeup remover can. Just close your eyes, rub gently over the area, and wipe off with a cloth. You're already washing your face, so why not?









Don't worry about it stinging your eyes -- unless you're using a cleanser that isn't mild (has salicylic acid in it, for example), you should be fine, so long as you keep your eyes closed.
After you've cleansed, dab your face and eyes with a towel to dry off.
 Feeling like a child of the earth? Then you can make your own eye makeup remover! Pretty much any oil works, but olive, mineral, or almond work best.









Try combining 2 ounces of witch hazel with 2 ounces of olive oil for an easy homemade makeup remover. Give the concoction a shake, dab some on a cotton ball or cloth, and wipe across the area. Then go over the area once more with a dry cloth or cotton ball.
Witch hazel is good for wrinkles! The smell isn't great, but it sure can make your skin smooth!

, Some people swear by Vaseline (petroleum jelly) or using oils (mineral or baby oil, specifically) to remove their makeup, but you may not want to take their word for it. It can create a film around the eyes, blocking pores, and creating little bumps called milia.If you have anything else available, go for it first.
 If you're looking for a mess-free, can't-possibly-sting method, baby wipes are the way to go. All you have to do is grab one, wipe it across your eye (closed, of course!), and the makeup comes right off. Keep some by your bed and you don't even have to get out of it to clean your face at night!









Makeup remover comes in wipe form too!

, If you have very sensitive skin and neither baby shampoo nor cheap makeup remover works for you, you may need to invest in a good makeup remover. They are expensive, but if you use it reasonably it will last for a long time. There are dozens of products out there. Choose a brand you trust you won't regret it.


Clinique, Noxzema, Neutrogena, MAC, and Lancome all have products that are worth your investment. There are removers that come in liquid form, as a cleanser, wipe, that foam, or even as creams. There's bound to be one out there that you like!

