 Once you've gotten your idea written down and you've taken a little bit of time to clear your head, begin going over it critically. Highlight the important sections. If you've gone over the word limit, be ruthless about which pieces you can cut out.
 The goal of the first draft was to get all of your words and ideas out on paper. Now, you'll need to find the meat of your writing and get rid of the rest. Begin gluing together the pieces that you highlighted in the previous step. To find the best flow, you may find it helpful to completely start from scratch. This time, focus on the message behind your words.



Show, don't tell. Note you should never have to outright tell the admissions committee the message that you're trying to convey. Avoid starting sentences with anything along the lines of "And at that moment I knew" or "I learned that...". Not only will these make your essay sound cheesy and fake, but they will also take away from your word count. Instead, use your words to show the admissions committee why your topic is important.
Don't repeat yourself. Remember that the admissions committee has already read your personal statement, so you want to keep things interesting for them. Not only do you want your topic to be fresh, but you want your voice to be fresh too. Use a different writing style—a different tone, different vocabulary. Access and represent a part of yourself that was not shown in the personal statement.
 At this point it would be a good idea to show your work to family or friends. Don't tell them your goal with the story—have them tell you what they took away from it. If they get a different message than you intended, or if they don't get a message at all, don't brush it off as a one time thing. Sit down with them and talk about ways to better make your intended message come across. Repeat the process once you've made the necessary edits; you'll likely need more than two drafts to reach an acceptable final product.


If your family members and friends don't think that your essay works, listen to them. While the idea may seem brilliant to you, other people's reactions are probably more indicative of what those of the Admissions committee will be like. Don't be afraid to start from scratch if you receive a negative response.

