 In order to connect your iPod to your computer and access the files, your iPod will need to be in Disk Mode. You can do this using iTunes, or you can manually put the iPod into Disk Mode.To put the iPod into Disk Mode using iTunes, plug your iPod into your computer, open iTunes, and select it from the Devices menu. In the Summary window, check the "Enable disk use" in the Options section.
To put your iPod into Disk Mode manually, press and hold the Menu and Select buttons for at least six seconds. Keep holding the buttons until the Apple logo appears. As soon as the logo appears, release the Menu and Select buttons, and then press and hold the Select and Play buttons. Hold these buttons until the Disk Mode screen shows up.
See this guide for more details on putting your iPod into Disk Mode.;
, If you turned on Disk Mode manually, connect the iPod to your computer. If you are using a Mac, the iPod should appear on the desktop like a USB drive. If you are using Windows, the iPod will be listed with your other drives in the Computer/My Computer/This PC window.


If you are using Windows, you can quickly access Computer/My Computer/This PC by pressing the Windows key + Pause.
 Typically, these will be found in the Photos folder, but since the iPod can be used like a USB drive they could be placed anywhere. Navigate through the folder to find the pictures you want.
 You can select the images you want copy transfer to the computer and then copy them by selecting Edit → Copy, right-clicking and selecting Copy, or by pressing Ctrl + C (Windows) or Command + C (Mac).


Select the location that you want to transfer the images to and paste the copied images. You can do this by clicking Edit → Paste, right-clicking on a blank space and selecting Paste, or by pressing Ctrl + V (Windows) or Command + V (Mac).
If you don't want to keep the images on your iPod, you can Cut instead of Copy, which will remove the originals once they have been copied to the new location. You can Cut by pressing Ctrl + X (Windows) or Command + X. You can then paste the same way as described above.
You can transfer files to your iPod if you want now as well.
 If you are transferring a lot of images, it may take a while for the transfer process to complete. The progress bar will tell you how much estimated time is left.
 After the transfer has completed, you will need to eject the iPod before you detach it from your computer. This will help prevent data corruption.


On Mac, right-click on your iPod on the Desktop and select Eject. You can now disconnect the iPod
In Windows, click the "Safely remove hardware" button in the System Tray, and then select the iPod. You can now disconnect the iPod.

