 While you can always buy ginseng tea at the store, it is easy to make your own with a whole root. All you need is a teapot, strainer, and a fresh or dried root. Slice the root thinly. You will need three slices per cup of tea. Boil water before removing it from the heat.There are two ways of making the tea. You can add the slices to the directly to the pot or place the slices in a tea strainer. Pour the hot water over the strainer. Steep for five minutes before removing the ginseng.
Stir in a little honey if you want a sweeter tea with all of the same health benefits.;
, Cut a whole fresh or dried ginseng root into smaller pieces. Add the pieces to a jar with a tight-fitting lid. Fill the jar to the top with liquor, such as rum, gin, vodka, or grain alcohol. Leave it in a cool place for 15 to 30 days.When using a tincture, you should only use about 5 to 15 drops at a time.
Once you are ready to use the tincture, strain it so that there are no pieces left in the alcohol.
Since you only use a small amount of tincture at a time, start with a smaller amount. One cup of alcohol to one root of ginseng will last indefinitely if stored in a cool, dark place.
You can use between 90 proof and 190 proof alcohol., Ginseng root extracts are widely available in pill form at vitamin shops, grocery stores, health food stores, and herbalists. Most supplements contain between 100 and 400mg of ginseng root, although you can take up to 3,000 mg a day.To benefit the most, take the supplement early in the day with a meal. If you take ginseng root in the evening, you may have difficulty falling asleep., If you have fresh or wild ginseng, you can eat it by steaming it first. Cut up the ginseng, and place it in a vegetable steaming basket over boiling water. Let it steam for fifteen minutes. You can eat the ginseng slices themselves or use them in a recipe.


Red ginseng (sometimes known as Korean ginseng) has already been steamed.
 There may be few side effects of taking ginseng root. Consult a doctor first if you are taking any other medications or if you develop symptoms. While these side effects are rarely serious, you should stop taking ginseng root if you notice:Nervousness or jitteriness
Rapid heart beat
Diarrhea
Difficulty sleeping
Headache
Low blood pressure

