 If you have ongoing problems with nasal mucus and sinus congestion, then it is possible that bacteria can become lodged in your sinuses and develop into a sinus infection.Symptoms of a sinus infections include prolonged sinus pressure, congestion, pain, or a headache for more than seven days.
If you develop a fever, you may have a sinus infection.;
, If the mucus changes to a greenish or yellowish color instead of clear or develops an odor, then you may have bacteria growing in your sinus passages leading to a sinus infection.


When your sinuses get blocked with congestion, the mucus, and bacteria that is normally produced gets trapped. If the congestion and pressure are not relieved, the trapped bacteria can lead to a sinus infection.
You may also get a viral sinus infection if the congestion and pressure were caused by a cold or the flu.
Antibiotics are ineffective if the infection is due to a virus. If you have a cold or flu virus, treat with zinc, vitamin C, and/or pseudoephedrine.
 If your doctor determines that you have developed a bacterial sinus infection, antibiotics may be prescribed for you. Be sure you take them exactly as prescribed and for the full duration of the prescription.Even if you start to feel better quickly, finish the prescription as prescribed. Not doing so may result in resistive strains of bacteria.It is also beneficial as the bacteria can still be lingering in your sinus passages.
Be aware that some doctors may prescribe antibiotics before receiving test results that identify the actual cause of infection.You may ask for a culture to be taken to be sure the correct antibiotic is prescribed.
If the symptoms persist even after you have finished the course of antibiotics, let your doctor know. You may need another course or a different antibiotic.
Talk to your doctor about allergy testing or other preventive measures if this happens to you frequently.
 Some situations of excessive mucus production seem to go on and on, no matter what treatments you try.If you have persistent problems with rhinitis, or continued and excessive mucus production, talk to your doctor.
You may need to undergo a series of tests to determine if you are allergic to things you come into contact with in your home or workplace.
Plus, you may have developed a nasal polyp or other structural change in your sinuses that is contributing to your lingering problem.
 The most common structural abnormality that causes excessive mucus is the development of nasal polyps.Nasal polyps can develop over time. Small polyps most often go unnoticed and cause no problems.
Larger polyps can block the airflow through your sinus passages, and cause irritation that leads to excessive mucus production.
Other structural abnormalities are possible, such as deviated septum, and enlarged adenoids, but they do not usually cause excessive production of mucus.
Injury to the nose or surrounding area can also result in structural abnormalities, and can sometimes have related symptoms like mucus production. Talk to your doctor if you have had a recent injury to your facial area or nose.

