 Making the house uncharacteristically neat or forcing yourself to wake up much earlier than normal will be an uncomfortable adjustment for both of you. As always, be yourself. After all, she chose to date someone who is not in the military.
 Many women who return from the military, and even active duty, act more masculine. You may find that she acts like ‘one of the guys’ around you, or displays locker room behavior. This may make your relationship dynamic different than it was before deployment. She may slowly return to her former civilian personality, but accept her as she is. After all, you are not going to be the exact same person either.For men dating a military woman, it would be wrong of you to ask her to play housewife when she returns from being a completely different person. You are trying not to change yourself around her – let her do the same.
 It is common for returning veterans to be more aggressive than they were before deployment. This applies to women as well. As long as there is no physical or emotional abuse, give her space to readjust to civilian life. This is a natural component of her chosen career.


This does not mean joining in with her. Wrestling or physically fighting with her may start playfully and become much worse.
Gently let her know if her aggressiveness is getting out of hand or becoming unwelcome. Giving her space does not mean tolerating actual abuse.
 Though you shouldn’t ask probing questions about her service, she may need to eventually talk. Even though she probably realizes it, let her know you are always happy to listen. Veterans who start bottling up their feelings early after discharge are setting a precedent for avoiding communication that will be hard for them to break. Being a listening ear and a shoulder to cry on are important roles for you to play in your relationship. , If readjusting to civilian life is hard on either or both of you, consider talking to a professional. It can be just one of you, or couples counseling. There are also support groups for veterans of all wars, female veterans, significant others, and so on. Do a web search to find groups in your area.

