 Not all hats will have a care tag, but before you do any cleaning you should check to see if your hat does. If there is a care tag, take note of the cleaning instructions on the tag, including the water temperature and detergents you should use., Start by filling your sink or a bucket or basin with warm water. You don’t want the water to be too hot as this can cause the hat to shrink. It should be cool enough that you can put your hands in it without getting burned.Make sure you completely clean your sink before using it to wash your hat. You don’t want any food particles getting stuck to your hat.
 It’s best to use a mild laundry detergent or fabric cleaner like OxiClean. These are gentle enough to wash the hat without destroying the fabric. Add about a tablespoon (0.5 oz) of cleaner to the water as the sink fills.Don't use detergents with bleach in them as this will ruin the color of your hat.
 Dip your hat into the sink of warm water. Then dip a toothbrush or small scrubbing brush into some of the cleaner you’re using. Gently scrub the problem areas on your hat until the stains come out.A gentle shampoo is a great option for spot cleaning sweat stains on your hat.
 Most fitted hats have stitching along the edges that keep all the materials together. Avoid scrubbing this area of your hat too hard, since it can pull the stitching apart and ruin the shape of your hat., Once you’ve spot-cleaned your hat, place your hat in the water and detergent mixture and let it soak for twenty to thirty minutes. Check the hat about halfway through to see if there are still stubborn stains that aren’t coming clean. If there are, repeat the process for getting rid of stains.You might need to soak your hat for longer, depending on how dirty it is. You can leave your hat to soak for up to a couple of hours.
 Once your hat has finished soaking, rinse it thoroughly with warm, not hot, water. This should get all of the detergent off and prevent soap stains from ruining your hat as it dries. You might need to rub a the hat with your hands to make sure all of the detergent is out.