 They can be obtained by cutting a tree to get a Wood Block and then putting it in your crafting window, which can be found in your inventory.;
, With your Wood Planks, use the crafting window and then place one Wood Plank on each empty box.
 Place it in your inventory to finish the crafting process.


You can also use the Crafting Table to create other tools, weapons, and armors.
 Find mushrooms in dark caves and shady areas, so look in swamp biomes or in Nether for them. They're mostly found there due to its low light conditions.


Brown Mushrooms have also been known to spawn in jungles and open caves.
 To craft Sugar, open your Crafting Table and then place one Sugar Cane in the middle of the empty boxes.


Sugar is a food item derived from Sugar Cane, and Sugar Canes are found in the newly generated world, mostly three blocks tall.
Sugar Cane is found growing naturally, but somewhat rarely on dirt, grass, and sand directly adjacent to water.
To have a constant supply of sugar for future alchemic or cooking uses, you can plant Sugar Canes on sand as long as it's next to a source of water. Harvest by removing only the top layer and leave the base layer intact to keep it growing.
1 Sugar Cane produces 1 Sugar.
 Spider Eye is a poisonous food and brewing item. Is it dropped by Spiders, Cave Spiders, and Witches.


Spiders can be found in the forest, but the best source for the Spider Eye are from Cave Spiders since they can be found quickly if there's a spawner nearby.
 With the gathered ingredients stored in your inventory, open your Crafting Table to start crafting the fermented spider eye. Place the Sugar in the middle and then place the Brown Mushroom to the left side. Spider Eye should be placed below the Sugar.


Once you're done, click on the Fermented Spider Eye, which can be found to the right side of the window, and then place it in your inventory to complete the process.
 Fermented Spider Eye is usually used for brewing unique kinds of potions. Use it for the following potions:


Potion of Weakness can reduce melee damage to 50%.
Potion of Harming damages three hearts.
Potion of Slowness slows players and mobs by 15%.
Potion of Invisibility makes players disappear, and mobs will act neutral toward the player if the player is not wearing armor.

