 Because African hair is drier and more brittle than Asian or Caucasian hair, washing more than once or twice a week can zap the hair of the oils it needs and cause breakage. You don’t need to worry about your hair looking oily or greasy, as this won’t be a problem as long as you do a weekly wash.Try to pick a day when you have a lot of free time for wash days, since your hair routine may take a long time.
If you are trying to get long hair, try to buy a shampoo that contains biotin, as biotin can speed up hair growth.
 Always use conditioner each time you shampoo your hair. Conditioner will restore moisture to your hair and helps protect it from breaking. Make sure to heavily condition the ends of your hair, which are the oldest and most fragile sections of your hair., If you are an athlete or sweat regularly, you may feel the need to wash your hair more than once a week to remove sweat or other buildup. Instead of using a shampoo, substitute a conditioner when you wash your hair. Use the conditioner as you would a shampoo, rubbing it into your scalp and through the lengths of your hair.Co-washing is a gentle way of washing your hair but not drying it out.
 Deep conditioning is critical to healthy natural hair, especially if you are transitioning from relaxed hair. Apply a water-based deep conditioner while your hair is still wet after getting out of the shower on days that you shampoo. Divide your hair into sections to make it more manageable and spread the deep conditioner from the roots of your hair to the ends.After coating your hair with the deep conditioner, use a shower cap to cover your head for about thirty minutes. Then take off the shower cap and rinse the deep conditioner out of your hair, paying special attention to washing it out of your scalp.
Use a deep conditioner with an oil or butter base, such as coconut oil, castor oil or shea butter.
 Because African hair is quite dry and prone to breakage, it’s essential to moisturize daily on top of your weekly deep conditioning treatments. Purchase a leave-in moisturizer, trying to find product that is lightweight and won’t weigh your hair down, but is still heavily moisturizing. Begin your morning styling routine by wetting your hair using a spray bottle of water, then applying the leave-in conditioner according to its packaging.You may have to experiment with several products until you find the one that works best on your hair.
 After you apply the leave-in moisturizer, spray your hair with an oil-based spray to seal in the leave-in moisturizer. You can also simply rub coconut oil, castor oil, shea butter, or your prefered oil or butter into your hair, focusing at the tips.