 This will be your crew helping you pay off those giant charges, and helping you get the job done. Make sure these people are very trustworthy, smart, hard-working, but also fun with brilliant ideas. Meet after-school every day or form a secret website for you and them to plan out on.;
, A good brainstorming list is: hotels, universities and convention centers good for the con, some possible convention guests, departments you might need, problems you could run into, getting attendees, people who might want to join staff, who's going to pay for the hotel deposit, should you form an LLC or corporation, taxes you'd have to pay, a list of possible con expenses and a list of events. Fell free to write your own brainstorming list anytime.
 The best conventions normally happen during the summer, but you can make yours anytime. Location matters, too. You wouldn't want your convention to be all the way down in Houston while you live in Baltimore, now do you?

, Look closely at the time of it and its location. Don't hold it too close in date or location.
 Next is a very critical step. Doing it right is the difference between getting what you want and getting a horrible deal. In this step you will be asking the hotel/convention center you choose to hold the convention for information. Look for the "Request for Proposal" form. This will tell them the space that you need and it will clarify you are planning. Don't go into stuff the hotel doesn't understand.
 Most actors can charge up to $10,000 per day of convention! Make sure your team has the money they need.
 You can ask some classmates, or email some friends. Make sure these people are not snobs, are trustworthy, and know what to do.
 You can make some flyers to give to people at school or make an advertisement on the computer. If advertising is against your school's law, secretly hand them out or ask permission from the school's administration team.
 Most of your hotels will respond in the next few days. They’ll provide you with a “proposal”, and some will send you their contract directly. You need to review each one and take notes of key points:


How much do you pay for the space if you get zero hotel rooms and zero dollars in catering? This is your “base price”.
How many hotel rooms are they offering you? This is your “base room block”.
Multiply the number of rooms by number of nights to get your “base room nights”. 50 rooms at 2 nights each is 100 room nights.
What is the price you pay if your attendees fill all the hotel rooms? This is your “discount rate”.
How much will attendees pay per night for a hotel room? This is your “room night price”.

