 Journaling is a great way to express your feelings, encourage yourself, and overcome your fear of success. Writing in your journal on a regular basis can help you identify specific fears as well as the strategies that help you overcome them. It’s also a way to document your successes and progress you are making in achieving them.


Write about your successes, no matter how large or how small. For instance, if you’re elected to speak for your project group, write about it.
Take it a step further and write a small statement expressing that you had nothing to fear from the success. For example, you might write, “I aced my test. I was afraid of doing well, but it feels good.”
Write about other things going on in your life whether they are good or bad, big or small. Write about how you feel about these things.
Try to write in your journal at least every few days or so.
 One way to improve your self-confidence and remind yourself that you can succeed is to write down all of the good things about yourself.Making a list of your strengths, skills, and talents can help you overcome feelings that you don’t deserve success or can’t achieve it.


Include talents and skills you have such as playing an instrument, sports, cooking, typing, programming, singing, writing, dancing, etc.
Put personality traits on the list as well. For instance, you might write, “my sense of humor, curiosity, empathy, loyalty.”
Ask your close friends and family for strengths you might have overlooked. You might say, for example, “Will you look over my list of strengths and see if there’s anything I left off?”

, Part of your fear of success might be because of feelings that you don’t deserve success.You can overcome these feelings and your fear of success by maintaining a positive, encouraging, and confident opinion of yourself.


Each morning tell yourself, “I’m worthy of success. I can succeed and I deserve to succeed.” Make sure to include these positive affirmations in your journaling!
Stop yourself when negative self-thoughts creep in. For example, if you find yourself thinking, “I can’t do this. I’m not good enough,” stop yourself and think, “No, I CAN do this and I AM good enough.”
If you need to, refer to your list of strengths to find things to tell yourself.
 You can boost your self-confidence and begin to overcome a fear of success if you congratulate yourself and celebrate your achievements. Practice getting comfortable with success by telling someone about your achievement, however small. Acknowledge small achievements and any time you make an effort to succeed. This will help you become more comfortable with reaching your goals and realize that you have nothing to fear from success.


Treat yourself to a cupcake and frozen yogurt if you finish the manuscript you’ve been working on even if you haven’t submitted it yet, for example.
Or, for instance, you might reward yourself with a massage if you send your supervisor an email asking to discuss a promotion.

