 Your loved one may not be in an emotional place to think about where they could use support. Suggest how you could be helpful—making meals, caring for children, researching their partner's behavior, et cetera.
 An abuse victim may become isolated over time, and you can help by inviting them out. Go out together, or invite them to a group thing. Contact with the outside world is helpful to their mental health, and they deserve to go out and have fun.
 Help the victim feel valued and loved. Abuse can hurt or destroy their self-esteem, so you can be helpful by building them up a little.


Mention the qualities you like most about them (resilience, wisdom, kindness, etc.).
Do activities together (e.g. bowling, painting) that they are good at. Help them feel successful and competent.
Ask them for advice about something.
Help a woman feel pretty by complimenting her looks or dolling her up.
 If your loved one recognizes that there is a problem, you can help them come up with a plan if they feel unsafe. Write it down, or if they feel their abuser will find it, keep it verbal.
 If your loved one asks for advice, this is a good sign. You can help a little, but you may feel overwhelmed and confused by the enormity of the problem. Don't be afraid to suggest that they see someone who is more qualified.


"Jess, I really want to help you, and this is such a difficult situation that I don't really know how. I feel in over my head. Maybe it would help if you looked to someone more qualified for advice. I could help you find someone, and I promise I'll still be here for you."
If they say yes, look for a domestic violence expert or therapist (not a couples counselor).
 Place them in control—give them options, and let them choose what they feel is best for their situation. The empowerment of choosing will help give them strength to care for themselves.


"You sound really scared to go home tonight. Would you like to sleep over at my house?"
"Would you like to call an abuse hotline? If you want, I could make the call for you, or I could stay with you while you call. I'd also be okay with going to the next room if you want privacy."
"Do you want me to help you find options?"

