 Sitting down at the table together for breakfast may seem like an antiquated notion out of a 1950s TV show; however, modern research continues to confirm just how important breakfast is to overall health, so make every possible effort to prioritize breakfast and carve out time for it each day.Set slightly earlier bedtimes to give enough time for breakfast. Rely on quick, nutritious breakfasts like cold cereal or yogurt with granola, a banana, multigrain toast, and orange juice. Keep it simple, so you don't have to turn into a short-order cook in the morning.
If it’s possible for you to eat breakfast together, do it — it makes it feel like the priority it should be.
 If the sit-down breakfast just isn’t going to happen in your household, don’t let your kids head out the door empty-handed — or with a toaster pastry full of sugar and saturated fat. Prepare nutritious options ahead of time that can be eaten on-the-go.Fresh fruit (like bananas, apple slices, or orange wedges), dried fruit and nuts, yogurt cups or squeeze tubes, smoothies, cereal or granola bars, or containers of dry breakfast cereal can all make good on-the-go options. Just keep an eye out for sugar content in prepackaged items.
Try to make these the emergency option and not the daily routine. A full, nutritious breakfast is the best alternative.
 Depending upon the age of the kids you’re dealing with, providing information on the importance of eating breakfast may prove helpful. Teens that are worried about school performance and/or physical appearance, for instance, might be convinced of the value of making time for breakfast.


Around 10% of younger kids and 25% of teens regularly skip breakfast, which tends to decrease school performance by reducing concentration and energy levels. It also tends to cause weight gain by encouraging overeating later in the day.For smaller kids, use positive peer pressure when possible. If they see or know of other kids like them (siblings, friends, etc.) who eat healthy breakfasts, they are more likely to decide to follow suit., A couple of strawberries and blueberries, and maybe a slice of bacon, can give an ordinary pancake quite a personality. No matter what is on the menu, look for ways to make breakfast fun enough to make your kids want to stop, sit, and eat for a bit in the morning.If your kid likes to point out animals and other shapes in the clouds, why not try the same thing with scrambled egg pieces? Try out fun little games and naming contests to make breakfast more fun.
Teens may be a bit trickier, but try at least to involve them in selecting (and perhaps preparing) the breakfast menu.

