 (You can get calming music at Target, there's a special section by the candles, electronics and pens/pencils. It doesn't matter what kind you get as long as it's calming to you. If you're looking for a specific title so that you don't have to worry about picking, get Enya's CD 'Paint The Sky With Stars' and the best song to relax to on there is called, "Watermark".) Calming Music eases the mind and makes visualization a lot better. Put the song on repeat.;
, Make sure it's not too cold or hot in the room.
, The waves are overlapping the sandy shore, and you feel at peace. You get up from the bed, and you instantly feel weightless. , , Feel that no one can see you, no one is on this place but you. Nothing can disturb you.
 Feel the water glide up towards your body. The water is not cold. Suddenly lay down, and look up at the sky, notice the sky is a beautiful shade of blue. This is the time to think any extra thoughts, maybe about your lover, the guy or girl that you are crushing on, or something that makes you smile. Feel that your thoughts are the safest place, here, because they are.
 Notice that the water is clear blue and beautiful mirroring the suns rays. There is no fish in this water, but you feel like there is life everywhere. Keep walking, and feel nothing like there is no pressure from the water. Walk continuously until you see cranberries floating above the water.
 You let yourself taste the water, and you taste pure water with a tint of cranberry. You lay face up towards the sky, and your body is laying in the water motionless. Feel the cranberries nudge against your wet skin. You're not afraid of being wet, because you know when you get up, you will be dry.
,, You walk towards the hill, and walk upward until you reach the top of the high hill and stream. You see that the stream flows downward towards another part of the shore, you are not afraid at this moment, even though you are probably afraid of heights. You stand on the water and you glide downward. At the bottom of the stream, you get up and walk towards the dry shore again.
 Breathe in, and open your eyes.

