 Understand that self-help alone may not be enough to overcome the desire to purge. Professional help, in combination with the other methods listed here, is the most beneficial way to overcome this condition. A professional can help you to create a plan tailored to your specific needs.Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is an effective therapy modality for reducing purging behaviors.CBT is about changing your thoughts in order to change your feelings (anxiety, guilty, worry, depression) and behaviors (purging).
 A therapist can help you understand that purging is not the solution to resolve weight problems nor the right coping mechanism to deal with issues such as anxiety, depression, frustration, anger, hopelessness and low self-esteem. Therapists are typically non-judgmental and safe individuals to confide in regarding your purging behaviors.


You can look up a therapist that specializes in eating disorders online, or you can talk to a family member or trusted doctor who can help you to find someone that will fit your needs best.
 Your treatment does not necessarily need to consist of only one therapist. Many people who experience an eating disorder actually work with multiple professionals to help create a meal schedule and plan of action that works. These professionals can include:


Physicians, counselors, psychiatrists, psychologists/therapists, and nutritionists (dietitians).
 There are different medications, including antidepressants, that have been shown to reduce symptoms of binging and purging.However, medication is typically not enough to treat purging behaviors. The best treatment is usually a combination of medication and therapy.Consult with your medical doctor to get a referral to a psychiatrist in your area. Or, you can contact your insurance company or conduct an online search for low-cost mental health clinics in your area.
While, medical doctors (MDs, general practitioners) can typically prescribe medications for mental health concerns, psychiatrists are specifically trained in mental health disorders and specialize in these types of medications.

