 Navigate to the Spotlight icon in the upper right-hand corner of your screen. The Spotlight icon looks like a magnifying glass.;
, Search results will appear in Spotlight as you type.
 The App Store appears as a blue circle with a pencil and paint brush inside. Once you click on it, the App Store will open in a new window.


Alternatively, you can hit ↵ Enter to automatically open the App Store after you've typed it into your Spotlight search.
 Click on the search bar at the top of the window. Type in "macOS Sierra," and hit enter.


MacOS Sierra is only compatible with Macbook, Macbook Pro, or Macbook Air users with late 2009 models or later, and Mac mini or Mac Pro users with 2010 models or later.
For more information regarding upgrade prerequisites, click here.
 If you are not already signed in, you may be prompted to enter your Apple ID and password. Your download will begin.


Because of its large size, the macOS Sierra download may take a little while to finish.
 A new window will appear when macOS Sierra is ready to be installed. Click on the "Continue" arrow to start.
 Read the licensing agreement that appears on your screen, scroll to the bottom of the page, and click "Agree."

, Click "agree" again to confirm that you have read the terms of the software license agreement.
 You can select which hard disk you want to install Sierra onto. The default will be "Macintosh HD."


You can also choose to install macOS Sierra onto a flash drive or another external storage device for clean installs of the operating system. Find out more information about clean installs and how to perform them here.
 A new window will appear asking for your password to add a new helper tool.
 Type in your administrator password.
 You will be brought to the installation screen showing the progress of your install. It should only take a minute or so to complete.
 Your computer will automatically restart after 30 seconds of inactivity. Sierra will install while your computer is restarting.


Alternatively, you can jump-start the process by selecting the "Restart" button at the bottom of the install screen.

