 Grunge hair is usually somewhat messy and un-styled. Other than basic washing and conditioning, your hair does not need a lot of extra care if you want to have a grunge look. A lot of the time, grunge hair looks as if you just got out of bed. Avoid brushing or styling your hair too much. Simply let it fall where it falls and do not worry.Do not worry about getting your hair cut too often. It's okay if your hair looks a little shaggy from time to time. In fact, this may make your hair look a bit more grunge.
 Like hair, grunge makeup does not require a lot of work. You should avoid sparkly, colorful shades of eyeshadow and eyeliner. Instead, go for darker shades like blacks, grays, and browns. You do not need a lot of foundation or blush either. You want a more natural look. Some women do like a bolder shade of lipstick, such as a bright red, so this is something you can add to your grunge wardrobe.Some people in grunge culture may paint their nails. As with eyeshadow, nails should be painted darker colors like black.
 Flannel outfits are a staple of a grunge wardrobe. Stock up on flannel button up shirts, which you can wear over a t-shirt. If you're a girl, seek out flannel skirts. If you want to be grunge, you should have quite a bit of flannel in your wardrobe.Grunge shirts do not need to be new, fancy, or expensive. In fact, older clothing emulates the grunge style more. Consider buying shirts at a secondhand shop.
Flannel shirts are a popular, somewhat timeless wardrobe option. You can see if your parents or grandparents have any old flannel clothing. You can also borrow from older siblings.
 When assembling your grunge wardrobe, make sure you choose the right shoes. Generally, bigger and clunkier shoes are preferred. Go for large boots, like combat boots, Chuck Taylors, and Doc Martens.As the grunge style is often non-glamorous, simple sneakers or tennis shoes may be a good option as well.


As with clothing, grunge shoes do not need to be shiny or new. You can keep wearing the same pair of shoes until you've almost worn them out.
However, be careful. It can be dangerous to wear shoes with big holes in them, as your feet won't be protected when walking outside or through your school parking lot. Feel free to wear older shoes, but make sure to get a replacement if you end up with holes.
 There are a variety of types of pants you can wear if you want to be grunge. Leggings are a popular choice, particularly for girls. You can wear ripped, pattern tights under your leggings or with a skirt. Baggy jeans or pants are also popular in the grunge scene. Denim or leather shorts are another good choice., Grunge tends to be toned down. When selecting your wardrobe, go for dark colors. Grays, browns, blacks, and dark greens are appropriate choices to give off the grunge persona.As with flannel shirts, it's a good idea to seek out dark clothing at a thrift store. Older clothing is particularly fitting for grunge style.
 Layering is a major aspect of grunge style. You can wear a t-shirt under a flannel button up. You can wear a skirt with leggings underneath. Don't be afraid to use contrasting patterns or colors. A little mismatching when it comes to layering also gives off the grunge style.Many more fashionable brands of clothing are worn in layers. If you want to be grunge, layers are great but avoid trendier, brighter layered outfits.
 Band t-shirts are another classic aspect of the grunge style. Try wearing a t-shirt advertising a band you like. You can usually find band t-shirts at the mall, but you can also buy them online. If you go to a concert, bands will often be selling t-shirts after the concert lets out.Remember, older clothes are better. Some band shirts, sold at stores in the mall, cost as much as $20. These are not very fitting with the grunge culture.
Vintage may be somewhat fitting with grunge. If your parents are into music, ask them if they have any old band t-shirts. An old Nirvana shirt from the '90s can really help you look grunge.
 If you want to be grunge, you'll need certain accessories. The following are some accessories often associated with the grunge style:Pocket chains
Spikes
Studs
Metallic zippers
Large handbags
Round sunglasses
Headscarves

