 Oat groats are the most basic, unrefined form of oats. Often referred to as fresh-picked or fresh-harvested oats, oat groats are most commonly given to livestock as feed. Oats in this form digest very slowly and have a very low glycemic index value.


Soak and dry the oat groats. Oat groats must be soaked overnight in order to be safely consumed by humans. Soaking the oat groats will begin the breakdown process of the gluten which makes oat groats easier to digest. Dry oat groats may cause indigestion or constipation. Note that the soaking and drying process will not affect the volume of the groats, but milling them will reduce the total volume by about half. If you have extra milled oat groats, you can save them in the freezer.
Spread the soaked groats on a fine mesh surface such as a mill-grade sieve with a 1⁄10 inch (0.3 cm) gap between sieve wires and allow them to dry completely. The drying process can take up to six hours.
Process the dried groats in a food processor until a fine powder is formed. This powder can be used as a thickening agent or a flour substitute in many recipes. Remember that it’s important to let the groats dry thoroughly to prevent clumping when you mill them in a food processor.;
, Add the salt, raw cocoa powder, dates and sprouted and milled oat groats to a food processor or blender. Process these ingredients until they are well incorporated. This forms the chocolate base of the raw chocolate cake.
 Slowly add the raw agave or maple syrup to the dry, chocolate ingredients. The addition of the syrup will form a sticky and moldable batter.


You can add more or less syrup until you have reached the desired consistency for your raw chocolate cake. If you are concerned with the sugar content of your cake, you can substitute water and a binder such as cornstarch for some of the syrup.
 Press the sticky batter into cupcake tins or cake molds to get the shape of the cake you want.


You might consider brushing the cake molds with coconut oil to prevent the batter from sticking.
Since this cake has no flour, it cannot be pressed into large cake molds. Molds that are fewer than 4 inches (10.2 cm) in diameter will produce the best cakes.
This cake batter can also be pressed into cupcake tins.
 The dough should be refrigerated for at least six hours.
 Combine a whole avocado with the raw cocoa powder, coconut oil and maple or agave syrup in a food processor. Coconut oil can be used in its solid form for a fluffier icing.


Blend these ingredients until they form a fluffy and rich icing. Because coconut oil is solid at room temperature, this icing can be made while the cake is refrigerating. The icing can sit at room temperature without losing its consistency.
,