 Being late shows teachers you don't respect them, and disrespecting teachers will not impress them. Punctuality is a very important quality to develop and a sign of maturity that will be sure to impress your teachers., Teachers are people too. Taking the time to learn about your teachers and letting them get to know you is a great way to get in their good graces. This will impress your teachers by letting them know you care and that you pay attention to details.Try striking up a conversation by asking about personal details you already know like, “How are your cats doing, Mr. Smith?” or “How is Mr. Evans doing, Mrs. Evans?”
Look at the personal effects your teachers have on their desks. If they have a lot of pictures of mountains, ask them if they like to go hiking. Or tell them about a personal connection you might have with some mountains (maybe your family went there on vacation one summer?). Try making connections between yourself and the details you see about your teachers’ lives.
You can also give them a little card or gift during the holidays. A gesture of appreciation can mean a lot to your teachers. Just don’t make it too extravagant of a gift or your teacher will feel uncomfortable accepting it. A simple card, a box of candy, or a $10 giftcard would be an acceptable gift.
 Teachers are not impressed by bullies or students who get in trouble. Try to show your teachers that you respect them and your fellow classmates by treating others with kindness and generosity.


Show your teachers that you respect yourself by not allowing others to treat you poorly. Stand up for yourself if someone bullies you and report bad behavior to the principal if you see something.
 This means neat handwriting when turning in assignments and keeping your notes and belongings organized in class.Spend time on your homework so that you don’t make careless mistakes.


Do your work in pencil when possible so that you can easily erase any mistakes you might make. If you have to write in pen, try to make as few mistakes as possible. But be prepared to start over with a clean sheet of paper if there are too many mistakes.
 Taking diligent notes in class will show your teachers that you are paying attention to what they are saying in class. This will make them think you are a hard worker.Plus, taking notes will help you in the long run too. When test time rolls around, you’ll be prepared with lots of notes from class to study from.
 It can be easy to fall behind in high school and middle school because you suddenly have many more classes and assignments, but the responsibility is all your own too. Turning in assignments late, asking for extensions regularly, or forgetting assignments altogether will not impress your teachers.


Being organized is a big part of turning in assignments on time. Try keeping track of your homework by writing your assignments in a planner and notating the due dates for each assignment.Being organized and never forgetting assignments will impress your teachers.
 Many teachers offer optional extra credit assignments. Take advantage of these opportunities and complete the assignments. It will be a great way to help your grades and to show your teachers that you are willing to go that extra mile., Most teachers dislike messy uniforms. Wear clothes that fit nicely. Make sure your clothing is as wrinkle-free as possible and meets all of your school’s requirements.


If you don't wear a uniform in your school, then don’t dress inappropriately. Wear clothing that meets your school’s dress code requirements. Dress like you would if you were going to church.This means collared shirts with slacks or nice jeans for boys and dresses (knee-length) or nice pants and a cute top for girls. Nothing should be overly tight or revealing.
 People are naturally drawn to others who appear friendly and open. This means that you should remember to smile in class, especially when speaking with your teachers. It will make your teachers like you more and give them a good impression.You don’t have to smile every second of the day. Just try to smile often.
 Your body language is a great tool for impressing your teacher. You can let your teacher know you are being attentive in class by sitting up straight and making eye contact when your teacher is speaking. Consistently show that you are engaged in the class and your teacher will be impressed over time.