 An important part of texting in class is being able to do it 'blind', or without looking. You will need to know where all of the buttons are on your phone, and how to navigate to them using only touch. This is easier if you don't have a plastic case. You'll also need to navigate to the text input screen. This is as simple as mathematically memorizing the key order you have to use to get there. All of this amounts to being able to looking as though you're paying attention to the teacher, when in fact you are texting under the desk.;
, Phone preparation is highly important. You will need to set up your phone before class, to make it less obvious. Firstly, turn off the back-light. Considering that you won't be looking at the screen it seems a bit superfluous. Without the screen on, the teacher won't be able to see those tell-tale flashes of white light when you take your phone out. Secondly, you'll need to turn all sound off, or at least put it on vibrate. That means key-tones, ring-tones, alerts, everything. You can usually do this by pressing the 'Volume Down' button until it reads 'Vibrate All'. The jig will be up if someone texts you and the 1812 Overture starts up in your pocket.You can also get the mosquito ringtone. It is a very high pitched ringtone that adults can't hear because of their age. WARNING: be careful! everyone else that can hear your mosquito ringtone will look around to find the source of the sound. The teacher will know if the class starts to awkwardly look around the classroom.
 You need to pick the seat you use very carefully. There are several things to assess:

Entrance. If someone comes through the door, will they be able to see my phone?
Tell-tales. Am I sitting next to the teacher's pet who will almost certainly tell the teacher as soon as I open my phone?
Windows. Can anyone see me from outside?
Enemies. Do you have anybody that your dislike in your class? Will they tell just to get back at you?
Bullies. Are you sitting near a bully that could tell on you or crush your phone into pieces?
The teacher. Will the teacher be able to see me?
Once you've determined that none of these are threats, you can take your seat.
 Keep your phone in your blazer/trouser pocket that you will be able to access easily with your texting hand. During class, shift your weight as though you were getting a sore behind, and as you do it slide the phone out of your pocket. You now have two options. Either pretend to get something out of your bag, or text with it at your side. If you aren't confident about blind texting the first maneuver is for you. To do it just:


Announce that you can't find something. With your free hand look for it on your desk. Then move to your bag. Put your hand with the phone in it into your bag. Pretend to be looking for the right book, while you rapidly fire off a text. The trick to this is to make the text quickly, and then actually pull a book out of your bag, so that it is hiding the phone as you slip it back into your pocket. Smooth, fast maneuvers are the key here. Practice the last part so that the phone is in your pocket by the time the folder is above the desk line.
If you're writing a short text, the teacher isn't moving around and you know you can blind text, the second option is for you.
Bend over your work, pretending to write. Slip your texting hand, with phone, into your lap. The trick with this is to pretend to be writing, moving your free hand across the page. The advantage with this one is you can glance at your phone, but its more obvious than the bag technique. Once you're done, lean back, pretending to wring out your free hand from writing too much while you slip your phone back into your pocket. For posterity and realism, don't go back to writing with your other hand immediately. Pretend to write with that one for a bit longer, then wring it out again and keep going with your normal hand.
 In every class, perform your chosen maneuver at least once, regardless of whether you're actually texting. This will make your peers believe that you do just need to get a book, or your hand really is tired from writing. It will subconsciously become normal to them, and they won't question your actions. It will take longer for your teachers to get accustomed to these though.
,, You are in serious danger.
 You could pull it out and it will drop to the ground. This may still be dangerous so do it at your own risk.

