 A salt soak is the safest, most effective way to deal with cartilage bumps - it will reduce the size of the bump and help it to disappear over time. To use:


Add 1/4 teaspoon of sea salt to one cup of boiling water. Stir until the salt is completely dissolved.
When the salt water has cooled slightly (you want it to be as hot as possible without burning your skin), dip a clean cotton pad into the cup.
Hold the soaked cotton pad against the bump for two minutes. You can leave your jewelry in your ear (or nose) as you do this, but avoid pulling or pushing it around.
Repeat the salt soak twice a day until the bump has disappeared.;
, The addition of chamomile tea to the salt soak helps to soothe and calm the skin around the piercing, making it a good option for people with sensitive skin. To prepare:


Dissolve 1/4 teaspoon of salt in boiling water, as described above. Add a chamomile tea bag to the water and allow to brew for five minutes.
Once the tea has brewed, dip a cotton pad in the solution and press it against the bump for five minutes. Do this twice a day.
Alternatively, some people brew the chamomile teabag in hot water, then remove the teabag and allow it to cool slightly before pressing it directly to the ear.
Make sure you are using pure chamomile tea with no added flavorings, and avoid this method if you have a ragweed allergy.
 Using breathable tape to press down on the bump is an example of compression therapy. This method should only be used on fully healed piercings, as it could irritate those that are still healing. To use:


Buy some breathable medical tape (such as Micropore) at your local drugstore. Try to find a color that matches your skin tone.
Use a clean scissors to cut a small strip of the tape. It should cover the entire bump and about 1-2 mm of skin on all sides.
Tightly cover the bump with the strip of tape, so the bump feels compressed. Wear the tape continuously, replacing it with fresh tape when it begins to look grubby.
Use this method for two to three months. Hopefully, the bump will have disappeared after this time. If not, switch to a different method.
 If you'd like a second opinion on the bump, see a reputable local piercing artist. They will be able to examine the bump and give you further advice on treatment options.


As bumps are often caused by wearing loose or overly large jewelry; the piercing professional will also be able to pick out a better ring or stud for your piercing.
The bumps may also be caused by jewelry made from the wrong materials. Ideally, jewelry for cartilage piercings should be made from titanium or a biocompatible plastic.If you prefer, you could also see a doctor or dermatologist, but it's important to keep in mind that they do not have as much experience in dealing with piercings as professional piercers do.

