 Grease and flour two round nine-inch cake pans and set aside.
 Using a whisk, sift the flour, sugar, cocoa, baking powder, and baking soda together in a large bowl., Crack in the eggs and then pour in the milk, vegetable oil, and vanilla extract. Use an electric hand mixer to beat the ingredients together for about two minutes, or until fully combined., The water will thin the cake batter; this is normal., Use a rubber spatula to scrape out the leftover cake batter and get it into the pans., The baking time may vary, but if a toothpick poked into the center of the cake comes out clean, then the cake is done baking.,, Take a knife and run it along the edges of the cake pans to slightly dislodge the cakes, then place a wire rack over the top of the pans and flip the pans over. Carefully remove the cake pans from the cakes and allow the cakes to fully cool., Grease a nine-inch cake pan and set aside., Using an electric mixer, cream the butter in a large bowl until it's creamy and smooth.,, Crack in the egg, then add in the egg yolk and vanilla, and mix thoroughly on medium speed.

It's recommended to make sure the eggs are room temperature before you add them in, as this will make sure the egg is blended in evenly and will result in a consistent texture in the cookie cake.
 Using a whisk, sift the flour, cornstarch, and baking soda together in a separate bowl., The dough will be thick, which is normal.,, Make sure it rests evenly in the pan., The cake is done when it is a light shade of golden brown, and a toothpick poked into the center of the cake comes out clean.

If you're worried about the edges of the cake turning too dark, you can loosely cover the cake with aluminum foil after 15 minutes, which can help prevent the edges from overcooking.
 Do not remove it from the pan until it has cooled fully., The sweet chocolate frosting will add a delightful taste to your finished cake.

Sift the sugar and cocoa powder together, and set it aside.
In a separate bowl, use a mixer to cream the butter.
Alternate between slowly adding the sugar and cocoa powder mix, the heavy cream, and the vanilla to the butter mix, slowly blending it together after adding each ingredient.
Mix at high speed until the ingredients are fully blended together.
 Those who fear there isn't enough cookie flavor will be reassured by the presence of this frosting.

Cream the butter, brown sugar, and powdered sugar at low speed.
Combine in the flour, salt, and vanilla at medium speed until the frosting is creamy.
Mix in the milk slowly, stopping when the frosting is at the wanted consistency.
Fold in the mini chocolate chips.
 Run a knife along the edges of the cake pan to dislodge the cake, remove it from the pan, and place it on a plate.,, Frost the top with the cookie dough frosting.,, You can try frosting the top of the cake with cookie dough frosting and the sides with chocolate frosting, or vice versa., Try using the extra frosting to decorate the cake, if you wish. Top with chocolate chips or cookie dough, or something more creative, like chocolate-dipped strawberries., Slice the cake and place it on a serving plate. Consider serving it alongside vanilla ice cream, whipped cream, or even just a glass of milk. Enjoy!