 Many parents use a rewards chart to let their child know how well they are behaving. Check off good behavior with smiley faces or plus signs. You may use stickers to track your child’s behavior, with gold stars for good behavior. Or, you may allow your child to create their own chart to then post on the refrigerator or the wall. This will allow your child to judge their own behavior on a daily basis.There has been some criticism of the use of a rewards chart to track a child’s behavior. Some studies have shown that offering up tangible rewards for behavior can actually make your child view good behavior as transactional. Your child may only be motivated to do well for a reward and get upset when they are not rewarded every time they act., You should try to use a variety of rewards for your child’s behavior, as kids get bored easily. If you use the same rewards every time, the reward may lose its power over time. You may give your child verbal praise for small acts of good behavior and then social or material rewards for larger acts of good behavior.If you have multiple children in one household, you should also use different rewards for each child. No two children are alike and each child may respond differently to different rewards. Try to fit the reward to the child’s personality and demeanor.
 Younger children respond well to smaller, more immediate rewards, such as verbal praise or a small material item, like a sticker or a small toy. Many children can start to understand the power of rewards by the age of three. You should focus on smaller, immediate rewards first and then shift your approach as your child gets older.Older children may respond better to more accumulative rewards, such as an allowance or extra time doing something they enjoy. Adolescents and teenagers also start to see the value in social rewards, such as quality time with friends or quality time with parents.
 You should also encourage your child to continue to display good behavior by establishing behavioral goals that are realistic and specific to your child. This will help your child to learn the value of good behavior and feel as though they can meet your expectations.For example, maybe you expect your child to help set the table for dinner every night. You may model this behavior by helping them set the table at first and then over time, give them the responsibility to do it on their own. You should then praise your child when they set the table without you asking, reinforcing their good behavior. This will allow you to set your child up to succeed and then praise them when they fulfill your reasonable expectations.

