 You’ll need a decent rail to grind on before you learn this trick. Look for rails over five feet long, preferably close to the ground. Local skate parks often have grind rails made just for tricks, so check there. You can also grind on curbs, but they'll need to be painted or waxed., Start about 10 feet away from the rail, or as far away as space allows. Push off and get some speed, making sure to line up your feet in their correct stance. Stay relaxed as you get closer to the rail., Once your front wheel is even with the rail, jump up and towards the rail. Jump as you normally would, crouching down and springing up to get a lot of height, but spring slightly towards the rail so you can position yourself over it. More height isn’t necessarily better here, just jump high enough to get over the rail.
 Let gravity pull you and your scooter down to the rail. You’ll want to land so that the bottom of your deck lies across the railing, either perpendicular or at a slightly smaller angle. Keep your foot position solid as possible, which will make balancing a lot easier., The momentum that you built up will carry you across the rail, pushing you forward to “grind” along it. Keep your balance by actively shifting weight either left or right. Your foot placement will be essential here, because your feet are anchoring you to the deck and to the rail. It might take a couple practice runs to get comfortable balancing.
 You can either ride to the end of the rail or jump off mid-rail; it depends on your preference or any trick combo you have in mind. Pick your point to jump off, then plant your feet firmly on the deck. Continue to maintain your balance, then perform the simple jump up and out away from the rail. Don’t make this a super high jump: you only need it to clear the rail a bit and make sure your wheels don’t get caught on it., Land the trick with solid foot placement, keeping them in the same places they were when you jumped from the rail. Bend your knees to absorb the shock of landing. Correct for any changes of handlebar positions, then continue on.

