 In order to keep their hearts healthy, you should encourage your children to get at least 60 minutes of physical exercise each day. Limit how much television your children watch and encourage them to go outside and play. You can also encourage your kids to be active by having them do chores or participate in family hikes and other activities.Physical activities can be playing games like basketball or soccer, riding their bikes, or running around with their friends.
 With infants, you should try to maintain breastfeeding for at least 12 months to support optimal hearth growth and development. For older children, make sure that they eat a diet high in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean meats. Avoid foods that are high in saturated fat, trans fat, cholesterol, salt (sodium), and added sugars. These include things like dairy products, sweets, fatty meats, and most processed foods., You should not smoke around your children. Second hand cigarette smoke can increase your child’s risk for heart disease later in life. As they get older, you should also encourage your children not to smoke. This will ensure their heart health as they move into adulthood and limit their risk for heart disease and peripheral vascular disease., In order catch any heart problems before they become severe, you should take your child for regular health checkups with your doctor. If there are any problems, these checkups will help you spot them early. This will help the doctor better monitor your child’s health and develop appropriate courses of treatment., When you visit your doctor, you should talk with them about any risk factors that may influence your child’s heart health. For example, let your doctor know if anyone in your family has experienced any heart problems. After talking about these risk factors, your doctor will help you outline certain symptoms that you should be on the lookout for.


You might ask the doctor things like “What symptoms should I watch for?” or “Are there any heart problems that I need to be concerned about?”

, If your child has a medical emergency, you may need to perform CPR. You can sign up to take CPR and first aid classes online through organizations like the American Red Cross or the American Heart Association. Being able to perform CPR on your child is particularly important if they have an existing heart condition.