 Probably the easiest way to reduce debt is to sell whatever you bought with your credit card. Ask yourself if you really need the possession. If not, sell them in a yard sale or on eBay. Contribute the proceeds to your credit card balance.
 Seek out part-time work in the evenings or on weekends.Then contribute all extra income to your debts. Before you know it, you might have paid off a huge credit card balance.


For example, imagine you work 15 hours a week for $10 an hour. Each week, that’s an additional $150 before taxes. Over the course of a year, you’ll have an additional $7,500. You can pay off a lot of debts working an additional 15 hours a week.
 With debt consolidation, you pay off smaller debts by taking out a large loan which has more favorable terms, such as a lower interest rate.Debt consolidation usually frees up money that you can direct toward the your principal.


Generally, people consolidate debts with a personal loan. For example, you might have three credit cards with balances of $3,000, $2,500, and $2,000. You can get a personal loan for $7,500 and pay off your smaller debts.
You can also use a balance transfer to a credit card with a promotional APR. Generally, you’ll get the rate for six to eighteen months.
Make sure the loan you get has a lower interest rate than the debts you want to pay off. If it doesn’t, you won’t save money.
 A credit counselor can help you set up a repayment plan, which may take several years to pay off. The counselor can also contact your creditors. Although they can’t get the amount you owe reduced, they can often get the creditor to waive late penalties and fees or lower the interest rate.You can find a credit counselor by calling the National Foundation for Credit Counseling at 800-388-2227, or you can get started online at their website.Debt management plans only work with unsecured debt, such as credit card debt, personal loans, or medical debt.
 Debt settlement is distinct from debt management, and it is typically a worse option. With debt settlement, you stop making payments on your debts. Instead, you save up enough money to make a lump sum offer to your creditors. Often the lump sum is for 50% or less of the amount you owe. If your creditors accept the offer, they write off the remainder of your debt.


Because you stop making payments, your credit score tanks. Also, there’s no guarantee that your lender will agree to accept a lump sum.Instead, your creditor might sue you. If they get a court judgment, they can seize assets, such as your car or home.
There are many debt settlement companies who can help you if you don’t like to negotiate on your own. Do thorough research, since there are many scammers out there. Make sure to get a written contract explaining price and terms, and avoid any agency that charges up-front fees.
 Bankruptcy is an easy way to get rid of unsecured debts like credit card debt. With a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, all unsecured debts will be wiped out, allowing you to start afresh.However, a Chapter 7 bankruptcy will stay on your credit report for 10 years and make it difficult to get loans.


Not all bankruptcies are the same. With a Chapter 13, you can save your home and other possessions, which you might lose in a Chapter 7. Discuss your options with a bankruptcy attorney.

