, Either spray a regular-sized, 12-cup muffin pan with non-stick vegetable spray or put muffin or cupcake liners, which can also be sprayed, in each cup.
 Beat them together in a large mixing bowl on a medium speed for several minutes. You shouldn’t be able to see any sugar granules once done.


Cake-like muffins use what’s called the creaming method, in which you mix the butter and sugar before adding the egg(s), mix the remaining dry ingredients separately and then combine the two alternately with the milk.These recipes always call for more butter and sugar to act as tenderizers and minimize gluten development in the flour so muffins don’t become tough.This, along with how the sugar creates small air holes in the butter when creamed, makes the muffins moist and light.
 After you’ve cracked the egg in a separate bowl and removed any stray pieces of eggshell, use an electric mixer on a medium speed to beat the egg into the butter and sugar mixture. Then set it aside.
 Because you've already used the sugar, now mix the flour, baking soda and salt with a wooden spoon in a medium-sized bowl.
 First add some of the dry mixture to the wet mixture and stir with a wooden spoon just until the dry ingredients are coated. Then add about half of the milk and stir until the batter becomes slightly moist. Repeat until everything is mixed and smooth.


As with bread-like muffins, you don’t want to over-mix, but you will have to use more than 10-15 strokes to combine the ingredients in this last stage of mixing.
 Use either a spoon or an ice cream scooper and immediately fill the cups 2/3 full so the leavening agent – the baking powder – still has enough “kick” to make the muffins rise.


Don’t fully fill the cups so the muffins have a nice domed shape.
 Place the pan in the center rack of the oven for consistent and even heat distribution.


Some muffin pans have a very dark pre-coating. If yours does, reduce the oven temperature by 25˚F as darker-colored pans absorb more heat, therefore becoming hotter and transmitting more heat to what’s baking inside.Rotate the pan midway through baking to ensure they’re baking evenly and to adjust the oven temperature if needed.
 Stick a toothpick in the center of a few muffins. The muffins are ready if nothing is sticking to the toothpick when you remove it. Put them back in and bake another five minutes if they're not quite done.


Cake-like muffins should be golden brown with smooth tops.
 Place the pan on a cooling rack for 10-15 minutes before gently removing each muffin with a butter knife and placing it on the cooling rack.
