 Many people feel as if they're drowning in unnecessary clutter. If this sounds like you, making an effort to downsize can be helpful.


Go through one section of your house at a time. You can make a schedule if it helps. For example, you can do half the living room Monday, the other half Tuesday, the kitchen Wednesday, the bedroom Thursday, and so on.Go through closets, drawers, and other storage spaces. Clean everything out and sort it.
Remove anything that's obviously junk or garbage and toss it immediately. From there, consider what you could stand to get rid of. Do you really need that book you read freshmen year of college and haven't touched since? Are you ever actually going to repair that broken vase from two years ago? If you don't play that video game anymore, do you need to keep it around? Be honest with yourself about what items you've been holding onto needlessly.See if there's anything you could sell or recycle. Make piles of old odds and ends to take to a local thrift store. See if any of the junk you're tossing is recyclable.Put whatever you're keeping back in a drawer in a neat fashion. Take this as an opportunity to reorganize your surroundings in a simpler way. For example, make a designated underwear drawer, sock drawer, jewelry drawer, and so on., Many people end up wasting closet space on clothing they no longer use. Every few months, review your wardrobe. If you haven't worn an item in many weeks or if an item simply no longer fits, consider tossing it or donating it to charity as long as it's in good condition. Don't donate personal items like underwear or severely damaged or worn-out items. Throw these away.
 When you go to the store, try to be more aware of what you're buying. How much food do you end up throwing away each week because you don't need it? How many items do you buy on impulse and never use? Be more aware when shopping. Make a list before going to the grocery store and do not deviate. Avoid impulse purchases. Think over an expensive purchase for a few days before making it. Try your best to only buy what you need., Electronic clutter is also a problem. If your computer or phone's storage is getting low, review what you need and do not need.


Periodically clean out your e-mail inbox. Delete old or unread e-mails so you can more easily find e-mails when you need them.Delete old photographs off your phone. Back them up on a computer or external hard drive so you have more space.
Create a better organization system on your laptop or computer. For example, create folders for pictures, word documents, music, and other electronic items rather than simply saving everything to the desktop.

