 The fabric pieces need to be 13 inches (33.02 centimeters) wide and 1-inch (2.54 centimeters) longer than your longest knitting needle.Choose a nice print for the outside. You can use cotton, twill, linen, or even canvas for this.
Choose a solid color for the inside/lining. The best fabric for this would be cotton.
 You can use the same color as you did for your lining, or you can choose a different color. Consider using cotton; your roll up will have lots of layers, so the thinner the fabric is, the easier it will be to sew. Here are the dimensions for the pockets:Back pocket: 13 by 13 inches (33.02 by 33.02 centimeters)
Front pocket: 13 by 8 inches (33.02 by 20.32 centimeters)
If you are working with double-pointed needles, consider cutting a 13 by 8-inch (cc by cc-centimeter) strip for the top flap. This will help protect the points.
 You will end up with a 13 by 6.5-inch (33.02 by 16.51-centimeter) strip, and one a 13 by 4-inch (cc by cc-inch) strip. If you are making a top flap for your roll up, then you should fold it in half as well.


You won't be turning the pockets inside out, so make sure that the right side of the fabric is on the outside.
Use a heat setting on your iron that is suitable for the fabric that you are working with.
 Take the large piece of fabric that you will be using for the outside of your roll up, and turn it so that the right side is facing you. Place the big pocket down first, so that both of the long, raw edges align with each other. The pocket's folded edge should be facing towards the middle. Place the smaller pocket on top. Again, make sure that the bottom, raw edges align. Pin everything in place.


If you are adding a top flap, position it along the top of the outside piece. Make sure that the long, raw edges align, and that the folded edge is facing towards the middle.
 The first and last lines should be ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) from the side edge. The rest of the lines should be 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) apart. You can use a tailor's chalk or washable pen for this.


You are drawing the lines straight down from the top edge of the back pocket all the way down to the bottom of the roll up.
If you usually work with skinny needles, 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) may be enough for you. If you work with thick needles, 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) may work better.
If you added a top flat, leave it alone.
 Backstitch a few times at the front and start of your sewing to prevent the thread from unraveling. You can skip sewing across the first and last line. Because they are ½-inch (1.27 centimeters) away from the side edge, they will be covered up by the regular stitching.


You can use any color you want for the thread. You can match it to the pockets, or you can use a contrasting color.
You are sewing the lines now so that they won't be visible once you put the roll up together.
 Find the middle of the right side edge of your roll up, and pin it in place. Make sure that the cut edges of the elastic are aligned with the raw edge of the fabric; it's okay if a little bit of the elastic sticks out from under the fabric, however.


Choose a thin piece of elastic. Something that is around ¼-inch (0.64 centimeters) wide would be ideal. If it is too thick, it won't loop around the button you'll be adding later.
 Make sure that all of the edges and corners align. The pockets, top flap (if you are using it), and elastic should all be sandwiched between the lining and outside piece of fabric.


At this point, you can move all of the pins you used earlier, and use them to pin everything together.
 Use a ½-inch (1.27 centimeters) seam allowance. Position the gap just above the large/back pocket. It does not have to be exactly 3 inches (7.62 centimeters), but it should be wide enough so that you can turn the roll up inside out. Remove the pins as you sew.
 Clipping the corners will help reduce bulk and bunching. Try to get as close to the stitching as you can without actually cutting through the thread. Once you have turned the fabric inside out, use a long, slender tool (such as a chopstick or knitting needle) to help push the corners out.
 Fold the edges of the gap in, so that they align with the rest of the roll up, then secure it with sewing pins. Iron the roll up flat, focusing on the corners and edges.
 Position the roll up so that the outside is facing you. This way, the pockets won't get caught on the foot of the sewing machine. Use a thread color that matches the outside of the fabric. Remove any sewing pins as you sew.


If you want to get fancier, pin some bias tape all the way around the edges of the roll up. Sew as close as you can to the inside edge of the bias tape. Position both ends of the tape to either side of the elastic.
 Find a large button that you like, and sew it on right next to the elastic. Try to sew only through the top layer of fabric; this way, when you open up your roll up, you won't see the stitching from the inside., Insert the shorter needles into the front pockets, and the larger needles into the back. Roll the fabric up, starting from the plain edge, working your way towards the elastic and button. Wrap the elastic around the bundle, then loop it around the button.


If you added a top flap, tuck the ends of the needles under it.
If you like to crochet, you can use the front pocket to store your crochet hooks.

