 Sea salt may make skin inhospitable to acne-causing bacteria and may also help dissolve excess skin oils. However, it can also dry out your skin if you overdo it. Follow the directions in this method.


Before using any of the salt treatments, use a gentle cleanser to pre-cleanser your face.
 Stir together one teaspoon of sea salt and three teaspoons of hot water in a small bowl or jar. Add one tablespoon of one of the following and mix well:


Aloe vera gel (to help heal the skin)Green tea (for antioxidants and anti-aging properties)Raw honey (for antibacterial properties and to promote healing), Once the mask is thoroughly mixed, use your fingertips to gently spread the mask over your skin.


You can also dip a cotton-tipped swab in the mask mixture and spot-apply to blemishes.
 Do not leave the sea salt mask on for more than 10 minutes. Salt draws water out of your skin, and could leave it dry or irritated if you leave it on for too long.


Rinse your face completely with cool or lukewarm water.
Pat your face dry with a clean towel.
Apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer.
Do not apply this mask more than once a day. Always apply a moisturizer after using the sea salt mask. Most likely you will want to use this two to three times per week.
 Mix together three tablespoons + one teaspoon of sea salt with 10 tablespoons of hot water. Add 10 tablespoons of aloe vera gel, green tea, or honey. Pour the mixture into a clean spray bottle.


Keep the bottle in the refrigerator to preserve the spray. Clearly label it so that no one tries to consume it.
 Use a gentle cleanser to pre-cleanse your face. Then apply the spray by closing your eyes and misting it over your face and neck.


Allow the spray to stay on your skin for 10 minutes. Don’t leave it longer than 10 minutes to avoid possible irritation.
Rinse your face completely with cool or lukewarm water.
Pat your face dry with a clean towel.
Apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer.
 Add two cups of sea salt to very warm or hot water as you fill up your bathtub. Adding salt while the water is still running will help the salt dissolve. You can use table salt in a pinch, but it will not have the additional minerals of sea salt and will not work as well.


Soak in the bath for up to 15 minutes.
For facial acne, wet a washcloth in the salt water and place it over your face for 10–15 minutes. Keep your eyes closed; salt water can sting your eyes.
Rinse off the sea salt water with cool fresh water.
Pat your skin dry with a clean towel.
Apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer to your skin.

