 Drugstores and beauty stores carry skin-lightening creams with a variety of different ingredient bases that are designed to remove freckles and other dark spots. Skin lightening creams may be effective for both natural and sun-related freckles. For best results, apply it every day.


Look for a cream with licorice extract, which has been shown to have skin-lightening properties.
Aloe is another popular ingredient in lightening creams. It can help lighten and moisturize the skin without causing damage.
Many creams contain chemicals like hydroquinone and oxybenzone. These ingredients may help lighten skin, but they can also be damaging. Read up on the side effects and test the product in a less sensitive area before you decide to use a cream containing these ingredients.
 This technique uses a stream of tiny particles to remove the outer layer of skin, lightening natural freckles or those caused by moderate sun damage. Microdermabrasion is usually performed over the course of several sessions.
 Peeling away the top layer of skin is an effective way to reduce the appearance of freckles, and may even lead to the elimination of lighter freckles. Chemical peels are usually used on the face, but they can also be used on the arms and hands.


Chemical peels come in three different strengths: superficial peels, which use alpha or beta hydroxy acids to remove the top layer of skin; medium peels, which use trichloroacetic acid to penetrate deeper into the skin and remove more layers; and deep peels, which use high concentrations of trichloroacetic acid or phenol to remove even more layers of skin.
After getting a chemical peel, your skin will take 2 - 3 days to heal from the procedure. It is not recommended to get chemical peels too often, since they are hard on the body.
 Lasers can be used to burn the blood vessels just underneath the freckles, reducing their appearance or removing them entirely. The procedure is not known to have any long-term damaging effects, but it may cause temporary bruising, redness and swelling.


Laser treatments are typically administered in 3 or so 10 to 15 minute sessions.
The skin is pre-treated with a cool spray to make sure the heat of the laser doesn't cause the patient pain.

