 While you should still try to restyle your hair, headbands, clips, bandanas, and scarves can all help hide the bad hair day.


Headbands are a simple solution to slicking back unruly hair. For a fast style, use two thin headbands after putting your hair into a messy updo.Headbands can also support a ponytail that still has flyaways.
You can wear a bandana, but twist it into a knot at the top of your head for an updated look.Or you can still with the traditional folded bandana style, which would cover more hair on top of your head. This works well for more informal situations.
Clips can be helpful in pinning back hair, but avoid using too many which can make your hair look sloppy. Choose clips in shades that will blend in with your hair color.
 Fashionable sunglasses, embellished bobby pins, berets, and fedoras are just a few examples of quick ways to cover up a bad hair day.


Choose sunglasses that instantly attract attention, such as tortoiseshell-rimmed glasses or large aviators. You can wear them or push them back onto the top of your head to hold back your hair.
Embellished bobby pins can be used strategically to create cute designs in your hair, such as stars or triangles. You can also coordinate them with your jewelry for a put-together look.
 Don't plan on wearing a large sunhat if you're going to be sitting in class all day. Likewise, a wool beret isn't a good choice for a hot summer day.


Some good examples of hats you can wear almost anytime include fedoras, baseball hats, and beanies. Choose a hat that comfortably fits your style or else you could end up with a bad hat day instead!
Keep your schedule in mind if you decide to hide bad hair with a hat. A hat can disguise bad hair only while you're wearing it, so you should be prepared if you have to take off your hat during the day. Depending on the style, a hat could mold your hair in an unflattering shape.
 If you're having a bad hair day, make sure your makeup looks fantastic. This can improve your mood and confidence, regardless of how your hair looks.


Makeup is a good way to compliment your accessories. For example, if you're wearing soft girlish bows or sweet headbands you may want to wear darker edgier makeup. This will balance your look and prevent you from looking too juvenile.
Likewise, if your hair is tied back into a sleek ponytail or pinned into a tight bun, you should use makeup to soften your look.

