 Once your cat is comfortable with your presence, you can start building a positive relationship. Food is a powerful motivator, and you want to be the person your cat associates with food. This will help your cat associate something positive to your presence.


Feed your cat two or three small meals a day, rather than leaving food out. That will reinforce the association between you and food. If you leave dry food out for your cat, you can still use small meals of wet food in this way.
Stay in the room while your cat eats, to help strengthen the association between you and the food. You can also pet the cat while it eats.
Feeding high-value treats will also reinforce that you are the provider of all things good and tasty. Use the treats to reinforce good behavior, such as if the cat rubs up against your leg or shows you affection., It will be easier for a cat to bond with you if it isn’t driven by the instinct to mate with other cats.Spaying and neutering is also important to limit cat populations. This is especially important if your cat will live partially outdoors.If your cat is not spayed or neutered, contact a veterinary clinic or your local humane society to set up an appointment.
 Talk to your cat often, using a calm and non-threatening tone.Your tone of voice, along with your body language, conveys a message. Make sure that message is kind and gentle.


Yelling at a cat (or any animal for that matter) will frighten it and cause it to distrust you. Even if your cat has misbehaved, try not to shout at it.
 Once the cat feels comfortable approaching you, dangle a toy or string to invite the cat to play. Your cat may not want to play with you all the time, so take the opportunity when it does to bond with your pet.


Many cats like catnip. Consider buying a toy that contains the herb to encourage play.Playing with your cat will be most successful when the cat invites you to interact with it. For example, it may rub up against you or climb on you. While you can sometimes entice a cat to play with a flashy toy or a dangling string, your cat may ignore you if it doesn't want to play.
 Cats need a clean coat and clean surroundings to be content. Clean out it's litter box regularly, so it does not have to use filthy litter. A dirty litter box will often make a cat anxious and unhappy, leading it to act out.While your cat will probably spend a lot of time grooming, you may want to groom it yourself to bond with it. Try brushing the animal with a brush made for cats. Some cats will not allow you to, but others will enjoy the sensation. This will have the added benefit of lessening the cat fur in your house, especially if your cat is a long-haired breed., A cat may become withdrawn or avoidant if it has unaddressed health issues. Make sure to take you cat in for regular veterinary check-ups. Contact the vet if you notice significant changes in your cat’s health or behavior.


Your cat will not know that you are looking out for its well-being by taking it for check-ups. But, keeping it healthy is actually the best way for you to express your affection.
The cat may not show you love while you are putting it in a cat carrier, but the healthy years you get to spend together should more than make up for that.
 Everybody knows that purring is a sign of a contented cat. You may not know that a slow blink from your cat is also a sign of contentment and acceptance.


Try slow blinking back to your cat. Some people call this a “cat kiss.” Your cat may recognize this as a sign that you are non-threatening, and that you are a friend.