 Choose your best friend at school or a classmate to be twins with you for Twin Day. Keep in mind, that as “twins,” similarities will come from what you wear and how you’re styled, so don’t worry if you don't look alike in the face or in the way you're built.Decide on a look to wear. Think of your personalities and individual interests. Pick a theme that correlates with those things to decide what kind of “twins” you and your twin want to be.
You don't have to just pair off with just one person. You could also be triplets, quadruplets, or really any number of people as long as you're matching. Plus, if you see someone being left out of the fun, it's nice to ask them to join in with you.
 Choose costumes that coordinate or that match identically. For example, you could both be witches. Another option is you could be peanut butter and jelly. One of you could be a piece of bread with the peanut butter and the other could be the piece of bread with the jelly.If it's near Halloween, you can simply buy your costume from a store. You could also visit a dress-up shop in the area if it's not Halloween time.
Another option is to simply make matching costumes. With a good idea, you can easily buy everything you need to make a costume at craft store.
 You can pick your favorite television show and dress up as the same character. Alternatively, you could pick your favorite movie or book. To truly be twins, you should dress as the same character. However, you could also just pick characters from the same book or movie to be "matching." For instance, one option is to dress as Thing 1 and Thing 2 from Dr. Seuss's book The Cat in the Hat.Another option is to both dress up as the character "Elsa" from Frozen. Alternatively, one of you could be "Elsa" from Frozen and the other could be "Anna." You could also pick another Disney movie.
You could also both dress as Waldo, or you could be Mario and Luigi from the Mario games., Another option, probably the easiest option, is to just copy each other's regular clothes.To keep it really simple, you could just choose similar clothes you already own, such as a purple shirt and jean shorts. Check out each other's closets to see what you have that matches.


If you don't have much that matches, consider just purchasing a shirt that matches. You can also make matching shirts if you buy craft store shirts and fabric paint.
Then, just match what you wear on the bottom, such as both wearing a basic pair of jeans.
 To take being a twin to the next level, have your hair styled the same way, or don the same hat or accessory.For a whole other level of matching, you could even match your backpack, bag, or purse, so you look exactly the same.


For instance, you could both wear your hair in pigtails with matching purple ribbons.
For guys, you could spike your hair the same way, such as in a small fake mohawk, and then add spray-in color.
You could also wear matching headbands, so your hair is pulled back the same way.

