 Trim the stems off of the leaves first. Next, rinse the leaves under cool water, then pat them dry. Place them between the pages of a book, then stack several more heavy books on top. Let the leaves sit there for at least 36 hours. This helps absorb any excess moisture and flatten the leaves., Wash your glass object using warm water and dish soap. Dry it off with a soft cloth. Finally, wipe it down with a paper towel or cotton ball soaked in rubbing alcohol. This will get rid of any oils or fingerprints that may prevent the decoupage glue from sticking.


From now on, try to handle your glass object only from the inside.
 If you are working on a large glass object, paint only a small section of it so that the decoupage doesn't dry out before you get to it.


Many decoupage glues, such as Mod Podge, come in different finishes, including satin, glossy, and matte. Choose one that appeals the most to you. A glossy finish will blend with the glass the best, and a matte finish will give you a frosted look.
 If you plan on layering or overlapping the leaves, however, be sure to paint the backs with more decoupage glue. This will ensure that they leaves stick together., Be sure to coat the glass part as well. This will help seal the leaves in and prevent the leaves from peeling away. Depending on what type of decoupage glue you are using, it may take 1 or 2 hours for it to dry.
 If you choose to do so, let each coat dry before applying the next.
 Get some 18-gauge wire, and cut a 24-inch (60.96-centimeter) long piece using wire cutters.You can use any color of wire you want, but your lantern would look better if the wire matches the leaves. For example, if you are using lots of red, orange, or yellow leaves, a gold or copper-colored wire would look lovely.


If you do not wish to add a handle, click here to learn how to use your lantern.
A wire handle will only work for glass objects that have a neck, such as jars. They will not work for glass objects with smooth walls, such as vases.
 Find the center of the wire, then fold it around a pencil or pen to make a loop. Twist the wire 3 to 4 times to hold the loop, then pull the pen or pencil out. Use a pair of needle-nose pliers to pinch the coils together., Take one end of the wire, and twist it around the other 3 to 4 times, as close to the neck of the lantern as possible. Use a pair of needle-nose pliers to squeeze the coils shut., Try to cut it as close to the coils as possible. Use your needle-nose plies to fold down any bits of wire that stick out.
 Thread it through the loop, fold it back up, then wrap it around itself 3 to 4 times. Pinch the coils together with a pair of needle-nose pliers.Your handle is now complete.
 Because this lantern is made out of glass, it is safe to use with real candles. You cannot wash it, however, so it would be best to use candles that are already in a container, such as glass votives and tea lights.Alternatively, you can always use a battery-operated or LED tea light instead.

