 If you don’t already have a special thing that you like to do in your free time, pick something that you think is fun. A lot of classic snobby interests include film (not movies), wine and cheese, literature, coffee, or fashion. However, you can be a snob about anything as long as you have an attitude of exclusivity.


Being exclusive about your interest means knowing what is good, bad, and the inbetween. As a snob, connoisseur, or enthusiast, you will want to be vocal about what is the best and what is to be avoided.
Collecting things is a great way to become a snob. For example, it would be impossible to collect every coin or stamp ever made. However, there are some that are more rare or valuable than others which is a standard that makes them better than the rest.
 Be the person who everyone can come to with a question in regards to your interest or hobby. You want to be the one that knows everything about how coffee is made, the best methods for brewing, and all about the bean varieties. The worst kinds of snobs are those who talk as if they know everything in order to seem superior but can’t back up their claims.Be careful about having an air of superiority.
There’s a fine line between being a know-it-all and being the best source of information on a topic. In order to walk that line, humility is the key.
Take the time to do extra research in order to stay up-to-date on the latest trends and newest information.
 You need to be able to “talk shop” with other enthusiasts. For example, if you’re going to be a motorcycle snob, you need to be able to discuss the differences and benefits between a four-stroke and two-stroke engine. In addition, being able to use complex terms and technical jargon, even among people who know nothing about your craft, will impress them with your intelligence and proficiency., In order to become an expert on anything, you need to invest your free time in studying and practicing your craft. If you want to be a connoisseur of cheese, be prepared to eat a lot of cheese. You’ll have to in order to compare and contrast different types and flavors in order to discover the best and the worst. All snobs need to construct a standard of what is the best your particular interest has to offer., This will give you exposure to new ideas or methods. Snobs can often be close-minded because of their pickiness. You still want to hold high standards, but exploring new options will help you develop your tastes and convictions about things.


Libraries and convention centers often hold conferences or events for hobbyists.
Bars and wine shops often have tastings or flights available for you to compare different products.
Being involved in the community is also a great way to meet other snobs in your field.
 Don’t compromise on your standards for good art or a fantastic meal. Rate your experiences as you go to maintain consistency. However, be critical but not condescending. You will alienate yourself and you will lose your credibility. Impress people with your extensive knowledge but avoid acting like another person is beneath you because they are less knowledgeable.