 A diagnosis of MS means that you will inevitably have to adjust your lifestyle. Allow yourself to grieve over what potential changes lie ahead and begin planning and making adjustments.


Consider the physical, mental, and emotional effects of your diagnosis and make adjustments accordingly. You may not be able to go running every morning, but you can still participate in aerobic exercise. You many need to write things down more frequently to improve dexterity and memory.Find a rehabilitation clinic focused specifically on MS patients that can deal with physical, cognitive, mental, and occupational rehabilitation., Be flexible and allow yourself room to learn new ways to do old activities. Understanding that the way you live will change will allow you to enjoy your life as much as possible.


Be patient. Although some tasks or activities might only need minor adjustments some might require you to completely relearn them.
 Setting goals will keep you determined and give you a sense of purpose to continue moving forward. Coordinate goals with your rehabilitation program as well as setting your own personal goals, whether they be professional or personal.


Take the time to develop long term goals, like minimizing the effects of MS, adapting your home to be more accessible, or working with a vocational rehabilitation therapist to make a career transition into something that can be managed with your treatment.Set short term goals. These can be associated with treatment and therapy, like improving mobility, strength, and balance, or with personal goals, like getting breakfast with a group of friends each week, starting a book club, or taking up a new hobby., Exercise is an important part of coping with MS. The more aerobic exercise you do the more muscle you’ll build and the less you will be affected by depression or fatigue. Consult with your doctor or rehabilitation program to decide on what exercise regimen is best for you.Try low impact aerobic exercises, like water aerobics or swimming.
 Relax can help establish and promote a sense of overall well being. Taking up mentally and physically relaxing hobbies can help relieve immediate stress as well as provide long term relief.Try and yoga or meditation class, or get a weekly massage.
Relaxing doesn’t only mean being still. Take time to go and have fun!

