 Wear a lot of green with a splash of red and wear flowery things, but keep it green and red! A flower in the hair or bracelets made of old twigs or daisies, whatever! Just keep it with nature, the colour green and red( if you want to treat yourself to a bit of bark brown go ahead!).;
, If you're ginger headed, keep it natural, which is probably best but this is for ginger headed people. If you want to dye you hair red(if your hair isn't ginger), highlight your hair with different shades of red!

, Not to the point of injuring yourself and others around you, just be very eco-friendly. recycle, plant trees and flowers and all types of plants, talk to plants(but don't be creepy), spend a lot of time at botanical gardens, join a local environmental club, make your own fruit and vegetable garden! Be as eco-friendly as possible!

, But don't be creepy or weird. Telling someone/thing something can take a lot of stress off you(this may not work for everyone). It's like telling your friend something! You don't have to do this step, or just not do it in public. If your going to be bullied/tormented over this, don't do this step!

, Learn about all types of trees, flowers, every type of plant life.
 This is not needed but if you want you can. Make your own little garden filled with fruit and vegetables. If you want, you can say "Thank you, Mother Nature," or something like that every time you take/eat something from your garden example:"Thanks earth," "Thanks mother nature"

, Again, this is not needed, but you can talk seductive.
 Remind them this is a game/pretend and they can't commit crime. They could just be your BFF'S and you all stand by each other yet still do your own thing.
 To add a real Poison Ivy affect, have a little chair made out of stone/wood and cover it in flowers/leaves/branches so you can't see the wood/stone(if made of stone, you don't have to cover it fully)and hide it behind other trees and bushes in your garden so the only one who can find it is you. This could be a great place to relax/read/clear your mind/etc. Try not to tell people about this special spot.
 Get a green sleeveless vest and sew on leaves and flowers on it. Get green shorts and green tights and sew leaves and flowers on your shorts too, tie flowers together and wrap them around your tights.A weird and wacky idea is to tie leaves and flowers together and wrap them around your arms. make jewellery out of twigs and flowers. Make your own natural headgear out of flowers. With shoes, either don't wear any(only if on safe, soft ground with no sharp objects) or wear sandals with flowers on them.
 If you don't want to, that's okay. But try to wear green makeup. Put green eyeshadow on, red or green mascara with little fake flowers on and a green lipstick. If you want to, put a green blusher on. Also, green nail polish would be a real plus!

, Poison Ivy was a scientist who researched in plants, this helped her in her new plant-human hybrid life

, Don't do her criminal activities though.

