 If you want to sell your piano, you need to offer it at a price someone will pay for it. Base your price on expert opinion as well as your own market research. Also understand that there are many others out there who are trying to sell and even give away their used pianos, as well.


Get your piano appraised. A professional appraisal will let you know how much the piano is worth based on make and condition. Having a professional appraisal will also give validity to your sale ad, since prospective buyers will know that someone other than you has commented on the piano's value.
Find out what other pianos of the same make and quality are going for. Even if your appraiser tells you that your piano is worth a large sum, if there are a dozen others like yours that are going for a considerably smaller amount, you will need to adjust your price accordingly to be competitive with the prices set by the other sellers.
 Depending on how you sold your piano, the website you went through may deem that the customer has every right to do so, too. If the piano has its problems, be upfront about it. Even if it is in great working condition but it has a damaged leg where your dog chewed on it or your child scratched it, be honest and let your prospective customers know. A severely damaged piano may take a while to sell, but if you are honest about a mildly damaged piano, a buyer may take that as an indication of trustworthiness, thereby feeling comfortable with the notion of purchasing from you.
 Identify the piano's manufacturer and the year it was made. While the price of pianos rarely change due to time, the age of the piano, especially in conjunction with the manufacturer, can still reveal information about how the piano was made. Also share any information you have on the history of the piano along with a detailed description of its working condition and appearance.
 A picture is worth a thousand words. You might have to pay a few extra dollars to post a photo if you sell your piano through another website, but the extra money can be worth it since most buyers tend to prefer purchasing a product they can see with their own eyes. If you are selling the piano through your own blog, it can be even more helpful to have a video demonstrating how well the piano plays, allowing potential buyers to both see and hear its quality.

