 If you suspect that you might have an upper GI bleed, then make an appointment to see your doctor as soon as possible. Laboratory tests are necessary to confirm an upper GI bleed, and you will also need to get treated for your condition.Do not put off treatment. An upper GI bleed may become more severe if it is not treated promptly.
 Your doctor will start by asking you lots of questions about past health problems as well as questions about your current condition.Make sure that you provide honest, complete answers to these questions to help your doctor make a diagnosis.


For example, if you have a history of ulcers, then this is important information for your doctor to know that.
Your doctor will also ask lots of questions about your symptoms, such as when they started, what they are, and what (if anything) helps to ease your symptoms.
 Your doctor will also need to do a physical exam. During this exam, your doctor will listen to your bowel sounds, tap on different parts of your body, and do other things to check your body for signs of a problem.Let your doctor know before the exam if you are in pain. For example, if you are having pain in a specific area of your abdomen, tell your doctor so that they can avoid pressing on the painful area.
 Multiple diagnostic tests may be required for your doctor to make a diagnosis. If your doctor suspects that there is a problem, then you will likely need to go to a hospital for these tests. These tests may include:Blood tests — These may be used to determine the extent of the bleeding and check for anemia.

Stool test — You may need to provide a stool sample for a blood test. The sample will be sent to a lab to confirm whether or not there is blood in your stool.

Angiogram — An imaging test that uses x-rays to photograph your colon and can help identify lesions or the site of the bleeding. This can be done using a special catheter and requires no preparation (such as cleansing of the colon).

GI bleed scan — For this test, your blood will be drawn, mixed with a small amount of a radioactive material, then injected back into your body. A special camera, called a Gamma Camera, will take pictures, similar to an x-ray. This can help identify the location of the bleeding as well as the frequency and amount.

Upper GI endoscopy — This can help your doctor to find the cause of the bleeding. In this procedure, a small tube with a tiny camera at the end of it is inserted into your throat and down into your stomach. The images will be projected onto a screen in the room. You will receive anesthesia for this procedure.

Enteroscopy — This is similar to an upper GI endoscopy, but the tube is longer and it provides images further down in your GI tract. There is also capsule enteroscopy, which is when you swallow a capsule that has a tiny camera inside of it. The camera takes images of your entire GI tract as it passes through your body.

Colonoscopy — If you experience bleeding from your rectum but have a negative upper GI endoscopy, you will likely undergo a colonoscopy to help discover the cause of the bleeding. Your doctor will insert a small tube with a camera into you rectum to examine your large intestine.

Nasogastric lavage— This may be necessary to find the cause of the upper GI bleed. This procedure will remove the contents of your stomach through a tube that is inserted through your nose.

