 One effective warm-up is the standard jumping jacks that you did in elementary school. Stand with your arms at your side and your legs together. Simultaneously jump your legs out to shoulder-width apart as you bring your arms straight out from your shoulders and then straight up above your head.Do a set amount, such as 20 jumping jacks or 20 seconds of jumping jacks. Work up to more as you can.;
, Begin with a squat, where you act like you're sitting in a chair but there's no chair behind you. You'll need your feet shoulder-width apart. Slowly lower yourself down like you're sitting. You should reach a point where your knees are at a 90-degree angle.Now, simultaneously raise your arms above your head as you jump into the air from the squat position. Land in a standing position, and do it all again.Try starting with 5 reps and moving up to 10 gradually.
 Jumping rope is another good warm-up that may take you back to your grade-school days. Get a sturdy jump rope, and try jumping continuously for a set period. It gets your heart pumping and warms up muscles throughout your body.Do what you can at first, and work up to jumping for 5 minutes.
 One way to really prepare you for your workout ahead is to try some quick position changes that you'd normally need to do to move around in kung fu. For example, with your left forward, spring lightly forward and back a few times, then switch quickly to the right foot forward., Since you'll use punch-like movements in your workout, do some punches while warming up. Start by punching with one arm only, ten times in a row. After you've completed that move, switch to the other arm.Start with your left foot a bit forward. Spring forward a bit on both feet, then punch forward with your left arm. It's similar to a boxing move.
 This movement warms and stretches your whole body. Start with your feet together. Your arms should be in front of your chest, with your elbows out and palms towards the ground. Start by jumping in the air and twisting your feet and knees to the right, then jumping again and twisting to the left in quick succession. Your chest should stay forward. Keep going back and forth quickly.Try 30 seconds of this move at a time.
 If you need a break between your warm-up exercises, that's fine. However, you should still keep moving. When you're taking a break, you need to jog in place to keep the momentum going. Once you've recovered a bit, try another warm-up exercise.Make sure you're rotating through exercises. That is, you can do jumping jacks once, then go back to them after doing a couple of other exercises.
 This yoga stretch works to stretch out your whole body, which is essential when doing a kung fu workout. Start with a forward lunge. Step far forward with one foot. As you do, lower yourself towards the ground. The front knee should reach a 90-degree angle and the back knee should almost touch the ground. Hold this move for about 10 seconds.Using the arm that's on the same side as your forward leg, bend it at the elbow and lean as far forward as you can on the inside of your leg. You can try to the touch the ground with the elbow. If you can't touch the ground, just get as far as you can. Your other hand should be flat on the ground to help you stay upright. Hold for about 10 seconds.
Next, place your hands on both sides of your foot. You may need to support yourself on your fingers. Straighten your front leg up, moving the back leg as needed, and lift up your front foot's toes. Hold for 10 seconds. Move to put the other leg forward, and repeat.

