 You don't need to find the surfer brands like Roxy and Billabong to be a beachy girl. Always look for color and comfort, but stay true to yourself.


Look for bright colored bikinis, tankinis, or one pieces.
Bright colored shirts that are flowy and fun.
Board shorts and denim shorts.
Colorful sundresses both long and short.;
, Embrace your hair, long or short, brown or blonde. Even though blonde is the "beachy" color, browns look equally beachy. The best way to get highlights is to go outside. The sun does it best. Don't try to dye your hair, it will end up looking unnatural. Waves and curls are the best in beachy style, but straight hair is perfectly fine. Just remember to keep it clean and brushed. No one likes an oily beach girl. The best way to get perfect waves is to go into the ocean.
 Natural is the best, if you can go without makeup. But everyone gets zits or a problem face once in a while, and wearing makeup would be the best when it happens. Invest in some good foundation and powder. Try to find the perfect shade for your face, so it doesn't look like your wearing any. Everything else, like mascara and lip gloss, you can find in the drugstore. Stick to soft pastels and earth tones. Try to find a balance of coverage and looking natural. For a quick way to look good, put on a soft blue or brown mascara, some lip gloss, and bronzer. That's all you need!

, Everyone looks good with some color, it makes you look healthy. If you can lay out for under an hour each day, do it, but always remember to use SPF 30 or higher. No one likes a red and burnt beach girl. If you can't lay out, try to find a sunless tanner that doesn't make you orange. This is the best way to look tan over the winter. But remember to apply it over the weekend, so you can have some time to adjust it if you have problems.
 Beach girls are fun, laid back, and happy. Try to have fun in life, and don't let anyone get you down. There is no point in worrying about the future because it will come and you will get through it when it does. Smile and have confidence in yourself. It is the best way to seem happy on a bad day. If you're having a bad day, try to find one positive thing and stick on it. Go with the flow. The best way to get surprises is to let them come to you. Planning is good, but not all the time. Try to find a group of friends (both girls and guys). They will be your support system, and if you have a good group around you, you will be happy. Just smile and enjoy life. Beach girls are happy in themselves and in the world.
 Beach girls care about the environment around them. You don't have to smoke to be one. Just care for the world around you, don't litter, and clean up after yourself. Their laid back attitude is the best thing to model. Just chill and relax.
 If you don't live near a beach, try to make trips down to one as often as possible

, This is the best way to be fun and confident around them. Be friends with them, they're are not aliens. Do things that they like, but still be you. Participate in sports and such. The best way to make a guy like you is being confident, but there is a clear line between confidence and cocky. Don't try to be someone else, just be you. Many guys will like you for you. Smile and be happy and bubbly.
 Take pride in yourself. Take a shower every day and wash your hair. Wash your face and brush your teeth every day. If you could splurge on one thing only, do it on a good face wash regime. It is the best way to feel confident. Keep your nails clean and painted fun and bright colors. Shave. if you don't like to, use things like Nair, etc. No one likes a prickly beach girl. Put on deodorant and body spray. Just take care of yourself and look neat and clean.
 Healthy is the best policy. Try to participate in sports or just go outside. Take pride in your body. Put good and healthy things in it and it will do wonders. You don't have to go to a gym to be healthy. Run around the block or do crunches. Try to get at least an hour of exercise each day. Find foods you like beside sweets. You don't have to eliminate them completely, but remember moderation. The best way to get your serving of fruits is smoothies. Go to your doctor if you are having trouble. Never diet without your doctors permission.
 Beachy girls are happy and confident in themselves. They don't let anyone get them down. They always have a smile on their faces

