 For example, along with the patient's name, ask for his date of birth to make sure the prescription matches the patient.


Have a system to identify those patients who have similar names. It can be as simple as a special sticker or marker on the patient's chart. In these instances, another identifier may be needed to avoid medication errors.;
, Include this information in her chart.
, Those patients with kidney, liver and psychiatric diseases, as well as diabetes mellitus fall under this category.


You should also document whether or not the patient is pregnant or has completed a pregnancy test, and the patient's smoking or alcohol use. Her medical history on these issues can help in medication decision-making, including dose and frequency.
 This should be documented on the same location on his chart so it's easy to locate.


Not only should you document prescribed medications, but any over-the-counter medicines or vitamins, the dose and frequency.



For example, in the U.S., the Institute for Safe Medication Practices (ISMP) has a list of such medications deemed to be "high alert." These drugs should be committed to memory and red-flagged when taking the patient's medication history.
 Most of the drugs that sound similar or are spelled similarly to another drug have different uses.


For example, the drug Celebrex is commonly used to treat arthritis while the similarly named Cerebyx is used to treat seizures.
 Make sure to read each number individually such as "1-5" instead of 15 to help prevent errors in dosage.
 Make sure the drug storage area is well organized.


Go through your medication storage area at least quarterly. Discard any expired medication and make sure medication labels are easy to read and facing forward on the shelf.



Purchase the latest editions of drug reference resources such as the "Merck Manual" or "Drug Facts and Comparisons."
Look to the Institute For Safe Medication Practices (ISMP) for continuing education classes and their newsletter for further tips on how to prevent medication errors in nursing.

