 Using the same technique as for a classic smoky eye, use your lightest shade of eyeshadow on the inside corners of your eyes and directly under your eyebrow, above your crease. Sweep the highlighter underneath your eyes a bit on the inside corner.
 Instead of starting with your medium shade, take your darkest eyeshadow and use your brush to sweep it along the entirety of your upper lash line. It should be the darkest near the roots of your lashes, and then blend upwards toward your crease.









Use a little on the lower lash line, but only near the outer edge. Sweep inwards with your dark shadow, going to only about halfway across your lower lashes.
Only use your darkest shadow till halfway up your eyelid. It should not reach all the way to your crease, as this will be reserved for your medium shade.
 Take your medium shade of eyeshadow and start from halfway up your eyelid, sweeping towards your crease. You should place this color in the part of your lid where it can meet your darkest color.









You can blend this color upwards beyond your crease and into your highlighter if you want. The goal is for your eyeshadow to get gradually lighter from your lashes to your brows.
Use a little to blend the dark shadow on your lower lash line. Add it the remainder of the way under your bottom lashes.
 Clean your eyeshadow brush by washing it with face soap or shampoo and water, or by spritzing it with an antibacterial makeup brush cleanser. Dry the brush completely on a cloth or towel before using it to blend the shadows. Then, sweep the brush in soft, broad strokes across your lid at the places where the different shades of eyeshadows meet.









Blend in strokes that go in the direction of your lash line (horizontally), but create the appearance of color blending upwards.
Make sure that your lash line is the darkest part of your eyelid, and if necessary apply a bit more of your darkest shadow directly to your lash line as you blend upwards.
Don’t forget to blend outwards and the edges of your eye, so that your shadow softly fades into your natural skin tone. The same should be done for the color that has been placed underneath your eyes.
 For an ultra-dramatic smoky eye, it is best to used a smudged eyeliner look. Use a chunky eyeliner pencil to draw a thick line across your upper lash line only. Then, use your makeup brush or fingertip to blur the edges upwards.


Tightline the inside rims of your eyes to add extra darkness. Draw a line on the part of your eyelid that is nearest your eyeball, directly under your upper eyelashes.
If you add eyeliner on your bottom lashes, only bring it as far in as the dark color goes on your lower lashes. Be sure to taper the end of the line though, and blend it into the shadow so that it doesn’t look too harsh against the color.
 Carefully apply your mascara to avoid getting any on your eyelid. Apply it to your upper lashes first, and then a quick coat to your bottom lashes. Wiggle the brush between your lashes to help separate and define them. Avoid using more than two coats of mascara so that you don’t create unsightly clumps and lumps in your lashes.
 If any of the eyeshadow or mascara spilled onto your cheeks, sweep it away with a large makeup brush. Use big, fast strokes to avoid smearing it into your skin. If you do happen to accidentally smear your eyeshadow, use a q-tip dipped in makeup remover to erase the mistake, and then use your blending brush to blend the area back to its prior state.







