 You can use a cooking oil, such as olive oil, mineral oil, or a cleaning oil, such as Goo Gone or Goof Off. Soak a cotton ball with some oil and rub it over the surface until the residue is gone. Soak another cotton ball with rubbing alcohol and rub it over the surface to clean off any oily residue.


If you are working on a large area and the surface is horizontal, you can pour some of the oil over the affected area and let it sit for a few minutes.
Do not use oil on unfinished wood or walls. It will soak into the surface and stain it.
 Do not use acetone on painted surfaces, finished surfaces, or plastic. It will remove paint and can melt certain types of plastic. For light residue, soak a cotton ball with some acetone and rub it over the residue until it is all gone. For heavy residue, fill a spray bottle with some acetone and spray it over the affected area; let it sit for a few minutes before wiping it off until the residue is gone.


This method can be combined with the oil method.
Acetone is safe on most fabrics, but test it in an inconspicuous area first; it may cause some fabric dyes to bleed.
 It is safe to use on walls, plastic, finished and unfinished wood, fabric, and glass; it should not remove paint and finishes, but it may cause some fading. A higher percentage, such as 90%, will be the most effective, but for painted surfaces you may want to use a lower percentage, such as 70%.


For smooth surfaces, soak a cotton ball with rubbing alcohol and buff the affected area until the residue is gone.
For rougher surfaces, use a towel or cloth instead; this will prevent any fuzz from getting caught in the texture.
If the residue is really bad, fill a spray bottle with rubbing alcohol and saturate the area. Leave the rubbing alcohol on the affected area for a few minutes, then wipe it off using a cloth or towel.
 Mix one part vinegar with eight parts water. Add a drop or two of dish soap and mix. Saturate the residue with the mixture and let it sit for a few minutes. Wipe the residue off using a paper or cloth towel. This should be safe to use on most surfaces, but it may cause some fading or staining on certain wall surfaces.
 Some light residue can simply be rubbed away. The area may look a little dull; if this happens, simply wipe it clean with some rubbing alcohol.

