 Once you start acting like a tomboy, your family and friends may start to question your decision.When they ask why you’re acting like a boy, take the time to explain your choice. While you shouldn’t have to explain yourself, it may help them understand you a little better.


For example, you could say “I don’t want to wear dresses and skirts because it is easier to run and play in pants” or “I don’t want to go to the mall because I would rather be outside playing.”, While some parents support their daughter's decision, others may not like that their daughter is becoming a tomboy. If your parents are not okay with your decision to become a tomboy, try your best to compromise with them. For example, you could offer to wear a dress to family events, but wear athletic clothing in your daily life.


If you feel upset by dresses, try to explain to them that they make you feel bad about yourself. Explain that you like the way you look in your tomboy clothes, and that you aren't yourself in a dress.
You might say "I am who I am. I need you to accept me. I feel bad when I tell you who I am and you tell me I'm not that person."

, As you become a tomboy, adults and kids may tease you or question or decision. If your peers are teasing or bullying you, tell a supportive adult immediately. If your teachers do not agree with your decision, speak with your parents, a school administrator, or a school counselor. If adults are pressuring you to "act" or "look" like a girl, remember that you don't have to conform to their definition of "girliness." You can decide how you want to look and act.
 Embracing your inner tomboy means that you are choosing to act and look more like a boy and less like a girl. This is a big bold step! As you discover who you are, remember that there is not one right way to be a tomboy. Just be you!, When you decide to become a tomboy, you don’t have to give up the parts of being a girl that you enjoy. You can (and should) continue to do the girly things that you enjoy.


If you like wearing dresses, continue to wear dresses.
If you want to wear your hair down, you can.
If you want to watch a girly movie, go for it.