 Standing in one place for a long time increases venous pressure in the legs and feet. Over time, this pressure weakens the blood vessel walls. This will worsen existing varicose veins and could contribute to the development of new ones.Since prolonged standing is almost unavoidable in some jobs, mitigate the harm by shifting your position as frequently as possible. Try to walk around at least every 30 minutes.
 Sit up straight and don’t cross your legs. Good posture improves circulation, while crossed legs may restrict blood flow to and from the legs.Avoid sitting for long stretches of time without taking a break. Get up every half-hour or so to stretch or walk around.
 Relaxing and “putting your feet up” can help reduce your risk of developing varicose veins.Try to raise your legs above your heart for 15 minutes, 3-4 times per day.This will help improve circulation and reduce pressure.


When possible, keep your legs elevated when sitting or sleeping.Other options include using an inversion table or elevating the foot of your bed so that your feet are slightly higher than your head when you sleep. Consult with your doctor before trying these methods.
 Improve circulation to your lower body by avoiding tight-fitting clothes. Be especially careful to avoid tight fits around your waist, legs, and groin area. Tight clothing can make existing varicose veins worse, and may increase your risk of developing them.Wear comfortable, low-heeled shoes instead of high heels. Low-heeled shoes can help tone your calves, which will help your blood move easily through your veins.Make sure your shoes are properly fitted to avoid pinching or tightness., If you’re developing varicose veins, try regularly using compression stockings or hose. These can be purchased at medical supply stores or pharmacies and come in a variety of different compressions. Consult with your doctor before buying or wearing compression stockings.Use a tape measure to measure your legs so that you get the right size. Compression stockings should provide firm compression, but shouldn’t necessarily feel tight.If you will be flying for a long trip, discuss getting compression hose with your medical adviser. These can help reduce strain on your legs and may be helpful for preventing the worsening of existing varicose veins.

