 Of course, there is more to someone than the way he or she looks. Dating is often made of first impressions, though so be sure the one you'll give is good. No need to become a model - just keep your general appearance clean, nice and attractive.


Have good hygiene. Showering everyday, washing your hair as often as needed, and brushing your teeth regularly are basic rules. You could also go further and change your looks a little. A brand new haircut is always popular to make a fresh start. For girls, you could try another way to make up, or have your hands done at a beauty parlor. Be sure to enjoy the change, though, or else you'll regret it!
Adopt healthy habits. Sleep as many hours a night as you need, enjoy the day's sunshine, exercise regularly, eat consistent and nutritious meals...You know the list. Not only will this make you look fitter (and thus more attractive); it will also give you a healthier constitution-which means more stamina, which is not something to overlook if you plan on going out, and being a dynamic person to date!
Take a good look at your wardrobe. Do you like what you see? Are you tired of your regular clothes ? You could consider buying some items you don't possess (for instance if you're short of trendy evening clothes) or even changing your style a bit.. or, why not, a lot.

Again, don't feel forced to do that: you starting off a dating life does not necessarily mean you have to make a complete break in your life. Your clothes should make you happy and comfortable. Still, be sure you have some pieces of clothing that really suit your appearance and personality, and that will look good on special occasions. For instance, a classy shirt, becoming blue-jeans, colorful sweater, little black dress...Don't hesitate to ask a good friend for advice!

;
, Expectations vary with people. Before entering the dating scene, you have to determine what you're looking for there.


Do you want a serious relationship, or just a casual one? Would you be okay with having a friend with benefits, or one night stands? In short, you should check what a "great love life" is in your opinion. It will help when you actually meet people. For instance, dating a casual person could be considered as a loss of time if you're looking for a committed relationship. If you're not, it could be a lot of fun!

, Determine what your expectations are, but don't consider them as an absolute rule! Things that you want now can change after a few years.


The person you dismiss may have potential as a love interest. Keep open to new possibilities and new people. It does not mean you have to give anybody a chance just for the sake of giving it. However, someone who seems bland or shallow on the telephone/during the first encounter could loosen up during an extended conversation over coffee or drinks - and turn out to be just shy or caught at a bad time!

, A popular belief is that to be happy as a lover you first have to be happy as a single person. It may not always be true- or sad people would never find love, but that's still a wise idea. What's the point of wasting your life until you find somebody to love-or even to date ? You'll just make yourself sadder. It is perfectly normal to feel blue if you're lonely. But don't let that stop you from having fun!


Happy and content people are much more attractive to meet! Spend time with your friends, exercise, indulge in hobbies and passions...live it up! Take advantage of your independence, too. You'll never be more free than you are right now. Now is the time to go abroad, form a music band, write a novel, try new things, put some wildness in your life..Remember that an interested person is always an interesting one as well, and it's not just because you're single and looking you shouldn't have the time of your life!

, Society can be hard on single people. If most of the people you know are in relationships, you may wonder if the problem's not with you. But don't. As long as you're decently clean, reasonably nice and not inapproachable, there's no reason you couldn't have a love life of your own.


Remember that love and dating are mostly made of chance encounters, even on the dating websites. Get rid of all the self-deprecatory thinking and talking: once you put yourself down, others are likely to do so as well. Dismiss all negative comments on your single status, either from your acquaintances or from yourself.

For instance, if you're self-conscious about your appearance, keep in mind this is roughly everybody's case. Try to describe yourself objectively or ask a trustworthy friend to do so. You'll find out you have beautiful traits, just like everyone else.


If you still can't get over the idea that lovable people must be perfect and you're not, visualize the persons you know who are in a happy relationship right now, or the couples you see walking down the street. Are they all gorgeous looking, or incredibly brainy ? Chance is, they're as imperfect as you-and maybe more so !

, If you've been single for awhile, you've probably already been told that by going out you will be more likely to meet new people than by staying home watching TV (which, of course, is true). Still, living by that rule can be a bit demoralizing in time, when you force yourself out of the house and come back alone and/or disinterested. So keep these two principles in mind:


Don't go out every single day of the year if you don't feel like it! No need to exhaust yourself. Make compromises: go out a few times a week, or at least once a week and take advantage of the evenings 'off' to relax, go to sleep earlier, spend some quiet time with friends or relatives...You will be in much better shape on the times you do go out...and you'll feel much more happy and impatient to do so!
Don't go out just for the sake of meeting someone. That's the easiest way to be dissuaded to go on. Of course, your chance of clicking with somebody will always be at the back of your head-and it should be, but don't make it a priority! Only go out because you enjoy it. Go to see movies or exhibitions you're interested in, attend lectures at libraries/museums/local universities, have a drink at your favorite bar, go dancing...the list is endless. However, be sure that should you not meet a potential mate, you'll still enjoy the time out! Who knows what may happen.
 Then, you can actually stay in and meet people!


Once in a while through the year, throw a small party at your place. It doesn't have to be for a special occasion. It may not even be very expensive, if you ask each of your guests to bring something for the buffet.
Of course, you may invite your closest friends but in order to get acquainted with new ones, don't hesitate to ask persons you don't know so well to come along-like a new colleague, or a neighbour. If you don't know many people, ask your friends to bring friends of their own and take advantage of the party to get to know them too!

, The next time your colleagues/schoolmates propose a going-out, or a person you like but are not crazy about asks you out for a drink, take a deep breath before refusing to come along. Do you really have something more important to do? If the answer is no, just go for it. True, you may not appreciate it. And you may have a great time!


Anyway, keep in mind accepting invitations is a great way to remain in that 'going out' mood. It's easier than planning something on your own, and it's more motivating as you will be surrounded by people you already know. Besides, it will establish you as a social, dynamic person and you'll be very likely to get asked out again!

, Some people claim that flirting in real life is outdated. Others that you hardly ever meet the right person on dating websites. Then, there are those who say dating in the office/class is a definite 'no'-because of gossips and everyone knowing. What about the ones who tried the gym/theatre club and declared it a dead area? You may then begin to wonder where people actually meet.


The thing is there are no right or wrong places to meet someone- there only are right and wrong persons for you. If you click with somebody, no matter if you are in the subway, a concert intermission, a coffee shop's queue, a public library with a sign 'silent please', or a dating website! On the other hand, you could go to that fantastic bar in which your best friend has met his/her current lover and come home without a telephone number. So, keep your eyes and mind opened!

, Everybody has a social network-friends, relatives, colleagues, old school mates, neighbours...Of course, some are broader. If you moved to a new town, and have no acquaintances there, it can take a little time to establish connections! The good thing about a network though is it's like a cobweb: it keeps spreading!


Don't hesitate to take advantage of your connections in order to meet new people. You can frankly announce to your friends you're looking for someone-they may have a great cousin to introduce you to. Otherwise, use your social gatherings to broaden your circle of acquaintances- family events, college/high school reunions, cocktail parties could be good occasions for that!

, If you have had your life organized around settled people-family, married friends, children... it can be tempting and comfortable to live at their pace and neglect your dating life. Of course, friends are precious and you should not give up on the cozy and warm times you spend together. However, remember to keep time and space for your love life. Schedule some nights out for you during the week and keep to them.


If you have children, try to have them babysit once in a while and enjoy the free time! If most of your friends are in relationships, try to befriend other bachelors-you can share experiences, advices and feelings.
 Now that you're an active dating person, you should not overlook the risks the game implies! Be sure to adopt the right habits from the start.


Exchanging phone numbers is one of dating most basic customs . If you meet someone and you both click, what's wrong about giving your number? Still, when it's a person you really don't know, or if you're unsure whether you actually want to see him/her again, you may find safer to accept the person's number and not give yours.

Say you'll call them later or send them a message and take some time to think it over. If you're bothered by someone who has your phone number and just won't leave you alone, take a look at your phone options: there is often a way to reject unwanted calls. If there isn't and the person's attitude creeps you out, you may consider changing your phone number!


If you decide to meet someone you've come across on a website dating, be sure it doesn't happen in a secluded place. Opt for a public square or a lively coffee shop, for instance. You may also want to phone the person some time before the encounter, if you've only communicated through e-mails and such. Hearing his/her voice will prepare you gradually for a meeting in real life!
Preservatives are another area you should be concerned about. Protecting yourself from STD and/or unwanted pregnancy is an essential path to a happy, safe and relaxed sex life. If you have interrogations about the different ways to protect yourself, consult specialized websites. Even if you're not sexually active right now, be sure to have condoms at home. You may also take some just in case on dates that could end in a bed. One is never too careful!

, OK, now you're out and you know the score, so what happens? Now you have to get familiar with the oldest dating habit: communication. Indeed, should you be surrounded by twenty eligible bachelors every day of the week, if you don't attempt to make conversation with any of them, your dating life will just stand still.


Get rid of your shyness and apprehensions and start talking. It's not as difficult as it seems and will go easier and easier over time. Introduce yourself. Ask questions. Enquire about the person's activities, hobbies...and so on. Parties are the perfect place to communicate with strangers as you both know the host and can talk about how you came to know him/her as well as your own paths in life.
If flirting makes you uneasy, persuade yourself you're not looking for a love interest, but simply, a new acquaintance- then see where it leads you to! Otherwise, if you feel attracted by the person, let it show!

Use some simple, friendly signals: smile, make eye contact, laugh at his/her jokes (but do it genuinely), express your interest...Then, when you get to know the person better, you may employ physical contact: kiss him/her on the cheek when you part, or gently shake hands, pat him/her on the arm or the shoulder to make a point...Don't be too invading though: some people are touchy, specially with strangers! Verbal flirting will come naturally to you if you're attracted, and specially if you feel the feeling is mutual! Just keep this attraction in the back of your head: it will come out, in subtle touches, in the course of your conversation. Again, don't make too blunt statements if you're unsure of the person-or of yourself!



, As you go through the dating process, it's likely you'll meet some people who just won't be right for you. You may feel hurt over someone's neglecting to call you back, be offended by a date's behaviour, or frustrated by a relationship that never seems to get started. Remember these are not the only dates you'll get: so do yourself a favor, and forget about them.


Erase their name from your notebook and phone contacts and keep them out of your mind. Of course, it's easier said than done. But it's also much simpler when you have places to go to, and new love interests to meet. Still, you can decide to give someone a second chance: you're the only judge of that. Evaluate their potential as well as your own interest-which may have changed over time.
 A date often pops up unexpectedly. And suddenly, you're being asked where you would like to meet the following evening. To avoid having to answer "I don't know" or to choose the spot in a hurry, be ahead of your time, and start looking before the invitations come crawling at your door!


Take a look at your town's opportunities and make a list of the best places. Where are the not-so-expensive but delightful little restaurants? And the romantic parks? And the atmospheric bars and cafés? Help yourself in your search with magazines, or tourist guides. Note all the means of transport, and figure out the kind of people who are likely to love these spots.
 If you haven't done it in a while or are inexperienced, you may feel nervous and apprehensive about making love. It is quite natural. Still, keep in mind the more relaxed and spontaneous you are about sex, the more pleasure you'll get and give!


Start by becoming comfortable about your own body. Enjoy the simple sensuality of a fresh breeze, the touch of warm water, the softness of your bed...and so on. Indulge in some self-love. If you feel the need, don't hesitate waiting before having sex: there's no rush. And remember a happy sex life means knowing your partner- so open up and communicate - and most of all, know yourself.
 On the first weeks/months of your life on the dating scene, you may experience disappointment and feel that nothing's turning to concrete. But be patient ! Finding a mate/lover/date takes time. Don't give up on your social activities, and keep going out and meeting new people. Once you'll find someone you like, be sure there'll be another someone, and another one after that ! It's the spillover effect of socializing. The very start is not easy. But after you're done with it-enjoy yourself ! Not only will you possess a notebook full of new acquaintances, friends or love interests, you will also become more and more carefree, self-confident and happy about dating- and thus, more and more of an attractive person to date !

, Mutual respect should be the foundation of each relationship you're starting, whether it is casual or more committed. Love and passion are beautiful things: but keep away from love devoid of respect. It is dangerous and can become creepy: or at least, pretty unnerving !


Stay on your guards if your love interest ever treats you with meanness, rudeness or despise. Refuse insulting terms, hurting laughs, or dismisses of your freedom- even if they're only occasional. When a date gets really bad, make up some excuse and go away. Never stay in a relationship that brings you more sadness than joy. You don't have to put up with any condescending or violent treatment. Ask your friends, family -or even the police !- for help, if needed. Still, keep in mind respect does not mean complete devotion or putting someone on a pedestal. Gentle laughs and good-humoured teasing are a show of familiarity, but not an offensive one. Quarrels and arguments happen in the most loving relationships. So don't go to the other extreme and become paranoid or exacting with your partner.
On the other hand, be sure to behave respectfully with your love interests. If you have no interest in seeing someone again, be distant but still polite. Remember to thank the person after a date invitation and ask for news from your social circle now and then. Don't get angry over little things, for instance somebody's showing off a little late. If you disagree with a person's point of view, express your own opinions in a calm and firm manner. Keep in mind laughing and joking are great ways to bond with someone but that mocking is not. Once you get to know a person better, be a considerate lover. Propose a lift, show interest, give a small present once in a while, cheer him/her up after a bad day, lend an attentive ear, give spontaneous hugs...and so on. Of course, don't overdo it ! Don't become excessively devoted or intrusive. You can respect and love a person and still say no to him/her once in a while.
 Don't pay attention to the 'norms'. If you feel like going steady after two weeks of dating and so does your mate, who cares if magazines say it 'usually' takes several months ? On the other hand, if you should need more time to adapt to the idea of living with someone or go slow, just do it ! But be careful to let the communication line open, so your partner knows where you stand for and that you taking some time does not mean you don't care !

, Now that you've found your mate and life's looking wonderful- just one last piece of advice ! Don't forget to keep some private space in your life. The idea is not to make your partner feel excluded or jealous, of course ! But because, as tempting as it seems, center your whole life exclusively around one person may become pretty suffocating in time, and for both of you.


Keep in touch with your old friends, your old hobbies and allow yourself to discover new passions and interests ! You'll have plenty of things to tell your mate when you see each other and he/she may use the time off to connect with his/her own secret garden. Still, this doesn't mean you can't do things in common-quite the contrary ! But be sure to find a good balance, so being together remains a treat.

