 Such physicians are known as haematologists.


Their routine work mainly includes the care and treatment of patients with haematological diseases, although some may also work at the haematology laboratory viewing blood films and bone marrow slides under the microscope, interpreting various haematological test results.
In some institutions, haematologists also manage the haematology laboratory.
Physicians who work in haematology laboratories, and most commonly manage them, are pathologists specialized in the diagnosis of haematological diseases, referred to as haematopathologists.
Haematologists and haematopathologists generally work in conjunction to formulate a diagnosis and deliver the most appropriate therapy if needed.;
, Haematologists may specialise further or have special interests, for example in:


bleeding disorders such as haemophilia and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura
haematological malignacies such as lymphoma and leukemia (onco haematology)
haemoglobinopathies
the science of blood transfusion and the work of a blood bank
bone marrow and stem cell transplantation

, Only some blood disorders can be cured.
 Haematological analysis involves the determination of different blood parameters, which can be done using either the electronic quantification or the manual quantification.


The electronic quantification can be done with the use of the auto counter and these displace about 15 parameters, while the manual quantification of PCV for example, is by the use of the Micro haematocrit centrifuge. This Micro haematocrit centrifuge is used to determine the Packed Cell Volume (PCV), from which many other parameters can be obtained.
The best way to determine blood parameters is through the electronic device called auto counter because it gives accurate values and manual red blood cell counting is obsolete and inaccurate Although, the manual quantification is also used to confirm whether the values obtained from the auto counter correlate with it for PCV.
The haematocrit (Ht or HCT) or packed cell volume (PCV) or erythrocyte volume fraction (EVF) is the proportion of blood volume that is occupied by red blood cells. It is normally about 46% for men and 38% for women. It is considered an integral part of a person's complete blood count results, along with hemoglobin concentration, white blood cell count, and platelet count.
 The term "haematocrit" was coined in 1903. Its roots stem from the Greek words hema- blood, and krites, judge - meaning to gauge or judge the blood.In mammals, haematocrit is independent of body size. The PCV of animals can also be determined, to know their anaemic state.


Elevated haematocrit - In cases of dengue fever a high haematocrit is a danger sign of an increased risk of dengue shock syndrome.

Polycythemia vera (PV), a myeloproliferative disorder in which the bone marrow produces excessive numbers of red cells, is associated with elevated haematocrit.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and other pulmonary conditions associated with hypoxia may elicit an increased production of red blood cells. This increase is mediated by the increased levels of erythropoietin by the kidneys in response to hypoxia.
Professional athletes' haematocrit levels are measured as part of tests for blood doping or Erythropoietin (EPO) use; the level of haematocrit in a blood sample is compared with the long-term level for that athlete (to allow for individual variations in haematocrit level), and against an absolute permitted maximum (which is based on maximum expected levels within the population, and the haematocrit level which causes increased risk of blood clots resulting in strokes or heart attacks).
If a patient is dehydrated, the haematocrit may be elevated. Repeat testing after adequate hydration therapy will usually result in a more reliable result.


Lowered haematocrit - Lowered haematocrit can imply significant hemorrhage (for example, in an ectopic pregnancy).

The mean corpuscular volume (MCV) and the red cell distribution width (RDW) can be quite helpful in evaluating a lower-than-normal haematocrit, because it can help the clinician determine whether blood loss is chronic or acute. The MCV is the size of the red cells and the RDW is a relative measure of the variation in size of the red cell population. A low haematocrit with a low MCV with a normal RDW suggests a chronic iron-deficient erythropoiesis, but a high RDW suggests a blood loss that is more acute, such as a hemorrhage.
 They include:


Infants who may not have adequate iron intake
Children going through a rapid growth spurt, during which the iron available cannot keep up with the demands for a growing red cell mass
Women in childbearing years who have an excessive need for iron because of blood loss during menstruation
Pregnant women, in whom the growing fetus creates a high demand for iron.
Patients with chronic kidney disease, as their kidneys no longer secrete sufficient levels of the hormone erythropoietin, which stimulates red blood cell production by the bone marrow.
 This is the main oxygen transport protein in the fetus during the last seven months of development in the uterus and in the newborn until the neonate (newborn child) is roughly 6 months old. Functionally, fetal haemoglobin differs most from adult haemoglobin in that it is able to bind oxygen with greater affinity than the adult form, giving the developing fetus better access to oxygen from the mother's bloodstream.


In newborns, fetal hemoglobin is nearly completely replaced by adult haemoglobin by approximately the twelfth week of postnatal life. In adults, fetal haemoglobin production can be reactivated pharmacologically, which is useful in the treatment of such diseases as sickle-cell disease.
Foetal haemoglobin, (also hemoglobin F or HbF) is the main oxygen transport protein in the fetus during the last seven months of development in the uterus and in the newborn until the neonate (newborn child) is roughly 6 months old. Functionally, fetal haemoglobin differs most from adult haemoglobin in that it is able to bind oxygen with greater affinity than the adult form, giving the developing fetus better access to oxygen from the mother's bloodstream.
In newborns, fetal hemoglobin is nearly completely replaced by adult haemoglobin by approximately the twelfth week of postnatal life. In adults, fetal haemoglobin production can be reactivated pharmacologically, which is useful in the treatment of such diseases as sickle-cell disease.
 When fetal haemoglobin production is switched off after birth, normal children begin producing adult haemoglobin (HbA). Children with sickle-cell disease instead begin producing a defective form of haemoglobin called haemoglobin S. This variety of haemoglobin aggregates, forming filaments that cause red blood cells to change their shape from round to sickle-shaped, which have a greater tendency to stack on top of one another and crowd blood vessels. These invariably lead to so-called painful vaso-occlusive episodes, which are a hallmark of the disease.

If fetal haemoglobin remains the predominant form of haemoglobin after birth, however, the number of painful episodes decreases in patients with sickle-cell disease. Hydroxyurea promotes the production of fetal hemoglobin and can be used to treat individuals with sickle-cell disease. Combination therapy with hydroxyurea and recombinant erythropoietin—rather than treatment with hydroxyurea alone have been shown to further elevate haemoglobin F levels and to promote the development of HbF-containing F-cells.
 This refers to the process of determining the genotype of an individual by the use of electrophoresis. Current methods of doing this include PCR, DNA sequencing, ASO probes, and hybridization to DNA micro-arrays or beads. The technology is important in clinical research for the investigation of disease-associated genes.


Due to current technological limitations, almost all genotyping is partial. That is, only a small fraction of an individual’s genotype is determined. This experiment actually only determines the phenotype, not genotype.
 Experiments with blood transfusions, the transfer of blood or blood components into a person's blood stream, have been carried out for hundreds of years. Many patients have died and it was not until 1901, when the Austrian Karl Landsteiner discovered human blood groups, that blood transfusions became safer.


Mixing blood from two individuals can lead to blood clumping or agglutination. The clumped red cells can crack and cause toxic reactions. This can have fatal consequences. Karl Landsteiner discovered that blood clumping was an immunological reaction which occurs when the receiver of a blood transfusion has antibodies against the donor blood cells.
Karl Landsteiner's work made it possible to determine blood groups and thus paved the way for blood transfusions to be carried out safely. For this discovery he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1930.
 An adult human has about 4–6 liters (1.6 US gal) of blood circulating in the body. Among other things, blood transports oxygen to various parts of the body. Blood consists of several types of cells floating around in a fluid called plasma. The red blood cells contain hemoglobin, a protein that binds oxygen. Red blood cells transport oxygen to, and remove carbon dioxide from, the body tissues. The white blood cells fight infection. The platelets help the blood to clot, if you get a wound for example. The plasma contains salts and various kinds of proteins.
 The differences in human blood are due to the presence or absence of certain protein molecules called antigens and antibodies. The antigens are located on the surface of the red blood cells and the antibodies are in the blood plasma. Individuals have different types and combinations of these molecules. The blood group you belong to depends on what you have inherited from your parents.


There are more than 20 genetically determined blood group systems known today, but the AB0 and Rh systems are the most important ones used for blood transfusions. Not all blood groups are compatible with each other. Mixing incompatible blood groups leads to blood clumping or agglutination, which is dangerous for individuals. Nobel Laureate Karl Landsteiner was involved in the discovery of both the AB0 and Rh blood groups:

ABO blood grouping system - According to the AB0 blood group system there are four different kinds of blood groups: A, B, AB or 0 (null).
Blood group A - If you belong to the blood group A, you have A antigens on the surface of your red blood cells and B antibodies in your blood plasma.
Blood group B - If you belong to the blood group B, you have B antigens on the surface of your red blood cells and A antibodies in your blood plasma.
Blood group AB - If you belong to the blood group AB, you have both A and B antigens on the surface of your red blood cells and no A or B antibodies at all in your blood plasma.
Blood group 0 - If you belong to the blood group 0 (null), you have neither A or B antigens on the surface of your red blood cells but you have both A and B antibodies in your blood plasma.
Rh factor blood grouping system - Many people also have a so called Rh factor on the red blood cell's surface. This is also an antigen and those who have it are called Rh+. Those who haven't are called Rh-. A person with Rh- blood does not have Rh antibodies naturally in the blood plasma (as one can have A or B antibodies, for instance). But a person with Rh- blood can develop Rh antibodies in the blood plasma if he or she receives blood from a person with Rh+ blood, whose Rh antigens can trigger the production of Rh antibodies. A person with Rh+ blood can receive blood from a person with Rh- blood without any problems.
 According to above blood grouping systems, you can belong to either of following 8 blood groups:


A Rh+
B Rh+
AB Rh+
0 Rh+
A Rh-
B Rh-
AB Rh-
0 Rh-

, You mix the blood with three different reagents including either of the three different antibodies, A, B or Rh antibodies. Then you take a look at what has happened.


In which mixtures has agglutination occurred? The agglutination indicates that the blood has reacted with a certain antibody and therefore is not compatible with blood containing that kind of antibody.
If the blood does not agglutinate, it indicates that the blood does not have the antigens binding the special antibody in the reagent.
If you know which antigens are in the person's blood, it's easy to figure out which blood group he or she belongs to! Application:

A person with A+ blood receives B+ blood. The B antibodies (yellow) in the A+ blood attack the foreign red blood cells by binding to them. The B antibodies in the A+ blood bind the antigens in the B+ blood and agglutination occurs. This is dangerous because the agglutinated red blood cells break after a while and their contents leak out and become toxic.
A person with A+ blood receives B+ blood. The B antibodies (yellow) in the A+ blood attack the foreign red blood cells by binding to them. The B antibodies in the A+ blood bind the antigens in the B+ blood and agglutination occurs. This is dangerous because the agglutinated red blood cells break after a while and their contents leak out and become toxic.
 For a blood transfusion to be successful, AB0 and Rh blood groups must be compatible between the donor blood and the patient blood. If they are not, the red blood cells from the donated blood will clump or agglutinate. The agglutinated red cells can clog blood vessels and stop the circulation of the blood to various parts of the body. The agglutinated red blood cells also crack and its contents leak out in the body. The red blood cells contain hemoglobin which becomes toxic when outside the cell. This can have fatal consequences for the patient.


The A antigen and the A antibodies can bind to each other in the same way that the B antigens can bind to the B antibodies. This is what would happen if, for instance, a B blood person receives blood from an A blood person. The red blood cells will be linked together, like bunches of grapes, by the antibodies. As mentioned earlier, this clumping could lead to death.
 Of course, you can always give A blood to persons with blood group A, B blood to a person with blood group B and so on. But in some cases you can receive blood with another type of blood group, or donate blood to a person with another kind of blood group.


The transfusion will work if a person who is going to receive blood has a blood group that doesn't have any antibodies against the donor blood's antigens. But if a person who is going to receive blood has antibodies matching the donor blood's antigens, the red blood cells in the donated blood will clump.
 This is the localization of antigens or proteins in tissue sections by the use of labeled antibodies as specific reagents through antigen-antibody interactions that are visualized by a marker such as fluorescent dye, enzyme, or colloidal gold. There are numerous immunohistochemistry methods that may be used to localize antigens. The selection of a suitable method should be based on parameters such as the type of specimen under investigation and the degree of sensitivity required.
 Cancer occurs as a result of mutations, or abnormal changes, in the genes responsible for regulating the growth of cells and keeping them healthy. The genes are in each cell’s nucleus, which acts as the “control room” of each cell. Normally, the cells in our bodies replace themselves through an orderly process of cell growth: healthy new cells take over as old ones die out. But over time, mutations can “turn on” certain genes and “turn off” others in a cell. That changed cell gains the ability to keep dividing without control or order, producing more cells just like it and forming a tumor.


A tumor can be benign (not dangerous to health) or malignant (has the potential to be dangerous). Benign tumors are not considered cancerous: their cells are close to normal in appearance, they grow slowly, and they do not invade nearby tissues or spread to other parts of the body. Malignant tumors are cancerous. Left unchecked, malignant cells eventually can spread beyond the original tumor to other parts of the body.
During the immunohistochemical staining of a tissue, antigens are usually expressed if the tissue stains positive. These antigens can either be breast cancer antigens or non-breast cancer antigens

Breast Cancer Antigens under investigation

A. Estrogen Receptor (ER)
B. Progesterone Receptor (PR)
C. Her – 2 neu


Non Breast antigens

A. Leucocytes common antibody (LCA) for Lymphoma
B. AE1 and AE2 for epithelial tumor and other carcinoma
C. Vimentin for messenchyma tumor
D. NSE
E. CD5
F. CD20
G. CD30
H. Desmin
I. Myogenin





, Breast cancer is an uncontrolled growth of breast cells. To better understand breast cancer, it helps to understand how any cancer can develop. The term “breast cancer” refers to a malignant tumor that has developed from cells in the breast. Usually breast cancer either begins in the cells of the lobules, which are the milk-producing glands, or the ducts, the passages that drain milk from the lobules to the nipple. Less commonly, breast cancer can begin in the stromal tissues, which include the fatty and fibrous connective tissues of the breast.

