 Are you planning on trudging long distance through the snow on a regular basis, or are you going to use the snow boots rarely and for short periods of time? Decide how comfortable they need to be based on how they will be used.


If you are going to use these boots a lot you may want to invest more money in them.
If you are only going to use them sporadically, maybe you can buy a less comfortable, and thus probably less expensive, pair.;
, You want your feet to be warm enough while tromping through the snow, but not too warm. Take into consideration what temperature it will be when you wear the boots and how warm you like your feet to be.There may be some boots that come with removable linings so that you can increase the insulation of the boots. Look for this option if it interests you.
Sometimes you need less insulation because of how active you will be when wearing the boots. If you are going to be very active, for instance if you are going to be snow shoeing for hours on end, you need to take the amount of heat your body will produce into account when picking a level of insulation.
 Most people will want waterproof snow boots, so that their feet don't get wet. However, there are different levels of waterproofing. The most watertight boots tend to be less stylish than other boots that aren't designed to be used in very wet conditions. However, there are plenty of boots available that are semi-waterproof and quite attractive.


If the boots are only water-resistant, not waterproof, you should consider getting an extra liner to switch to if the first gets wet. If the boot dries quickly you can use another liner while the first one dries.
 Taller boots will also give you more ankle support. On the other hand, a shorter boot will give you more flexibility of movement and the boots will be easier to put on and take off.


Fairly tall boots will ensure that your whole foot and ankle are protected from the snow.
There are some tall-ankled boots that are actually quite flexible and some that are not. If you want a boot that covers your ankles but is still flexible, be sure to prioritize that functionality.
 In other cases you will decide to get the most comfortable boots even though they are not very attractive.


If you can't find the perfect boots that are cute, comfortable, and well made, then you will need to make some decisions about what aspect is most important to you.
Try to find a pair that looks good. You want relatively attractive snow boots because in the winter you may be wearing inside buildings as well as outdoors.
 It can be hard to order snow boots without trying them on because they can fit a little different than normal shoes. If you are trying on a bunch of snow boots it's best to start trying on boots in your regular size. This will give you an idea right off the bat whether you can stick with that size or whether you need to move up or down a size.


Boot sizing can vary dramatically. Some boot manufacturers vary their sizes based on the assumption that you will wear thick socks in their boots.
The variation in snow boot sizes is why is can be difficult to buy them online. However, if you need to buy some online without trying them on first, consult the manufacturers sizing guide and follow that. You should also make sure you are ordering from a seller that offers free exchanges, including the seller paying for shipping, just in case you need to switch to a different size.
 Do you want to be able to easily take the boots on and off? Or do you want them to be very secure when you are wearing them, so that you won't have to worry about trudging through deep snow? Your decision should be based on how you are planning on using the snow boots.If you are doing an active sport in your snow boots, then you probably want them to be very secure on your feet.
If you are using your snow boots for quick trips out of the house, for instance just to take the garbage out, then you probably want a boot that can slip more easily on and off.
 You need to figure out what size will work best for you, whether it is your normal size or not. It may be that you want the same size boots as you wear in regular shoes. However, you may want to get a size up if you want to wear thick socks with your boots.


When it comes to snow boots, err on the side of them being too large if you think you might need to wear thick socks. It's better to have a little extra room than too little room.
Don't be afraid to buy a size larger or smaller than you normally wear. After all, shoe sizes are only there to guide toward a shoe that fits your feet perfectly.
 Don't be bamboozled by the brand name. Many times people don’t make the right decision in choosing a pair of snow boots because of the brand name or the style of the boot. Unfortunately, this can have an effect on your feet when walking in the snow.


For example, shearling boots are very popular and trendy boots currently. They're made with the finest sheepskin for comfort and warmth but they're not made for the snow. These boots may be very thick and warm, but they're not water resistant and are easily stained by the salt and snow.
However, there are some brand name boots that are known for their quality. Boot makers that have high quality goods may be the best known for a reason. You need to do your research and figure out if a brand name is all hype or if they are the best of the best.
 It is a good idea to shop around for the best deal when buying snow boots. Check the price at local stores as well as online. The perk of getting the boots locally is that you can probably get them right away and you won't have to pay for shipping. The perk of buying snow boots online is that you may have more options to choose from and they may be cheaper.


Make sure that you are comparing the exact same boots when shopping around. Slightly different styles may have different costs and different qualities.
Even if you want to try the boots on in a store, it doesn't mean that you have to buy them there. Try them on in the store to figure out what size works for you, or to figure out if they fit you well at all, and then buy them where you can get them cheapest. This may very well be online.
 If you are buying a quality pair of boots they should be guaranteed for life from manufacturing defects. This means that if the stitching fails or the fabric splits, they will repair your boots or send you a new pair.


Some damage to boots will probably not be covered by a guarantee. If the damage is caused by something that the boots are meant to withstand, then you may have to pay for replacements. For example, it you accidentally run over them with your car, the manufacturer will probably not repair them for free.
Boots that have good guarantees are usually more expensive. However, think of the cost as an investment and remember that instead of buying a new pair every year, you may be able to use these boots for years into the future.
 Snow boots are usually more expensive when everyone goes to buy them at the beginning of winter. If you plan ahead, however, you can get a much better deal.


Try buying your snow boots in early spring, when stores are trying to get rid of all their winter gear. Prices could be much, much lower than they were a few months earlier.Look for discontinued styles as well. These could be even cheaper!

