 Customer segmentation is a useful tool for a business that has many customers and a wide array of different interactions with each of them. It allows the business to identify the different customer groups that they primarily serve and how they specifically interact with them. Small businesses may have no need to segment customers, especially if they only serve a small, manageable set of them. However, for businesses with more customers, customer segmentation is indispensable., Gather all of your customer information in one place so you know what options you are working with. Ideally you should have your customers set up in an electronic format. If not, invest in contact software that allows you to segment your customer base. Organize your clients in order of descending profit margin.


Use any data you have from customer purchases, such as purchase amounts, addresses, items purchased, and payment methods.Utilize segmentation tools and services to help group your customers. There are many services available that assist in profiling your customer base. They can group your customers into value and lifestyle groups.
Placing your customers in such groups allows you to better target them when marketing your product.
 To make the distinctions necessary for customer segmentation, you may need to gather some additional customer information beyond what you already have. There are several ways to go about this. First, an industry or trade association relevant to your business might already have demographic information available for your use. Contact the relevant organization(s) to see what customer information they have available.


You can also ask your customers directly. Asking them to provide information to sign up for a giveaway or discount can be an effective way to get the facts you need.
If you can't seem to get the information you need, consider hiring an outside consultant to help you., You should not put any customer into more than one segment at a time. Additionally, you should not overlap your segments. Doing either or both will dilute the effects of your marketing efforts. However, this is only true for segments differentiated using the same method. Your customers will be in many different segments when different criteria are used.


For example, don't place a customer in both your "rural" and "urban" categories, but feel free to place them in the "rural" category and the "high-earner" category. These represent different segmentation criteria., You don't want to direct marketing efforts toward a low-volume customer segment that is not worth the effort. Consider the customer count or the dollar value that the customer brings when calculating the value of a segment. If the value is not worthy of the marketing efforts, then don't consider the segment.


For example, if "customers under the age of 20" only constitute 1 percent of your sales, there is no need to allocate an entire segment to them., The simplest way to divide your customers is based upon demographic data. These include how old they are, their occupations, and their levels of education and income. This might also include their gender, marital status, and number of children. Unlike some other criteria, knowing how your customers are split based on these criteria alone is useful.


For example, if your clients are primarily young people, you can make advertising choices to reflect their interests., Create segments that represent different parts of your service area, whether it's a small neighborhood or the whole country. Marketing client segments would also be influenced by factors such as population density, rural versus urban living, and climate. You might also split your customers into domestic and international groups., Divide them into groups depending on which products they buy, how often, and how they purchase each product. Look at customers who have only purchased one item, returning customers, and new customers. You can also separate customers by the amount sales they have contributed to your business (lifetime value).You can also separate customers based on where they purchased your product. For example, customers may buy your products on the computer, on their phone, or at a physical store., Psychographic segmentation is a murkier criterion for separating customers that splits them up based on their lifestyle choices, values, and attitudes. Groups might include customers that strive for "clean" or "green" living, religious customers, or customers that support a certain cause or charity, for example.Psychographic information is best obtained through surveys or focus groups.
Psychographic traits may be applied broadly to different generations, such as baby boomers and millennials., This segment considers the ways in which a product is beneficial to the customer. The more benefits a product has, the more places and ways an advertiser can place the product. As a result, the marketing efforts for one product will gain a better response than a single position in the market. Benefits might include a low price, specific features of the product, customer service, or product quality., Segmentation can allow you value each segment of your customer base. This is important, as 80 percent of your sales typically come from only 20 percent of your customers. Identify those groups that provide the highest volume of sales and quantify the total volumes for those groups. These are your high-value segments. You can then use this information to refocus your marketing efforts, prioritize service to this group, and adjust your offerings to more closely meet their needs., Understanding your most important segments can allow you to change your marketing efforts to reach those segments more directly. You can edit your advertising language and message to appeal more clearly to them. You can also change your advertisements for each product line to appeal to the corresponding segments that buy that product line. This allows for fewer wasted advertising dollars., Segmentation can help you see which customer groups are the most profitable for you. You can more easily see which groups go on to do the most business with you and buy the more expensive items or service packages. You can then compare this to the money you spend advertising to them or serving them to assess which are the most profitable. This information will allow you to reassess your customer prioritization and, by doing so, increase your profit margin., Once you know exactly who is buying each of your products or service, you can make changes to them to better appeal to these groups. These changes will make the product more useful and more appealing to the group in question. This, in turn, will give you an advantage over your competitors and may increase customer loyalty and satisfaction.


You can also apply what you learn to your customer support and other products to create a whole customer experience tailored to a particular segment or segments.