 You can cook either fresh pasta (pasta fresca) (and the faster of the two), or you can use the typical dried pasta (pastaciutta). The difference between the two is obviously freshness, but for ease of use the dried pasta is often readily available in the pantry, while fresh pasta needs to be purchased as it's needed or made from scratch (the latter being a time-consuming but enjoyable kitchen exercise). Or, you can use layers of pasta between sauces and filling to make lasagna and cylinders of pasta to make cannelloni.


Most dried pasta is made in a factory. It is quality controlled and comes in a wide variety of shapes.
Fresh pasta can be purchased from specialty stores, from supermarkets or made at home. If eating pasta at a restaurant of good quality, it is preferable that the pasta be made fresh.
The dough is usually made from hard durum wheat; this produces an elastic quality in the dough that makes it easy to stretch into shapes.;
, There are many different types of pasta shape, and some are purely about preference, while others may hold certain sauces better than others. While there are hundreds of different shapes, some of the typical shapes include spaghetti, penne, spirals, farfalle bows, macaroni, curled pasta and lasagna sheets.
 It is possible to get flavored pasta beyond the standard version without flavoring. This is perhaps for special occasions and it's not necessary if it doesn't interest you. Some of the flavors include spinach, chili, squid ink or tomato. Egg may be added too, which can color and flavor the pasta (known as pasta all'uovo).
 This will tell you the amount of time the pasta should be cooked for, and this will vary depending on the brand and shape/filling of the pasta. Standard cooking times:


Dried pasta: About 8 to 10 minutes.
Fresh pasta: About 2 to 3 minutes.
Filled pasta: About 12 minutes.
Lasagna or cannelloni: About 25 to 45 minutes.
 Pasta needs the space to move around and will cook unevenly if in too cramped a space. Fill with a lot of water and ensure that it is boiling before adding the pasta.


For each person, add about 75g or 3 ounces of pasta. A little extra can be added and if not eaten, can be reheated the next day or used to make a pasta salad.
 If it is long, such as spaghetti or linguine, drop one end into the boiling water, then gradually push down the rest of the pasta as it softens through cooking. This won't take long, and watch out for the hot water and your fingers!

, It should not be a mush. Test before it is due to be ready; it is better to be too early than too late.
 Drain the pasta and get it ready for serving.
 Dried pasta tends to be better for strong sauces with thin textures. Fresh pasta is often stuffed with cheese, vegetable or meat fillings, making it delicate, so it is usually best with fine cream or cheese sauces.


Smooth pasta (no ridges or curls): Creamy, cheesy sauces, meat sauce.
Bumpy, ridged or curled pasta: Same as above but also butter, oil, vegetable and tomato sauces.
 Eat as you would normally. A little seasoning always goes down well. Use a small pinch of salt and enough pepper to fill the center of your palm. Afterwards, season according to taste.
 This will pull it aside from the main mass of pasta.
 This action helps you to get sufficient pasta on your fork without losing sauce or making a mess when eating it. Wrap the fork tightly around the spaghetti and place it in your mouth. Chew the spaghetti thoroughly, then swallow it.


A more proper method is simply twirling it on your plate, still keeping the twirling separate from the main mass of pasta.
This works only with stringy pasta (spaghetti or linguine).
