 Because Philadelphia is located in the northeastern U.S., it experiences four distinct seasons. The winter is usually cold and snowy, while the summer can be hot and humid. As a result, the best time to visit the city is usually March through May when the weather is mild and hotel prices are moderate.If you’re on a budget, hotel rates are usually lowest in the fall and winter, making September through February the cheapest time to visit Philadelphia. However, you may have to deal with cold, inclement weather.
Hotel rates are usually highest in the summer when the tourist season is at is peak. The weather can be very hot and sticky too.
American Independence Day, July 4th, is usually the city’s busiest day. It’s best to avoid Philadelphia then unless you’re a fan of large crowds.;
, Philadelphia International Airport is just 8 miles (12.9 km) from the heart of the city, so taking a plane to Philadelphia can be a good transportation option. There are over 1200 non-stop daily flights into the airport too, so if you live outside the U.S. or a significant driving distance from Philadelphia, you may want to look into purchasing airline tickets.Compare airline prices using a travel site, such as Priceline or Kayak, to find the most economical and convenient flight for your trip to Philadelphia.
You can catch a taxi from the airport to the city. There is a flat rate cost for the ride so you don’t have to worry about the driver taking advantage of you.
Philadelphia’s SEPTA buses have an airport line that leaves in 30 minute intervals. Your ride will be considerably cheaper than paying for a cab.
You may also want to rent a car at the airport so you can drive yourself to the hotel and get around the city for the rest of your trip.
 If you live on the East Coast of the U.S., taking a train or bus to Philadelphia may be a cheaper option than flying. Amtrak and other commuter trains stop at the 30th Street Station in Philadelphia, which is a short walk from Center City, the central business district and neighborhoods of the city. Megabus also runs buses to Philadelphia from spots throughout the Northeast, which is an even cheaper transportation option than the train.The train ride to Philadelphia from New York City is only 1 hour and 20 minutes via the Amtrak Acela Express.
The train ride to Philadelphia from Washington, D.C. is only 1 hour and 45 minutes via the Amtrak Acela Express.
 If you really want to cut down on transportation costs for your trip and you have a car, driving may be an option. Nearly half of the population in the U.S. is only a day’s drive or less from the Philadelphia. Interstate highways 95 and 76, the Pennsylvania Turnpike, and the New Jersey Turnpike can all take you to the city.If you’re traveling to Philadelphia with your car, there are over 40 parking garages and lots throughout the city. You can pay to pay at these sites with cash or a credit card.
 There are more than 11,000 hotel rooms in Philadelphia, ranging from budget-friendly chain brands to swanky boutique options. Determine your budget for your lodging costs, and visit a travel site, such as Priceline, Expedia, or Kayak, to find one that fits your needs.You often find hotel packages that bundle hotel costs with other features, such as parking, food, or other amenities.
 You don’t necessarily have to stay in a hotel in Philadelphia. You may prefer lodging at a bed and breakfast, hostel, or even a campground in a nearby area. Choose accommodations that you’ll feel most comfortable in so you’re sure to enjoy your trip.You can also use Airbnb, a service that allows individuals to open up their homes to visitors, for your stay in Philadelphia. You’ll usually find row houses, apartments, and private bedrooms available through the site.
 Philadelphia offers many sites that have great significance in American history. Independence Hall, where both the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution were written, and the iconic Liberty Bell are two must-see attractions for Philadelphia visitors, but there are other historical sites that you may like to visit.Independence Hall is open everyday except Christmas. Admission is free, but you can also pay a small fee to purchase a timed ticket and avoid waiting in line.
The Liberty Bell Center is open year-round. No tickets are required for admittance, but you must pass through security before entering.
The Betsy Ross House is the home of the seamstress credited with sewing the first American Flag. It is open year-round and requires a ticket for admittance.
The Benjamin Franklin Museum celebrates the life of Benjamin Franklin, Philadelphia's founding father. It is open year-round, and requires a fee for entrance.
Other historical sites that you may want to visit include Fireman’s Hall, National Constitution Center, the Second Bank of the United States, Powel House, and Declaration House.
 Philadelphia has many noteworthy museums that deserve a visit. The Philadelphia Museum of Art is the third largest art museum in the U.S. and features art from a wide variety of periods, so it is a must-see for many visitors.The Academy of Natural Sciences features exhibits that depict wonders of the natural world, such as dinosaurs, insects, and live animals.
The African American Museum in Philadelphia celebrates the culture, heritage, and accomplishments of African Americans.
The National Museum of American Jewish History celebrates Jewish culture in the U.S., featuring both photo and interactive exhibits.
The University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archeology houses exhibits of cultural finds from around the world, including Egyptian mummies, African musical instruments, and Greek coins.
The Mutter Museum showcases a wide range of medical oddities and attractions, including Albert Einstein’s brain.
 Philadelphia is home to five professional sports teams, so if you enjoy sporting events, you may want to catch a game. Depending on the time of year that you visit, you can watch the Philadelphia Phillies in the MLB, the Philadelphia Flyers in the NHL, the Philadelphia 76ers in the NBA, the Philadelphia Eagles in the NFL, and the Philadelphia Union in the MLS.The Philadelphia Phillies play April through early October at Citizens Bank Park. Visit the team website to find a schedule and purchase tickets.
The Philadelphia Flyers play October through early April at the Wells Fargo Center. Visit the team website to find a schedule and purchase tickets.
The Philadelphia 76ers play late October through May at the Wells Fargo Center. Visit the team website to find a schedule and purchase tickets.
The Philadelphia Eagles play September through December at Lincoln Financial Field. Visit the team website to find a schedule and more information about tickets.
The Philadelphia Union play March through October at PPL Park. Visit the team website to find a schedule and purchase tickets.
 A trip to Philadelphia wouldn’t be complete without photos at several key sites. A photo at the iconic LOVE sculpture is the perfect way to capture your trip to the City of Brotherly Love. The steps that lead up the Philadelphia Museum of Art are featured in the award-winning film “Rocky,” so you may want to take a photo there and with the nearby statue commemorating the movie.Boathouse row on the Schuylkill River offers lovely photo opportunities.
The intersection of South Broad Street at the Avenue of the Arts provides a striking view of City Hall, the largest municipal building in the U.S.
 If you’re traveling with children to Philadelphia, you want to be sure to visit some places that will interest them. The Philadelphia Zoo and the Adventure Aquarium provide a chance for kids to observe and learn about a wide variety of animals and sealife, but there are many kid-friendly attractions in Philly.The Please Touch Museum offers two floors of interactive exhibits so children can engage in hands-on learning. It also features the fully restored Woodside Park Dentzel Carousel, which children and adults alike can ride. You can purchase tickets for the museum online.Franklin Square is an ideal spot to visit with children when the weather is good. It features two playgrounds, a carousel, a Philadelphia-themed mini golf course, and food carts that offer up kid-approved food such as burgers and fries.
 Philadelphia has a wide variety of delicious restaurants and eateries to choose from on your trip. Consult online reviews of restaurants that specialize in the types of cuisine that you like to identify some options for when you’re in town.You may also want to ask locals for restaurant suggestions when you’re in Philadelphia. Hotel staff and cab drivers, for example, may be able to point out tasty spots that you don’t want to miss.
 The most famous food to come out of the City of Brotherly Love is definitely the cheesesteak. If you eat meat, make sure to stop by a restaurant that specializes in these sandwiches so you get the authentic Philly experience.A cheesesteak sandwich features a long roll that’s filled with thinly sliced ribeye beef and melted cheese. Depending on where you get it, other ingredients may also be added, such as onions, peppers, mushrooms, and/or ketchup.
Located on 9th Street, Pat’s King of Steaks is the original home of the cheesesteak sandwich. You may want to start your cheesesteak experience there.
 The Reading Terminal Market is an indoor food market that sells everything from local produce to artisanal cheeses. It also features open seating where you can enjoy food from more than 30 different restaurant vendors, so it’s the ideal place to go when you’re not sure what you’re in the mood for.The market is open 7 days a week.
Amish vendors sell their goods, including pies and bread, at the market Tuesday through Saturday.
 If you’re in the mood to shop when in Philadelphia, take a trip to South Street. Not only does it feature ethnically diverse restaurants and lively bars, but you can find over 300 shops too. Most are independently owned, so there are a lot of fun, unique finds to be had.South Street also features street performers, musicians, and art galleries, so there’s plenty to do in the area.
 Philadelphia’s South 9th Street Italian Market is the oldest continuous market in the U.S. It features vendors from all over the world who sell fresh fruit and vegetables, meats, spices, and baked goods. It’s an ideal spot to visit if you want to pick up some local ingredients to take home.There are also many restaurants at the market and in the surrounding area, so if you work up an appetite shopping, there are plenty of places to grab a bite.
 If you’re looking for a more traditional shopping experience, the Shops at Liberty Place, located in Center City, features over 55 stores, including Bloomingdale’s, J Crew, and the Body Shop. There are also several chain restaurants, where you can get a quick bite to eat.Don’t forget to stop by the One Liberty Observation Deck at the top of Liberty Place when you’re done shopping. It provides a 360 degree view of the city.
 If you want to see Philadelphia on foot, there are a variety of walking tours that can help show you the city. You can choose from tours that showcase historical sites, food venues, pubs, and even local ghost stories.If you want to walk around the city on your own, keep an eye out for the color-coded directional signs that alert you to what district that you’re in and provide directions to nearby attractions.
The Center City District also features goodwill ambassadors, who are dressed in teal uniforms and can provide maps and directions.
 You can take advantage of public transportation in Philadelphia by riding the SEPTA buses, trolleys, or subway system.You can purchase tokens for individual rides or a pass for unlimited travel on any given day.Learn more about the public transportation in Philadelphia by visiting the SEPTA website at http://www.septa.org/.
 If you plan to visit several of the city's top 22 attractions, such as the Philadelphia Museum of Art or the Philadelphia Zoo, the PHLASH bus is an ideal transportation option. It makes stops every 15 minutes, and offers single rides and all-day passes for a low cost.Some of the other PHLASH bus stops include Independence Mall, Penn's Landing, The Franklin Institute, the Please Touch Museum, and the Academy of Natural Sciences.
Learn more about the PHLASH bus serve by consulting the Visit Philly website at http://www.visitphilly.com/getting-around/.
 Philadelphia offers a bike share program called Indego that allows you rent a bike and return it to any of the 70 stations located throughout the city. You can also do a biking tour of the city through Wheel Fun, which has several locations in the city.Wheel Fun also offers kayak and paddle boat rentals so you can get a feel for Philadelphia from the water.

