 Know the dress code so you can meet the expectations for a red carpet style or casual glamor.


Don’t wear denim or cotton for dressy casual. Go for a skirt and shirt combo or some dress pants.Cocktail attire would call for a shorter dress, which can have a little flair to accentuate your personality.Wear long, floor-length gowns for black tie events.;
, While you want to stand out, it should look like it comes easy to you. Avoid overdressing for the occasion or wearing too many accessories. Keep it simple.
 Research your favorite movie star styles. Celebrities are people too, and they come in different shapes, sizes and styles. Narrow your choices down to a few movie stars who’s look you really like.


Figure out what it is you like about their style so you know what to look for. Is it the neckline they choose to wear, the way they mismatch patterns, or the way they style their hair?
Consider looking for a celebrity who matches your size, shape and skin tone. This way you will be more likely to be able to pull off the look.
 Pay extra for the important pieces of your wardrobe, while budgeting on the rest. Your money can go to a fashionable pair of jeans or a nice jacket before using what is left over on a t-shirt to finish the look.
 Always have a nice pair of designer jeans, a stylish jacket and a little black dress.
 You should have one piece of formal wear in your closet at all times. If you haven’t worn it in a while, try it on and make sure it still fits. Shop around for a replacement if it no longer fits.
 Big sunglasses have been featured in films are key to pulling off a movie star look filled with mystery and glamour.They should be large enough to hide from the paparazzi, but stylish enough to draw some attention.
 Another accessory which offers cover, but really stands out is the big, wide-brimmed hat. This can really jazz up your casual look., You may want to shop around for heels which are comfortable for your feet. Whether they are matched with a gown or a pair of skinny jeans, they can add that kick of glamor.


Avoid shoes which are too wild, like animal prints.
Try heeled sandals with straps to accompany a pair of jeans., Many celebrities stand out with their daring layering.


Try combining leather with sweater material.Match a floral pattern with some stripes.Keep it all together by using the same color palette., Your base clothing can be timeless, like a pair of jeans and a t-shirt or that little black dress. Simply changing your accessories can be a cheap and easy way to bring that simple outfit into a trendy, modern style., A good start is allowing about 5% of your take home income for clothing each month.Set this money aside and resist the urge to go over your budget.
 Thrift stores offer a large variety of used clothing at a fraction of the retail price. You will be able to afford a lot more items while staying within your budget.


The clothing will often be separated by colors making it easy to suss out the colors from your celebrity palette.
Thrift stores usually have a lower price point, but also tend to have older clothes with more wear and tear.
These can be large stores packed with a lot of items to sift through. Take your time to find clothing in good shape and style., Consignment shops are known to have more high end clothing, which will also reflect a higher price point than thrift stores. These items are usually vetted more thoroughly and will be better kept and higher quality.This is a good place to shop for your quality base pieces.
 If you have the sewing skills, you won’t have to search for what you want, you can make your own. Find patterns which match some of your favorite movie star looks, choose some bold materials and make your own outfits.
 You don’t need a celebrity stylist. You can just put a little time into making your hair match your outfit.


Consider loose curls to go with your casual jeans look, or to peek out from under your floppy hat.
Pull it back for an up-do with formal attire. It can be as simple as a sleek bun, or a messy pony tail.
Try washing your hair the night before instead of in the morning. Slightly dirty hair is easier to style., Consider spending some time at the makeup counter in a department store and allowing them to give you a makeover to find all the right colors for your face. Then take those tips to your local pharmacy and pic up affordable brands in the same colors.


Try starting with applying bronzer with a big brush to create an overall glow.Choose complimentary blush and lip color which is not to dark or bold.
Spend some time making your eyes pop with eye shadow and enhanced lashes.
 Layer up with your new style and head out on the town. Remember to smile. Confidence is key to letting your inner movie star shine.

