 During a tsunami, low-lying areas near the ocean are extremely vulnerable to the waves. You should know how at risk your family is before a disaster occurs, so you know how to prepare. Your parents will probably know if your home is a tsunami hazard area, but you should also know how high your street is above sea level and how far your neighborhood is from the coast and other areas where waves may occur. Those numbers usually help officials decide if you need to evacuate during a tsunami.If you're not sure whether you live in an area that is at risk for a tsunami, visit your local emergency management department's website. There is usually a map or search engine that allows you to put in your address to determine if you're in a tsunami evacuation zone.
Even if your home is safe, other areas that you visit regularly may be in danger during a tsunami. Find out how far above sea level and how far from the coast your school is. Your parents should know that information about the places they work too.
While any area near an ocean coast can experience a tsunami, they usually occur most often in the Pacific Ocean because of the fault lines beneath the ocean there.On average, only two tsunamis occur each year, and they only affect the area around the source. Large tsunamis that cause ocean-wide destruction occur much less frequently.;
, Hopefully, you’ll never have to worry about a tsunami or other natural disasters, but being prepared is the best way to keep yourself safe. Talk to your family about creating an emergency kit, so if you are trapped during a tsunami, you have everything you need, such as food, water, and medical supplies, to survive for several days. Place the items in an easy to carry container -- a duffle bag, camping backpack, or unused trash can work well.Your kit should have 3-gallons of water per person, per day. For evacuating, it should be 3 days worth. In case you’re trapped in your home, it should be 2 weeks worth.Pack the kit with non-perishable food that’s easy to prepare, such as canned beans. Have a 3 day supply for evacuation and 2 weeks’ worth for your home.
Make sure your kit has at least one flashlight and a battery-operated radio to keep up with news reports. Add fresh batteries to the kit as well.
In case of injuries, it’s important to have a first aid kit in your emergency supplies for minor injuries. However, if anyone in your family has special medical needs, such as medications, eye glasses, or syringes, there should be a supply of those as well. Make sure there are enough to get through at least a week.
If you have a baby sibling, check that the kit includes diapers, baby, food, and formula.
If you have a pet in your family, you’ll need items such as a collar, leash, pet food, and bowls.
Your kit should have a multipurpose tool with features such as a can opener.
Communication devices come in handy in an emergency kit. Add a cell phone with charger and/or two-way radios.
You may not have access to clean, running water during and after a tsunami, but include personal hygiene products, such as toothpaste, toothbrushes, and deodorant. Make sure to add several rolls of toilet paper as well.
Emergency blankets, sleeping bags, rain gear, and changes of clothing for everyone in the family are also important.
Include maps of your area in the kit, so if you get confused about where your family should evacuate to, you have a guide.
You may be stuck in your home, at a shelter, or some other evacuation location for a while during a tsunami. Pack some games, books, and other activities for you and your siblings in the kit to help keep you busy during the disaster.
 If you live in a low-lying area, you likely can’t stay at your home when a tsunami hits. That’s why your family must plan an evacuation route, so you know how to leave your home safely and reach higher ground. Your family should choose a destination that’s 100 feet (30 meters) above sea level and approximately 2 miles (3 kilometers) inland. Make sure that everyone in the family knows how to get there, including the specific route to take.To be sure that everyone is ready, practice the evacuation route several times a year. Practicing means you won’t have to think as much during an actual tsunami because you’ll know exactly what to do.
If your family is taking a trip to a location that is prone to tsunamis, have your parents check with the hotel or resort to determine what the evacuation policy is for guests during a disaster.
 It’s possible that you may be at school when a tsunami hits, so you should pay careful attention when teachers and other school official go over the evacuation policy. That way, you’ll know where to go and how to leave the school safely.During a tsunami, evacuation roads are going to be crowded and it may be difficult to get in touch with your parents. Make sure they know whether they should pick you up at your school, at an emergency shelter, or another location.
 During a tsunami, phone lines may be down or overloaded, so it’s important for your family to develop a way to get in touch with one another in case you’re separated. Everyone in your family should know how to text because that may be the only way to contact one another. It’s also a good idea to have an emergency contact for the family. That should be someone who lives out of town -- it may be easier to get through to someone who isn’t in the immediate area during a disaster. Memorize the number or have it stored in your phone. Take the time to make contact cards for everyone in the family that includes your emergency contact’s information and any other phone numbers that might be important during a tsunami. You and your family members should carry the cards with them at all times.
Don’t forget to include the numbers for the police, fire department, hospitals, and other emergency services on your contact card.
 While you’ll probably notified of a possible tsunami on the TV, radio, or internet, it still helps to know the signs yourself. When a tsunami occurs, you’ll notice severe ground shaking due to the underwater earthquakes that cause the waves. Ocean water may move away from the coast, so shells, sand, and sea life are suddenly exposed. You may also hear a loud roaring sound that’s similar to a plane engine as a tsunami approaches.If you observe any of these signs, you should evacuate as soon as possible even if no official orders have been given.
Your area may also have a siren or other type of audible warning that occurs when a tsunami warning is issued. Make sure you familiarize yourself with the warnings, so you know if there’s danger.
 When there is a good chance that your area will be affected by a tsunami, your local authorities will likely issue a warning to alert residents. They’ll also tell you if you have to evacuate based on where your home or school is located. It’s important to follow those instructions carefully and as quickly as possible. Because you’ve practiced your evacuation route with your family, you should know exactly where to go and how to get there.Official tsunami warnings and evacuation orders are usually shared via TV or radio news. You can also find information on the internet.
If you’re away from home at the beach or other low-lying areas when a tsunami warning is issued, move inland immediately. If possible, run uphill so you reach higher ground where the waves can’t reach you.
Don’t ever stay to watch a tsunami. If you’re close enough to see a wave, you’re probably close to run away from it.
If you can’t escape to higher ground quickly enough, the best option is to climb to the roof of a tall, sturdy building or a tree. Trees can be uprooted during a tsunami, though, so be sure to choose one that is large and strong., When you’re evacuating, you must make sure that you’ve accounted for all of the family members who live with you, including your parents, siblings, and grandparents. However, make sure that you find all of your pets as well. If a situation is dangerous for you, it’s dangerous for your animals -- and they usually don’t have the means to protect themselves.To avoid losing your pets during an evacuation or tsunami situation, keep animals on leashes or in carriers. Even if your home is in an area that’s not vulnerable to the tsunami, make sure to watch them so they don’t wander off.
 If you live in a coastal area, you may actually feel the earthquakes that cause the waves. It’s extremely easy to get injured in an earthquake, so if you feel the ground shaking for more than 20 seconds, drop to the ground and take cover under a desk or table, making sure to hold on tightly.As soon as the shaking stops, round up your family and evacuate as quickly as possible. The earthquake is usually a sign that a tsunami is only a few minutes away.
 A tsunami can cause destruction to buildings, power lines, and other items. Make sure to avoid buildings from which heavy objects might fall or large trees that may be uprooted or lose branches. Don’t go near downed power lines either because they may be live and you could electrocute yourself.Bridges can become unstable during the earthquakes that accompany tsunamis, so take care if you need to cross any when you’re evacuating., Before you can help anyone else after a tsunami, it’s important to check that you’re not hurt. Examine yourself to see if you have any injuries that require first aid. If it’s a minor injury, such as a small cut or scrape, you can probably handle it yourself. However, if you have a more serious injury, such as a broken bone, talk to your parents so you can get medical assistance as soon as possible.If you have an injury that is extremely painful, avoid moving around too much. You may wind up making it worse.
 If you have younger brothers and sisters, make sure that they are safe and uninjured after the tsunami. Older relatives, such as grandparents, may also need assistance because they may not be able to move around too well on their own. If anyone needs serious medical attention, bring it to your parents’ attention.Make sure that you know where the first aid kit is in your emergency kit, so you can help with minor injuries, such as putting antibacterial ointment and a bandage on a cut.
 It’s common for people to become trapped after tsunami because the earthquake and strong waves can cause items to fall and block people in. If someone in your family or a neighbor is trapped, don’t try to rescue them on your own. Instead, call emergency professionals who have the right equipment to safely extract people.People have been known to get injured or killed when they try to rescue someone on their own. While you have may the best intentions in mind, you may wind up putting yourself in serious danger if you try to help a friend or family member.
 In the days following a tsunami, phone lines are probably going to be jammed with emergency workers trying to communicate with needed resources. To keep the lines open for them, avoid making calls unless there is an emergency, such as someone needing to be rescued or to receive medical assistance.If you want to get in touch with family members or friends to make sure that they’re safe after a tsunami, text instead of calling. The added benefit to texting is that it will often work even when cell phone service is out.
 If you had to evacuate during a tsunami, you’ll probably want to return home as soon as it’s over. However, you and your family should only go home if local authorities have announced that it is safe to do so. Tsunamis often involve a series of waves that can take place over hours, so even if one passes, there may be another one on the way.In some cases, the subsequent waves may be larger and more dangerous than the first, so it’s important to ensure that tsunami is over before you head home.
 Even if the tsunami has passed and officials have decided that you can return home, you should be careful when you go back. Stay out of your home or any building that still has water in it. The water may cause floors to split and walls to collapse, so the building may be a danger for you and your family.If you’re not sure whether a building still has water in it or not, try to look through a window to see. Avoid going inside if you’re not sure.
 You may assume that your home is safe if there is no water inside, but there are other dangerous problems that may occur after a tsunami. Even if the water has receded, the floors may be damaged, so be careful where you step. Your parents also should check the house for gas leaks, as well as other fire hazards, such as frayed wires, a submerged fuse box or circuit breaker, and wet electrical appliances.It’s best to let your parents inspect your home before you go inside. They’ll be able to tell if everything is safe, so you and your siblings don’t injure yourselves.
You can usually tell if there’s a gas leak if you smell gas in your home or you hear a hissing or blowing sound. If you suspect there’s a leak, tell your parents and immediately leave the house.

