 High heat can successfully kill any lice or eggs left on clothing. Any clothing you or someone infected with lice has worm recently should be washed and then dried at high heat for at least 40 minutes to remove any remaining lice or eggs.Heat, not water, kills head lice. Drying the items is more important than washing them, so do not neglect to run at least a 40 minute dry cycle after washing recently worm items.;
, Sheets, pillow cases, and any other bedding can easily house head lice. Make sure to wash and then dry any bedding at high heat to kill any lice lingering in bedding. Remember, drying is more important than washing. Make sure to run a full dry cycle at high heat after washing your bedding., Any hair care supplies you used during an infection should be sterilized to remove lingering head lice. You have several options for cleaning lice lingering on hair care supplies.One option is the freezer. Place items like brushes, hair ties, and hair clips in Ziploc bags and refrigerate them for at least 12 hours.
You can also run items through the dishwasher if you place them in a mesh bag first. Make sure to run a high heat cycle.
Sealing items in a bag and setting them aside for a week will kill any lingering head lice.
 Not everything is safe to run through a washer and dryer. Things like expensive items of clothing or stuffed animals, for example, may not be machine washable. To kill lice on such items, place these in a tightly sealed bag. Set them aside for 10 to 14 days. This should suffocate or kill any lingering head lice.Lice should suffocate in the bags. Just in case, however, it's a good idea to remove items outside and give them a good shake before returning them to your home.
 If you have any clothing you cannot wash on your own, consider taking it to the dry cleaners to remove lingering head lice. You will need to let workers know there may be head lice in your clothing and they need to be washed and dried at high heat.Not every dry cleaners will be willing to take items infected with head lice. You may have to go to several dry cleaners before finding a business that will accommodate you.

