 It may seem silly to not skip over the easy stuff, but sometimes you pick up a valuable skill or trick on a lower level. Many times in video games, the easier levels are used to teach you a new function of the game play. This can be a new way to access secret parts of the game or even a new super power. Skipping over the lower levels via a game cheat code can mean you miss out on valuable insight.Taking a break from a harder level you are getting frustrated with to play an easier level also gives your brain a break. The anger many people get from video games isn’t usually linked with the game content but instead the frustration.
A lower level can also help you to find what made video games fun in the first place. While playing the lower level, focus on the music or graphics.;
, There are several different ways to use your breathing to relax and also take a break from the focus on screen time. Take a stimulating breath by breathing in and out quickly through your nose with your mouth relaxed but closed. Do three sets in about a second and then rest with normal breathing. You can do this for up to 15 seconds to give yourself a quick rejuvenating boost of oxygen.
You can also try the 4-7-8 exercise. This starts with breathing out completely through your mouth, and then closing your mouth to breathe in through your nose four a mental count of 4 seconds. Now hold it in for 7 seconds and finally breathe out for 8 seconds. Repeat these steps for a set of 4 reps.
 A mantra helps to refocus your brain on a more positive point than your anger or frustration. This can give your body and mind a much-needed break when the game gets tough.One example of a calming mantra may go as follows: while visualizing a swinging door, say out loud, “Thoughts and feelings come in and out like people. Be the door not the doorman.”
Another example may include: with your eyes closed repeat, “imagine with each breath you are melting into an ocean of light and space.”

, Step away and focus on using your muscles instead of your mind that’s been so focused on the game. Physical activity also releases endorphins that boost your mood.Taking a walk outside will give you access to fresh air, allow you to use more of your senses and also give your eyes a rest.
For some people really working out hard and sweating has a cleansing feeling and can also be a boost since it releases chemicals to your brain that change your mood for the better.

