 Debt settlement programs are usually offered by for-profit companies. You pay regularly into a special savings account—usually for 36 months or so.Once the debt settlement company thinks that enough money has accrued in the account, they will reach out to your creditors and try to negotiate a lump sum payment.


You should understand that debt settlement programs aren’t doing anything you can’t do on your own. You can also negotiate a lump sum payment with your creditors. However, debt settlement companies often claim that they are better at negotiating than you are.
Also realize that not all creditors will agree to settle for a lump sum. Debt settlement companies can’t work magic, though they may be helpful depending on your situation.
Debt settlement might be helpful if you are afraid of negotiating on your own or you feel pressed for time., There are many scammers working in the debt settlement field. You shouldn’t sign up with one until you have thoroughly researched them. Pay attention to the following as you analyze debt settlement companies:


Avoid promises or guarantees. A company cannot “guarantee” anything. For example, they may guarantee to settle credit card debt for 30-60% of the amount you owe. In truth, they can’t promise this result.
Refuse to work with a company that requires upfront fees or charges any fee before settling the debt., Search online by typing in the name of the company and “complaints.”Also check with your local Better Business Bureau to check complaints.


You can expect some people to be unhappy. But watch out for complaints alleging that the debt settlement company didn’t explain fees properly or skimmed money off the top that they weren’t entitled to.
Also check with your state’s Attorney General whether lawsuits have been filed.
 Each debt settlement company must provide you with certain information. If they don’t, then walk away and refuse to do business with the company. A company should make the following disclosures:The company’s fees and conditions of service. Generally, you pay the company a percentage of the debt or a percentage of the amount they saved you.How long it will take before the debt settlement company reaches out to your creditor and offers to pay the debt.
The negative consequences if you stop making payment. Debt settlement companies often recommend that their clients stop paying their creditors. The company should acknowledge that stopping payment will negatively impact your credit history and potentially expose you to a lawsuit.
Your entitlement to the interest on the money you deposit into the savings account.
Who manages the account. It should be managed by an administrator who is not affiliated with the debt settlement company.
Your right to withdraw your money from the account at any time.
 If you choose to work with a debt settlement company, then get a contract. Read it thoroughly and meet with a lawyer if necessary to make sure that you understand what you are agreeing to. Sign the contract and keep a copy for your records.

