 This method will show you how to turn a pillowcase into a simple child's dress. The dress is meant to be loose-fitting, like a sundress or a maxi dress. Because pillowcases only come in certain lengths, this method may not be suitable for dresses for larger children. You might still be able to use this method to make a shirt or blouse for a larger child, however. Here is a list of what you will need.


A pillow case
Single-fold bias tape
Sewing machine
Thread
Scissors
Pins
Ribbon
Safety pin;
, The best pillowcase to use for this is a rectangular pillowcase. Keep in mind that the bigger child is, the longer pillowcase you will need.


Consider getting a pillowcase that already has a pattern along the open part. The open part will become the hem of the dress. Something with ribbon, embroidery, or lace could be really pretty., Place a measuring tape at your child's shoulder. Measure down to where you want the dress to end.Keep in mind the length of your pillowcase; you can make the pillowcase shorter, but you cannot make it longer. If your pillow is too short, you can do one of two things:


You can find a longer pillowcase. King-sized pillowcases tend to be longer.
Add some fabric lace or a ruffle to the open end of the pillowcase.
 Start from the open part of the pillowcase and measure up towards the top seam. Cut horizontally across the pillowcase when you get to the length you want. This cut part will become the top part of the dress.
 You should end up with a long, skinny, rectangle. This will allow you to cut two identical armholes at the same time.
 The top of the J should be aligned with the top of the pillowcase. Be sure to cut through all layers of fabric at the same time. This will make everything even. Here are some measurements to guide you:








For a small child, make the armhole 1 ½ inches wide and 3 inches tall (3.81 centimeters wide and 7.62 centimeters tall).
For a medium child, make the armhole 2 inches wide and 4 inches tall (5.08 centimeters wide and 10.16 centimeters tall).
For a large child, make the armhole 3 inches wide and 6 inches tall (7.62 centimeters wide and 15.24 centimeters tall).
 Open up the fold in the tape, and line up the edge with the edge of the fabric. Make sure that the right sides of the tape and pillowcase are facing each other. Pin everything in place. You will be flipping the seam tape over, into the pillowcase after you sew it down.
 Use the fold in the tape as a guide. Knot the ends of the threads and snip them off. Don't forget to remove the pins.
 Press it with an iron first, then sew it down. Try to sew as close as possible to the edge of the bias tape. Now you will have a clean edge inside the pillowcase.









Use a thread color that matches the pillow. If your pillow has a pattern on it, use a thread color that matches the base of the pillow, instead of the designs.
 Take the front of the pillowcase and fold the top ¼ inch (0.64 centimeters) inside. Fold it another ¾ inch (1.91 centimeters). Press the seam with an iron.Repeat the process for the back of the pillow, and pin everything in place.
 Try to sew as close to the bottom edge as possible.
 Slip a safety pin through the end of a ribbon, and use it to guide the ribbon through the front casing. Repeat the process with a second ribbon through the back casing. Take off the safety pin when you are done.
 If you find any, tie them off into a tight knot, then snip off the excess.
 Take the two ribbons on the left side and tie them into a bow above the left shoulder. Repeat the process with the ribbons on the right side. You may have to scrunch the front and back of the dress to get it to fit across your child's chest and back.








