 There are many Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) options out there. Ask your primary care physician for a recommendation. Look at online forums for suggestions. Visit the clinic and interview the staff about credibility, cost, and program details.Any program should be able to provide board certification information and statistics regarding patient success levels, upon request. Ask your potential doctor, “What do you consider your greatest fertility success story and why?”
Make sure the success levels are for a similar age group as yours so that the numbers reflect your chances of pregnancy. The success levels for younger patients will likely be different than those for older patients.
 A single IVF cycle contains many steps from stimulating egg production to learning the final results of implantation. Read any material provided by the clinic and attend educational IVF classes if they are offered. Write down any questions that you have and don’t be afraid to ask them!


For example, some clinics will allow you to meet with the embryologist and track the progress of your individual embryo. But, you may not realize this is an option if you don’t ask.
 Put your knowledge to work by drafting a list of possible scenarios and your planned response to them. If, for example, you have a poor response to the ovulation medication-what will be your next step? Will you consider an alternative medication? Planning provides a positive outlet for your energy while giving you back some of the control.When planning for different outcomes, it may be a good idea to discuss your options with a fertility support group, either online or in person. They will have been through many of the same experiences and can provide you with fresh options.
 IVF is not the only way to create a family. Research options outside of fertility treatments, such as adoption, child-free living, or continuing to push for natural conception. Knowing the different possibilities will help you to keep looking forward.