 After giving birth and feeding puppies, the mother is going to be noticeably tired and she will need good food to keep her energy up. A food meant for nursing mothers is best, though a high quality food may suffice. Either way, now is not the time to limit food. Let the mother eat what she needs to keep feeding her babies.The mother may not show interest in food for about a day after giving birth.
A nursing dog needs a different diet than her pre-puppy food. Choose a food with a higher fat content to make sure she is getting sufficient calories to meet the needs of milk production, and look for a food that is high in calcium and protein to help provide the puppies with more complete nutrition.;
, You should also make sure that the mother has plenty of fresh water in addition to food. Producing milk takes a lot of her body's liquid, so to keep up, she needs to drink more than she normally does.Not getting enough water can make her more tired.
 Often, the mother will not want to leave her puppies in the first day or so of having them, even to go outside. For that reason, you may need to pick up your dog and take her outside to use the bathroom.However, if she becomes aggressive, it's better to wait until she's more comfortable

, After birth, you should watch your dog to make sure she doesn't develop one of several common problems. For instance, she could get an infection in her uterus or in her teats.Another common problem is low calcium.If you notice any of these symptoms, take your dog to the vet.


Some drainage from your dog's uterus is expected. However, it shouldn't be pale or gray. It also should flow freely and not smell bad. If it is smelly, thick, and pale/gray, she may have an infection. Normal discharge should be red, greenish, brownish, or black.
With her teats, look for signs of infection, which include pain, swelling, irritation, and redness. The milk should stay white (and flow freely); if the milk turns green, red, or yellow, that's a sign of infection.
You should also check for mastitis, which is an inflammation of the mammary glands. Look for swelling, red or hot areas, discoloration in milk, and changes in attitude such as lethargy or depression. If you suspect mastitis, contact your vet immediately.Low calcium shows up in various ways. Generally, your dog will show less interest in her puppies, and she may be disoriented or nervous. She may pant, whine, have stomach problems, or develop a fever. Finally, she'll start to walk differently, and she may get muscle tremors. One clear indication of low calcium is laying on her side with her legs extended straight out. If you suspect your dog has low calcium, contact your vet immediately.

