 If you are planning on going out with some friends for a few drinks, try making a plan for the evening. Having a plan can help you stay safe and give you something to focus on if you become too inebriated. Both you and your friends should know what your plan for the night is to make sure everyone has a safe and fun time together.Knowing where you are going and when can give you structure and something to focus on if you've had a few too many drinks.
Planning a safe way home is important if you plan on having any amount of alcohol.;
, The best way to maintain focus while drinking is to avoid drinking more than you can handle. Eating before drinking can be a good way to help you stick to a safe level of alcohol consumption. Try eating a full meal before having anything to drink to avoid being surprised by how strongly alcohol affects you.Meals can slow down how quickly your body absorbs alcohol, allowing you to get a better sense of how drunk you feel.
After a meal, you should feel full. Feeling full can help prevent you from drinking more than you would on an empty stomach.
When drinking, it's a good idea to continue eating as well.
 Meeting friends for a few drinks can be a fun way to spend an evening together. Drinking with trusted friends can also help you maintain focus and stay safe, even if you drink more than you can safely handle. Your friends can help keep you in control and focused, even if you aren't able to do so yourself. Always drink with friends who are willing to watch out for your well-being.One person should decide to stay sober. This person should be able to drive or take care of someone if they drink too much.
Keep an eye on your friends when drinking together. Don't let your friends drink too much if you notice them becoming dangerously intoxicated.
Never let a friend drive drunk.
 Plan on drinking water in between your alcoholic beverages. Drinking water will help you to stay hydrated, slow down your alcohol consumption, and cause you to feel full. Consider skipping every other round or having a glass of water for every alcoholic drink you consume in order to stay safe and focused.