 In order to submit to agencies, you will need to have pictures to show them what you look like. The photos do not need to be professional, but they should clearly convey how you currently look.Schedule a photo shoot with a friend of yours who has a good camera.
Make sure to get at least one good shot of your head and one good full-length shot of your body.
Don’t wear makeup and keep your clothing simple (a tank top and jeans works best).
Take the photos outside to take advantage of the natural lighting.;
, In order to have a compelling portfolio, you need to have a lot of pictures of yourself and all of them should be different. Working with different photographers on different shoots will help give you a lot of picture options to choose from when building your book.Try to show a range of facial expressions and body movements when working on different shoots.
The more photographers you work with and the more shoots you do, the more comfortable you will become in front of the camera.
Certain photographers bring out the best in certain models. Find photographers who work well with you and collaborate with them often.
Look for photographers who are also just starting out. They’ll be more likely to want to work with a new model.
You can find photographers by looking on Craigslist or by making a profile on Model Mayhem.

If you have an interesting, unexpected face, you’re ideal for editorial fashion shoots.
If you have an amazing body, you’re ideal for lingerie and swimwear shoots.
If you’re very tall, you’re ideal for bridal shoots and runway.
If your face is perfectly symmetrical, you’re ideal for beauty shots.
If you're very toned and in shape, you're ideal for fitness modeling.
If you have perfect hands and/or feet, you're ideal for parts modeling.
If you're very outgoing, as well as attractive, you're ideal for promotional modeling.
 Do a Google search for modeling agencies in your area. Check to see what models the agency currently represents, what kind of jobs those models book and how often the models work.Check to make sure the agency is reputable. If they have reviews online, read these to see how the models they represent like working with them.
If you’re interested in working with a smaller agency, make note of how big the agency is.
If you live in a rural area, look for modeling agencies in the closest big city.
 Most agencies have submission forms online where you can submit your information and photographs. Be honest about your height, weight and other measurements.If an agent is interested in representing you, they will reach out, generally within four weeks.
Don’t feel badly if you don’t get a call. The agency may already be representing someone who is very similar to you.
Don’t give up! Keep submitting to agencies until you find a good match.
 Look for modeling casting calls in your area. Sometimes agencies hold these when they’re looking to sign new talent. Attend the casting call wearing minimal makeup, simple clothing and heels (for women).Women should wear jeans and a black tank top.
Men should wear jeans and a form-fitting black t-shirt.
Make sure to bring copies of your headshots and body shots.
If you have any other past modeling work, print out pictures and bring them with you.
Be on time! Professionalism will set you apart in the modeling industry.
 If you get the opportunity to have face time with an agent, be yourself. Agents want to book models who are interesting, professional, smart and unique. The better the model is able to present themselves, the easier it will be for that model to book jobs.Have interests outside of modeling that you can talk about. This will make you more memorable to designers and agents.
Inform yourself about the fashion industry and be able to speak articulately about the industry as a whole.
 Modeling classes are a great way to make industry connections, learn about the business and get feedback on your look and pictures. In a modeling class, you’ll learn how to pose, how to walk and how to brand yourself effectively in order to secure the most work.Make sure to research the class before signing up. Some modeling classes are scams and should be avoided.
You don’t need to take a class to be a successful model, but it’s a good way to get started.
 Actors and singers practice in front of the mirror and models should do the same. It’s important to be able to see how your face looks when you’re executing different facial expressions. Do your mirror work every day for five minutes and you’ll find yourself with much more control over your facial muscles and expressions.Practice smiling without squinting your eyes or showing too much gum.
Focus each practice session on perfecting one facial expression.
 Every model should have ten distinct poses that they can whip out on command. Practice in front of a mirror until you have ten separate poses, then work on transitioning from one pose to another.Everyone’s body is different, so focus on finding poses that highlight your body’s best features, while disguising your flaws.
Look in magazines to find inspiration for new poses.
Make sure you have a pose that makes you look great while wearing a swimsuit or lingerie.
 As a model, your body is your most important asset, so it’s important to keep it in tip-top shape. Create an exercise regimen that you like so you’ll be more likely to want to keep up with it.Models do everything from yoga to spin classes. There’s no right way to stay in shape, so focus on doing work outs that you enjoy.
Try to work out no less than four times a week.
 Models maintain very hectic schedules and spend a lot of time traveling, so eating right is essential. Focus on getting lots of proteins, like egg-whites, Greek yogurt or protein shakes.Drink water constantly to help with energy and to keep your skin clear.
Supplement your diet with extra vitamins.
Drink green juice for an added helping of nutrients.

