 Often if you have a "go hard or go home" sort of mentality, you may find that you're not giving your body enough time to recover between intense workouts, or that you're not taking that recovery time seriously.Ample rest and relaxation should be part of your recovery protocol, along with insuring that you're eating enough to replenish lost nutrients and help your immune system recover.
At a minimum, you want to allow at least 24 hours for recovery between workouts. For particularly intense or strenuous workouts, you may need to double that time. You can always do a more gentle, low-impact routine in between to keep yourself active.
Keep in mind that it's during recovery that your results really happen – be they weight loss, increased strength, or greater balance and flexibility.
When you workout, you damage your muscles and put your body to the test. During recovery, it rebuilds stronger, with greater endurance for the next intense workout.
 Burning the midnight oil to get a big project for work completed under deadline drains your energy and can impact your workout even days later. If you're not consistently getting around eight hours of sleep a night, your workout may suffer.In this case, there's no problem with the workout itself. Rather, your issues are related to the fact that you're not getting enough sleep.
When you're already tired, any additional stress you put your body through is going to cause more damage than it normally would.
For this reason, working out when you haven't had enough sleep can put too much strain on your body and cause injuries.
 Often, troubleshooting your workout really comes down to troubleshooting your life. Stressful events, change, and uncertainty elsewhere in your life can manifest themselves in a frustrating workout experience.It can help to sit down and write out what you do every day – or keep a schedule diary for a few days. This can help you see what you're really doing and what stresses you the most.
Pay attention to how you feel during the day, and what seems to cause dips in energy. See what you can change to remedy that problem.
If you're going through a stressful short-term event – maybe you're transitioning to a new position at work or moving to a new house – consider putting your workouts on hold until the stressful situation has passed.
 Particularly if you have a lot going on in your life, or if you can't pinpoint exactly what's going on with your workout, putting your routine on pause often is your best option. Give yourself a chance to fully recover and start back in slowly.Taking a break is especially important if your workout is causing you pain or discomfort.
Keep in mind that pain is a signal from your body that something is wrong. If your body is injured, it needs a chance to mend.
Continuing to work out with a minor injury can turn it into a more serious one – particularly if you don't have expert supervision.
 In many cases, something you're eating – or not eating – may be to blame when you start having issues with your workout routine. This is the case whether you've noticed physical problems or just feel tired and bored with your usual exercises.If you haven't done it in awhile (or ever), keep a food diary for a week or so. Write down everything you eat, including approximate amounts, and when.
Look at your food diary and see if you notice any patterns that could be impacting your workouts.
You may want to bring the issue up with a nutritionist or a personal trainer if nothing jumps out at you as the culprit.
If you think you may have particular food sensitivities, such as a sensitivity to gluten, try cutting it out of your diet for a week and see how you feel. During that week, it's important not to change anything else so you know that any changes are due to not eating that substance.

