 It might seem like a good thing to wait until the last minute to dress and leave for a concert, but try to avoid this common mistake. The night before, or even before that, pick out what you'd like to wear, compare to other things in your wardrobe, then decide on a final outfit. You'll want to be in something that's comfortable yet stylish according to who you're seeing.;
, You can never go wrong with a plain black t-shirt and some form of jeans or shorts. Avoid wearing a shirt from the band you're seeing (this can make you seem a tad obsessed or like a newbie). Instead, if you'd like, get some friends together to make unique shirts for the headlining band. The band will appreciate your efforts and you'll look like you really put some thought into the night.
 No matter what the weather is (this depends on if you're at an inside venue) it will get hot when you're smashed up against hundreds of jumping fans. During the winter, it might be slightly better, but an inside summer show can and will get unbearably hot if you're in the middle of the crowd. Try to wear light fabrics (without them being sheer enough to see through) and avoid thick denims for jeans.
 They can get dirty, smoky, sweaty, and possibly ripped if it's a harder show. Look nice and stylish, but don't wear that new pair of $200 jeans you bought the same morning.
 The number one rule of concerts is to never, ever, ever wear any other shoes than sneakers or boots. Flip-flops, sandals, heels, backless shoes = big mistake. Not only can they come off or give you blisters, but people will purposely (the 'veterans' of concert goers) step on your shoe just to see it fall off.
 Some people tend to over-do it when it comes to jewelry and such at concerts, but try to avoid this mistake. Large rings can cause injuries to you and others around you when you're all jumping around. Long necklaces will get tangled and hit someone or even get broken. Dangling earrings are a very bad idea (the last thing you'll want is a ripped earlobe by the end of the night). Just keep it simple. Braided, fabric, and those rubber bracelets from bands are good alternatives to your usual garb. They won't injure anyone and will most likely stay on much better than anything else.
 (unless it's a rock concert because they are all about the heavy eye makeup ) Since you'll be there for at least four or five hours, depending on who you're seeing and the venue, you'll want to keep the makeup to a minimum unless you're just willing to risk smears. There won't be a lot of chances for touch-ups unless you want to chance losing your place in the crowd. It will also sweat off eventually, so if you are wearing any, waterproof is best.
 If you have long hair (below the shoulders) you'll want to either already have your hair up securely somehow or have a hair tie with you. During the first half of the show, it shouldn't be too hot or crazy so you should be alright, but later on, you'll want to be able to keep your hair out of your face.

