 Hanging out with friends should bring positivity to your day, elevate your mood, and make you feel good about yourself. If hanging out with a friend makes you feel negative, agitated, or bad about yourself, you should pay attention to this red flag. It could signify that this friendship is unhealthy.Try making a list of your feelings after hanging out with your friend. In a healthy friendship this list will include positive feelings.
Consider how often you and your friend complain when you are together. If your friendship is based on mutual complaining about problems, then it may not be a healthy relationship.
 In a healthy friendship, both people support each other. While it’s normal to provide feedback and criticism to a friend, this should not be a hallmark of the relationship. Unhealthy friendships sometimes include constant criticism that is rooted in jealousy and cruelty.For example, if your friend is continually pointing out your mistakes, you might be in an unhealthy friendship.
Consider whether you have been making excuses for being mistreated and criticized. If so, then this is a big red flag of being co-dependent.
Also, consider if your friendship is keeping you from growing personally or if you are maintaining the friendship due to personal fears. If so, then this is another sign of an unhealthy relationship.
 Take some time and think about whether you feel obligated to be friends with a particular person. Healthy friendships are based on mutual respect and interest in developing and maintaining a connection with another person.If you feel like you have to be friends with someone, rather than wanting to be friends, you could be involved in an unhealthy relationship

, Discussing your concerns with an objective third party, such as another trusted friend or a family member may help you to evaluate your relationship. It can be hard to evaluate your relationship once you have been in it for a long time, but someone outside of your relationship may be able to provide objective feedback. They can alert you to things that you may not have been aware of, especially if these things have become normal for you.