 Any powerful psychic will tell you that meditation is key. It is a discipline that could train your mind to become ultra-aware and tuned into your environment. With a quiet mind, your awareness can be freed and the useless clutter eliminated.At first, your mind may wander and you may get frustrated. Don't worry; meditation does take practice. Keep up your diligence and you will be rewarded.


Find a quiet environment where you won’t be interrupted.
Start off slow with a manageable goal. Practice meditating 10 to 20 minutes per day.
Once you’ve mastered that, increase the duration accordingly.
 The normal state of consciousness works much too quickly for any type of psychic connection to develop. Our brains are constantly sifting through stimuli and only a percentage of what's out there makes it to our awareness. Taking time to relax clears your mind of needless thoughts. It may even allow you to tune into things you wouldn't otherwise be aware of. This will help you develop clairvoyance and clairaudience. It’s also easier to interpret intuitive feelings you get when you’re relaxed.


Incorporate simple ways to reduce stress in your life – sleep 8 hours each day, exercise regularly and eat a healthy diet.Practicing yoga is known to decrease stress levels and promote relaxation.
 Mindfulness means to continually pay attention to what’s going on at any given moment in an objective way. When you are able to focus on the present, you are able to operate ideally.This can help you achieve psychokinesis. Work on trying to be truly aware as much as possible. Relaxing and meditating can help you a lot with learning mindfulness.


Practice by choosing a few activities you do each day and staying focused on them as you’re doing them. This will help you develop the habit of mindfulness and paying attention.
Focus on senses individually to practice being in the moment. For example, close your eyes and use your ears as your primary sense.
Listen to the small sounds coming from the next room, for instance. Do you hear papers shuffling or fingers typing on a keyboard?, There is no logical explanation for the feeling, but it will usually feel very strong to you. Everyone has intuition on some level. This intuition can be developed through practice and experience.


Developing your intuition can help you have a deeper understanding about the world around you.
Keep detailed notes about intuitive feelings you experience.
As you learn more information about any given thing, see if it lines up with your original intuitive feelings about it.

