 Take a couple of days and drink the amount of coffee you typically drink. Take note of how much you consume, including number of cups and the sizes of each cup. Once you have a solid baseline, prepare yourself to start the process of quitting, when you’ll drink less.Drink extra water as you begin to quit. Being hydrated helps ease caffeine withdrawal.
 If you normally drink one cup of coffee per day, drink half a cup. If you normally drink four cups, drink two. If you want to drink the same amount of coffee but less caffeine, you can replace half of the coffee with decaf coffee.If you’re not sure how much coffee you normally drink, simply pour yourself half a cup every time that you would normally pour yourself a full cup.
 This will get your body used to a lower amount of caffeine. Drink extra water during this step to help your body detox. After a few days at this lower level of caffeine, you should not feel any withdrawal symptoms.If you do feel any withdrawal symptoms after a few days, stay at this level of caffeine intake until the symptoms (drowsiness, headache, shakiness) go away.
 If you’d gotten down to half a cup per day, now only drink a quarter of a cup. If you went from four cups to two, now go from two to one.You may now be drinking very little coffee. If you still want to have something hot to sip on, fill your mug with decaffeinated coffee to add volume. Decaf contains caffeine, but the amount (only a few milligrams per cup) is generally considered negligible.
You may want to stay at this level of coffee intake for a few days as well.
 This time, you won’t drink any regular coffee at all. Many people enjoy drinking decaf, since it satisfies the psychological need for coffee. You can choose to replace all of your daily coffees with decaf, or to refrain from coffee altogether.Choose good decaf that you like. Dedicated coffee drinkers often complain that decaf doesn’t taste as good as regular. If you choose a high quality decaf, you likely won’t taste the difference!

, If you’re trying to quit coffee altogether, you’ll want to replace the decaf as well. Start by drinking decaf mixed with a coffee substitute. Dandelion root and chicory are common substitutes for coffee. Many brands offer “coffee style” instant beverages made from these plants. You can drink them just as you would coffee—adding cream and sugar if you like.
Eventually, replace all of the decaf with your coffee substitute. You may decide to go without the substitute completely if you don’t care for it very much.

