 This will save you time when you arrive at the park - you won't have to wait in any queues at the ticket offices!;
, Try previewing each attraction (ride or show) on YouTube, or take a peek at the ride through photos from others. Learn from what others see. This can help decide which rides and attractions will take priority during your visit or which attractions you'll feel you or your family will want to miss.



Busch Gardens doesn't allow video taping on any ride without prior approval by park staff. Ask them for permission, they potentially will. For most rides on YouTube, you'll need to include a true statement that says that you received permission before riding - as anything that doesn't will get taken down if found by Busch Gardens staff. This is to ward off those who post their journey for others so others don't have to ride if they don't want to; they want these videos to be only a preview of the park's attractions and nothing more.
, Discuss some of your other options that exist for the other nearby area including Colonial Williamsburg and the Navy base in the nearby city of Newport News(and Hampton Roads), Virginia and the many options in Virginia Beach such as aquariums and other relaxation areas on the beach., The address to Busch Gardens Williamsburg is 1 Busch Gardens Blvd, Williamsburg, VA 23185 The cost to park at this park's parking lot is $15 per day, though there are multi-day options for $25 instead if purchased at once., Walk up the path that leads from the parking lot to the park entrance gate. Busch Gardens Williamsburg only has one gate near the England land in the park. Along the path, you'll see other houses for rental equipment (such as toddler strollers, wheelchairs, and the like) and even a few guest relations counters that can help give you information about the park, along with several service counters that can help steer you in the right direction during the day.


Stop by the sign outside the gate along the path that says "Welcome to Busch Gardens Williamsburg". This is a highly-photographed spot by visitors who think this is the best thing in or around the park (is that they actually got to this spot).
 This park is divided into about ten different lands themed onto European-named countries . These lands include England, Italy, Festa Italia, Oktoberfest and nearby Germany, New France, Ireland, Scotland and Jack Hanna's Wild Reserve., These will be discussed in a few moments., The slow-moving bucket-styled skyride will take you to three stations set apart in a triangular path at both France and Germany and then back to England. However, at each leg of the journey you must debunk your bucket and reboard if you are continuing on to each of the other locations on the Skyride route.


Sometimes you'll hear this station's Skyride building referred to as the Aeronaut Skyride station. Don't worry; although it's not marked on the station entrance, some visitors still use it's much older name to designate this Skyride building instead.
 Although this station is called the Tweedside train station in the English portion of the park, it also travels to the Festa train station in Festa Italia, and also towards the Caribou train station in New France.


At times, you'll pass by some of the more famous rides such as the Loch Ness Monster roller coaster and even past Escape from Pompeii, along with many others along the route. At one point, you'll even go by an intersection, where the train waltzes past a route that walkers can take, which is guarded by a railroad/transportation gate/latch bar like that of a gate of a crossing near a automobile-car transportation stop area, and is controlled by a "traffic light".
 Although much similar to Universal Studios' Jurassic Park ride and along with SeaWorld's Journey to Atlantis, this extreme log flume is just as extreme and has a surprise at the end that will indeed get you soaked.
 With various options themed to those furry Muppets from Sesame Street, there's something every child can partake in, in this area of the park. This area features a flat flume ride called the Bert and Ernie's Loch Adventure, a rocking pirate ship ride called Oscar's Whirly Worms, a family-friendly drop tower ride called "Prince Elmo's Spire" and a kid-friendly roller coaster called Grover's Alpine Express., You may also go overtop of the train tracks with the trestle bridge that leads you to Festa Italia for a few more choices (this will be discussed later in this article).
 This one will have your heart pounding for about three to four minutes.
 However, note that this ride's official ride time is far too short for most, lasting on average all of about less than two minutes long., This ride is actually rather stomach-churning and worth the wait in line to ride.,,, Although this ride isn't as bad as many other rapid rafting rides in the United States, this is one ride that (rather mean for the area on which it is stationed) shouldn't be missed. You can find this ride to the opposite side of Apollo's Chariot way past the Turkish Delight attraction and even past the Festa Train Station in this area (it is next to Rapids Gifts).
 This ride is closer to the entrance of Festa Italia than Apollo's Chariot once was. Watch for the blue-colored track. If you don't visit any other roller coaster and love roller coasters, this is one that can't be missed on any Busch Gardens Williamsburg visit.
 Find the purple-colored track roller coaster in back of Tempesto along a separate path in the Festa Italia area of the park. However, take note that this ride is older than Tempesto, so it's mechanics are based on older-styled mechanics. Apollo's Chariot was one of the major highlights of a Busch Gardens trip in the 1990s, but has become a little less popular now with Tempesto nearby.
,, With some of the ride being indoors and covered and some of it being in a steep decline outdoors, this one is rather scary but if you are in for extreme thrills, you'll definitely love this one. If you are planning to ride, take a longer look at the interior ride queue - this is one queue that is not to be missed.
 They also have a junior bumper cars ride that is meant for smaller children who can't quite reach the peddles yet, but understand that this ride is fun., Much like the bumper cars, this also has a younger generation ride of the same type that they call "Wirbelwindchen.
 The building is also air conditioned, so this is the perfect place to go and sit down if it is a hot day outside.


Das Festhaus is the one and only place in Busch Gardens Williamsburg where beer is served, but you don't have to get beer if you don't want it.
Although there is no stop of the train in this area, you can literally see this building from the train ride around the park.
At various times throughout the day, there is a German themed show that is performed here. So if you're hungry, and want to take a break or enjoy a show, check the board outside for show times, and enjoy your meal during that time period.
 Although the ride is slow, it's inside is very dark and intense for those who can't stand the darkness and loud and unappealing sound effects for many who dare enter. And to add to that, this ride features 3D graphics that make this ride rather scary for most who visit. But it does have some great taste to those who can stomach all the previous information.
 However, note that this ride is a carousel ride with some German theming.,, Although slow and steady "wins the race", this attraction isn't very handicapped accessible - it has several stairs, that - though wide - have no other way to get down to the boats without wheeling down (bumpety bumpety bump!); they have no elevator down nor are there any escalators either and the only way down is to push the chair or handicap furniture down these stairs stair-by-stair.
 Not only does it have rope bridges to climb across and lots of other neat children's energy play areas, it'll drain your kids of their extra energy that might become built up in the remainder of the park.

This area includes a dragon-egg cart Ferris wheel called the Eggery Deggery, a flying dragon ride called Flutter Splutter, a kid-themed boat ride called Chug-a-Tug, a family-friendly music express ride called Bug-a-Dug, a treehouse, and a water play area called "Brook"., Although on Alpengeist you don't have a foot plate under your feet when you ride, the few helixes you take in on this ride, make this ride one that is not to be beat if you love roller coasters.
, Look for the Caribou train station in the back of the New France area.,, This show is only performing until September 4th, so be sure to check it out before then if you're there.
 This very long, dive-roller coaster is rather new but very intense. Most people come out saying this roller coaster is amazing or stunning all in itself.
, Watch the birds and take a few moments out to cool off from some of the intense rides you've visited today.
 Catch a one-on-one question and answer session at the gate with a trainer.
 Remember that the Bald Eagle is the United States national symbol, and so it's nice to see these birds in a habit close to their own without them wandering too far away from being seen.
 Although it's nothing but a stage play, this is a great theater to rest tired feet after a long day of walking and riding other rides and attractions in this park. You aren't too far from the entrance exit, but you're not can't possibly be quite finished just yet., Styled after the attraction Soarin' at Walt Disney World and Soarin' Over California at Disneyland, this attraction is one not to be missed. However, they do warn that some people may want to miss this attraction who've had certain ailments such as recent pregnancies and surgeries and a few other reasons.,, You have to save the best and oldest remaining ride for last, but be careful if you don't like roller coasters that take you to unknown places in the dark (at one point but for several minutes). The Loch Ness Monster is Busch Garden's oldest steel roller coaster that is still in operation today, and is also the only remaining ride in the Scotland area of the park..

