 You want your perfume to be clinging to you, not oil and dirt that you have picked up throughout the day, which may distort the scent.Scent also lasts longer on skin that has been properly moisturized, and perfumes themselves tend to be drying due to alcohol content. For these reasons you should always be sure to bathe or shower and then properly moisturize your skin before applying it to your body.


Rub an occlusive ointment, such as Vaseline, onto the spots you intend to spray after you moisturize in order to help the fragrance last longer.One spritz in each area should be enough, especially if you are spraying multiple areas. You don't want to overwhelm people with your smell.
Make sure that you're using an unscented body lotion or one that matches your perfume. Mixing scents can create an unpleasant, overpowering effect.
 Although some people recommend spraying a cloud of perfume in front of you to walk into, this method results in wasted product and allows it to settle all over you including in unwanted areas.Instead, choose the areas you want to target specifically and give a direct, spritzing spray.


Use restraint, especially with perfumes you have grown accustomed to over time. Your application may be stronger than you realize.
Make sure that you spritz with the perfume bottle 20-30 centimeters away. If you spritz too close, the perfume will pool and the scent won't apply in a natural way, distorting the scent.
 You will grow acclimated to scents both in the long-term and short term, so don't think that just because you can't smell your perfume you need to reapply. Smells that are too strong to others can be unappealing and even cause nausea and headaches. Pay attention to the exact kind of perfume you are wearing in order to know when you will need to reapply.


Eau de toilettes last from 4-6 hours.
Eau de parfums last from 6-8 hours and the scent will change organically over time.
Parfum lasts all day; you will not need to reapply.
Eau de cologne is particularly lightweight, so you can more generously apply this.
 Although rollerball applicators are very handy, there is a downside to using them. With every application to your skin, the perfume becomes increasingly contaminated by your skin's oils.This will cause the fragrance to degrade over time.


The same thing happens to tiny vials of perfume meant for dabbing, so beware.

