 You gain and lose Respect as you proceed through the game, and it is one of the hardest stats to increase. There are a variety of factors that influence the Respect that you gain or lose. Below is how the Total Respect bar is broken down to total 100%:


Running Respect: 40%
Completing Missions: 36%
Territories owned: 6%
Total money: 6%
Muscle: 4%
Progress with girlfriend: 4%
Appearance: 4%;
, 40% of your Total Respect comes from the Running Respect category. These are actions that you can take throughout the game that add or subtract from this total. Below are the actions that can gain or lose your Running Respect. Remember that these actions just affect your Running Respect, which makes up 40% of the Total Respect:Killing a dealer: +.005%
Killing a rival gang member: +.5%
Killing a Grove Street gang members: –.005%
One of your gang members dies: –2%
Take a territory: +30%
Lose a territory: –3%

, Your Total Respect will increase as you complete missions, gain money, workout, and dress up. As your Total Respect increases, you'll gain the ability to command more gang members.1%: 2 gang members
10%: 3 gang members
20%: 4 gang members
40%: 5 gang members
60%: 6 gang members
80%: 7 gang members

, You'll find Grove Street members near your starting area, and in any Grove Street territories. You'll be able to tell that they're Grove Street by their green clothing., You'll need to aim your gun at the Grove Street member that you want to recruit.

PC: Right-mouse button
PS2: R1

Xbox:  RT 


, Once you have the Grove Street member targeted, press the recruit button to get them to join you. Remember, you can only recruit as many members as your current Respect level allows.PC: Press G. You may have changed this when setting your controls, so refer to the Settings menu if this doesn't work.
PS2: ↑

Xbox: ↑


, Any of your gang members that are following you will try to get into your car automatically. Get a four-person car to get the most firepower possible. Drive past enemy gang members and your recruits will start shooting automatically.


If you have more than three gang members following you, you'll only be able to transport them by bus and they won't all shoot out of the windows.
 Your gang members will follow you around, though they are quite a bit slower than you are. Recruits will automatically shoot back at anyone that attacks you, and will fire on rival gang members and cops on sight. Make sure not to leave them behind if you're in a hurry.
 You can give your recruits a command to hurry to your current location.


PC: G

PS2: ↑

Xbox: ↑


, If you want your gang members to hold their ground, or want to go on ahead without them shooting everyone up, you can tell them to wait.


PC: H while not targeting anything.
PS2: ↓

Xbox: ↓


, If you don't want your recruits to follow you anymore, press and hold the Wait button for a few seconds and they'll take off.


PC: Press and hold H

PS2: Press and hold ↓

Xbox: Press and hold ↓


, This mission will unlock the Gang Wars feature, and will allow you to take and defend territory from rival gangs. You'll need to complete the mission before you can start taking territory.
 Taking territory will earn you money, as well as provide some fun gunfights. Territory that you control is also safer to travel through, as the rival gangs will be replaced by your crew. Check your map for colored blocks, indicating ownership by a rival gang. Darker shades on the map indicate a larger number of rival gang members, while lighter shades mean less resistance.


Purple - Ballas
Yellow - Los Santos Vagos

, Round up as many Grove Street recruits as your Respect level will allow. They aren't that great in a fight, but they're good for distracting enemies from shooting at you.
 In order to initiate a Turf Battle, you'll need to kill three rival gang members while inside the colored block. Finding three rival gang members isn't an issue in the darkly-shaded blocks, but it can be difficult to find three in the lightly-shaded blocks. One trick is to stand in a lightly-shaded block and shoot into a neighboring darkly-shaded box.
 Once the turf war has started, the block will begin flashing on the map. Rival gang members will begin appearing in three waves of increasing difficulty. You'll need to fight off all three waves in order to take control of the block.


Find a high spot that allows you to easily shoot down into the street. This can make it easier to protect yourself from getting surrounded.
 Without going into too many spoilers, you won't be able to do gang battles for most of the middle of the game, and all of your early progress will be undone during the story. Only worry about gang wars when they're first introduced if you really need the money.


Taking over 100% of the territory is not required in order to 100% complete the game, but once you've taken all of the blocks, none of them will come under attack from rival gangs.

