 Get in the habit of always washing your hands with hot water and soap (scrubbing for at least 20 seconds) before you start cooking or preparing a meal. You should take special care to wash your hands well if you have used the bathroom before you start cooking, as you do not want bacteria from the bathroom to get into your food.If you have pets at home, such as birds, turtles, lizards, or fish, you should always wash your hands well after handling them. Make sure you wash your hands with soap and water after you have touched them so you do not get any of their bacteria in your food when you go to prepare a meal.
If you have a new baby at home, always wash your hands well after changing their diaper, especially if you plan to cook. This will prevent any feces or bacteria from getting into your food.
 Do not wash meat or eggs once you have taken them out of their packaging and are getting ready to cook them. Washing them can cause Salmonella bacteria to splash around in your kitchen and contaminate other surfaces or foods. Instead, try to cook them as soon as they come out of the package so the risk of Salmonella spreading is low.You should also thoroughly wash all fruits and vegetables under running water. Fruits and vegetables can contain Salmonella on their surface and should be cleaned as a precaution.
 When you are cooking food like meat and eggs at home, you should always make sure they are cooked to a safe temperature. Cooking these items properly will kill any Salmonella bacteria and ensure you do not get food poisoning from your food.Whole poultry should be cooked until it reaches an internal temperature of 165°F (74°C).
Ground beef and pork should be cooked until they reach 165°F (74°C). Steaks and pork chops should be cooked until they reach 145°F (63°C).
Make sure your eggs are cooked until they reach 160°F (71°C) or until the yoke appears solid and the whites appear cooked.
Check that all fish and shellfish you prepare, such as shrimp or crab, has been cooked to 145°F (63°C). The flesh of fish or shrimp should appear pearly and opaque to ensure it is cooked.
 You should adopt a no raw egg or meat policy in your kitchen to reduce your risk of Salmonella poisoning. This means not preparing items like homemade ice cream, homemade eggnog, and homemade mayonnaise. You should also only eat your meat cooked and never raw in your meals.Never microwave raw food, such as raw meat or raw eggs, as the microwave is not hot enough to cook these items properly. Always cook your food on high heat on a stove top or a grill.
If you have a habit of licking the spoon of cookie dough before it goes in the oven, try to avoid doing this in the future. Cookie dough contains raw eggs, which can lead to Salmonella poisoning if consumed.
 If you have any reptiles, amphibians, or birds at home, you should try to keep them out of your kitchen. Place their water bowls in their enclosure or cage, never in the kitchen. You should also make sure you always wash your hands after touching your pets to avoid contaminating your food., You do not want bacteria or feces from your hands to get into your food. Try to have someone else prepare food for you if you are ill to limit the risk of spreading Salmonella and other bad bacteria to your food.