 A "well" dog with a funny tummy can usually be treated at home. If your small dog has a disturbed digestion but is perky and asking to eat, then you can try to solve the problem before calling the vet.


If the problem persists beyond 24 hours, or the dog deteriorates and becomes unwell, then reassess the situation and call the vet.
 Check the dog is drinking (the water level goes down in the bowl if you don't actually catch him in the act of drinking), which helps him avoid dehydration. If the dog has diarrhea (liquid stools) and refuses to drink, there is a risk of dehydration so phone the vet for advice.
 Feed an easy to digest food that is easy on the stomach and easier for the bowel to digest. A common home prepared diet is chicken and rice. The ratio of rice to chicken is 2 to 1, which means you give 2 cups of rice to every one cup of cooked chicken.


Feed little and often, so four small meals should be spaced over the day.
Alternatively, you can source prescription foods that are designed to ease stomach upsets, from your vet. These include Hills ID, and Purina EN.
 Be aware the volume of stool will be smaller than usual, as so much of the food is digested. Once your dog has produced formed stool for 1 - 2 days, then gradually transition back onto a regular diet.


To do this start by adding in a small amount of the regular food. For example, on switch-over day one, give your dog ¾ chicken and rice with ¼ normal diet. On day two your dog gets ½ and ½, on day three it gets ¼ chicken and rice with ¾ regular food, and then fully onto your dog's normal diet on the fourth day., Sometimes when a dog has an upset stomach it loses the bacteria that aids digestion and gets an overgrowth of bacteria that interferes with digestion. Your dog could need a course of antibiotic to correct the imbalance, but it might be corrected by a course of doggy probiotic. Fortiflora is a powder and comes in sachets. You mix one sachet a day for 5 days with the dogs food. You should see an improvement within this time frame if the problem is due to an bacterial imbalance.
Human probiotics contain different bacteria to those found in the dog gut and are unlikely to be helpful.
 This is a diet that consists of one protein source (a meat) and one carbohydrate (potato, pea, or rice) that the dog has never eaten before. This diet is fed exclusively (nothing other than this) for 8 - 12 weeks.The idea behind this diet is that any allergens or ingredients the dog was intolerant to pass out of the system, and the new protein and carbohydrate do not trigger the same response. It can take around 8 weeks for the inflammation caused by a dietary allergy or intolerance to settle down, so this won't be a quick fix.At the end of this time the dog should have a normal stool, have a glossy coat, and regained lost weight.
If the dog's bowel movement still doesn't improve then dietary allergy is less likely. At this stage he or she really must see a vet.
 Do not feed your dog people food. It's especially important not to feed your dog fried foods, grapes or raisins and their products, dates or dried fruits, olives or their oils, chocolate, and tropical fruits or their oils unless the vet gives the OK. Also avoid wheat, gluten, and soy ingredients if you can; these can cause digestive issues in sensitive canines.

