 In order to make a 3D cell model out of cake, you will need to have the right materials to make the structure of the cell (the cake itself), material for cytoplasm (a light-colored frosting or jelly), and 3D components for the cell parts (nuts, fruits, candies, or molded fondant). You have a lot of flexibility with the design of your cake and the specific ingredients you use to represent the parts of a cell. However, in general you will want to have the following ingredients on hand:Enough cake batter to make a two-layer round cake. You can choose to bake any flavor of cake you wish, in a light or a dark color. You could even choose to bake one layer of each. This is the base of your cell.
A cupcake top, large piece of fruit, or a round cookie-cutter to create the shape of your nucleus in the center of your cake.
At least two different colors of frosting. You could choose to use two different flavors (such as lemon and raspberry) or you could add food coloring to a light-colored frosting to create a second color. You should use the lighter-colored frosting as your cytoplasm on top of the cake, and the darker color as the cell membrane to the sides of your cake.Fondant and food coloring. If you wish to sculpt your own cell components out of fondant, you can purchase fondant in a store along with various kinds of food coloring to differentiate your organelles from one another. It is also possible to make your own fondant. If you do not wish to sculpt your cell components, you can choose appropriately shaped fruit, candy, and nuts to represent them instead.
Small, round candies or fruits. These will represent your lysosomes. For example, M&Ms, Skittles, gumballs, or grapes might serve as effective lysosomes.Oval- or rod-shaped candies, nuts, or fruits. These will represent your mitochondria. Raisins, craisins, Mike & Ike's, almonds, or dried apricots would all work, depending on the size of your model.Slightly larger, irregular candies, nuts, or fruits. These will represent your vacuoles. Small banana slices, jaw breakers, brazil nuts, or gummy rings are good options.Very small, grain-shaped candies or sprinkles. These will represent your ribosomes, so they must be considerably smaller than your other cell components. Some good possibilities could include: Tic-Tacs, Nerds, and various kinds of sprinkles or funfetti.A round, dense piece of candy. This will represent your centrosome. Gumdrops or Gushers could make an effective centrosome.Long, stringy pieces of candy. These will represent the endoplasmic reticulum. If you want to be very precise, you can buy one type that is coated in sugar (to represent the rough endoplasmic reticulum) and one type that is smooth (to represent the smooth endoplasmic reticulum). Some excellent options include gummy worms, sour worms, and various kinds of licorice rope.Long, flat candy or fruit roll-up. When you fold up a long, flat piece of candy or fruit snack, you will have an excellent representation of Golgi bodies. Try bubblegum tape, fruit roll-ups, or other kinds of fruit leather to create this organelle., Using round cake tins, bake your cake mix according to package instructions. You are also free to use your own from-scratch cake recipe if you like: just be sure to make enough cake batter for two round cake layers.
 After your cakes are fully cooked and cooled, you can begin to ice them. Add a thin layer of icing (of any color) on top of the bottom cake layer. Then place the top layer of cake on top of the bottom layer, taking care to make sure the sides are even. Then ice the top of the cake with the light color of icing. This will represent your cytoplasm. Ice the sides of the cake with the darker icing. This will represent your cell membrane., There are several ways you could place a nucleus on your cell cake. You could cut the top off of a cupcake and place it in the center of your cake. You could use a piece of round fruit--such as an apricot or plum--that has been cut in half. You could also cut out a round, cookie-sized piece from the top layer of your cake, exposing the bottom cake layer. Any of these methods would serve as an excellent nucleus. Just make sure that the nucleus is round and centered on top of your cake.
 Fondant is an edible, sculptable substance that many cake decorators use to shape smooth, complicated components. If you would like to sculpt your own cell parts, divide up your fondant into at least seven portions. Color each portion of fondant a different shade using your food coloring. Use your hands to shape each individual cell component, including:


Small, round lysosomes
Tiny, granular ribosomes
Long, thin endoplasmic reticulum
Round, dense centrosomes
A flat, circular stack of Golgi bodies
Rod-shaped mitochondria
Asymmetrical, hollow vacuoles

, At this point, you will have all of your cell components on hand, whether they are sculpted out of fondant or store-bought candy and nuts. Arrange them on top of your cake in a way that matches your drawn diagram. Pat yourself on the back for a job well done!

, If you are required to label your cell components, attach a small paper flag with the cell part's name to a toothpick and insert it into the appropriate spot on the cake. That way everybody will know which types of candy (or fondant shape) is associated with which cell part.

