 Your normal breathing pattern is shallow and quick because your body does not need as much oxygen as when you are singing. When singing, you need to be able to inhale a lot of air quickly, then exhale it slowly and steadily as you sing., This is the biggest change burgeoning singers need to make when breathing. Think of breathing ‘’horizontally,’’ so that your belly expands as you inhale and sucks in and up as you exhale.Think of a ring around your stomach and waist expanding as you inhale and contracting as you exhale, moving the air from the bottom of your lungs up to your chest and out your mouth.Note how, as you breathe normally, your chest rises and falls. When you sing, however, your chest needs to be still.
 Put a hand on your stomach. When you inhale, focusing on filling your lower lungs by expanding your stomach as you breathe.


Your chest should not move.
 Again, your chest should not move. As you become more experienced you will feel your back slightly expand out as you exhale.
 You’ve spent most of your life taking shallow, natural breaths, so you need to practice proper singing breaths to make them a habit. Try the following techniques to perfect your breath:


Lie on the floor with both hands on your stomach. Inhale through your stomach so your hands rise above your chest, then exhale back to starting position.
Practice hissing. Hissing requires a steady, thin stream of air. Inhale for 4 counts (1, 2, 3, 4) and then exhale for 4 counts. Then inhale for 6 counts and exhale for 10. Progress with shorter inhalations and longer hissing until you can breathe in for 1 count and exhale for 20.The best signers actually use very little air to sing big, loud notes, so take this exercise seriously.
 Because breathing while singing is so different from natural breathing, there are a number of mistakes that beginners make when trying to focus on breathing and singing all at once. Cutting these mistakes will lead to beautiful singing faster. Some to avoid include:


’’’Tanking up:’’’ Trying to fill your lungs as much as possible so you don’t run out of air. Instead of focusing on having more air, think about exhaling as steadily as possible to preserve your air.
’’’Pushing air:’’’ For a beautiful tone, think about letting the air out of your lungs instead of forcing it out.
’’’Holding back air:’’’ An advanced mistake, this is when singers stop their voice in between inhaling and exhaling. Focus on breathing “into” your note, silently exhaling air right before starting to sing.