 If you can't find a desk or a table to duck under, you have options. Although this method is disputedby many of the world's leading earthquake safety officials, it could save your life in the event that a building you're in collapses.
 The triangle of life theory is that people who find shelter near, not under, household items such as sofas are often protected by voids or spaces created by a pancake collapse. Theoretically, a collapsing building would fall on top of a sofa or desk, crushing it but leaving a void nearby. Devotees of this theory suggest that sheltering in this void is the safest bet for earthquake survivors.
 Doug Copp, the main proponent and proponent of the triangle of life theory, says that this safety technique is natural for dogs and cats and can work for you, too.
 If you can't find a safe place to duck nearby, cover your head and get into the fetal position wherever you are.



Do not:
Go under a doorway. People under doorways are commonly crushed to death if the door jamb falls under the weight of the earthquake's impact.
Go upstairs to get under a piece of furniture. Stairs and staircases are dangerous places to tread during an earthquake, as they could collapse or break without notice.
 The triangle of life technique is controversial. If you find yourself with several options about how to proceed during an earthquake indoors, attempt the drop, cover, and hold technique.


There are several problems with the triangle of life technique. First, it's difficult to know where triangles of life form, since objects in a quake move up and down as well as laterally.
Second, scientific studies tell us that most deaths in earthquakes are linked to falling debris and objects, not falling structures.The triangle of life is predominantly based on earthquakes that cause structures, not objects, to fall.
Many scientists believe that it's also more likely to sustain injuries trying to move somewhere instead of staying put.The triangle of life theory advocates moving to safe areas over staying put.

