 A multivitamin that is formulated to improve your hair may be a good option if your diet is not supplying enough hair boosting nutrition. Look for vitamins labeled “For hair”, such as biotin tablets, which contain key vitamins like biotin, vitamin C, and vitamin B that support hair health. These supplements can help your hair grow faster and healthier.Before you take any supplements, you should speak with your doctor to ensure you are taking the proper dosage and the supplements will not interact negatively with any medications you are currently on.
 Increasing your protein intake will promote healthy hair growth and ensure you do not start to shed or lose your hair. Make sure your diet is a balance of meat, fish, beans, nuts, and whole grains. If you are vegetarian, ensure you get enough protein through soy based foods, beans, nuts, and grains.If you would like to follow a high protein diet, it’s important that you choose your protein sources wisely. Avoid processed meats or full fat dairy products, as these can lead to other health issues. Make sure you are also getting enough healthy carbs in your diet that are high in fiber and full of nutrients, such as whole grains, fruits, and vegetables., The “inversion” method is when you invert your head so it is below your heart, encouraging blood flow that can then encourage hair growth. Some individuals who have used the inversion method saw clear results, about one quarter to one half inch of growth after one week. Though there is no scientific proof that this method works, it is a harmless method you can try to encourage hair growth./images/thumb/6/6d/Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-13-Version-2.jpg/v4-550px-Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-13-Version-2.jpg
/images/thumb/6/6d/Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-13-Version-2.jpg/v4-300px-Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-13-Version-2.jpg









You can massage your scalp with coconut oil before you invert for four minutes a day to encourage hair growth. You may also want to measure the length of your hair at the beginning of the week so you can chart your progress.
Do the inversion method by laying on your bed and allowing your head to dangle off the edge of the bed so your neck is supported on the edge of your bed. You should try to remain in this position for four to five minutes a day. You can also do yoga poses like downward dog, shoulder stand, or head stand. The idea is that your head is above your heart, leading to blood flow to your head.
Come out of the inversion slowly so you do not feel faint or dizzy. At the end of the week, measure your hair again and note how long your hair has grown in just one week.

