 Apply a cold compress when an accident occurs. This will help to bring down any swelling, minimize discoloration, and help with pain. The dark color of bruises is caused by blood leaking out of burst blood vessels. Applying a cold compress helps to constrict the blood vessel and minimize the amount of blood that leaks out, which reduces discoloration.To make a cold compress, use an ice pack, a couple of ice cubes wrapped in a towel or rag, or even a bag of frozen vegetables wrapped in a clean towel. Do not apply the cold compress directly to your skin; you should always wrap it in a towel or cloth to protect your skin from damage. Hold the compress against the bruised area for 10 minutes, then give your skin a break for 20 minutes before reapplying. Do this several times a day, up to 60 minutes of cold compress application daily.;
, As soon after your injury as possible, take a seat and try to elevate the bruised body part above heart level. Elevating the injured body part helps to reduce blood flow to the bruise, which minimizes discoloration.


If the bruise is on your leg, try propping it up on the back of a chair or rest it on a stack of pillows. If the bruise is on your arm, try resting it on an arm rest or the back of the sofa., Arnica is a plant belonging to the sunflower family whose extract is used to reduce the inflammation and swelling associated with bruises and sprains. There is some evidencethat it may help reduce the appearance of bruising, however the evidence is inconclusive.Arnica is available in gel, ointment, and cream form at most health food stores. Just rub a little on the bruise according to the instructions on the packaging.
It is also available in pill form, which can be taken by mouth daily to help with bruising., Severe bruising can be painful, especially when the bruise is fresh. You can relieve the pain and tenderness by taking certain pain medications, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or NSAIDs, which can help with swelling.Be aware, however, that NSAIDs like Motrin can actually cause you to bruise easily.


Although ibuprofen-based pain medications can thin the blood and cause an increased flow of blood to the bruise, they can be taken as well. However, if you have other issues such as stomach ulcers, heart disease, or are on blood thinning medication, do not take NSAIDs without talking to your doctor., After the initial swelling has gone down, which should be 48 to 72 hours after the injury, you can switch from cold compresses to warm compresses. Warm compresses increase blood flow to the area, which helps to clear away any pooled blood and promote healing.To make a warm compress, you can use a heating pad, a hot water bottle, or a clean washcloth soaked in warm water. Use the warm compress for 20 minutes, two to three times a day. Make sure the hot water bottle isn’t too hot. You don’t want to burn your skin.
 There are many home remedies which claim to reduce the appearance of bruises, however not all are proven to be effective. Although there is no scientific evidence this is effective, topical vitamin K has been studied in relation to bruising, and the application of crushed, leafy greens (such as kale or parsley) may reduce your bruise. Since these greens have a high content of vitamin K, they may be effective. Blend up a handful of parsley leaves (or kale, etc.) with witch hazel and apply the mixture to the bruised skin. The parsley is believed to reduce inflammation and discoloration.While it may not help in the moment, consuming vitamin K, rather than applying it to your bruise, can help reduce future bruising.
There is insufficient evidence for St. John’s wort oil, but it has been used for bruises and inflammation. Rub a little St. John's wort oil directly onto the bruise several times a day.You can use a net bag or nylon sticking to hold the parsley before you dip it in the witch hazel. This can make the process less messy.
 Although some of these methods have been outlined, there is a great acronym to help you to remember what to do to reduce bruising. The acronym RICE stands for Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation. Here is how each one should be followed:


Rest: Rest your injured body part for at least one to two days.
Ice: Apply a cold ice pack to help with pain and inflammation. Apply an ice pack to the area 10 to 20 minutes at a time.
Compression: Compression can help limit swelling. Tie an elastic bandage or clothing to the injured area.
Elevation: Elevation can help reduce swelling using gravity. Try keeping the injured limb above the level of your heart.

