 Swimming fins and diving fins are similar, but a swimming fin is designed to enforce and enable you to kick and swim like a dolphin. Swimming fins provide greater resistance making them excellent for swimming. Since you are creating a mermaid tail, you will need a swimming fin with a single blade – monofins are the perfect choice. If you do not have enough money to buy mono-fins, you can make mermaid swimming fins by duct-taping two swimming fins together.;
, With the monofin on your feet, simply trace the shape of your legs to fit on a cardboard or card stock to create the pattern for measurements. Note that working on the pattern with measurements will require more math, but this is better as you can get an accurately fitting mermaid tail.
 You need to buy fabric first before you can start making your mermaid tail. Since you are going to make a silicone mermaid tail, you may use nylon spandex for this project. Look for thicker silicone fabrics as the thicker your fabric is, the more realistic your mermaid tail will look like.


Fold the fabric in two to ensure that the side you want is visible for touching, and then trace the pattern onto the fabric. You can use sewer’s chalk, a marker, or pen for tracing the pattern. Use straight pins to pin the traced line so that the two fabrics are joined. 
After joining the two fabrics traced from the pattern, you can now cut them. Just make sure that you give at least a one-inch allowance when you cut the fabric, and cut it using a sharp scissor to achieve a precise and neat cut. You need to ensure that you leave at least one to two inches allowance on the fabric at the top of the waistline area. You must cut the fabric accordingly to the shape of the fin that you choose to use.
 Sew down both sides of the fabric to join them together. Remember to follow your pattern to ensure that you sew the fabric correctly. Remove the straight pins that you used a while ago as you no longer need them.


Sew the fabric to the monofin correctly and sturdily. It can be best if you have a sewing machine to ensure that you sew the mermaid tail accurately. After sewing the monofin and the fabric, you can start sewing the fabric on the waist line area. By putting a zipper on the waistline, you will be able to get off the tail more easily.

