 Lack of sleep is one of the main causes of eye bags. It’s also one of the most treatable! Set a new sleep schedule for yourself and make sure you stick to it. Avoid late nights whenever possible.


Aim for a minimum of seven hours of sleep each night to reduce or prevent the appearance of eye bags and puffiness.The recommended amount of sleep for healthy adults is seven to eight hours per night, so if you can log more than seven hours, do it.;
, Daily fluid intake varies from person to person, but getting at least eight 8-ounce glasses of fluids every day is a good rule of thumb to follow. Water is the best fluid source, but other beverages, such as milk, tea, coffee and juice, all contribute as well. Eat plenty of vegetables and fruit to up your fluid intake even more, since both contain a significant amount of fluid.Since dehydration is a major factor in the appearance of eye bags, make sure to drink extra water before, during and after exercising to replace what you lost through sweat.
You also need to ingest additional fluids if you’ve been ill, if you live in a humid climate and if you’re pregnant or breastfeeding.
If you rarely feel thirsty and your urine is colorless or pale yellow, you are drinking enough water every day.
 Both of these can lead to fluid retention, which is your body’s automatic defense mechanism against dehydration.

Our bodies, expecting a drought, begin retaining as much fluid as possible, and some of that fluid pools beneath the eyes, causing puffiness and bags.

Whenever you do indulge, make sure to down a tall glass of water after. This will help to flush out your system and prevent fluid retention.You can also get rid of fluid retention by taking a diuretic.
Diuretics are available over the counter, but you should still speak to your doctor before taking one, especially if you’ve never taken one before.
 Gravity will cause fluid to pool underneath your eyes, causing bags. By sleeping on your back and elevating your head with an additional pillow, you are preventing gravity from causing this.


If you have an adjustable mattress, raise the head of your bed to get the same effects.