 An easy, fun task for toddlers is transferring ingredients as you cook. Encourage your toddler to pour dry ingredients, like flour or sugar, into a mixing bowl. They can also help out by pouring wet ingredients, like chicken broth, into a pot or kettle., If you are making a dish with a batter that is easily stirred, like pancake batter, ask the child to stir the mixture. You can give them a large wooden spoon or even a whisk. Encourage them to stir until all the ingredients are combined., If you are cooking a dish that requires the sprinkling of flour, decorations, or sugar, hand the task over to your toddler. For example, if you make sugar cookies, ask the toddler to sprinkle the sugar on top of the cookies., Small children can help carry cups, plates, and utensils to the table. Give the child plastic, lightweight dishes and utensils. Ask the child to carry the items to the table one at a time. Then ask them to set the table with the items.Make sure you don’t ask the toddler to carry heavy or breakable items, like heavy dishes or glasses.
 You can also involve your toddler in cleanup by allowing them to help with washing the dishes. Fill the sink with warm water. Place a few plastic items, like spoons or plates, in the sink. Ask the child to wash and dry the items.Make sure the water is cool enough for your toddler to touch, by testing it yourself. This will help prevent possible scalding from water that is too hot.
 It’s important that you are patient with your toddler as they learn to help out in the kitchen. There is a good chance they will make a mess or not follow directions precisely. Let them make mistakes and allow them to try the task again., You should use your own judgment when deciding what your toddler can do in the kitchen. You should also let their experience level, eagerness, and skill level guide their kitchen activities.

For example, if your toddler has exceptional fine motor skills, they might be great at cutting fruit or cheese with a kid-friendly knife.
For another example, a child that loves pancakes might be really excited to help stir the batter.

