 Of course people won't trust you if you stretch the truth. Therefore, they won't see the good in you either. No matter what the consequence, you have to accept your punishment for what you did. Always remember that people will eventually find out. Liars never prosper.;
, Don't let your anger get the better of you. Don't be unkind to others. Instead, be supportive and reinforce their positive aspects. And when people aren't as kind to you as they should be, know that you are a bigger and better person.
 Don't be shy and greedy. People automatically assume that people who act timid have something to hide. You will be thought of as a good soul if you are open, and kind to everyone.
 Cowards are not good souls. Though you do defend yourself, never start fights or arguments with others.
 Thoughtful people are almost always thought of as kind-hearted souls. Give presents on holidays to friends and family, and put others before yourself.
 Don't drink, drink and drive, cheat, be mean, steal, lie, or any other irresponsible things that people might do. All irresponsible people are thought to be bad souls.
 You can donate, help local soup kitchens, recycle, all of these deeds and more make you considered to be a generally good person.
 Bad people can influence all people-good and bad to do bad things. Being around bad people will make others assume you are bad too. Surround yourself by kind people who will do good deeds with you.
 Things that you like and good things such as religious items make you feel happy and want to do good things to others.
 Kind people have a smile on their face from the joy that they cause others. Kind-hearted people take joy in being kind to others.
 If people make the effort to spend time with you, you should never ignore them. You should enjoy your friends and family and the effort they put into enjoying your presence and kindness towards them.
 Good souls don't go around asking for what they want, but rather give others what they need.
 Make an effort to understand the other person's side. Think about forgiving the one you are arguing with and why you are doing it. When someone offers an honest apology to you, never refuse it. You can't be a good soul and hold grudges all together.
 Good souls want to help those in need rather than laugh at their sad misfortunes. Don't use rude names such as crazy, stupid, ugly, and any others you can think of. Be the one who wants to help, because other people need you.
 Make your own decisions, because the other person's might not be a good idea. Kind people don't "go with the flow", especially bad ones. You should think of good ideas and goals and then stick to them. Don't let other people control your life.
 When and if you are expected of something, you need to do it. Don't make a promise you can't keep. This also applies to goals. If you set your mind to something, don't give up.
 Some people are so kind, they can be pushed to do things that they don't want to. If you know someone who is a "pushover", don't take advantage of them. Your friends are not your slaves. You should encourage others to be their own person.
