 You have to set priorities in terms of the tasks you accomplish, but you also have to prioritize your values in order to take control over your life. Decide what kind of person you want to be, and make good, conscious choices that’ll keep you in control of your life now and well into the future. Ask yourself questions such as:What are positive personal qualities (like loyalty, generosity, honesty, being funny, kindness, and so on) that are most important to me?
What kind of an attitude do I want to have? Do I want to be a positive person who loves life? How can I make that attitude a real thing through my daily choices?
If I drink, smoke, or take drugs, what will the consequences be for my health, wellbeing, and personal character?
How do I want to express myself through the clothes I wear, the words I say, how I treat people, the activities I do, and the quality of my work?

, Don’t be afraid to say no. You might be faced with pressure to pack your free time with extracurricular activities to good on college applications, but understand that school and homework will give you a full eight-hour day on their own. Know yourself and know what’s too much for you to maintain your productivity and sanity.For example, you might really like to sing and love playing soccer. If you try to do choir and play soccer at the same time, you could burn yourself out or perform poorly in both. Play soccer, then when the season's over, see if you can join the choir.
Ask yourself if taking the time for any after school activity or job will hurt your performance in the classroom. Your schoolwork should always be your top priority!

, There will be many times in your teenage years when you feel overwhelmed or need advice. Ask your parents, other trusted adults, and friends to help you. Ask them to remind you of important events and to keep track of your responsibilities.Don’t put all your faith into other people, and don’t shirk your responsibilities, but never be afraid to ask for help or advice.
Keep your parents up to date about what you have due. Say: "Hey, I have this big test coming up in three weeks. Could you help me make sure I study for it? Maybe you could quiz me leading up to the test date?"

, Sometimes it's tough for your parents to accept that you're growing up, and they end up taking away your sense of having control over your life. Try to understand that they mainly act out of love and a need to protect you. It's important, however, to communicate to them that you are becoming responsible and independent. The key is to let them get to know you as a young adult.Try spending more time out and about with your parents, like going to the mall or to stores together, out to eat, and other activities you'd normally do with friends. Show to them firsthand how you act in the outside world, that you can take care of yourself in a mature way.
Don't tell them that a friend's parents let them do something that you're not allowed to do. You won't get anywhere with that argument, and you'll just end up insulting their parenting style. Instead, tell them in a calm, clear way how their overprotective nature makes you feel and try to compromise with them.
Try writing a letter: sometimes we can express ourselves more clearly by writing. Jot your feelings down, let your parents give the note a read, and then have a mature discussion with them.
When you do go out with friends, stay in communication with your parents. Keep them in the loop so they worry less when you're out and about, and they'll be more likely to give you more breathing room with time.
 Being a teenager involves gaining independence and freedom, and it's a strange in-between time for both you and your parents. You have to respect your parents' authority, but you can also remind them that you're growing and developing your own values and opinions. It's important for everyone to be patient and use respectful language.Respect your household's rules and family's traditions. Your parents still lay down the law, and it's important to show them you care about the way they've decided to raise you.
Be clear and calm when you're talking to your parents if you want them to respect your point of view. "Mom, lemme go out with my friends!" is less likely to get a positive response than saying, "Mom, can I go to the mall with Stacy and Jill? Jill's mom would drive us there and bring us back home at eight. That will leave me enough time to finish my homework before bed." Negotiation, clarity, and specifics are key.

