 Show your appreciation by giving them time to relax when they’re not in the harness.


Provide a large yard for your dogs to play in. This gives the dogs a space where they can be active outside of their sled regimen. Ensure the yard is fenced so they cannot run off.
Your dogs should be allowed to play with each other, but you should play with them, too. They might like catching a ball, frisbee, or stick and bringing it back to you.
Clean your yard regularly. Depending on how many dogs you have, you might need to do “poop patrol” two or three times daily.
Your yard should be level and free of pooling water where bacteria can collect.
 The kennel should have a semi-open arrangement that allows each dog to get close enough to its neighbor to play and socialize when tethered, but should also give the dog the option of sitting by itself without possibility of interruption from other dogs.


Experiment with the spacing to figure out how long your tether should be and how far apart each dog should be spaced from its neighborhood.
Use straw for bedding. Mix some pine shavings into the straw if you’re concerned the kennel is accumulating moisture. Change the bedding every two to three weeks, or when it is visibly dirty.The size of the kennel depends on how many sled dogs you have. Each dog should have at least 35 square feet to itself.
Puppies should be kept in the kennel but not tethered. Provide a separate, smaller pen for them to socialize in together.
 Temperatures of -30 degrees Fahrenheit or below usually qualify as a reasonable benchmark for bringing your dogs inside.


Make a “dog box” -- a series of deep wooden shelves that can accommodate a sled dog’s body -- in your barn or basement. Line the dog boxes with soft blankets or towels when in use.
You should also bring your dogs inside if it is raining and your kennel is not well-protected from rain and snow.
Although sled dogs are bred for cold temperatures, when they are not running, they have a harder time staying warm.

