 The Vans Sk8-Hi is one of the all-time quintessential skating sneakers. Not only does its wide, flat base make it perfect for gripping a skateboard while riding, but its unmistakable "ribbed" design and the wide selection of colors and designs available for it also make the shoe quite stunning to look at. Sk8-His are a great high-top for skaters, wanna-be skaters, and ordinary folks alike.



Pairs well with: Distressed jeans, skinny jeans, puffy jackets, flat-billed baseball caps, skate gear, bandanas, faux-military wear (cargo pants, camo, etc.)







Style tip: For a look that's truly in line with the DIY skate-punk aesthetic, get a white pair of Sk8-His and add your own messy designs with paint and markers!







, Vans Mid-Skool MTE line of shoes can run a little expensive, but they look and feel amazing (especially if you're in a colder climate!) With fleece linings, a thick, bulky construction, and a water-resistant finish, these shoes are a great-looking choice for work and play in inclement weather. Best of all, for high-rollers, there's the option to opt for a gorgeous all-leather exterior.



Pairs well with: Skiwear, polar fleece jackets, warm socks, puffy jackets, fitted jeans.







Style tip: To keep your MTEs looking great, try re-applying a water-resistant finish before you wear them in snow or rain. Most shoe shops will sell some sort of protective spray-on product that's reasonably cheap.
 Chukkas are one of the shoes that most people would identify as "classic" Vans high-tops. With a simple solid-color design and a thick, meaty sole, Chukkas offer simple, versatile style that goes well with a wide variety of outfits. In addition, since Chukkas have a good amount of protective padding and support, they're a sturdy, comfortable shoe to wear for work and play.



Pairs well with: Jeans, t-shirts, cargo pants, longer socks, hoodies, patterned long-sleeve shirts.







Style tip: For extra foot support (and a different look), opt for Chukka boots, which completely cover the heel and ankle.
 Restaurants, retail stores, and many other employers often require the people that work for them to wear understated, neutral-color shoes to work. Most lines of Vans mid-tops and high-tops (like Chukkas, Miradas, and Bedfords) have at least one shoe with an all-black construction and a black sole, making them perfect for these blue-collar jobs. You won't be doing yourself any disservice by wearing these types of Vans, either, as they typically offer great support and plenty of comfortable padding.



Pairs well with: Work pants (Dickies, etc.), understated jeans, polos, button-ups, uniforms, etc.







Style tip: Consider investing in a pair of gel inserts if your job requires you to stand all day — the added comfort and posture improvement could make the difference between you looking great and you looking "blah."







