 The steps below will outline some scenarios where it's likely that you've been blocked, but there's no guarantee. If your alleged blocker has been temporarily blocked for violating Facebook policies, this could be a reason you're not able to see them. It could also be that the person has deactivated or deleted their account altogether.;
, If you are blocked, they will not receive your messages at all. So, if a person does respond to a message you sent, you are not blocked. If they don't respond, you may or may not be blocked. Either they aren't receiving your messages because they've blocked you, or they're just ignoring your messages. Continue with your investigation.
 If you can find them, then you can rest assured that you haven't been blocked. (When someone blocks you, it prevents you from finding them on Facebook.) If you can't find them, it may be that you are blocked, or it may be that they have their privacy settings adjusted so they can't be found.


Don't bother searching for this person while logged into a different account. If you find them through that account and not through yours, it could be for a variety of reasons:

If the account you're using isn't friends, or a friend of a friend of that person, and you use a standard search, it's just like searching for them while logged out, which is discussed in the next step. Note: If the account you are using isn't friends, or a friend of a friend of that person and you don't find them, you might still find them by looking through the list of friends of known friends of them. If you do find them this way while using a totally unrelated account but don't find them the same way while using your own account, there is a high chance that they've blocked you.
If the account you're using IS friends, or a friend of a friend of that person, and you find them through that account but not through yours, it may just mean they have their privacy setting adjusted so they can only be found by those people (friends, or friends of friends). It doesn't necessarily mean you've been blocked.
 If you can find them while logged out but not while logged in, it means they have their settings so they can be searched by everyone except you. That means you've been blocked.
 Google is the most widely used search engine, so give it a go to see if it has knowledge of this possibly blocked friend.


Log out of your Facebook account.
Search for the person's known Facebook name inside quotation marks. For example, "Brad Pitt", "Daisy F Football", etc.
If there is a search engine return, click on it.
In a separate window, log into Facebook. Go back to that search engine result and click on it again. Is it different? Does it show you something different than what you saw before? Does it tell you that profile doesn't exist? If so, you're probably blocked.
If the friend doesn't come up in search results, don't jump to any conclusions. It could be that they adjusted their setting so their profile can't be crawled by search engines, or their profile simply hasn't been indexed by Google yet.
 At the risk of looking desperate, angry, or just plain nosy, you could consider asking other people if they know whether something's up. This method will depend entirely on whether or not you feel comfortable asking others and are able to handle the ramifications of your mutual friend knowing you've been blocked:


Ask mutual friends online. Ask them if the possible blocker is still appearing actively on their Facebook feed. An affirmative answer is all you need to know you've been blocked.
Ask friends offline. If you're in a close-knit group of friends offline and it's one of your offline friends who seems to have blocked you, ask your friends if they know anything. Again, you need to be ready for answers you might not like hearing and it could mean that more is up for your personal friendship than you're willing to grasp!

, None of the following are "proofs" in and of themselves but they might help you to build a picture that points to your having been blocked:


Chatter on your Facebook wall that seems to be involving your possibly blocked friend, or doesn't make sense without him or her being part of the updates.
Check your own updates and see if you have said anything that might have been potentially offensive or upsetting to your supposed blocker. You will often have a gut feeling about this if you know their leanings and feelings well.
Check their Twitter name if you know it. If they're still pointing to a Facebook address or leaving tweets about using their Facebook, that's a sign they're still actively using Facebook and that you might have been blocked.
Check any other mutually followable accounts you have where you know this person has an account. For example, Twitter, YouTube, Ping, LinkedIn, etc. Have they removed you from mutual following on any of these? If so, you might be at the receiving end of a very big message.
 If another person decides to block you, how much are you willing to let this interfere with your personal life? Facebook is just another way to communicate with people and in the real world, sometimes people shun you for the most bizarre reasons of their own and you just have to learn to live with it. Facebook is no different! Try to see it with a good heart and without taking it personally.


Some social media users suffer from narcissistic tendencies that cause them to take slight easily and to feel superior.This could lend them to readily dropping "friends" if they feel put out. If you've been entangled with one, perhaps the blocking is a blessing.
Some social media users have a sudden urge that drives them to clean out their friends in the hope they can control an online addiction/overuse or simply to "cut out all of the noise". It's not likely you're going to change their mind when this is the reason behind a block. Take comfort in knowing that if this is the reason for a block, then you're probably not the only person they blocked.
Think very carefully about what knowing who has blocked you will bring about. It's not as if you can claim mutual satisfaction by blocking them back – they won't care! If it makes you so angry or annoyed that you need to be rude to them or say unkind things to mutual friends about them, then perhaps there was substance to their desire to blocking you. It's best to leave it be and think "who cares?!"

, If you have another email-id (if not, you can make one), then make another account on Facebook and check if you can see the person from this new account.
 If you know the person's numerical user ID, you can try to access their profile picture at http://graph.facebook.com/v2.3/(user ID)/picture (usernames no longer work as of June 2015, but you can find a user's numerical ID here as long as their profile hasn't been deactivated). If a normal profile picture shows up and the redirected URL starts with https://fbcdn-profile-a.akamaihd.net/hprofile-ak-xpa1, then the profile is active. If it shows a placeholder image and the new URL starts with https://fbstatic-a.akamaihd.net/rsrc.php, then the profile has been deactivated.
 This is to prevent users from causing trouble in groups after blocking the admins.

