 Mindfulness can help increase inner peace.Mindfulness is being aware of the current moment, the here and now, instead of thinking about the future or the past. Thinking of the past may lead to depressed mood or regrets, and thinking about the future can increase anxiety and worry. Being completely present in the current moment can increase your feelings of contentment.Attempt to appreciate the current moment. Find positives about what is going on around you. For example, if you are at home – look out the window at the blue sky. What do you appreciate about the sky? What does it look like? Are there clouds, birds, or planes in the sky?

, Mindfulness is about increasing your awareness of yourself and the world around you. You can become more aware by focusing and taking control of your attention.


Take a moment to look around you and notice the objects and people that are near. Focus on one particular object and become aware of what it looks like – it’s shape, color, texture, and purpose. Then touch that object; Is it soft, hard, or bumpy? Close your eyes and move your hands over the object. What does it feel like? It is cold or warm? What are the new and different things you notice about the object that you didn’t before?

, Notice what thoughts come into your mind, like clouds passing through the sky, without judging, rejecting, or clinging to them. Simply let them pass through your mind.


When you have a thought, notice it, and then let it go.
One way to let go of thoughts is through visualization. Close your eyes and visualize a stream with leaves flowing down it. As you think a thought that is negative, place that thought on a leaf and watch it run down the stream until you cannot see it anymore.
 Mindfulness techniques are a great way to practice mindfulness.


One mindfulness technique is where you eat a piece of food (fruit, chocolate, etc.). Instead of just popping it into your mouth and chewing, start by observing the color and texture of the food, and then biting off a small piece. Eat that piece very slowly and notice how it tastes and feels in your mouth.
Go on a mindfulness walk. This means you go for a walk, and while you are walking you notice everything that is going on in your mind, as well as around you. You can observe your own physical body in action and what is feels like to move (in your muscles, arms, legs).
You can find many more mindfulness exercises online by conducting a google search, or locating videos on YouTube.