 A tincture is a liquid concentration of a medicinal herb. It works like vanilla extract, drawing out and preserving the qualities of dry plant matter. To make a tincture, get a clean glass jar, vodka or apple cider vinegar, and the dried herb you wish to extract. Fill the jar half full of the dried herb. Pour a few teaspoons of boiling water on the herbs to open them up.Fill the rest of the jar with apple cider vinegar or vodka, and stir.
If using vodka, store in a cool and dry place for anywhere from three weeks to six months. Shake daily. Strain through a cheesecloth and store the tincture in dropper bottles.If using apple cider, store in the fridge. Discard after 6 months, or sooner if it starts to smell or mold., The healing qualities of herbs such as peppermint leaf, lemon balm, burdock root, ginger, and aloe vera can be extracted by boiling. Boil a cup of water on the stove. Add 2 to 4 teaspoons of your herb of choice and steep for 5 to 15 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and let it cool, then strain out the plant matter. Drink the tea, or apply to your skin throughout your day.Make sure the herb you want is safe and effective when boiled. Some herbs, such as tea tree oil, can be harmful if drunk as a tea., Purchase an essential oil, or make a tincture. Pick a neutral oil, such as coconut or vegetable oil. Mix 3-6 drops of essential oil into an ounce of carrier oil. Use your fingers or a swab to apply your medicine to your skin.Make sure you use a swab to apply medicine to viral skin conditions, such as cold sores, so that you don't spread them further on your skin.
 Many medicinal herbs, such as parsley, lemon balm, Echinacea, and peppermint, area easy to grow. Do a little research into what the climate and microclimate of your house can support: drier earth might take well to lavender, lemon balm, hyssop, and thyme, while wetter spots can support angelica, self-heal, peppermint, and skullcap. Herbs such as black cohosh and bloodroot can grow in the shade. Though herbs will grow best in soil enriched with compost and mulch, they can often struggle through poorer quality soils than other plants., Herbs, roots, and vegetables will account for most of the micronutrients you need. Whole grains and meat account for the rest. Cook a traditional chicken soup for its anti-inflammatory qualities: use chicken, ginger, garlic, onion, carrots, celery and parsley., Your safest bet is to purchase prepared herbal medicine. Doses can vary widely depending on the growing conditions and preparation of an herb, and though not all companies are reliable, they are at least experienced.You can buy herbal medicine at health food stores, at some supermarkets, online, or from herbalists.
Herbal medicines don't always look like medicine. Though many herbs are sold in pill form, you might find useful supplements in an oil, a lip balm, a cream, or a tea.
Get a prescription from an herbalist, a doctor who practices Traditional Chinese Medicine, or even a regular doctor or pharmacist to determine appropriate doses.

