 We are all children that need nurturing, love and care. So give your inner child that nurturing and love, give yourself back the joy of mindful eating. Re-create the routine around your food: eat around the table, eat at the set times, don't skip your meals. The life with the rhythm and routine will give you time for yourself, your children, cousins, friends, work, study, theater, for all… The rhythm and routine secures predictability and stability. The kids love to know that they will be fed properly daily and that you will together bake pancakes every Thursday afternoon. It is not easy to find the rhythm in today’s world full of various distractions, and it is not easy to find ‘time’ when so much is spent in useless activities (TV and computers) but it is possible to do so, and if you manage your time,your inner being will start thriving.;
, Become conscious of quality and quantity of food that you are taking. Let it be fresh, organic, locally grown, seasonal, nutritious, use non-processed whole-meal items, and lots of raw veggies. Let the quality of your food items replace the quantity, and allow the food awareness to become your guide. With the awareness you will start respecting yourself and the enjoyment will multiply.
 Taste your healthy and nutritious meals without external interruptions, experience the joy of tasting food without TV, reading, working, rush, mobile, messaging, etc... Savor and enjoy your food while eating, become ‘mindful’ of your food, rather than just swallowing your food while watching TV, surfing the Net, or reading the paper.
 Arrange your food using your nicest plates, light a candle and place a flower arrangement on your table as though you are serving a guest.
 Just before you take your first bite, sit in front of your food for a minute or two before eating. You may wish to close your eyes. Respecting the food, the space around you, the silence, will make you face your animal instinct of HUNGER, relax you, and you will turn towards food peacefully.
 The first few bites of food taste the best. If we are aware of what is happening within our body, we will be able to control the hunger and enjoy the taste more. So stay aware of your hunger and what it feels like in your body, aware of the various flavors within each bite, aware of what it feels like not to swallow.
 Try sweet and sour foods, liquids and solids, hot and cold foods. Before you eat, smell your food, as though you are experiencing the finest wine, stay with each experience.
 Eat slowly, chew properly, lift your fork gradually and thoughtfully, experiencing every movement fully. After finishing your meal, take a few moments to notice that you have finished. Allow the feeling of gratitude to fill your mind – you just had this wonderful nourishing meal to support you on your further journey.
