 The color of a kitten’s fur can give clues to its sex.


Certain colors, like calico (large patches of black, white, and orange) and tortoiseshell (marbled black, orange/brown, and sometimes white), are carried on the X chromosome and require two X chromosomes to appear. Thus, because females have two X chromosomes while male cats have only one, males cannot have these colors except in the case of a rare genetic disorder.
Orange tabby (striped) cats are more likely to be male.
 After about 6-10 months (and for some breeds as early as 4), most unspayed female kittens will begin to show signs of being “in heat” (scientifically referred to as being “in estrus”). A female cat may be in heat for between 2-19 days. The average cycle for a female cat that does not mate is about 8 days, but the cycle is often shorter for cats that do mate, as mating induces ovulation.A cat in heat will display certain telling behaviors, which, if they occur, may indicate the cat is female. These include:


Beginning to meow more loudly, harshly, and frequently. It will grow in intensity over time and may begin to sound like howling.
Showing a strong urge to go outdoors
Becoming extremely affectionate, even with inanimate objects
Showing “presenting” behavior, wherein a female cat rests on its front legs while hyper-extending the back and lifting its tail and rear end in the air.
Spraying urine

, When an unneutered male (tom) cat becomes sexually mature, he’ll often develop a habit of spraying strong-smelling urine.


A male cat may begin to spray outside the litter box, even if he’s normally well-trained.
The urine will have a strong, unmistakable smell that most find unpleasant.
 You likely won’t be able to distinguish noticeable differences in physical features until a cat is sexually mature. Once the cat is mature enough, though, there are particular features you can look for.


An unneutered male will tend to be lean and muscular, with thicker bones in the skull and jaw.
Unneutered males also commonly have what’s called a “stud tail.” A set of glands at the base of the tale secretes an excessive amount of an oily substance called sebum. This secretion can have telling effects on the area near the base of the tail, including greasy or matted hair; absent, thin, or patchy hair; blackheads; a rash or skin infection; and/or a foul smell.

