 Even if you simply want to introduce yourself, it can be helpful to indicate the reason you want to communicate with someone who may not be able to hear you. For instance, if there is certain topic you’re hoping to discuss, and you have anything relevant to that topic, hold it up or simply touch it., If it seems that something you’ve said was not understood, say it again. If this does not convey your point again, rephrase what you’re trying to say using different words.Often, the particular way you may be mouthing certain words may look like another word. Re-phrasing the same statement with different words will likely quickly clarify anything you’ve said that may have been unclear.
 This is the best way to convey a feeling of direct communication, even if you’re having a hard time understand each other. In fact, you may even feel as though a deaf person is staring at you. They probably are, and you should try to maintain almost complete eye contact as well.Imagine if someone who had full hearing covered their ears while you were speaking to them. To someone who relies on lip reading, avoiding eye contact sends a similar message.
 While it goes without saying that you should be polite when conversing with other people, there are specific things to be conscious of when communicating with a deaf person. If you hear something you need to respond to, explain what you are doing. For instance, if the telephone rings or someone knocks at the door, say what you’re doing before you get up to answer it.


Never act as though a deaf person is not present. Do not speak exclusively to another person while someone who cannot hear is present. Speak towards the deaf person so they can read your lips and expressions, even if what you’re saying is more pertinent to a third party.
 Whenever photos, drawings, or other visuals may aid or strengthen your ability to communicate with one another, refer to them. Similarly, pantomime an action or behavior, or use body language and facial expression to emphasize certain points. The way your moving alone can strongly emphasize what you’re saying., A deaf person may or not speak. If they do speak, their verbal communication may be hard for you to understand. If you do not understand something, however, never act as though you do. Instead, ask the person you’re conversing with to repeat themselves.Remind yourself that strong communication requires the patience to fully understand what another person has to say.
Ask specific questions. If a question can potentially be answered in a few words, ask it in a way that will allow for a short response, or even simply a nor or shake of the head.

