 You would generally want to plan how to attack the enemy base in order to get the maximum 3 stars during clan war.;
, A circle around the clan castle will show its area of range. This means that any attacking troop reaching this area would trigger the troops inside the clan castle to come out.
 Look at the clan castle's area and check the enemy base's perimeter to determine the best location to drop your troop for the lure. This will depend on the base layout.


Some bases would have an easy lure which means that you can drop a single troop (barbarian or archer) and all the clan castle troops would be lure out.
Other base layouts would be considered as hard lure if the clan castle area is located in the middle of the base and you would need to destroy defensive structures and/or walls first before reaching it.
 This generally is a structure that is out of range from the enemy's defenses. Most bases would have structures on each corner so these would be ideal anchor points.


Click on the enemy's defensive structures near your chosen anchor point to check its area and make sure that your troop will be out of range from these defenses.
Another thing to consider is where you are planning to deploy your attack troops. You want to find an anchor point on the side of the base where you're planning to initiate the attack since you want to kill what's inside the clan castle and proceed with your attack seamlessly.



For bases with an easy lure, you can just drop a single barbarian or archer to get all the troops in the clan castle.
For hard-to-lure bases, you might need a couple of giants, hogs, or balloons depending on the number of defensive structures that would attack your troops before reaching the clan castle's area.
Be careful when using balloons for lure since troops that only target ground units (e.g. barbarians, balloons, valkyries, and lava hounds) won't come out even if your balloon is within the clan castle's range.
 In general, one archer would do the trick. Archer is a ranged unit so you can deploy it farther away from the anchor point and outside the range of defenses.


For hard-to-lure bases where all the structures are within range of defenses, you can opt to create an anchor point by destroying the defense that covers your anchor point first.
Use the least number of troops for lure and anchor since you want to maximize your troop count to destroy the entire base.

