 Exhaust patch kits can be purchased from most auto parts stores, but in many cases you could also use a simple aluminum can. Scrub and clean the area around the leak, then determine what size patch you will need to be to cover the leak. Leave at least a half inch or so of extra material beyond the hole itself when cutting a can into the right size for a patch.You will likely need to have that component of the exhaust replaced if the patch required is longer than about three inches.
Read the directions on the patch kit you choose to ensure it can repair a leak like the one you’ve identified on your vehicle.
 Cut you aluminum can into the size and shape you’ll need to seal the leak, with an additional half inch or so on all sides. You can also wrap the can around the pipe by cutting it down the middle. For smaller leaks, you can simply cut a circle of aluminum that is a half inch larger in diameter than the hole.Gloves can protect your hands from being cut by the can while you work.
Wrapping the can or patch all the way around the pipe will provide the best seal.
 Mix the epoxy together and apply it to the leak and the area immediately surrounding it. Make sure to apply enough epoxy to create a seal for the patch, but don’t apply so much that the epoxy begins to drip into the exhaust piping.Apply the epoxy to an area surrounding the leak that is equal size to the patch you are applying.
If you are going to wrap the patch all the way around the pipe, apply most of the epoxy to the area around the leak and a lighter coat all the way around the pipe.
 Either place the small patch directly over the hole or wrap a large patch all the way around the pipe. If wrapping the patch around the pipe, make sure the middle of the patch is over the leak itself. The epoxy should hold the patch in place, but you may need to keep a hand on it until you have it secured.It’s okay if some of the epoxy squeezes out the sides of the patch when you apply it.
Make sure none of the leak extends beyond the sides of the patch.
 Apply the epoxy to the edges of the patch using the tube’s applicator or a wooden dowel. Coating the patch itself with epoxy can strengthen the seal and reduce the chances of the patch leaking. This will also help hold the patch in place as the epoxy dries while creating a more solid seal.Coat the perimeter of the patch with epoxy to prevent pinhole seals.
If you wrapped the entire pipe with a patch, you do not need to coat the entire patch.
 If you chose to wrap the patch all the way around the pipe, use two hose clamps to secure it in place. Place one hose clamp on either side of the leak on the pipe, then tighten the clamps onto the patch and the pipe using the appropriate hand tool.The hose clamps will help ensure a good seal on the patch.
You can use hose clamps over smaller patches as well, though you may only need one.

