 You can use any apple variety, but tart apples provide a more interesting flavor. Chop them into small pieces so they stew faster.;
, Combine the apples with ⅓ cup (75g) caster sugar and the juice and zest of one lemon in a nonstick pan. Cover and simmer over low heat, stirring often, until the apples are soft and starting to break apart.This takes 10–20 minutes depending on how firm your apple variety is.


Check on the apples frequently. Add a couple spoonfuls of water if the apples start sticking to the pan. Cook until liquids have boiled away.Caster sugar is sold as superfine sugar in the United States. You can make your own by putting granulated white sugar in the food processor for 1–2 minutes, or until it reaches a fine sand consistency. Measure the sugar after processing, as the volume will decrease., Finish the apple puree in a blender or food processor if you want a classic, smooth apple snow. If you want small pieces of apple in your dessert, skip this step and continue stewing until the apples reach the desired consistency.If you don't have a blender, continue stewing until very soft, then strain the apples through a fine mesh sieve., The apples need to reach room temperature before you can mix them into the meringue. Meringue will start to deflate after about ten minutes, so don't continue to the next step until the apples are finished cooling.While you wait, put one mixing bowl in the fridge to chill. This will make it easier to make whipping cream.
 Separate two egg whites and place in a deep bowl with straight sides. Beat with a handheld mixer on medium-low speed or a hand whisk, moving around the bowl. Continue until the eggs turn white and foamy.Use the freshest eggs possible to improve the volume of your meringue.
Any egg yolk or grease in your bowl will interfere with the meringue. For best results, wipe your bowl and beaters with lemon juice, rinse, and dry before using.
 Increase mixer speed to high. Pour ¼ cup (55g) sugar down the side of the bowl in a steady stream. Continue beating until the meringue forms stiff peaks that stick to the beaters when lifted.Stop beating immediately if you notice any lumps forming.
This is an uncooked meringue, so there is a small risk of salmonella. To prevent this, rest the bowl on top of a pot of water on the stovetop. Beat in the sugar until an instant read or candy thermometer reads 160ºF (70ºC)., Whisk ½ cup (120mL) cream in a chilled mixing bowl until peaks form. Untreated cream will whip more easily than pasteurized or homogenized cream.You can reduce or eliminate this ingredient for a healthier dessert.
 Fold the cream and egg whites into the cooled apple mixture to make apple snow.
 Spoon the apple snow into large wine glasses or other individual dishes. Chill in the refrigerator for at least half an hour before serving.,