 You'll want to submit a resume with all relevant writing experience. If you’ve been publishing, include your pieces. If you’ve presented at a writing conference, include that. If you've done any work that is related to writing, make sure you feature it prominently on your resume.Complete any education requirements, as possible. Some writing positions require a degree in journalism or a related field. However, not all jobs require this, and if you establish your reputation as a good writer, you can sometimes get a job as a staff writer. Chances are though, you’ll need a lot more experience than you would if you had a bachelor’s degree in order to get a similar position., This can take some legwork, You can be on the lookout for alumni at the magazines you want to work for. This can help establish a tie early in the application process. If you've got a degree in journalism, you may want to reach out to previous professors. They often have contacts in the industry and could possibly be a reference for you. You'll also want to keep the following tips in mind:Make sure you follow up with every person you meet who might help you. Depending on what they've said or done, you may even want to send a thank you note or email.
You may need to use some tactical social media contact. For instance, you may want to get in touch via Twitter or Facebook. Cold calling on Facebook may not be the best idea, but people often Tweet people they don't know on Twitter. Run your Tweets by friends to make sure they're helping rather than hurting your job prospects., Many mainstream magazines are part of a publishing family such as Hearst or Meredith. If they are, their employment links (usually found at the bottom of the page, or in the “Contact” section) will re-direct you to their parent company’s site for job listings. Editorial positions are often writing positions in mainstream magazines. However, there are staff writing positions for some magazines.When applying, you should follow the instructions in the job listing. This means following writing sample length instructions, as well as how to submit resumes, etc. Some companies will want attachments in pdf, while others might want the resume copied into an email. In any case, following instructions will make it look like you care about details.Write a carefully crafted and edited cover letter. Keep the magazine’s style in mind, but don’t write the cover letter as an article. Make sure you demonstrate clearly and specifically how you would be an asset to their magazine, and why their magazine would be a good fit for you. While it is good to be specific, don’t give every little detail you can think of. Keep the letter to under a page.Try an internship. If you’re not sure you’re ready for a writing job, you may want to try an internship. They can give you experience and college credit. Most writing internships do not pay, so you’ll need to think about that when you think of applying. If you’re in college and the internship is considered college credit, you may be able to get financial aid for while you’re interning., Interviewing for a job can be a stress-inducing experience, but there are ways to prepare to make sure you ace it. Dress for the job. You'll want to wear a nice suit or other professional wear. You'll want to remain calm, and practice beforehand with a friend or colleague. You'll also want to keep the following in mind:Bring your resume.
Be aware of competing women's magazines.
Keep up with current events.
Maintain an online presence (portfolio, social media accounts).
Have ideas and questions at the ready.
 To do this you'll need to get a sense of the office culture (unwritten social and professional rules, when people come in and leave, etc.). It can take some time to adjust, but it's best to watch others to see how it's done, or ask questions. When you're new, you can ask a lot of questions, because no one expects you to be an expert on the policies and culture of your new workplace. You should also use this time to start building relationships with your co-workers. This can help you transition smoothly into your new job and help you network for later opportunities.