 The first thing to do is remember that even though your parents are arguing, it's not your fault. No matter how much it might seem that way. Blaming yourself for it just won't help anyone. Your parents are the adults and their argument is theirs. It’s not your fault and you should not feel guilty about them arguing.You may have done something wrong that you think started their argument. Accept responsibility and punishment for what you’ve done, and also remember that their argument is separate from your actions.
 You may hear pieces of their argument, or you may hear what you believe is the whole thing. There is certainly more to the story than what you’re overhearing, though. Don’t jump to conclusions – don’t assume that anyone is moving, that anyone did anything wrong, or that your family dynamic is going to change. Let your parents have their argument and focus on getting to sleep.It’s normal to worry when your parents argue, and it’s also difficult not to jump to conclusions. Jut remind yourself that you don’t know the whole story and that worrying won’t do you or them any good.
 You might think that you’re not bothered by their argument and that you’d just like to get some sleep. Science shows that you will react to your parents’ distress, and that’s normal and healthy. Once you recognize that you will react to their distress, you can acknowledge the emotions and hopefully limit their impact on you.The most common reaction is anxiety, whether you realize that you’re feeling it or not.
You will likely have physical reactions too, such as increased heart rate and cortisol spikes, and these can definitely keep you awake.
 If you’re able, talk with someone – your friend, your pet, your sibling, even your stuffy. Who or what you talk to isn’t as important as the act of talking, which allows you to unburden yourself. You can talk about your feelings, your fears, your frustrations, and cry if necessary. You won't be alone. Nobody is going to judge you for talking about your feelings.If you have a phone and permission to be on it, call a friend.
Or, if you have permission to be on the computer, send them a message.
If it’s too late for you to be on any technological devices, talk to a stuffy, your pillow, the cosmos, just talk.

