 Check with local veterinarians' offices, animal shelters, pet supply stores, and other area pet business for referrals to dog rescue organizations in your area.


Contact one local dog rescue group for referral to other area groups. Some dog rescue groups work with all dogs, while others are breed-specific. Most rescues groups have established networks with other area rescues.
You can also visit the American German Shepherd Rescue Association website for referrals to German Shepherd rescue groups in your state or contact the American Kennel Club for referrals to German Shepherd Rescue Groups. The organization's website also provides links to rescue organizations.
 Although the majority of dogs looking for new homes through rescue groups are adults, sometimes rescue groups have puppies to place.


Most German Shepherds looking for homes through rescue groups do not have papers. If registering your puppy is important, or if you intend to enter it into competitions, you will need its title papers and health records, so a rescued dog may not be right for you.
 Many dog rescues will require a thorough application process in order to assure that you will be a good fit for the dog. Be prepared to disclose your address and whether you own your home, as well as your employment status and your philosophy when it comes to raising a dog.
 You will want to make sure that the dog's temperament works well with you and your family.


Ask whether you can get the dog checked out by your veterinarian. You will want your vet to check the dog's general health and for serious conditions, such as heart murmurs.
 Be sure to ask about the dog's health while the rescue has had it and if it is up to date on shots and healthcare. A good rescue should actually offer up this information up front.


Get a history of the dog's healthcare up to that point. Has it had its first vaccination, had heart worm treatment, and parasite control? These should have all been done before the age when a puppy is adoptable.
While many rescue organizations cannot tell you much about the dogs they place, because the dogs have been rescued off the street or they have been given up anonymously, sometimes they have a bit of information. Get all the information you can about the dog's past so that you can assess their general background and health.
 Dog rescue organizations are usually run on a shoe-string budget. While they depend mostly on volunteers, they do need funds to transport and care for dogs. Your adoption fee will most likely help to pay for the rescue of other dogs in the future.

