 You may be told they don't want anything or your gift recipient may genuinely have most of what they want, you have to be creative, even if they insist there's nothing they need and tell you, "not to bother", if you still want to give, a snail mail card, preferably home made would be a lovely gesture.;
, If you live near your recipient, you could provide a service for them by doing chores or errands. Alternatively, you could give a trip out such as going for high tea or to the cinema or a local tourist attraction neither of you have ever been to.
, If your recipient has given you nice gifts in the past, a framed photograph of you enjoying that gift may go down well. If they have generously given you money, a photo of you enjoying what you spent the money on might be appreciated.
 If you are giving for a birthday, anniversary or to celebrate any other specific day, create a poster / scroll / artwork that lists things that happened "on this day" in history. If you want to make this more personal, you could add any family events that fall on the same day. Don't forget to add the date of your specific occasion and be sure to get the details correct.
 Is there something of yours that your recipient has complimented or admired that you can get them? Be careful here, if great Aunt Flo said she liked your new pink stilettos, doesn't mean she will appreciate a pair of her own. She may however, like a pink stiletto themed ornament or appropriate accessory.
Is there something in your recipient's past you can theme a gift on?

, If your recipient likes something seasonal, get a gift that will remind them of that thing all year round. This applies particularly to fruits and flowers.
 If they have a pet, buy something for their pet. If it's appropriate, buy something you can both use together, it's okay if it's something you like! An example of this would be a kite, Grandpa doesn't want a kite, but he might love going to the park to fly it with his grandson. Consider also a craft kit or model making kit.
 A hand made gift is almost always appreciated. Consider getting something they have which is broken or damaged fixed. If you can find out what they have that is getting worn out, buy them a new one.
 Look in shops or at online retailers you wouldn't normally go to. You can window shop anywhere for inspiration - no matter the cost. Your recipient may have a collection you cannot afford to contribute to, antiques, cars, designers handbags etc so get them something themed to their collection instead. If they collect a branded item consider some merchandise.
,, There's a wide range of choices here. Consider generic favorites such as Amazon gift cards for something that appeals to everyone. For a more personal touch, consider a gift card to a special local restaurant or other business. Or you can choose something really unique and creative like a Zidisha person-to-person microlending gift card.

