 Make sure you have prepared information on how you first met the person if it's someone you didn't know well. If it's someone new then think about what their formal position is.


For example, you could be talking to a customer service agent for help with a recent purchase.
 Allow the receiver to identify themselves as official representatives of the company. They may ask you for identifying information including name, address, account numbers, and so on.


Be wary about exchanging your social security number. Most companies only ask for the last four digits, or offer alternative means to identify you. If neither is the case, and you have confirmed the identity of the receiver, you can consider risking giving this information out. But you should strongly think about finding more secure means to do this.
You may exchange pleasantries and small talk to let the conversation become more comfortable. The agent could say something like, “I hope you are having a good morning. It’s nice weather we’re having?”

, You want to make it clear to your contact what you need from them in an efficient manner.


If you have a lot of details then ask them to have a way of recording them ready as a courtesy. This can be as simple as asking them if they have “pen and paper” ready.
If you have a more elaborate proposal then this is a good time to make further plans for contact. Introduce the plan and offer the receiver an opportunity to get to know you and your proposal better. You could say something such as: “I have a plan for a new shopping mall let’s discuss the details over lunch.” Or if they don’t want to meet in person just yet you can say: “How about we schedule a conference call later in the week?”

, This can help relationships between companies. If you call a new contact and the both of you establish at least a small personal interest then conversations can proceed more smoothly.


Ask them about their location’s interests such as sports teams or attractions. For example you might call a contact you don’t know very well in Kansas City and ask: “How are the Royals this year?”
You can ask about the new contact’s personal life, but don’t press this too far and violate their privacy. For example you can ask “How are your kids these days?” They might tell you their status, but don’t belabor the issue.
 Don’t end the call abruptly or without a proper parting word.


Remind the new contact of what you discussed briefly and of any upcoming plans.
Thank them for their time and give a sign off such as “Goodbye” or “Talk to you again soon” before hanging up.

