 Many therapists have found that the root cause of blushing is social anxiety. This is because they have found a direct correlation: treating patients for social anxiety makes them stop blushing. Some say that you keep blushing due to anxiety, and changing the way you think about your anxiety will make the blushing resolve as a byproduct.Cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) is a type of therapy that re-trains your mind to believe, to think, and to feel a different way about the things that trigger your social anxiety.
For example, if you avoid going into rooms with a high number of people in them, CBT shows you that going into that room isn’t as scary as you thought. It shows you that avoiding that room actually makes you more anxious.
CBT helps you take control of your anxieties instead of letting them control you.
 Although blushing is an action of your physical body, it occurs because of an emotional response. Chronic blushers do not always understand why they blush, and sometimes the reason can be traced to a traumatic experience years before that led to a reaction of blushing.Although you may not feel the same way as you used to about this situation, references to it or similar experiences can make your face flame up with a red-hot blush.
Understanding that you are having an emotional reaction rather than a logical one can help you understand your reason for blushing.
 Sometimes specific situations, comments, or experiences can make you blush. If you can recognize a blushing trigger before you blush, you may be able to avoid blushing altogether. Things like being put on the spot, feeling embarrassed, or fearing that you are going to blush can be triggers of blushing.


Write down when you blush and what caused it. After a few weeks or months, look at this list and recognize your blushing triggers.
 Humans are designed to blush. Blushing has been found to soften social blows because they invite compassion. They can also be interpreted as signs of being genuine, which recruits people to your side rather than alienates them. In fact, blushing tends to soothe betrayals and mistakes rather than make them worse. Once you see that blushing is actually a good thing, you can stop fearing that you will blush.

