 The guinea pig’s cage should be kept in a quiet area of the house to minimize stress. If your guinea pig bites, it is most likely that it feels threatened. Turn the TV down or off. Put other pets, if you have any, in another room. You want the guinea pig to only focus on you. Then when you act nicely, your guinea pig will associate you with a pleasant experience, not stress.
 If you’ve just brought home your guinea pig, it will take a while for it to get used to its new home, its cage, and the room the cage is in. Let the guinea pig acclimate. Don’t immediately start playing with the guinea pig. Open the cage and let it investigate the opening. It is important to let your guinea pig explore. Once it knows its space and where the good hiding places are, it will feel more comfortable.
As the pig gets more relaxed, place an exercise pen around the cage on the floor, and give the guinea pig time to explore. Do this when it is quiet — make sure there are no loud noises and no other pets around. Place fresh greens at the edge of the cage door and outside the cage to encourage exploration. Don’t push. Every guinea pig is different and this will take time.
 Hang out without trying to engage your pig at first.Sit next to the cage. Talk quietly to the pig. Place tasty greens like parsley or dandelion greens in its space. Wait for the pig to get more comfortable before reaching out to pet it. Eventually, you can stick out a finger and let it explore your scent. Do not make contact until the guinea pig feels comfortable.


Just sit and read or watch TV (quietly) next to the cage, while the pig gets used to your presence. Loud noises will frighten the guinea pig, so hang out together when the house is quiet and no dogs or cats are around.
 Make physical contact for short periods. Do not grab and hold your guinea pig against its will. Once the pig accepts your hand in the cage, gradually and gently pet the guinea pig for a few seconds at a time. Try petting it behind the ears and on the top of the head at first. Only after it is comfortable in its setting and with you petting it, should you pick it up. Lift it up from under the chest just off the ground and then place it back down immediately. Work on this to get it used to being picked up.When you pick up a pig, use one hand to pick it up around the chest and the other to support the hindquarters. The guinea pig needs to feel completely supported so it doesn't worry about being dropped. Start by sitting on the floor. Pick it up and pet the it. Keep calm. If the pig gets agitated, put the pig back down before it feels the need to defend itself with their teeth., Remember that nibbling/biting is the guinea pig's way of expressing itself. If the guinea pig feels uncomfortable being held by a child and resorts to biting, tell the child to put the pig down immediately.


Under your supervision, have children sit down on the floor with a towel, a “Critter Cuddler Blanket”, or “Cuddle Cup” to hold the guinea pig.This way, there is a barrier between the child and the guinea pig to protect them both. Have the child pet the guinea pig gently and allow the guinea pig to wander away, so it does not feel trapped.
 Don’t reward bad behavior. If it seems that the guinea pig is biting to get your attention, do not reward the behavior by giving attention. Come back later and pet the pig when it is calm. You will have to read the pig’s body language and if it seem calm and accepting, pet it and reward that behavior. If you attempt to abate its biting with treats, it will associate biting and bad behavior with tasty treats.
 After a few months of living together, you will start to notice the guinea pig’s patterns. Avoid bothering the pig when it is napping, for instance, to decrease the chance of an adverse reaction to your attention., This can injure the pig, but it will also teach the pig that it needs to defend itself against you - leading to more biting.It might be your gut reaction to lash out at a guinea pig after it bites you. Don’t give in to this instinct. Think about why the guinea pig resorted to biting and change your behavior.


If someone held you against your will and you were afraid, had to urinate, or were hungry, would you consider biting? You don’t have another way of communicating, so you probably would sink your teeth into their hand too.

