 IP rights are primarily national.For example, if you registered your patent in the United States, then you have patent rights only in the United States, not other nations. The same is true of trademarks.The situation is a little more complicated with copyright. Your country may have an agreement with another country to honor each other’s copyrights. In this situation, you might not need to register the copyright in the country where the infringement has happened. You should check with your nation’s intellectual property office.
Make sure that you have registered your IP in the country where the violation is occurring. If you need to register the IP before filing your lawsuit, you should contact the intellectual property office in the country where the violations are occurring. Alternately, you could contact your own country’s intellectual property office, which can inform you about ways of registering your intellectual property in multiple countries at one time.
 You should probably hire a lawyer to represent you in the lawsuit. A lawyer is especially necessary if you need to sue someone in a foreign country. If you work for a large business, then the law firm you normally use could have offices in the country where the violator is located.


You can get a referral by contacting someone who has sued for intellectual property violations before and asking if they would recommend their lawyer. Also, you can get a referral by contacting your local or state bar association. Once you have a name, you can call and schedule a half hour consultation.
At your consultation, you should discuss whether suing is even worthwhile. The expense might be so great that a lawsuit is not feasible. In this situation, you simply have to suffer the loss.
 A court doesn’t have power over everyone in the world. Instead, it only has power over a person in certain situations. For example, a person could consent to being sued in a court. Also, a court might have “jurisdiction” (power) over the defendant because the defendant lives in the state.If a large multinational corporation infringes your IP rights, then you can probably sue in your home country. These corporations often have offices in your home country. Although the infringement might have happened in a different country, you could still sue in your home state because the court has power over a company doing business within its borders.
However, it is more likely that your IP is being infringed by an individual or small company with no presence in your home country. In this situation, you may not be able to sue in your home country because a court cannot assert jurisdiction over the person. Instead, you might have to sue in the infringer’s home country.
 You will start the lawsuit by filing a complaint. This document identifies you as the “plaintiff” (the person bringing the lawsuit) and it identifies the person infringing on your IP rights as the “defendant” (who is being sued). In your complaint, you also identify the violations of your IP rights and make a request for compensation.Your lawyer should draft the complaint for you. Make sure that you receive a copy.
 You can notify the defendant of the lawsuit by serving a copy of your complaint and a summons on the defendant. You can get the summons from the court clerk.


Each court has its own rules about proper service of process. Ask the court clerk about acceptable methods and make sure to follow them. If you use an improper method, then the defendant could get the case dismissed.Generally, you can provide service by hand delivering the papers on the defendant. You cannot deliver them yourself; instead, you typically hire a private process server for a small fee.
 The defendant can contest the lawsuit by filing an “answer.” In the answer, the defendant will respond to each allegation, by either admitting or denying it. The defendant can also raise counterclaims in the answer., A lawsuit for international intellectual property violations shouldn’t be much different than a lawsuit for domestic violations. In the United States, for example, the parties will answer questions under oath and exchange documents in a process called “discovery.” The purpose of discovery is to gather helpful information for your trial.You will also have many pre-trial hearings, where you will tell the judge the status of the case and also try to come to agreement on as many facts as possible before trial.
Either side can also file motions. For example, the defendant might file a motion for “summary judgment.” In this motion, the defendant argues that there shouldn’t be a trial because there are no issues in dispute for a jury to resolve. Your lawyer will try to defeat this motion by pointing out facts that are in dispute.
 Your lawyer will handle the trial, so there isn’t much that you will have to do. You may have to testify. If so, then your lawyer can prepare you. The exact trial process might differ slightly depending on the country where you are bringing the lawsuit. In the United States, for example, an intellectual property trial will involve the following:Jury selection. If you can have a jury, then you will select one on the first day of trial. Generally, the judge asks jurors questions and excludes jurors who may be biased. Lawyers are often given a certain number of “peremptory challenges,” which they can use to exclude any juror without giving a reason.
Opening statements. Each lawyer will give the jury a roadmap of what evidence they will present.
Presentation of evidence. The person bringing the lawsuit will go first. Evidence is usually presented in the form of witness testimony and documents. Each side is able to cross-examine the other side’s witnesses.
Closing arguments. During closing, the lawyers sum up the evidence, explaining how each piece fits and supports their position.
Delivery of the verdict.
 Winning a lawsuit is only half the battle. The other half involves actually getting money out of the defendant. A court will not collect the money for you. Nevertheless, you have options for getting money out of the defendant.


For example, you might be able to put liens on the defendant’s property and possibly even foreclose on the property. You then can take the sales proceeds.

