 As your body goes through changes during puberty, you might start to compare yourself to other girls and guys in your peer group. Instead, take an opportunity to examine your changing body, and point out some features you like.Temporarily clear your head of what you think your body is supposed to look like. Undress and stand in front of the mirror. Find at least three aspects about your body that are attractive to you. You might like the curve of your hips, your strong thighs, or your fuzzy facial hair (for guys).
Try to take time when you're feeling insecure to remind yourself that most others in your peer group likely also feel insecure about their bodies. You likely inspire envy in them the same way they do in you.;
, Dressing in ill-fitting clothes can make anyone feel uncomfortable and self-conscious about their body. Be sure to select clothing options that are your size and flatter your body.Browse through your closet and find an outfit that makes you feel confident. Consider the different colors, shapes, and textures of these clothing items. The next time you go on a shopping trip recreate this outfit by searching for similar choices that also make you feel good about yourself.
If possible, it may help to visit a professional seamstress to have your body measured. It will cost you a little bit, but you can also have your clothes altered to make them more comfortable and better fitted to your specific body.
 Physical activity is a great way to support your health. Also, exercise can help you feel good about your body. Join a sports team like soccer, baseball, or football at your school. Or, simply start a game in your backyard or a local park with a group of friends.If you are not into group sports, individual sports like swimming and tennis can help you stay active and appreciate what your body can do. Aim for 30 minutes of physical activity on most days of the week., Food is the ultimate fuel source for your body. When you include whole foods into your diet, you will have more energy, feel more confident, and may even drop a few pounds (if that’s your goal). Fill your plate with fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables, lean sources of protein, whole grains, low-fat dairy, and nuts and seeds.If your family tends to eat a lot of junk food or fast food, consume these options in moderation. Opt for healthier, real foods whenever possible. For example, if you’re at a burger restaurant, you might choose a grilled chicken sandwich with a side salad instead of the traditional burger and fries.

Eating mindfully can also help you love your body and avoid unhealthy eating habits. Resist the urge to eat merely because you are bored, sad, or lonely. Check your hunger levels before reaching for foods in between meals. Are you truly hungry or are you eating out of habit?
Likewise, make sure you are staying hydrated. Drinking plenty of water helps regulate your metabolism, and can help curb hunger.
It may also be helpful to learn a few healthy recipes that you can cook for yourself and for your family. This can help you stay healthy and also aid you in learning a valuable skill.
 In some cases, a weight change may be recommended by your doctor to improve your overall health and wellness. Plus, setting goals can be a wonderful way to build self-esteem. If you have a goal to lose or gain weight, make sure that it is realistic for your current body shape and size. Talk to your family doctor to develop a feasible plan.


For instance, it is unrealistic to say you will lose 20 pounds in one month. However, at the healthy weight loss rate of 1 to 2 pounds per week, it may be acceptable to set a goal of 4 to 8 pounds in one month.When you first begin to exercise, it may be helpful to focus on your routine rather than the scale or any muscular gains. Aim for going to the gym two to four times a week, for example, and set goals such as 30 minutes of cardio or a full chest workout when you're there.
Another example is improving your strength and endurance in a sport. You might feel intimidated by stronger and faster people on your team and wish to improve your athleticism. Set a realistic benchmark based on your given activity. You might decide to set a sprinting or running goal or gradually increase the amount of weight you can lift.

