 You'll need a thread, needle, drill, sandpaper, superglue, painter's stir stick, rubber bands, waxed paper, cotton swabs, alcohol or nail polish remover and a hobby knife.
 Use sandpaper to clean and rough up the broken area to be glued. Swab the area with some rubbing alcohol or nail polish remover to prepare the surface.
 Cut a piece of a painter's wooden stir stick to fit between the temples (aka, the side pieces) of your glasses. Cover your lenses with wax paper to prevent scratching and then wrap a rubber band over one end of the stick and secure it to your glasses. Do the same on the other end.


Line the two halves up carefully and be sure the rubber bands are holding things firmly in place. If it wasn't a clean break and there are some gaps, line the pieces up as best you can taking pains to ensure there are some definite points of contact.
 Fill the joint at the break with glue; use enough to secure the bridge but not so much that the glue runs out. Squeeze out the glue slowly and neatly to avoid bubbles. As you fill in the joint, be sure that there are no gaps or voids. Use the side of a cotton swab to gently clean up any excess glue; swab it up before it has a chance to dry and get tacky. Set the glasses aside for at least an hour so the glue can dry completely.
 Choose a small drill bit appropriate for the thickness of your eyeglass frames. Take your hobby knife and dig out pilot holes on either side of the newly repaired joint. Place your glasses down on a soft cloth that's been laid on a table top and carefully drill a hole on each side of the break. The holes must be parallel so they can be used to wrap a band of thread around the core joint.
 Use a fine needle and four to six feet of thread that matches the color of your eyeglass frames to "sew" the two sides of the repair together for added strength. Pass the needle and thread through the two holes as many times as you can taking care not to pull too hard and put stress on the newly repaired joint. Stop when there's no more room. Fill the drilled holes with glue, soaking the thread and blotting up any excess with a cotton swab. Trim the edges of the thread and allow the glue to dry for at least an hour.
 If you want to give extra strength to your repair, you can add this additional step to your process. Do not trim the edges of the thread as above. Instead, after your glue has dried, take the remaining thread from one side and wrap it around the bridge of your glasses from front to back. Make your wrap as neat as possible; some criss-crossing may be unavoidable, but do your best to prevent the wrap from looking bulky. Leave a short end to be trimmed later. Soak the wrap with glue and let it dry for 10-15 minutes. Take the thread from the other side of your glasses and wrap it around the bridge in the opposite direction (back to front). Soak the new wrap in glue and let it cure for a couple of minutes before snipping off the two loose ends. Set your glasses aside for 24 hours before wearing.

