 Like cats, rabbits lick themselves to self-clean. However, unlike cats, rabbits cannot vomit so any hairballs your rabbit ingests will stay in its stomach, blocking the stomach exit and causing serious health issues. Brushing your rabbit regularly can help cut down on the amount of loose fur it ingests, in addition to keeping its fur mat-free. Short-haired rabbits need to be brushed every three days to prevent hairballs and tangles in their fur. Long-haired rabbits should be brushed every day.


Use a bristle-brush instead of a metal-toothed brush, as this will be gentler on your rabbit’s skin. Look for a brush made specifically for rabbits.
You can follow up brushing with a rubber grooming tool or another hand-held finishing tool to help get any additional loose hairs. A damp washcloth will also work to remove loose hairs.How much your rabbit needs brushed depends on their breed. As a general rule, the longer the hair, the more often you need to brush., Rabbits shed approximately every three months. During this time, you’ll generally need to brush your short-haired rabbit once a day and your long-haired rabbit multiple times a day.


The rate at which rabbits shed varies. Some rabbits will shed their coats over several weeks, while others shed it all within a few days. Pay attention to the shedding patterns of your rabbit and adjust how often you brush them accordingly. For example, rabbits that shed over the course of several weeks may need brushed only once a day, but rabbits that shed over a few days need to be brushed multiple times per day., Short-haired rabbits don’t usually need their fur trimmed, but long-haired rabbits often do. If you have a long-haired rabbit, it is a good idea to keep its hair trimmed to one inch in length. This will help prevent mats and cut down on shedding.


Don’t trim the hair around your rabbit’s feet. Doing so can cause your rabbit to get sores from a lack of padding.
It is suggested that you keep the fur on your long-haired rabbit’s belly and between its legs trimmed short or even shaved. This hair is especially vulnerable to mats and tangles.
You can use either scissors or electric small animal clippers to trim your rabbit’s hair. Be very careful, however, because rabbits’ skin is very delicate and you can easily cause a serious injury if you cut them with the scissors or clippers.
It is best to have someone help you hold your rabbit still if you choose to trim its fur. If you are trimming its belly, between its legs, or its backside, have one person hold the rabbit straight up and down with its back pressed against the person’s chest. They should have one hand placed under the front legs and the other holding the back legs to prevent the rabbit from kicking and hurting itself.