 Authentic logos are usually placed on the lens, arms, or inside the ear piece and use consistent size, font, and colors. Any slight error or variation could indicate your sunglasses are fake. Misspelled brand names (e.g. "Guci" instead of "Gucci" and logos are also an indication that the glasses may be fake. Before you purchase sunglasses, go to the manufacturer website and look at the markings and logos. This will help you when you make a purchase.;
, Model number are consistent worldwide no matter whether you purchase the sunglasses online or in a store. Go the manufacturer website to verify the model number of the sunglasses. The model number is usually found on the frames of the glasses. Fake sunglasses may have model numbers that are not listed on the manufacturer website.
 Authentic sunglasses are usually sold by an authorized website, boutique, or store. Street vendors are most likely selling counterfeit items.If the price is deeply discounted and sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Stay away from websites that do not take returns and offer no way (e.g. phone number, email address, etc.) for you to contact them.


China is hotbed for counterfeit production. Be careful when purchasing items made in China.
If you purchase from a website, check out the buyers rate and the sellers' reviews.
A web site selling authentic sunglasses will often have a guarantee of authenticity.
Your sunglasses should look and feel like they are well made.
 Words like "high quality," "cosmetic," "replica," "inspired by," are often used to when glasses are not authentic. Take note if you see any of these words being used to describe the seller or the glasses. In addition to the glasses being fake, they may shatter easily and not offer you UV protection.
 There is not one simple formula to determine if the sunglasses are authentic. Use common sense and your best judgement. Adequately research the company you are purchasing the sunglasses from. It is possible to find a really good deal on authentic sunglasses. If the price is really low, examine the other factors before you make a purchase.

