 If something is making the baby upset, you won't really be able to successfully entertain until you solve the problem. Check for sources of loud noise and other discomfort. Look for anything that could be frightening to a baby. Do anything you can to make the baby's environment free of stress.


Does the baby look sick or have a fever? It may be time to see a pediatrician.
 Babies with dirty diapers feel uncomfortable and are often quick to express unhappiness. Take a peek to see if the diaper is soiled. If so, change the diaper and look for any change in the baby's demeanor.
 Babies usually eat every three to four hours. If you've just had to change a diaper but the baby is still crying, then there's a good chance he or she is also hungry.If you're the baby's parent or primary caregiver, you'll likely learn that the baby uses different "cries" to communicate. For example, you may start to tell the difference between a "hungry cry" and a "dirty diaper cry" without having to check., Babies swallow a lot of air while they're still nursing and need to be burped frequently. Hold the baby up to your shoulder and pat the baby gently between the shoulder blades. You'll know the baby was feeling gassy if you hear a burp. If the baby continues to fuss, then you know the problem isn't just a little gas.
 If you can't find anything that's causing the baby to be upset, then you may be dealing with a fussy baby. When it comes to babies, "fussy" is a catchall term that simply means a baby becomes unhappy easily and often. Sometimes you can figure out a way to combat fussiness.


Think about times when the baby is unhappy for no apparent reason. If the baby seems to have crying episodes at the same time each day regardless of environment and cannot be cheered up, then the baby may have colic. Luckily, babies tend to grow out of colic by five months of age.On the other hand, does the baby seem to become upset most often when alone and/or in a quiet room? Does the baby seem to never get upset in boisterous gatherings with a lot of people? Then this may simply be a "high need" baby who loves being around people.
Just like adults, some babies simply need more stimulation and attention than others to be content.
High need babies tend to have difficulty soothing and entertaining themselves.
Be extra patient with high need babies while you teach them to be more independent. If you're dealing with a high need baby, you may also simply need to do more entertaining than you're accustomed to doing.