 Stand in front of a sturdy armless chair or heavy-duty equipment box, as if to sit. This is a great exercise for beginners. Hold a dumbbell in each hand, dangling at your sides. If you're new to squats, 5-pound dumbbells are good. As you get stronger, you can increase the weight accordingly.









Place your feet about shoulder width apart, feet angled out slightly.
Bend your knees. Shift your hips back and slowly lower yourself down until your butt's just about touching the chair, then stand back up.
Don't lock your knees. Keep them loose at all times. Also, keep them from going past your toes. You will feel it more in your thighs than in your knees.
 Holding one dumbbell or kettlebell, use both hands to hold one end of the dumbbell, so it hangs vertically towards the floor. Keep your abs tight throughout the squat; involving your abs will help you maintain balance.









Place your feet. They should be a little more than shoulder width apart, and spread your knees/legs, so feet are turned out about 45°. This is based on a ballet form called "plie."
Lift your heels off the floor. Balance on the balls of your feet, and bend your knees.
Slowly lower your body down. Keep your hips under your shoulders and your back straight.
Keep your knees behind your toes. Do not let them extend beyond this point!
Slowly raise back up. Lower your heels as you rise.
 This is a variation on the basic squat, holding the bar in front of you rather than behind you. Place the bar below your neck and across your chest, parallel with your clavicle (collar bone). Grasp the bar from underneath, with your hands at a spot that is comfortable, usually about six inches (15cm) from your shoulders.









Plant your feet flat on the ground, about shoulder-width apart. Get below the bar and bend your knees slightly. You'll want equal weight distribution throughout each foot during the exercise. Point your feet slightly outward, not straight ahead.
Looking straight ahead, keep your back straight and bend at your knees, keeping your heels on the floor. Make sure that you get your quads parallel to the ground, for the full range of motion.
Lower yourself in a controlled manner down and back so that your upper legs are about parallel with the floor. Do not extend below parallel. Keep the weight distributed on your upper thighs and the heels or balls of your feet, not on your toes nor your knees.
Lift back up, pushing up off your heels. Keep the upper body tight at all times.
 If you're ready for a real challenge, overhead squats fit the bill. If you're not up to heavy weights yet, stick with an unloaded bar or very light weights. Remember to keep your body as vertical as possible -- neither leaning forward nor backward -- for the best results.









Using a wide snatch grip, lift the bar overhead with your elbows locked.
Push your shoulder blades together, and keep your core tight.
Looking straight ahead, keep your back straight and bend at your knees, keeping your heels on the floor.
Pull in your abs, and keep your lower back in a nearly neutral position (a slightly arched back might be unavoidable).
Lower yourself in a controlled manner down and back so that your upper legs are nearly parallel with the floor. Keep your shoulder back, and the weight over your heels at all times.
Lift back up, pushing up off your heels. Keep the upper body tight at all times.
 Get into lunge form with your lower body, with one leg a foot in front, knee bent, and the other leg extended behind you. Then...









Keep your spine straight.
Lower your hips down to the ground so your back knee touches.
Keep your front knee bent at 90-degrees.
Push back up off your front heel, keeping your back straight up.
Repeat with the opposite leg.
 Lower the bar an extra inch or so, then keep your normal squat form. This activates your quads more than your hamstrings. These are often known as "low-grip" squats.









You can also extend your arms much lower behind you, grip the bar around your knees. From there, you keep your form the exact same -- however your arms stay low and the weight touches the floor between each rep.