 If you’re getting credit card offers in the mail, you might be eligible for an unsecured card. You might also be ready for an unsecured card if your card issuer is raising your limits but isn’t asking for more deposits. Finally, the most obvious sign that you’re ready for an unsecured card is being asked by your secured card issuer if you want to transition to an unsecured card., This will save both your time and your credit card company’s.


You are entitled to three credit reports each year, one from each of the three major credit rating agencies (Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion).Visit https://www.annualcreditreport.com/index.action to access your free credit reports.
Normally, to get the best sense of how your credit report is changing over time, you should get one report every four months, so you have an equal amount of space between each report. However, when applying for an unsecured credit card, you should try to see all three credit reports right before applying to ensure they are accurate.The reports may vary slightly in their evaluation of your creditworthiness due to their differing criteria. Most credit card companies will only issue you a credit card if your credit score on all three reports is above 650.Always check your credit report for errors and report them immediately to the credit reporting agency.
 The FICO score, unlike the free credit reports, can only be obtained by paying a $20 fee. With a FICO score of 680 or above, you'll be a shoo-in for an unsecured credit card.


You may also want to check your VantageScore as well. This is a credit scoring offered by the three major credit rating agencies and is an alternative to your FICO score. You can check your score for free online through a number of sites, found here: https://www.vantagescore.com/free., You will probably need at least a year of good financial behavior and careful credit-building before you’re able to obtain an unsecured credit card.If your credit was really bad, you might need to wait 18 to 24 months to obtain an unsecured card.Don’t apply for a credit card too soon. If you apply too often or too soon for an unsecured credit card, you’ll hurt your credit score and reduce your chances of switching from a secured to an unsecured card even further.