 Get a good-quality camera if you want to take good-quality photos. There are a number of excellent digital brands. Among them are Nikon, Canon, Olympus, Mamiya, and Hasselblad. There are many good brands of point-and-shoot (automatic) cameras as well. If you are doing this just for fun, use your phone's camera or anything else available.;
, This allows close focus and highly detailed pictures. Showing texture is a good way to flatter food.
 This is a crucial step. Pictures with dim lighting will look glum. Too bright, and you'll hurt your viewer's eyes, and the food won't look its best. Some cameras actually have a specific "food" setting.


Use flash selectively, as it can give your photo a bright, polished look but can appear harsh, too. Flash photography often fails to show food to its best effect. Remember that if you are taking a picture with flash, objects like bowls, plates, and cups will likely show a glare. Shadows may result, too, which may not be desirable. If you want a professional picture, use diffused (reflected) light. Try different exposures for a change in light level.
The best food photography is achieved in a studio using bright but diffused lighting. In the absence of a studio, an open, well-lit room will do. The object is to capture every detail of the food, and light is the key.
Avoid direct sunlight or any light that casts shadows, which can make food look less natural, less appealing. Use a light reflector to achieve a generalized and bright look. One exception is using a spotlight while trying for a reflected glare on a curved surface (such as fruit). Shadowing may be desirable if it's used to emphasize the curve of some surfaces.
A good shooting location is near a window that admits indirect sunlight.
Lighting should complement food colors. Study your camera's ability to affect "white balance" in showing a particular color to best effect.
Shadow can be used to emphasize angled surfaces (such as with pineapples).
Photographing liquids can be tricky because of surface reflections. Place lighting and the camera in such a way as not to let lights reflect off the liquid.
 For instance, if you are at a restaurant and are taking a picture of your meal but don't want tables and people in the background, use a table cloth or napkin to hold behind the food you are photographing.
 Use a watermelon like a cloud and raisins falling like rain. The more interesting and creative the photo is, the more views you will get.
 Use different fruits, vegetables, pastas, etc. Photographing foreign foods might lend more interest. Everyone has seen an apple, but many have never seen dragon fruit.
 The subject of your photo doesn't have to be right in the center. In fact, there's such a thing as the "rule of thirds." Divide the picture with two horizontal and two vertical lines forming an imaginary grid of nine sections. The idea is to place photo subjects at any of the line intersections, thereby creating a more interesting composition.


You don't have to include the entire subject within your frame. You can take an extreme close-up for an interesting effect. Just don't get so close that the viewer can't tell what the subject is.
Use creative focus. Varying the camera's focal length will allow you to place certain objects in a softer focus in order to emphasize whatever remains in sharp focus.
 Shooting angles can be selected for different effects. Shapes, sizes, surfaces, textures and shading will all change with the angle used. Experiment by shooting anywhere from directly overhead to slightly below the subject. Take shots from the front, rear and various side angles. Keep looking for interesting ways to show off the food. Round objects can be shown to good effect from directly overhead. Experiment until you find the angle that shows off the subject's natural appeal.
 You may want to begin with the "auto" settings for ISO, shutter speed and aperture size. Going manual with any of these settings can lead to interesting and gratifying results. Experimenting with depth of focus (aperture size) can lead to especially eye-catching effects. Don't be afraid to try new things. You may surprise yourself!

, Make it look perfect! Choose clean, unblemished fruit and vegetables (unless you're trying for a particular effect). Be prepared to spray (mist) the food with a 50/50 mixture of water and glycerine to give the food a desirable, moist look if it dries out during shooting. Steam coming off hot food will add to its attractiveness. Hot food in particular will tend to slump or fall apart as it cools. Working fast will help to preserve food's fresh look during a photo shoot.
 Napkins, silverware, cups and plates, even a menu, are all good props to include in your pictures. They add visual interest and lend authenticity and a "lived-in" look.
 The right glasses, cups, mugs, decanters, and bowls can add greatly to the success of your photos.
 Increase your chances of ending up with attractive, enticing pictures by snapping a lot of them from various angles and distances.
 Experiment! Make the background blurry and the food crisp or vice versa. Strive for something you would love to look at (like a painting). This is the time to fix any problems with lighting or exposure levels.
 Set the table, and photograph the food. Add drinks. Add a complementary (or otherwise) background. The possibilities are endless.
 Learn from your mistakes. Keep taking photos. Your results will improve with every shoot.

