 You may be stressed due to a poor ability to stay organized, stay on task, or prioritize assignments. Examine your work habits and find ways to improve before complaining about your workload to your supervisor.If you work on a computer, avoid getting distracted by the internet. You can put extensions on your internet browsers that will limit your access to distracting websites to a predetermined amount of time.
Make sure you are prioritizing tasks in order of importance. If you are not sure what should be done first, ask your supervisor. You could say, “Right now I’m working on this project. Should I finish it or start this new assignment?”
Delegate responsibility if you are able. If you supervise employees, for example, ask them to help you with parts of the project.
 Feeling overwhelmed with work can be a major source of workplace stress. Know your limits and try not to take on more work than you can handle.You may even feel stressed if you feel like your skills are not equivalent to your responsibilities. In this case, seeking additional training may be a good way to make your workload more manageable. Discuss any concerns with your supervisor.


Alert your supervisor if you’ve been given too much work. Let them know you are feeling overwhelmed and ask for suggestions as to how you can prioritize. Are there any projects that can go on the back burner for the time being?You could say, “Mike, I appreciate being a valued member of the team, but I am drowning in all this work right now. I’m working late and not seeing my kids. What can we do to make this workload easier to manage?”
You may need to lower your standards. If the quantity seems more valued than the quality at your workplace, consider spending less time with each assignment you are given.If you are unable to cope with demands of the work, it might be time to look for another job. Sometimes letting your supervisor know you are overwhelmed will not change anything. If that’s the case, you may want to dust off your resume., If you find stress from your personal life creeping into your work life, be upfront with your supervisor without going into too many details. A good supervisor will likely appreciate know what is going on.Talk to your supervisor in private. Let your supervisor know what’s up, and what you will need to do to solve the problem. You could say, “I just wanted to let you know that I’ve got some issues I am dealing with at home. I am dealing with it, but there may be a few days when I need to come in late next week.”
Keep in mind that, while you are not obligated to disclose health information, you may need to be a bit more forthcoming if you are dealing with ongoing health problems. For example, you might say, “I’ve been told by my doctor that I am going to need surgery. Therefore, there are going to be a few days next month I will be out. I’ll let you know as soon as I can.”

, Avoid going out for fast food over lunch, and pack a healthy lunch instead. You’ll save money as well as improve your health. Putting healthy food in your body will help better regulate your moods and manage stress.Pack a salad in a jar filled with vegetables and protein to get a big serving of veggies and help you avoid the late-afternoon sugar cravings.
Make healthy snack choices if you need a bite to eat. Consider almonds, cheese sticks, or vegetables with hummus.
Avoid foods that send your blood sugar soaring and then crashing, like sugary treats and refined carbohydrates. You will feel even worse.
Coffee and caffeinated beverages are a mainstay of the office, but too much can leave you feeling anxious and stressed. Limit your intake.
Drink plenty of water during your workday.
 Take regular exercise breaks during the day in order to help de-stress. Not only is this good for your physical health, it is good for your mental health as well.If you work a sedentary/desk job, get up from your desk at regular intervals to walk around for a few minutes. It will help you refocus and feel more energized and productive.
Take a walk during your lunch break, or if you can, get a quick workout in.
 Make sure you are getting to bed at a reasonable hour. Sleep deprivation makes emotional regulation more difficult, causing increased irritability and stress.Aim to get between 7-9 hours of sleep a night.
Do something relaxing before bed. Avoid catching up on work email or anything stressful. Try reading for pleasure, taking a bath, or drinking chamomile tea.
Avoid screens an hour before bedtime. The glow from the screen can stimulate wakefulness, making it harder to fall asleep.

