 Watch out if the contractor in question's bid was far below all of the others. This is a sure sign that the contractor is either unfamiliar with the work in question (and therefore also probably new to the work), or has underbid on purpose because he intends to have cost over-runs later. Another play on this theme is if the contractor offers a great bargain in order to use "your project" as an example, such as featuring it on a website or in a brochure.;
, Beware the contractor who has questionable or no references and or no fixed business address. Always ask for references; if the contractor does good work, he will have many, many examples of this through his references. Any contractor that does not have a fixed business address could be a fly-by-night operation. If you are suspicious of any address provided, turn up to see if it exists before you sign up.
 Be very cautious when the contractor does not want to go through the formalities of signing a contract. When you are doing any major work, a contract that spells out what the scope of work is, and what the contractor's responsibilities are, is standard business practice and any person who does not want to follow that is suspect.
 When you get a bad feeling, trust your gut feeling; the guy who seems like a sleazy sales man probably is. High pressure sales tactics such as "This price is only valid until I walk out of that door, you have to sign this right now..." are a very bad sign. If you feel hassled, pushed, intimidated or bullied, this isn't the contractor for you.
 Be very cautious of the contractor who uses scary scenarios to get you to buy more expensive options or more extensive work than what you initially wanted. If problems are uncovered during a project, they should be obvious. Like a doctor, you can always get a second opinion.
 Use the internet to learn as much as possible about the product or services that you want for your home or garden. If you are fairly knowledgeable about the product or service, you will be familiar with the lingo, you will be able to ask pertinent questions, and it will be clear to the contractor that you know what you want and this will scare off a bad contractor or can lead them to say things that you know are wrong or poorly informed.
 The best way to find a good contractor is to ask your friends, family or neighbors. More often then not, they have used somebody with a good result. Be extremely wary of the guy who pulls up in front of your house out of the blue and tells you that you need a new roof (or something else). Best to tell that person to be on his way. Additionally, many locations require contractors to have licenses. If you live in one of those locations, it is perfectly reasonable to ask for a copy of the contractors license and insurance certificate. No show, no go.
 If you have fired a contractor who you provided a key to access your home, change your locks as soon as possible. Best to leave temptation at the door rather than let it through.

