 If you can identify what is causing your bad credit, you may be able to take control over it. In some cases, people fall behind on their credit because of things happening in their personal lives.

If you spend more than you make each month, you will need to stick to a monthly budget so that you can start paying off debt and increasing your credit score.
Sometimes unpredictable life events happen. Losing your job or getting sick can cause you to rely heavily on credit while spending your savings. Creditors are often willing to work with people experiencing hardship. Eliminate unnecessary spending, renegotiate your debt, and ask family for support.
 Write down everything that you buy in a month. This includes food, drinks, entertainments (such movie tickets and video games), restaurant bills, clothing, and other products. Tally up how much you spend on these, and look for ways to reduce unnecessary spending.

For example, try not to buy new clothes unless you need them. You can buy clothing on sale or go to a second-hand clothing store for deals.
 A budget will help you determine exactly how much money you can spend a money while still saving and paying off your debt. You should write down all of your expenses, such as rent, bills, utilities, entertainment, gas, and food. Look for areas where you can reduce your spending so that you can save more money.

Your budget should include how much each month you plan to save. Set this money in your savings account when you first get paid. You should do the same for credit card statements and debts.
 A reputable credit counseling service can do wonders for your financial well-being. They offer a variety of services, including budgeting and money management classes, but one of the most useful is debt consolidation through debt management.Debt consolidation is a process by which the credit counseling service collects a complete statement of all of your debts. They contact your creditors and work out a payment plan. You pay the credit counseling service, and they distribute the payment to your creditors at an agreed-upon rate. For many people, it is an effective way to bring accounts current and climb out of debt.

The National Federation for Credit Counseling is a non-profit association of reputable credit counseling agencies.
 You may be able to negotiate with your creditors on a new payment plan. This might be one with new monthly payments or lower interest. You may be able to offer them a lump-sum payment for part of the debt in exchange for forgiving your late fees. Reach out to your creditors to see if they are willing to negotiate.

Explain to your creditors any hardship in your life that might affect your ability to pay. For example, unemployment, hefty medical bills, or a death in the family may convince them to help you out.
Talk to them calmly. Do not demand things or yell at the creditor.
Once you arrive at an agreement, ask for a copy in writing from them.