 It will probably touch her heart if you buy your girlfriend something sentimental.


For example, you could buy her something that represents how you met! That's probably not going to be too over-the-top, but it will convey that you are someone who's thoughtful and pays attention to details (and that you're happy you met her).
Maybe you met in a coffee shop; get her a mug from there.Maybe you met her in a bookstore. Get her a book from the section she was in when you first saw her.
The point of such a gift is to show you care without being too romantic because it's early on. The benefit of such an approach is that it's just a coffee cup! Yet, it also has a deeper meaning.;
, Roses are probably too romantic for a new relationship, and they're kind of a cliche anyway.


You could look up the meanings behind other flowers. Send her a bouquet with a card that says, "Did you know calla lilies are said to symbolize magnificence and beauty? Happy birthday, and I just wanted you to know I'm glad we met, and I hope you have a nice day today!"Other flower meanings would work too. Daffodils would be a great choice because the yellow flowers symbolize new beginnings! It will up the romance if you have the flowers delivered.
Purple irises symbolize eloquence. Gladiolus symbolize strength of character. The goal here is to match the flower to something about her that you admire, and let her know the meaning.
 You want to make an impression when a relationship is new. It would be a mistake to ignore her birthday because most people appreciate being remembered.


However, you want to put some thought into it without seeming like you are getting too serious too fast. So avoid cliches. That means you should forget the box of chocolates.
It also means that you can bypass the cheap bouquet of wilted roses at the local grocery store.Instead, strive for something that shows you've noticed her uniqueness, and you're a person who is thoughtful. That will make the best impression.
 She might appreciate your effort, even if you're not really a very good baker!


Alternatively, you could buy her a cake with a creative saying on it that will have some meaning to her.
You could also keep it lighter by making or buying a cupcake for her. Many communities have specialty cupcake stores. Buy her a creative flavor.
Most people appreciate having a cake on their birthday, so she will probably appreciate the effort and, if you actually made it, and it's not perfect, she might even laugh (in a goodhearted way) and find it endearing.
 The goal here isn't to spend too much money, but to show you've put some thought into it.


You could buy her a pair of fluffy slippers, or a new iPhone case in a color that you know she likes. If she drinks, you could buy her a nice bottle of wine, and read up on the winery, so you explain why you picked that brand.
Avoid buying her clothing if you've just met. It can be very perilous to try to guess women's sizes!
Buy her nice stationary, or a print you got at a local art fair. A good rule of thumb is to spend between $15 and $50 for a first gift. Spending more than $100 might make it seem like you are trying too hard to impress., This should be one you actually put together yourself. Inside it, place inexpensive items that are things you know she likes.


If she likes Snickers, for example, put some in there. Ditto with Cherry Coke. Or funny socks. Add in a book you know she would like, and a couple movie tickets if she likes those.
You could include a small stuffed animal (depending on her age; that works better if she's under 25).
Put mostly food items in the gift basket or other things that relate to things she likes to do. If she loves golfing, you could include a new set of golf balls, for example!