 Lay out all of your makeup and look at it with a critical eye. Think about what items you never use, or are used up. You don’t need old, dried out mascara, or that sparkly green eyeliner you loved four years ago. Throw out items that you don’t use anymore., Take your lipsticks and organize them by color. Put all the reds together, all the pinks together, all the purples together, etc. This will make it easy to find the shade you want if you are in a hurry, and don't have time to look at each individual lipstick carefully., Separate your liquid, gel and pencil eyeliners. If you have a large collection of eyeliners, you can also make subcategories according to color. For instance, you can put all brown liquid eyeliners to one side and all black liquid eyeliners to another.
 Take your eye shadows and split them into different groups. You can organize them by color, but you can also divide them between brights and neutrals, or between mattes and shimmer eye shadows. In general, organizing them by color tends to be the most practical, but do what works best for you and your individual collection.If you’ve put your eye shadows into a magnetic palette, you can rearrange them as you see fit.
 These aren’t products that you want to get rid of, but they may be things like black lipstick or orange eye shadow that you use occasionally for only specific or dramatic looks. Put these products in a box or plastic bag and store them in a drawer or closet, or move them to the back of your organizer. You don’t want them to take up space, and there is no point in displaying them prominently if you almost never use them.
 If you are a professional makeup artist, you probably have the entire collection of some makeup brands. Make subcategories of brand as you are organizing.


For example, still categorize by type of makeup, but put all Mac lipsticks together, all Urban Decay lipsticks together, all Clinique lipsticks together, etc.
Your clients often will want their makeup done using one brand. If you also categorize by brand, this will help you find the products your client wants to use.

