 Rock will be unyielding, obviously, so this technique will not work, and silty, muddy material will not support the pier structure. Sandy material is ideal for jetting pilings, but any firm soil will allow jetting.;
, These need to be chemically treated to resist rot, usually with sodium pentachloride at .25%, copper-chlorinated arsenate, at .25%, or creosote. You will need the pilings to be large enough to attach your support joists to, and long enough to allow them to be sunk deep enough in the round to bear the weight you will be putting on them. Because you will achieve a different load bearing in different bottom materials, there is no rule of thumb for how deep the piling should be installed, but a minimum of four feet would be reasonable if the piling seems "tight", or secure. Try for 6' deep in the sand. Mark the piles with spray paint at 12" intervals so you know the depth of penetration. 6" to 8" diameter piles are used for small (up to 10,000 lb.) watercraft docks.
 An alternative to the pump may be connecting to a fire hydrant, if your local utility will allow you to do so, but a back flow preventer must be used in this case.
 Depending on the depth of the pile jetting, this will be a 6' to 12' section of 3/4" pipe with an elbow at one end to attach your pump discharge hose. That will supply water for jetting. Connect a reducing bushing or flatten the other end. That will be your "jet", providing a stream of water to wash and blow out a hole for the piling to set into.
 Tie a length of builder's line from the stake on shore to the stake in the water, and measure the distance from piling to piling, marking them with a permanent marker. The string line should be about the height above water you will want the top of the pilings to be when they are set. Set out the offset from other pilings with a 45 degree plastic square, and cut to length bamboo poles snap-tied to it.
 The water rushing through the jet pipe will "blow out" a hole underneath the piling, and it should immediately begin to sink. By moving the jetting pipe around the bottom of the piling, you can guide the direction that the hole is created underneath it. By moving the jet from one side of the piling to the other, you can "steer" it down straight. In good material, such as sand, you can jet down a piling in a few seconds, provided you have sufficient water pressure and velocity. The sand is seldom clean and can contain roots, mud etc. so use a 6' ice scraper to break through. Roots can cause piles to seat off their desired location. The pilings float so you may need to push them down to obtain better depth (see tips below). 12'x 6" or 16'x 6" pilings can be stood up easily by one or two persons. Up to a 12'x 8" dia. piling can be installed with two people. Larger piles need a crane as they weigh 500 lbs (20' x 8"dia.). A crane can be built simply with a 24' pontoon boat, 2" steel water pipe, steel cable and a 12v car winch. The design and manufacture would have to be checked for safety before using it. When using a crane you need one person jetting, one guiding the pile and digging and a crane operator. Try to work when the water is calm. However if the pile is out of line, it is easy to jet it out and put it in the correct position. It is possible to install 10 or more piles per day depending on factors such as depth required, bottom make up, sufficient help handling pilings, etc.. Protective wet suit pants, boots and gloves should be used to prevent abrasion loss of skin especially when you have been in the water for some time.
 Once the settling occurs, it will be difficult to change the orientation of the piling.
 This may not be necessary in sand as it settles back in the hole pretty quickly.

