 Much like the automated device test, the doppler method requires you to choose a location to place the cuff. You can measure a dog's blood pressure on either its right front forearm, the outside of its right hind leg, or the base of the tail., Whichever site you choose to take a measurement, you'll need to trim some of your dog's fur to get a more accurate reading. You shouldn't have to shave the fur, but you will need to carefully trim it down as short as you can safely get it without accidentally cutting your dog.If you're using the right front forearm, trim the fur over the palmar metacarpal artery (just above the joint that hinges and leads to the paw, or the equivalent of an elbow).
If you're using the right hind leg, trim the fur over the plantar metacarpals (the outside of the equivalent to a shin).
For both the front and hind legs, you'll need to trim the fur under the paw (which is where the Doppler will be applied). You can use either paw, but the fur must be trimmed down between the pads of the paw.If using the base of the tail, trim the fur over the underside of the tail.
 Once you've trimmed the fur, you're ready to attach the cuff to your dog's appendage. The cuff should be attached snugly and in place around the chosen appendage. It should not be too tight, but it should be snug enough that you cannot slide a finger under the cuff.Connect the cuff to the sphygmomanometer to the cuff. Its base reading should show a pressure of 0 mm Hg.
 You will need to use acoustic gel with a Doppler probe. Acoustic gel is essentially the same gel used by doctors to perform an ultrasound.The acoustic gel should be applied to the concave side of the Doppler probe, as this is the surface that will be placed against the skin.
Once the gel has been applied, press the probe firmly against the skin above the chosen artery.
 With the cuff and Doppler probe in place, you're ready to take a reading. The Doppler probe works by inflating the cuff until blood flow is restricted in your dog's artery, then measuring the pressure at which blood flow is audible again.The limb should be held approximately level with the dog's heart. This should be roughly at chest level if the dog is lying on its side.
Inflate the cuff to about 20 mm Hg higher than the anticipated systolic blood pressure. You should not hear any whooshing sounds (arterial pulsations) at this pressure.
Let the cuff slowly deflate and mark down the pressure at which you can hear the whooshing sounds again. This figure is the systolic arterial blood pressure.

