 If the clog you are trying to dislodge is not disrupted by chemicals, then you will need to use a snake to get rid of it. This requires that you detach the hose from the machine so you can get the snake down it.The drainage hose meets the machine at the back of your washing machine. There should be a clamp that attaches the two where you can use a screw driver to detach them.
Remember that some water will likely come out of the machine and the hose when you detach the hose, so have a bucket and some towels ready. This is especially true if the drain is so clogged that there is standing water in the machine.
 Once you have the drain pipe free, you can insert the snake down into it. A snake is a tool the consists of a long, sturdy wire that goes down a pipe and a handle at the end that rotates it. The key is to push the snake down the pipe and feel for clogs as you go. Once you feel resistance, you should turn the handle clockwise on the snake to rotate it in the pipe so it grabs any clogging debris.There are several lengths of snakes to choose from. Medium-length snakes that are about 50 to 75 feet (15 to 23 m) long tend to work well for home owners working on a variety of clogs, as they can get clogs pretty far down a pipe but they are easier to work with than longer, bigger snakes.
 It may take several turns of the handle on the snake to get a clogged area attached to the snake. Once you have turned it several times, pull the snake out and clean off all debris. Then insert the snake again to clear out any additional debris. You may also want to push the snake further down the drain after you clear one area, just to make sure there are not other clogged spots.As you turn the handle you may want to move the snake a little in and out of the pipe. This will help the snake to grab onto any debris in the pipe and pull it free.
Once you think you have the drain clear, pull the snake out of the pipe. To check that the clog is gone, you can pour water down it before reattaching it to your washing machine.
 Once you are sure that the clog is gone you should reattach the hose to the machine. Be sure to attach the drainage hose to the machine really well, as this is a spot that tends to leak on a washing machine.Fill the washing machine and drain it with no clothes in it to make sure you fixed the drainage issue. You should also look at the connection point between the machine and the drainage hose for any leaks.

