 When tracing your feet, it's not necessary to go in between your toes. Just trace the outline of what your feet look like. The two feet will be glued together to form the turkey's body.Trace both your left and right foot.

You can create the turkey body out of any color you want, but brown is the most commonly used and will resemble the look of a turkey the most.;
, Use whatever colors you like the best, and use a pencil or pen to trace around your fingers. Repeat this process on different colored paper to create all of the feathers for your turkey.You can use one or both hands for this step.

Trace in between your fingers and around your thumb.
 Cut around the trace of your hands and feet and set the pieces to the side as you move onto the next one. Be careful when cutting and use child safe scissors if you are younger., Line up both of your cutouts so that your heels overlap each other, but so that the toes of your cutout go out at a 30-degree angle. This should make it look like a single cutout with one neck and head, and two bumps that represent the turkey's stomach.

You can use liquid glue or a glue stick.
 Arrange the hands behind the turkey to get a feeling for what it will look like once it's done. Stack your traced out hands on an angle and glue them together so that the feathers look like they are spread out. Once your hands are glued together, take them and glue them to the back of your turkey's body.Center the hands on the back of your turkey's body, so that they come rising from behind your turkey's head or the heel of your cutout., Use orange and red construction paper. You can either create an outline for these features and then cut them out, or you can just cut out a triangle and round teardrop free hand.

Use orange construction paper to create the beak for your turkey.
Use red construction paper for the wattle of the turkey.
 You can purchase googly eyes at most arts and craft or department stores. If you don't have googly eyes, you can draw eyes onto the top of your turkey's body to emulate them., Glue the rest of your pieces onto the turkey's face. If you've run out of construction paper for the turkey's features, you can draw them on with a pencil or pen. The beak should be pasted under the eyes, and the wattle should go right under the beak. Once the glue dries, your project is finished.