 While the console is off, press and hold the "left arrow", "right arrow" and "Sound" buttons simultaneously. While still holding them, press and release the "Power" button. Then release other buttons. All segments on the display of your console will come on. Your console is in the test mode now;;
, Press the "Start" button five times. After the first pressing, the display will go out, the four other pressings will reveal different display patterns composed from segments. Press "left arrow" to hear the sound "choose". Press "right arrow" to hear "cuckoo". Press "Power" to hear "one". Press "Sound" to hear "two". Press "Start" to hear "three". Press "Select" to hear "four". Press "round" button to hear "five". Press "square" button to hear "cancel". Press any other button to exit the test mode and turn off the console. Any other button outside this sequence will make the console emit a beep and do nothing;

, Repeat step 1 to enter test mode. Press "Select" and the console will start ringing with all segments still on. Press "Select" again and the console will stop ringing and start playing all sound samples stored in its mask ROM in sequence with all segments still on. You'll be amazed how many sounds are stored in the ROM of such a cheap device! After that, the console will leave the test mode and turn off automatically;

, To use this bug, start game 1, then place the ladder into the middle of the playfield, then place Pooh on the top of the ladder and automatic gameplay will begin. Bees are unable to reach the middle of playfield and bite Pooh, so you can now just relax and watch the score and play speed grow without pressing the buttons (they will increase not very fast since when the ladder is not moved, the middle beehive will drop honey not as often). The console, however, turns itself off automatically if buttons are not pressed for four minutes. Therefore you have to pause and unpause the game every three minutes. If you wish, you can build a circuit that pauses and then rapidly un-pauses the game every three minutes by imitating pressing the "Start" button with a reed relay to make the gameplay completely automatic. Why not design such a circuit yourself? Also note that score and pot counters are overflow protected. The score counter stops counting after reaching 990, while the pot counter stops counting after reaching 99. Then the game continues at maximum speed infinitely.
