 The tour is different for every site, but the basics are the same.


It tells you how to vote, how to write a good question and basically how to navigate the site.
This is the first step to ensuring you have a great post, because it helps you understand the tools.;
, The site will give the criteria for a good question or answer, read this. These are important for your success.


The criteria will normally be under the Help Center button and have a large amount of question that will answer most of your questions about how to write a good post.
If this doesn't answer everything, don't hesitate asking a moderator or another person on the site.
 Every other step until now has been preparation for the post. The content of the post really depends on you and what you have to add or ask.


Prepare your question or answer. Make sure it isn't a duplicate by searching the site and comparing the other questions and answers.
Do some serious research. Research your post and see if there is anything that you are missing that will make your argument more probable and compelling.
Edit your post. First impressions count, if the post is sloppy that could be the difference between a upvote or a downvote. Make sure you have proper spelling and punctuation.
Make sure the post is properly tagged if it is a question.
 This may seem silly, but someone looking over your post before submission can help shape it up. Beta reading is important to writers everywhere.
 This is the last step, post the post and wait for the feedback.


Sometimes there is no feedback and sometimes it takes time for the post to get positive feedback.
 This should be on top of the main page in the Right hand corner of the Screen.
 Make sure it grabs the attention of people and summarizes the Question.
 Make sure it is well-researched and follow the criteria set above. Make use of the Tool-bar.


Take any external links and hyper-link them. This gives your article a clean look.
Make any important statements in bold and make use of the Italics button if necessary to set some statements apart.
Add any images that support your statement and quote outside sources for support as well.
, Good Luck!

,


Browse questions that need a answer or questions that you have interest for.
Pick a question that you can answer and that you can add content to that no other answer added.
 This may require you to go to other sites, but you have to have support for your answer.


Link external links with hyper-links and use the quote button to quote article pieces that you found pertinent to your answer.
Always show people where you got your info from, never use a source and not show the link. This could be seen as a form of plagiarism.
 Make sure the answer answers the question and edit any wrong punctuation or spellings

, When you are ready you can do this. Good Luck!

