 The right pair of jeans can seemingly transform your butt, making it appear round and perky. Consider the following next time you buy a pair of jeans:


Pick the right fit for your body type. If you have a slim waist, try a pant that will hug your waist, such as skinny jeans or a tight-fitting bootcut. If your waist is smaller than your hips, wear low-rise jeans (that hit at the widest part of your hips) with a fitted shirt.
If you have a thicker waistline, try wearing high-waisted jeans. The top of the pants should fit around the slimmest part of your waist, making it look small and your butt appear bigger.
Look at pocket placement. Small, high back pockets will make your butt appear larger. Additionally, pockets with embellishments such as sequins, stitching, or colored thread can add more interest and "direct traffic" (or draw the eye) to your rear. Avoid jeans with big pockets or no pockets at all.
Avoid dark wash jeans, which will make your legs and rear look smaller (especially if you're wearing a light-colored top). Instead, try white, pastel, or light blue jeans.
 Emphasizing a small waist will make your bottom look bigger by proportion. Whether your tummy is tiny or not, try these tips to trick the eye:


Wear a belt over your waist. Find a medium to large width belt, and tie it around the tiniest part of your waist, over whatever shirt you're wearing. (This looks best over button-down shirts, sweaters, or loose blouses.) For extra emphasis, try using a dark-colored belt over a light shirt.
Try a girdle. If you have a little more girth than you'd like around your middle, try a girdle. It should push the excess from your tummy down around your hips and butt. Girdles can be found at most department or lingerie stores.
Don't wear horizontal stripes or patterns around your waist. Busy fabrics or colors will emphasize your tummy and make it look bigger. Instead, stick to dark, solid colors on top.
 Heels change the natural curve of your spine, causing both your butt and your boobs to protrude more.


Avoid wearing heels for longer than two or three hours at a time. This will reduce the strain on your body.
For an extra-lifted rear end, ditch the kitten heels and go for stilettos.
If you're unsure that this works, get in front of a mirror and stand up on your tiptoes (it will help). Take a few steps, and you'll notice how the movements of your legs and rear are a little more exaggerated. Your legs should also look more toned, and your butt should appear to be an inch or two higher.

