 Exercising before work can help boost energy levels and help keep you healthy.Finding and planning a healthy diet plan will also help keep you alert and well.


Don't exercise before sleep, as it boosts energy levels.
Don't eat right before you go to sleep.
Plan your meal times.
Eat a light snack if you need quick energy at night. Whole grains are a good option.Try to avoid sugary snacks as they may give you a boost, but then leave you even more tired after the effects subside.;
, Keep in mind that you will still have responsibilities and relationships to maintain, some of which might require your attention during the day. Create your schedule so that you still have time for other important aspects of your life.


Make time to spend with family and friends.
Make sure you leave enough time for errands, such as grocery shopping or going to the bank.
Take note of which stores and services are open only during the day and which are open at night.
If you have trouble scheduling something, ask a friend or family to help take care of these day time tasks.
There is no best schedule, you will have to find what works for you.
 This can help to wake you up and improve mental focus. When you return home, relax and have a tea that helps you to sleep such as lavenderor chamomile.


Stop taking caffeine at least six hours before sleep Ask your doctor before using any pharmaceutical sleep aids

, The night shift has been known to cause some health problems for those who work it. If you notice any of the following symptoms or issues, consider seeing a doctor or making a change in your work/life scheduling:


Reduction of quality or amount of sleep.
Constant fatigue
Anxiety or depression

, Let your family know about your needs. Inform them of your sleeping schedule and ask them to please not disturb you during those hours. Don't forget, you also need quality time with friends and family, and should schedule that time into your day.


Ask them to please be as quiet as they can during the time you are sleeping.
Always set aside time spend with family and friends.
Being social can help combat the effects of loneliness that can come with a night shift.

