 If you're trying to beat a friend, then you need to build a team specifically created to counter theirs. If you're trying to make a team for competitive battling, then you need to make one that can stand up to the top Pokémon. If you're just bored, or you want to do it for the sake of having a team, then consider sticking to your favorite Pokémon.
 You may want to use a site like Serebii.net, Bulbapedia, or Smogon. If you cannot obtain the Pokémon you desire in your version, use the GTS in Jubilife City to trade for them. Unsatisfactory stats or moves of the Pokémon you traded for can be solved with breeding once you are done planning everything out.

Remember that to breed with a male Pokémon and keep the same species, the female needs to be replaced with a Ditto.
 If you're trying to beat a friend, then try to use Pokémon whose types are super-effective against his/hers. Also try to make strategies that can counter your friend's. For example, if his main Pokémon is a Snorlax who tanks (can take many hits while dealing damage to your team and healing itself with Rest): consider "Sub-Punching" it. Put up a Substitute, and then use Focus Punch the next turn.

All teams should have a high type variety, usually with no more than two Pokémon of the same type. This not only means mixing types, but also physical and special users as well. However, if you plan on Baton Passing Nasty Plot or Swords Dance, having more of one type of attack than the other will broaden your options a bit.
It's also a good idea to keep some Pokémon on your team that are not designed for attacking, but instead for healing other Pokémon or taking many hits. This is called "stalling."
If you aren't battling competitively, you don't have to be so selective, but it is a good thing to keep in mind, and your Pokémon team will be far stronger because of it!

, Some teams may be based around a single mechanic, like weather, Trick Room, or Tailwind. If you're going to go this route, your team should have many Pokémon that can take advantage of that effect. Be sure to include Pokémon that can balance out any weaknesses and one or two who can set up the field condition., This is essential for a competitive team. A core is two or three Pokémon whose strengths and weaknesses complement each other and who can switch in to each other's counters., Natures will decrease one stat by 10%, while increasing another by 10%. It's important to have one that will increase a stat that is important to that Pokémon, while decreasing a less important stat, like Special Attack for physical attackers.