 After you get your Bachelor’s Degree in Accounting, you can go forward to earn a Master’s in Accounting. Another option is a Master of Business Administration (MBA). The degree you choose depends on your career goals. Many accounting firms and businesses prefer applicants with graduate degrees.If you are interested in eventually getting a leadership position and want a broader focus than just accounting, then an MBA might be right for you.
If you have strong technical skills, then the Master’s in Accounting might be the way to go.
 The CMA certification is the top tier certification for corporate accounting. It is similar to the Certified Public Accountant (CPA) certification in public accounting. CMAs work on financial analysis, organizational performance measurement, budgeting and strategic assessment of a company.Candidates must pass an exam with four major components: Business Analysis, Management Accounting and Reporting, Strategic Management and Business Application.
In addition to passing the exam, you must already have a bachelor’s degree, have at least two years of professional experience and be a member of the Institute of Management Accounting (IMA).
CMA’s must complete 30 hours of continuing professional education annually.
 Acquiring additional accounting certifications offers you many benefits. For example, it makes you a more attractive candidate in a competitive job market. Also, if you are ever laid off from a position, having additional certifications opens many doors when looking for a new job. In addition, accounting certifications boost your salary and bonuses. You can also choose from several other certifications.A Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) evaluates a company’s accounting practices to ensure that they are compliant with all regulations.A Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE) investigates, identifies and prevents financial crime and fraud.A Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) audits a company’s information systems to review systems controls, data integrity, operational procedures and security.A Certified Bank Auditor (CBA) enforces bank laws and regulations.