 You need to be someone that people want to fall in love with if you want someone to fall in love with you. If you are a wonderful person, you will find that people will fall for you naturally.


Take good care of your body. Practice good diet and exercise, proper hygiene, and wear clean clothing that isn’t full of holes or stained.
Do something with your life. Don’t just sit around watching television, or sitting in front of the computer! Give your life direction and purpose. Make sure that what you do is something you always wanted to do. The passion you feel for this activity is very attractive and your crush will notice the change in you.
Be a good person. It may sound cheesy, but it's true. If you want others to treat you with care, respect, and love, you better start acting that way, too. People want to fall for others who are happy, who give generously of themselves, and are genuinely nice to others.;
, You don’t want to snag a crush who’s really Mr. Wrong! He needs to be ready for a relationship and be compatible with you. If he isn’t, you will be wasting your time and his and somebody is going to end up with a broken heart.
 Knowing someone really well is an important part of getting them to like you. This doesn’t just mean knowing basic details like where they work or their birthday. This means getting to know and like him for who he really is. If you like him for who he is, this will mean a lot to him.


Discuss topics that will show you his beliefs and values, like politics or religion. This is a good way to get to know someone. You should also learn his hopes and dreams.
 Learn about and appreciate the things he enjoys. Don’t fake it, because he’ll be able to tell. Try to see it and experience it the way that he does. This will help you bond and find things in common.


Ask him to show you his favourite sport. You can also explore the his favourite bands.
 He will be much more likely to care for you if you show him that he can rely on you emotionally and that you have faith in him, even when others might not.


Help him solve his problems when you can, whether you’re tutoring him in classes where he struggles or giving him a way to get out of his house if his parents are going through a divorce.
 We want to be with someone who makes us better as a person. It makes us feel better about ourselves and reassures us that we can be good people if we try. Make your crush the best version of himself by encouraging him to do the things that he loves and giving him the space to do those things.


Remember: this is about helping him make the changes that he wants in his life. You should not to be condescending, try to change them into what you want them to be, or push unwanted help and advice on him.
 Share your passions with your crush but also let them see how far you’ve come. He should see that you are happy and fulfilled because you do the things that you love and that make you unique. He will find it attractive that you are motivated to change your life for the better.


It’s okay to be flawed though. There’s nothing wrong with him seeing you struggle sometimes. Let him help you, if he offers. Together, you can make each other stronger, better people.
 Respect that he is his own person and give him the space to be that person. Don’t get possessive and try to take up all of his time. If he sees that with you he can feel free and have support, he’ll be much more likely to fall for you.
 Don’t constantly question the things that he says and does: trust him and show him that you trust him. Show him that you are a safe haven where he can find and give trust without having to worry that he will get hurt.


If he tells you a secret then you need to keep it. If you find out something that embarrasses him, don’t bring it up.
Share your secrets with him and let him see sides of you that no one else does. Be vulnerable around him and let him comfort you. Don’t stress when he spends time around other girls. Knowing that you trust him will mean a lot to him.
 If you want to get Miss Perfect you're going to need a few skills and a couple of tricks. But getting a girlfriend isn't always as hard as it seems. be confident and you'll win her over in no time!

, It's terrifying, the idea of asking out that perfect girl. What if she says no? Yikes! Get some helpful advice and you'll find it isn't nearly as hard as you think.
 Getting a boyfriend can be tough stuff. Girls are in a tough position where we usually expect guys to find us! But there's nothing to stop you from finding prince charming if you find yourself getting lonely!

, Feel like you have terrible taste? You may have a crush, but if your track record for choosing people to crush on is terrible, you might want to take a hard look at how you find someone to moon over!

, This will make it much easier to nab your crush. Being an expert flirter makes you very hard to resist!

