 This trick requires you to do a little bit of prep, but can be performed easily at a restaurant or bar. This trick is less of an illusion where your audience won't see you prep. Because you won't have much time in between prep and actually performing the trick, it's more of a science trick.
You need two straws that are still in the paper wrappers.
Tear the wrapper toward one end of the straw, but don’t remove the wrapper. Your straws will still be in the wrappers, but you will have separated a long portion of the sleeve. This longer sleeve will be used to create friction. The small bit of paper left on the other end stays in place to prevent you from touching the plastic straw before you need to.
 You will have a long sleeve of paper wrapper which you can now slide up and down on the straw to create a static charge.


Pinch the ends of the straws between your teeth, making sure that you don’t get the paper wet.
Slide the long sleeves of paper up and down on the straws several times to build a charge.
Make sure to pinch the end of the straws firmly, using the tip of the wrapper as a barrier between your teeth and the plastic.
 You will now have two straws that are holding a static charge. These straws will act like rods which you will grab to transfer the current of energy to your hands. With the straws still pinched between your teeth, slide the long sleeves up and down on the straws a few times before sliding the paper off completely. The up and down motion of the paper on the plastic creates the charge.
You will now have two straws which have a static charge.
 With the straws full of static charge, you want to grab each straw and close your fists around the plastic.


Doing this will transfer the static charge from the straws to your hands.
Hold the straws for about three seconds. Then let go and drop both straws.
Make sure to not touch anything except the dollar you will levitate.
 It’s best to already have your dollar placed on the table so that it is hanging off the edge of the table slightly. Pick the dollar up by pinching it between your two middle fingers.


You need to grab the dollar so one finger is on the top and one on the bottom.
Raise your hands up, making sure not to touch anything other than the dollar.
 Your hands will still be charged so when you slowly move your fingers away from one another the dollar will levitate in the air.


Keep your hands close to the dollar with one hand above it and the other below.
The dollar will levitate because of the transfer of static electricity moving between your hands.
It will only last for a few seconds before the charge dissipates.

