 Bundling Film: This is narrow width stretch wrap that comes in widths of 2", 3" and 5".

Bundling film is a good choice when you want to keep your firewood vented. It allows you to wrap just the ends, or both ends and the middle, and reduce the possibility of moisture becoming trapped in the wrap.
Hand Stretch Film is is a wider wrap that comes in stock widths of 12", 15" and 18". With the extra width, this can allow for a quicker wrap time and will fit many firewood bundling machines and devices. All of hand wrap films comes on a standard 3" core.;
, Ultimately, this is a very subjective question, but there are some guidelines that can be used.

The typical application for stretch film is holding together boxes of product on a skid weighing typically over 1000lbs, so the wrap has to be able to stretch tightly to hold the load together during the shipping and handling processes. That is not the case with firewood bundling, where the bundles are small, typically moved by hand, and weigh only a few dozen pounds at most.

For these reasons, Extreme 789 hand wrap is recommended. This hand wrap is thinner and less expensive than a traditional 80-90ga film, but has comparable strength when it comes to holding your bundles together. It has the cling you expect with a standard gauge stretch wrap and will resist the minimal puncture potential presented by firewood.


Handy Bundler is the most common type. The film comes on a 3" core and each case has one plastic plug-in handle. This is a good choice if you have one person doing the wrapping, and they do it sporadically.
Best Bundler/Extended Core is a film that comes on a 1" extended core and is available only in 5" widths. The 5" of film is wound on a 10" long core, leaving a 5" long handle built-in to each roll.

The Best Bundler also ships with one red rubber grip per case, which you can use to slip over the core and reduce any wear on unprotected hands. This is a good choice if you have multiple people doing the wrapping and the wrapping is done fairly often throughout the day.


Use QuikWrap. This is for heavy use, applications, where more than one person is doing the wrapping and they are doing it for the majority of the day, so the patented QuikWrap system is the perfect choice. It's available in all widths (2", 3" and 5") and comes on a 1-3/4" core.

