 There are route maps of the Mumbai local train network usually hung above the doors of every compartment.Have a look at them.But the maps do not provide any other information except station names and your train may or may not stop at all the stations.The easiest and most efficient way to gather all kind of information is: Ask people around you. More than 80% of them are the regular users of the local trains. Many of them understand and speak simple English. Tell the name of your station and ask for its approximate arrival time. Ask them to inform you FOUR stations in advance before your station comes. They will be more than happy to help you, they are very friendly people. If you are woman and travelling, then purchase tickets for 1st class and travel in compartments specially reserved for Women. Local train tickets are very cheap and can cost just 3-4 $ max one way. If travelling in a group (men and women) then stay together. If possible, avoid peak time i.e. 7:00 am to 10:00 am and 4:00 pm to 8:00 pm.;
, When your station comes near (that is third or fourth to go) start arranging your luggage in position that it hangs around your neck and/or stays on your stomach or chest. The reason for it is that there will be a heavy rush outwards from your back side. If you have a bag, hug it, if you have a tote or purse, hang it in your neck, if you have a knapsack, wear it in a way that it stays on your stomach instead of your back. A knapsack is the easiest luggage to carry in these trains. Take very good care of your luggage, there will be such a huge rush that sometimes you will get out but not your luggage!!

, If you are wearing spectacles, remove them for a while and put them in your luggage, remove anything that dangles from your clothing or appearance like long earrings, dangling of your purse etc. If you have long hair, tie them in a tight knot. Empty the hip pockets of your jeans and keep your wallet safe. If you are wearing salwar kurta, remove your dupatta and put in your luggage. Remove any piece of jewelry from your neck.

