 For this method you need three different fabrics in coordinating colors. Choose one fabric to make up the main section of the pillowcase, a second fabric for the hem around the opening, and a third accent fabric.









Pick three solid colored-fabrics or go for three different patterns with like colors. The fabrics don't have to "match," exactly, but it helps if they each share one or two colors.
Try a festive pillowcase with fabrics in holiday colors or patterns. Holiday pillow cases make excellent gifts.
 Use a scissors or rotary cutter to carefully cut each piece of fabric to the right size. To make a standard pillowcase, cut the main piece of fabric to 26" x 44". Cut the second piece of fabric to 12" x 44". Cut the last piece of fabric for the trim to 2" x 44".
 To prepare the fabric to be sewn, use an iron to remove the wrinkles. Iron the large piece and the medium piece flat. Fold the trim in half lengthwise with wrong sides together and iron it flat.
 Place the medium piece of fabric right side up on your work surface. Line up the trim fabric with the edge of the medium fabric, so that the raw edges are on the outside and the folded edge is on the inside. Finally, lay the large piece of fabric over the medium and trim fabrics, right side down.









Make sure all of the layers of fabric are perfectly aligned along the top edge.
Add a few straight pins along the edge of the fabric layers to hold them in place.
 Use your fingers to begin rolling the top layer of fabric, which is the largest piece, toward the pinned edge. Continue rolling to within a few inches of the pinned edge. Now take the medium piece of fabric and fold it over the roll, aligning it with the pinned edge. Use more straight pins to pin all of the layers in place.
 Use your sewing machine or a threaded needle to make a straight stitch along the pinned edge of the fabric. The stitch should be 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) from the edge of the fabric. Remove the pins from the fabric as you stitch.









Make sure the stitch catches all of the layers of fabric.
Take care to make the stitch as straight and neat as possible. If you need to start over, use a seam ripper to remove the stitch, realign the fabric edges, and start again.
 Pull back the medium piece of fabric to reveal the large fabric roll underneath. Gently tug on the roll and reverse the fabric, then straighten it out on your work surface. Iron the pillowcase so that all the components lay completely flat.
 Reverse the pillowcase so that the wrong sides are facing out. Use your sewing machine or a needle and thread to stitch a straight seam around the remaining raw edges of the pillowcase. Leave the hemmed part of the pillowcase open.
 Lay it flat and iron it once more before placing it over a pillow.
