 In general, kids bully because either they don’t know how to talk to others, or they feel bad about themselves. By bullying people, they can feel better about their own problems.By pretending you don’t hear the bully and leaving, you can defuse a situation where you are being teased. Simply pack up and leave the area.


Another option is to ignore the presence of the bully. Whatever they are doing, don’t even look their way. By letting them know you can hear them but don’t care about what they are saying, they will think you are too strong for them to be mean to and leave you alone.;
, If you don’t feel like you can ignore the people being mean to you, try avoiding them. While you can’t drop out of school and stay at home all the time, you can try taking a new route to the playground or classroom. This will lessen their opportunities to tease or be mean to you.


There is also safety in numbers. Have a buddy system where you walk to and from unsupervised areas can help deter a bully from coming after you., Even if you don’t feel confident, fake it. Pretend nothing can take you down and point your head up tall to the sky. By standing tall, you’re showing that you’re proud of who you are and nothing will bother you.Sometimes all a meanie needs to back off is to think you’re strong and won’t be bothered by their immaturity.


Hold in your feelings. If the meanie sees you upset, they know they’ve gotten to you. By holding in your feelings, you’ll look tough and unbothered. The biggest thing a bully wants is a reaction from you, to let them know you are upset by them. Denying them this satisfaction will hopefully make them move on to easier targets.
To try control your feelings, count backwards from 100 or recite the alphabet. By distracting your mind, you’ll be more able to control your feelings or tears.Crying doesn’t mean you are a little kid. You are allowed to cry when sad and no adults will judge you for it. However, a mean person may view it as being an easy target for them to talk down to.

