 Oil masks can help to moisturize and strengthen the ends of your hair. This will allow you to grow long and healthy hair. Apply an oil mask prior to washing your hair at least once a week.To make an oil hair mask, mix together 1 cup of coconut oil with 1 tablespoon each of almond oil, macadamia oil, and jojoba oil.
Apply the oils to damp hair and then let sit for approximately ten minutes.
Then, wash your hair with shampoo and conditioner.
 Shampoo is used to remove dirt and product build-up from your hair; however, it also washes away natural oils that keep your hair healthy. If you want to grow long luscious locks, only shampoo your hair three to four times per week. The number of times you wash your hair each week will depend upon your bodies natural oil production.For instance, if you have dry hair, you may want to wash your hair 2-3 times per week, as natural oils are key for strong and healthy hair.
Alternatively, if you have oily hair you may need to wash it more frequently.
 Hair often falls out in the shower because it is being pulled and scrubbed. To avoid unnecessary hair loss, lather the shampoo near the scalp and then let the shampoo run down the strands as the water rinses it away., If you want to allow the ends of your hair to remain healthy, then you need to condition your hair regularly. Conditioner helps to replace proteins inside the hair shaft and prevents damage. This will allow you to maintain long and healthy looking hair., Cold water will help to smooth out your hair before you exit the shower and can prevent moisture loss, snags, and heat damage. You only need to run cold water for a few seconds at the end of the shower. This will help you grow long and healthy hair.For shinier hair, apply apple cider vinegar along with cold water at the end of your shower., Wrapping your wet hair in a towel can actually cause hair breakage. Your hair can get caught in the tiny fibers of the towel and break or split. Also, when the towel is wrapped tightly around your face, it can put pressure on the roots of your hair, which may pull out some strands.Instead let your hair air dry or gently pat your hair with a towel., Scalp infections, such as psoriasis or eczema, can damage the scalp area and prevent hair follicles from growing in a healthy manner. You can disinfect your scalp by using an antimicrobial product.


If you think you may have a scalp infection (and not simply dandruff), talk with your doctor about topical and anti-fungal medications that you can use to cure your scalp infections.
 A scalp massage not only feels great, but it can also stimulate blood circulation resulting in hair growth. A massage can also help to mobilize oils found at your roots and contribute to the growth of healthy and strong hair follicles.Some people recommend sitting down and then tilting your head forward while you massage your scalp, to further enhance blood flow and promote hair growth.
 Eggs contain protein, which is essential to hair growth. In order to make an egg mask for your hair, whisk together two eggs with one tablespoon of olive oil. Apply the mask directly to dry hair and leave it on for approximately 30 minutes. Then, rinse your hair and wash with shampoo.