 People become addicted because they are self-medicating. Then they are held within the cycle of addiction because of the withdrawal symptoms from the drug.The way to become drug free is to first confront the physical addiction through going to a clinic where you can participate in a program to help with the withdrawal symptoms, which at times can be life-threatening, and then addressing the emotional issues that lead to the decision to use addicting drugs to mask the emotional pain.People who use drugs are not “bad” or “immoral” people.
People who use drugs often cannot simply “knock it off.” Drug addictions change your brain in ways that make it difficult -- but not impossible -- to quit.
 If you have used drugs before, be cognizant of the triggers that are associated with your using drugs. This could include drug paraphernalia, a group of friends, a certain location, or even a certain song that you used to listen to when you did drugs.If there are certain triggers that you know may cause a problem and lead to drug use, throw them away. Delete that song from your ipod or throw out those rolling papers; if your triggers are permanently gone you will be less likely to use drugs.
You may also need to not go to places you used to go when you used drugs. Staying away may be difficult, but it will help you kick your drug use.
 Support is key not only to staying off of drugs, but to getting off them. If you are struggling to live a drug free life, a support group may be helpful.


To find one, talk to your doctor, counselor or other healthcare provider, check your phone book for a list of local support groups, consult with your religious or secular community groups, or speak with local or national groups who are devoted to helping people get past addictions.
 Imagine you are a surfer riding your craving like a wave until it breaks and becomes soft and small and easy to handle.Urge surfing is more effective than trying to ignore or repress a craving.Remind yourself that this probably is not the first time you have experienced the urge to do drugs. Has that urge passed before? The answer is almost certainly yes. Remind yourself that it will pass this time too. The urge exists, but you do not have to act on it.Notice the thoughts and sensations that you experience during the urge. For example, you might feel a strong feeling that you want to use your drug of choice. You might feel sweaty or itchy, or feel restless. Acknowledge these as existing. Remind yourself that they are just thoughts; they do not truly have power over you.Focus on deep breathing as you surf your urges. Breathe slowly and evenly, in and out. This will help keep your attention on the present moment rather than focusing on your craving.
 If you feel a very strong urge to use drugs, delay by telling yourself you will make yourself wait 10 minutes. Just 10, that’s all. You can do that. When that 10 minutes is up, if the urge is still strong, tell yourself you’ll wait another 10 minutes. Keep delaying until the urge passes. It will, given enough time.