 Drink warm fluids. Staying hydrated will reduce the effects of many symptoms such as headaches and sore throat, while also preventing dehydration. Hot teas and soups are a good way to increase your liquid intake, while also helping to relieve sinus congestion and reduce inflammation in the nose and throat.Drink enough fluids to quench thirst. Getting enough fluids when you're sick is important, but getting too many may actually force your liver and kidney to work overtime in order to process it. Drink a little more than normal when you're sick, but don't feel like you need to drink 12 or 15 glasses a day.
A good indication that you are drinking enough fluids is that your urine will be almost clear. A darker yellow implies a higher concentration of waste in your body that is not dissolving and diluting enough — so raise your fluid intake., There are several natural remedies out there — some are the stuff of late-night infomercials and others are legitimate. There are two herbs shown to improve cold symptoms.



Andrographis paniculata (a common Southeast Asian herb) has been shown to reduce symptoms. Take a 100 mg capsule twice daily for five days. Higher dosages can cause vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea.You can also take Pelargonium sidoides (a South American herb). This is most often sold as a liquid extract. Take 1.5 ml or 30 drops of the liquid three times a day before meals for up to 10 days. Side effects can by mild nausea, diarrhea, and general skin irritation. Cease taking it if you experience any of these side effects., There is some evidence, which suggests that garlic could reduce the occurrence and improve symptoms of common cold. Allicin in garlic has been shown to fight off viruses. You can either eat whole garlic cloves, add them to soup, or take garlic supplements. Capsules containing 180 mg of garlic extract decrease the duration of common colds.Garlic can increase the risk of bleeding, therefore people on blood-thinners (aspirin or warfarin ) should not take garlic.
 Taking vitamin C supplements before the onset of a common cold can decrease the duration of symptoms. Vitamin C supplements are available as tablets and 200 mg can be take every day.Doses exceeding more than 2000 mg/day can result in diarrhea, fainting, headache, and abdominal pain.