 Tap the Picstitch icon, which is the icon with the camera lens in front of a sepia collage. You will be greeted by a welcome screen.Tap the blue “Tap to Start” button to begin making your collage.;
, There are 42 grid styles available for you to use, which you can browse by swiping from right to left on your device. Tap a grid style that you like to select it.
 Now you can put pictures in the grid tiles. Tap on a gray tile, and choose either “Choose from Gallery,” which will let you select pictures from your Gallery app, or “Take a Picture,” which will launch the camera app and put the picture you shot into the selected grid after you take it.


Fill all the grids with pictures you want. Remember, you can only upload the same number of pictures with that of your grid. For example, if you selected a grid style with only 5 grids, you can upload up to 5 pictures.
 Once a picture has been added to a grid tile, you can tap and drag the picture to reposition it. Pinching in will zoom into the picture, and pinching out will zoom out of it.
 Once you are satisfied with the collage, tap the “Save” button at the bottom of the screen. This will then take you to the styling screen, where you can select filters, effects, and sharing options.
 An effect is the same as a filter on Instagram. Choose from the row of available effects you can use by tapping the desired effect. You can scroll from right to left by dragging the row of effects to see more.


By default, the Effects menu is the first one the app lets you choose from after saving the collage you made. Simply tap the second icon to the left labeled “Effects” to access the menu again in case you want to go back to choosing an effect.
 Styles include Text, Frames, and Stickers that you can add to your collage. Tap on the “Styles” button at the bottom row then choose from either “Text,” “Frames,” or “Stickers.”


Tapping on “Text” will make a text box appear where you can then type the text you want to add to your collage. Tap the blue checkmark when done. The text will be added to the collage, and additional options will appear at the bottom for Editing, Color, Font, and Size. Tap on one of these to adjust the text accordingly.
Tapping on “Frames” will make a row of frames appear at the bottom, which you can select just like you did for effects. The selected frame will then appear at the borders of the collage. Some frames are thicker than others, so make sure they do not cover the pictures too much.
Tapping on “Stickers” will let you choose between cute stickers you can add to the collage, which will show at the bottom of the screen. Tap on a sticker of your choice, or drag the row from right to left to browse. To delete a sticker, simply tap and hold it and select “Yes” when the pop-up appears.
 Once you are satisfied with the collage, tap the “Back” button at the lower left corner, and tap “Done” at the lower right corner on the next screen. The collage will then be saved in the “Collage Creator New” folder on your device’s internal memory.


You can also view the collage using your Gallery app, as the folder will show up there as well.
 In the final screen, options for social media apps at the bottom will show up. Selecting one will open the app of your choice, and attach the collage to a post on that app. You can then post it using that app for your friends to view.

