 Foundation evens out your complexion and reduces the shadows caused by the lights. Be sure to blend it under the chin, on the neck, around the ears, and on the top of your lips.


Choose the right kind of foundation. You could wear a self-setting pancake foundation, or a cream foundation that has to be set with powder. Do not wear liquid ––it isn't strong enough for performing. If you use pancake, don't use cream blushes and shadows, but powders.
Choose the right color. If your director is going for a specific look––pale and ethereal Swan Lake for example––follow that. If not, experiment to figure out what works for your skin type.;
, If you are a guy, shave at least 60 minutes before applying makeup, preferably in the morning for an evening show. If you are a woman, get your hair out of your face. You can choose whether to do your hair before or after--would you rather try to do your makeup without messing up your hair, or your hair without messing up your makeup? It's a matter of preference., Wash your face to be sure the makeup will go on smoothly and evenly. Remove excess dirt and oil, and apply a moisturizer suited to your skin type., Use one a shade or two lighter than your foundation. Also use it as a shadow base on lids and set with powder.
 Use a dark eyebrow pencil to highlight the natural line with small strokes. Concentrate on the upper brow, and remember that a solid line looks fake.
 Start with a base shadow over the entire eyelid, darker near the eyelash line. If you use two or more colors, the darkest should go near the eye, medium just above the crease, and lightest underneath the brow. Then line the top of your lashes, beginning at the inner corner, and line the bottom, gently pressing along the lash line. Liner should start and end where the lashes begin and end; avoid making harsh solid lines. Make sure that the top and bottom lines meet in the outer corners.
 If you have to wear false eyelashes, put them on now. If you don't have to, use an eyelash curler and then apply clear mascara and at least two coats of black mascara.


Apply a thin strip of eyelash adhesive to the band of your false eyelashes and press gently onto eyes, as close to natural line as possible. Press against closed eyes for at least 20 seconds. If needed, trim the lashes at the band, not the lashes. Then use an eyelash curler, starting at the root of the lashes. Squeeze and hold for 15 seconds, then repeat, working toward the ends. Finish with a coat of black mascara.
 Begin by exfoliating the lips with a washcloth rubbed in a circular motion. Start with a clear lip balm. If you are a man, apply a lip color close to your natural shade. For women, line the outside of the lips, color in with the same liner, and use your brush to apply lipstick over it. Press down with a tissue placed between the lips to blot away excess, Smile and apply blush to the apples of the cheeks. Sweep upward and outward towards the hairline. Line your lips with color and fill in with lipstick.
 You're now ready to go out on stage.

