 Asanas are the poses that you hold during a regular yoga session. If you do not attend classes for a few months, you may use improper postures that can be harmful to the body.;
, You can do yoga in a smaller space, but this size is ideal to hold all your equipment and not feel confined. There should be a stable wall nearby for shoulder stands and other inversions.
 Embrace minimalist design. You want to limit distractions and encourage concentration, and plain white walls may do just that.


Remove mirrors. Although many yoga studios have mirrors that helps students see their posture, if you have become familiar with yoga poses, the mirror will encourage distraction rather than introspection.
 You will need to adjust your cover depending upon your flooring.


If you have a hardwood floor, all you will need is a yoga mat, since hardwood floors are easy on the knees and hold warmth.
If you have a concrete floor, secure a flat rug on the floor and cover it with a yoga mat, or use 2 to 3 yoga mats. Concrete can be hard on the knees and too cold for the body, so you need an extra layer or 2 of protection.
If you have a carpeted floor, test it to see how soft it is. Extremely soft carpets may not provide enough stability. In that case, cover it with a finished wooden plank and then a yoga mat. If it is slightly thicker, it may provide enough grip to practice yoga without a mat.
 A dimmer is ideal, so that you can change the light depending upon the time of day you practice and turn it low when you are meditating or relaxing.


Put your yoga studio near a window, if you would like a lot of natural light in your studio. Make sure it does not let in too much distraction and noise.
 An added bonus of the home yoga studio is that you can decide what temperature you want to practice in. Some people believe a higher temperature, around 85 degrees Fahrenheit (29 degrees Celsius) may help your muscles, and other people like a room temperature setting to reduce sweating during their practice.
 A standard yoga mat is the only essential piece of equipment, since you are probably used to the feel of it during yoga class. However, you may also want to add a strap, foam blocks, bolsters, blankets or pillows to accommodate difficult postures.


Search for yoga practice kits, if you do not own this kit already. You can order all the equipment from 1 Internet store, if you don't have a yoga or sports supply store nearby.
 This is especially important if you plan to use videos or podcasts. Even if you do not need instruction, you may want to play soothing music for meditative purposes.
,