 A lot of taxi scams take place at airports, when travelers are tired and most susceptible to getting ripped off. If you are traveling to a foreign country for the first time and are not familiar with the language or customs, you may want to arrange for a shuttle or other service to pick you up from the airport.This can often be arranged through your hotel, and some hotels will even have a complimentary airport shuttle service.
 If you are nervous about taxi scams while traveling, you can avoid them altogether by using other modes of transportation. Many large cities will have excellent and affordable public transportation systems. Although at time less convenient, traveling on public transit can be a reasonable way to get around a city or country while traveling.You will also get an opportunity to interact with locals and see what it is really like living in this part of the world.
 Another way to avoid taxi scams, is by using Uber while traveling. Uber allows you to order a driver using an app on your phone. It will send you the name and a picture of your driver as well as the type of vehicle and license plate number. This way, if you have any difficulties with the ride, you can report the driver to the local authorities. Uber also pays in advance with your credit card so you do not need to worry about getting scammed for extra charges. Uber is available in major cities across the globe and is a great tool to use while traveling abroad.You will need to have a wifi connection to order a car and track the driver. Most airports will have free wifi, but this may be more difficult to find when you are out and about.
 For some vacations, it may make sense to rent a car instead of relying on taxis or public transit. Although this can be more expensive, it will give you the freedom to travel at your own pace. You can also easily travel between cities or take longer trips that would be too expensive in a taxi.


Make sure that you are familiar with local driving customs prior to travel.
Check to see that your driver's license is legal in the country you are traveling to.

