 Use a rolling pin to flatten a portion of fondant out until it is about 1/16 inch (1.5875 mm) thick.


You can use nearly any color fondant you want for your carnation.
To prevent the fondant from sticking to the rolling pin or work surface, dust both the surface and the rolling pin with a little cornstarch before you begin.
Alternatively, you could also spread a thin film of shortening on the work surface instead of using cornstarch.
 Use a fondant cutter or cookie cutter to cut out five to six 2-inch (5-cm) circles from the flattened fondant.


This size will create a flower suitable for decorating a cupcake or other small treat. Adjust the size of the circles as needed to create a smaller or larger flower.
 Press the heel of the veining tool down on the edge of the circle. Quickly pull it out to form a ruffle, and move all the way around the edge of the circle in this manner.


Do this with each of the circles you cut out.
Hold the small end of the veining tool like a pencil to make the pressing action easier.
If you do not have a veining tool, use a toothpick. Gently roll a toothpick over the outer perimeter of each petal, causing it to curl around the toothpick and ruffle the edge.
 Carefully slide the circle onto the sharp end of the skewer and push it upward along the skewer until it nearly reaches the blunt end.


The circle should be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) away from the end of the skewer. The distance should roughly equal the radius of the circle.
Dust the skewer with cornstarch to prevent it from sticking to the fondant.
 Bring the edges together so that they crumple loosely over the blunt end of the skewer.


This will serve as the center of your carnation.
 Gently push the remaining four or five circles onto the skewer in a similar manner, carefully crumpling each circle over the one that came before it.


The petals should not be crumpled together uniformly or tightly. Crumple them together in a loose, asymmetrical manner for a more natural look.
 Carefully pull the flower off the skewer by sliding it off the blunt end.


Do this very slowly and cautiously so that you do not accidentally crush the petals you formed.
 Use the veining tool or a toothpick to gently fold the center petal over so that it masks the hold left by the skewer.


Let dry. After it dries, the carnation is ready to use.

