 Ground balls are those that aren’t caught, but instead hit the ground. If you are out of range to catch the ball, get into the habit of approaching the ball to position yourself to secure a grounded ball. Once you are facing a ball’s path of direction, take a modified athletic stance. Bend your knees so that you are close to the ground, position your glove with your fingers facing the ground, and have your free hand hovered above your glove to secure the ball.









Avoid catching the ball on a short hop. The short hop is when the ball first hits the ground and bounces in an unpredictable way. Avoid rushing the ball to avoid catching the ball on a short hop.Stay on the balls of your feet to quickly reposition yourself to catch the ball.
 The key to a successful dive that won’t cause injury is all about your approach. Keep your eye on the ball the entire time. Begin by running towards the ball while lowering your body by bending your knees with each step. On your last two steps extend your arms outwards to align your glove with the ball’s flight path. Take a leap off the ground with your glove side's foot to become airborne.


Rotate your glove hand so that the palm of the glove is facing upwards.Have your free hand out to support the catch.
Don’t dive out if you are in range to normally catch the ball. It’ll take experience and practice to properly judge the distance of the ball.
 Every catcher messes up in the field and there are certain things you can do to recover from an error. First, you need to locate the ball and do so quickly. To avoid “losing” the ball, keep your eye on the ball at all times. The key is to pick up the ball and throw it to the proper fieldsman.


Bend your knees as you pick up the ball and be prepared to turn and throw.
A key to recovering from your mistake is to not let it get you down. You need to think fast in the field with no time to spare to reflect during a play., Footwork means the way use your feet to approach a ball. This skill is important for improving your game. Practice “square up” position, which means sprinting to a ball in order to catch the ball straight on. Other footwork techniques you can practice to catch a ball are:









Side shuffling means to move sideways towards the ball while facing forward. Alternate pushing off with each foot as you move and avoid crossing your feet.
Charging means a direct sprint towards the ball. This usually ends in skidding to catch the ball.
Crossover and sprint is a good approach to reach a ball to your sides. Cross one foot in front of the other and take off in a sprint.