 An important way to make your kids feel special is to spend time with them as a group. Spending time with your children as a group will enable you to spend more overall time with each child. It’ll also help you develop a healthy family and group dynamic through positive interaction.


Don’t favor one child.
Focus on team or group activities that do not pit children and you against each other. For example, if you have young children, try building Legos, Duplo, or Lincoln logs. Avoid sports or winner-take-all activities.
Provide an example of how your children should treat each other. Reinforce the idea that they need to take each other’s feelings into considerable. For example, if one child is mean to another, stop them and say “would you like someone to treat you like that?”;
, You should also spend time with your kids’ individually as often as you can. By reserving time for each individual child, you’ll let them know you love them and you’ll further your individual bond.


Short activities that take no more than five or ten minutes will go a long way in making your children feel special. Consider short games, walks, or just having a brief conversation.
If you can, reserve a substantial amount of time – several hours or even a day – once a month or so to spend with each child. You might consider camping, having a picnic, or going canoeing.
Engage in an activity that you and your child both enjoy., While spending time with your children is important, you should also show them affection while spending time with them. Kind words and physical contact will enhance any time you spend with your children. Also, be sure to make eye contact with your children when you are talking to them or when they are talking to you.


Hug your children when appropriate. When you’re saying good bye to your child for a long or short amount of them, hug them.
Say things that demonstrate your affection for them. For instance, say “I love you” or “I care about you.”
Pat your children on the back when you’re proud of them., Perhaps nothing makes a child feel more special than when adults listen to them. By listening to your kids, you send them the message that you are interested in what they think and what they care about.


Pose questions to your children to get them talking. For instance, ask them what they liked at school that day.
Pay attention to your children when they share random thoughts with you. Stop what you are doing, face your body toward them, and make eye contact to indicate engagement.
Never brush aside what you think are nonsensical statements or words from you children. Put the effort into understanding what they say, respond to them, and let them know you are engaged with them.See if you can repeat back to them what they are trying to say so that they know they've been heard.
 You should also spend some time sharing your personal experiences and ideas with your children. By sharing your experiences with your children, you’ll help create a bond with them and make them feel more special.


Tell them stories about when you were a kid.
Let them know what interests you.
For older children, let them know that you, too, have had insecurities but love yourself unconditionally.
Share stories with them about what your life was like before they were born., Also, build an understanding of who their closest friends are. Spend some time learning about your children as individuals. By learning about what they like and what they’re strong at, you’ll know more about your children and will grow a stronger bond with them.


Make an effort to learn what your children are interested in.
Ask your children what they like to or what they’d like to do for fun.
Schedule a meeting with your children’s teachers to find out what they excel at or what they struggle with., Another way to make your kids feel special is to display things that represent them. By displaying pictures of them or their work, you’ll signal to them that you value them and think about them often.


Display art work created by your children.
Display pictures of your children at work, in your wallet, or elsewhere.
When displaying work or photos, make sure you represent all of your children equally.Also, let them hear you recognize and compliment them to other people, even your other children as long as this is done equally.
 You should also consider taking a role in your children’s activities. By taking such a role, you’ll not only be able to spend more time with your child, but you’ll send the message that you care about them and what they are interested in.


Volunteer as a coach for your child’s little league team.
Volunteer to help out with Girl Scouts or Boy Scouts.
Volunteer as a chaperon for your children’s school field trips., Whatever your family organization, you’ll likely have other people who are important in your children’s lives and have an interest in their wellbeing. Because of this, it is important to cooperate with anyone who plays a big role in your kids’ lives. By cooperating, you’ll create a more loving and stable environment and make your kids feel special.


If you have a traditional family unit, make sure to work with your partner to raise and care for your children.
If you and your partner are divorced or separated, maintain cordial relations and avoid any conflicts – especially conflicts that kids might be able to observe.
Cooperate with grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins or others who have an interest in your children.Keep them abreast of your child's schedule of activities so that they can attend when they are able. This will help the child feel that they have a strong support system.
 Another way to get your kid to feel special is to know their friends and friends’ parents. By getting to know the parents of your children’s friends, you’ll send the signal that you are an active part of their social lives.


Organize activities that include your children’s friends and their parents.
Consider putting time aside to talk to the parents of your kid’s friends. This can be done quickly on the phone, or over a cup of coffee or glass of wine.