 If you’re hosting a very formal dinner, spread a floor-length tablecloth over the entire table. Lay a placemat at each seat, keeping the edge of the placemat one inch from the edge of the table. Choose tablecloth and placemat colors that complement the plates and dining room.


When in doubt, use a white tablecloth and simple white place settings.
 A charger plate is a decorative plate for the other plates to rest on. Place the charger plate on the bottom center of the placemat. The napkin should be folded neatly and placed on the charger plate or rolled into a napkin ring and set to the left of the placemat.These plates are decorative and therefore optional. However, many people believe that a table looks empty between courses if a charger plate isn’t used.Never serve food directly on the charger plate.
 Always arrange the plates in order of use. For example, if you were serving a soup, salad, and entrée, you would first place the main entrée plate on the charger. Next, you lay down a salad plate, followed by a soup bowl.Each piece of plates will be cleared away after use.


If you’re serving more than three courses, have each plate brought out and then cleared away after the course to save space.
Wait to clear the charger plate until it’s time to clear the entrée plate.
 If you’re serving dinner rolls, set an appetizer plate over the forks and place a butter knife on top. If you’re serving coffee after dinner, you can either bring the cup and saucer out with dessert or set to the right of the spoons at the beginning of the meal. Similarly, the dessert plate can be brought out with dessert or placed above the plate on the tablecloth., The forks go to the left of the plate and the spoons and knives go to the right. Arrange the silverware outside-in, with the utensils you’ll use first on the outside and the ones you’ll use last next to the plate. The dessert fork should be at the top of the plate with the tines pointed to the right and the dessert spoon directly above it pointing left.


Each course should have at least one utensil. For example, a salad should have its own fork and a soup its own spoon.
The relevant utensils are cleared with each course.
 The water glass is placed closest to the plate. It should be followed from left to right by the wine glasses in order they’ll be used. For example, most people serve soups and salads with white wine and red wine with entrées. Therefore, you would place the water glass first, then the white wine glass, and lastly the red wine glass.Glasses used for a particular course should be removed at the end of the course with the relevant plates and silverware.
If you don’t have room on the table to line up the glasses, arrange them in a triangle.

