 Making a major life change, from ending a long-term relationship to switching careers, is usually only terrifying because you don’t know what is coming next. That uncertainty can paralyze you if you don’t take the time to figure out where exactly you are going. You don’t need to know everything, no one ever could, but you do need a vision for how you are going to change.


What do you want to eliminate from your life?
What do you want to add?
Where do you see yourself 1 year after you’ve made your change?
What do you want, more than anything else, to spend your time doing?, Once you have a good idea of where you are going, you need to figure out how to get there. This is often the hardest part of changing, but it becomes much easier if you think of it in reverse. Say your goal is to become a famous author. To make this change a reality, think of the steps that would lead to becoming a famous author until you get to one you can work on:Goal: To Be a Famous Author.
Get a book published.
Find a literary agent.
Write and edit a book.
Write every single day.
Draft up ideas for books. If you don’t have an idea yet, you would start here. If you do, it’s time to write every day!, Making a big change in life is a lot easier if you have a safety net to fall back on. You’re more likely to take a plunge when you know that failure doesn’t mean the end of the world, so save up a little extra money. This will allow you to focus on changing your life, not on paying the bills.


Open a savings account and start putting in a small percentage (5-10%) of your paycheck in it.
Many financial advisors suggest having enough money to cover at least 6 months of living expenses before making a large change, like a move or career change.
 You never want to make a major lifestyle change without some knowledge of what you are in for. If you want to start a new career, going back to school is often the best way to get on track, as the specific knowledge will prepare you for a life in the field you desire. Even those looking for more “off-beat” changes, like traveling for a year or becoming an artist, need to study to get the most of their lifestyle change.


Look up autobiographies of similar people. While you don’t have to follow in their footsteps, they offer valuable advice about what to expect as you change.
Spend time researching your new change – what kind of equipment do you need? Do you need to move locations? What are the negatives of your new lifestyle, and do they make you want to change any less?

, Once you’ve made the decision to make a change and you are confident it’s time to start, you need to cut your old ties. This does not mean that you will never see people from your “old life” again. Rather, it means that you need to take some time away from the routines, habits, and lifestyle to truly change things. Never burn bridges with cruel goodbyes or anger. Instead, let people know that you are ready for a change and would love their support as you go through with this.
 You need to commit to your new life fully if you ever expect to change. Sometimes this is easy – if you want to travel for a year you need to get on a plane and get out of the country. But sometimes this requires daily discipline. No matter how you cut it, for example, you need to write every single day if you want to be a famous author.


Remember, change is about choice. Make the choices that bring about the change you desire.