 Members of goth and rock subcultures tend to be a little broody and dramatic in nature. For the most part, they aren’t the happy-go-lucky types. However, it’s a misconception that goth and rock kids are all depressed and interested in self-harm. They are simply introspective and quieter than most, and often moody and pensive, as well.


Instead of being a social butterfly that flits from group to group, stick close to your clique of other likeminded goth or rock kids.
Goth and rock kids are often friendly and kind, but it’s also common for them to be a little shy and have a hard time fitting in (except with other goth or rock kids).
 Because of this, some of the “normal” kids at school might not understand your choices and possibly not accept them. You may be teased for how you look and have a difficult time fitting in.Don’t let this get to you.


If you are teased by classmates, don’t engage or react. Appear indifferent to their taunts and walk away.
You may want to toss them a sarcastic, condescending smile before you walk off. Don’t look back.
Part of being members of these subcultures is knowing that your are an “outsider” and not caring what others think, especially “normal” people.
 The goth and rock crowds often find beauty in the darker elements of life. Be drawn to books, music, art, fashion and poetry that are somber, beautiful, mysterious, supernatural, and even philosophical in nature.Gravitate toward objects that are beautifully crafted, vintage, and/or rare. Prefer shadows to sunlight.


Goth and rock kids like to laugh, just like everyone else. However, they find amusement in black humor and satirical elements.
Whenever you are given a color option for anything, always choose black or dark grey.
 The goth/rock movements grew out of the punk movement of the ‘70s.Because of this, goth/rock still features the rebelliousness and anti-establishment attitudes that punk once promoted. These crowds celebrate being outsiders and have no fear of being different.


Along with acting a bit like rebels, goth/rock crowds are very progressive people. They accept, represent and identify with all genders, orientations, and races.
Learn to embrace the things that make you different and be proud of who you are.
 Contrary to popular belief, goths are not evil, or members of a cult, or satanic in any way. More than anything else, "goth" is an individual state of mind. Goths are people that find beauty in dark things, so being "goth" is really just being your true self.Avoid furthering negative goth stereotypes whenever possible.
Don't feel that you have to follow every goth trend out there to be a real "goth." Be yourself and do what feels natural to you.

