 Many people confuse increasing air pressure with increasing the speed of air. Blowing harder will increase the volume of sound, but it will not raise the pitch. High notes require moving air into the mouthpiece more quickly. Practice breathing in deeply, and slowly exhaling pushing all of the air from your lungs. Then, inhale deeply. Hold your breath. After a few seconds, release a short burst of air. Continue these short, fast puffs until you push all the air from your lungs. Now, alternate between the slow, gradual exhales and short, quick bursts., One of the most commonly used methods is to hold a pencil with your lips. Place a pencil in your mouth with the eraser resting on your tongue. Close your lips around the pencil to hold it in place. Don’t use your teeth or tongue to support the weight of the pencil. Time yourself and hold the pencil in place for ten seconds. Rest for ten seconds and repeat. When this seems easy, increase to twenty seconds., The way you hold your lips matters. Once you’ve established a basic technique, a few adjustments will make it easier to hit the high notes. The Stevens embouchure is commonly referred to as the “scream” embouchure. In this method, you roll either the upper or lower lip under rather than puckering your lips. In the traditional method, lips are pressed together, but in the Stevens method, one lip is rolled under the other creating a seal. This makes it more difficult for air to split your lips apart, so you’ll be able to reach the higher notes more easily.


Try the method by rolling your lower lip under your upper lip. Then, switch and roll your upper lip under your lower. Practice both until it becomes clear which is more comfortable for you.
When playing low and midrange notes using the Stevens embouchure, these notes may sound brighter. Pay close attention and adjust your embouchure to fit the music., One way that young trumpet players reach high notes is by clenching their instrument tighter to their lips. While this may work once or twice, you will not be able to play these notes consistently or in tune. Pay attention and try not to press your mouthpiece harder to achieve your high notes., Visualize what would happen if you surrounded a basketball with concrete. The air content would remain the same, but you wouldn’t be unable to dribble the ball or shoot a basket. Tensing your stomach muscles works in much the same way. The same amount of air remains in your lungs, but it’s unable to move through your body freely. Additionally, when most people tense their stomach muscles, their throats constrict, further limiting airflow.