 This can help enhance the look of your bed. This section will give you a few decorating ideas. You do not have to do all of them. Just choose a few that you like best.;
, These can make your bed look fancier and cozier. Tuck some decorative sham pillows behind your sleeping pillows. Drape a throw or cozy blanket over the foot of your bed. If you have a box-spring, then place a bed skirt over the box-spring, under your mattress. To get ideas on how to make your bed cozier with decorative throws and pillows, click here.
 Install a curtain rod above the bed, and slide some curtains onto the rod. The rod should be about the same height as the curtains; you don't want the curtains to puddle behind your bed. Slip the curtains behind your bed.


For an added touch, try using sheer curtains, and then draping white Christmas lights behind the curtains. The lights will shine through the sheer fabric for a soft, magical glow.
 How high you hang the garland or lights is up to you, but you might want to hang them closer to the ceiling than to the top of your bed. Stick some clear, plastic hooks onto the wall. Make them above a foot apart. Drape the garland or lights from these hooks. If you are using string lights, plug them into a wall socket.
 These can help enhance the appearance of your bed. Also, if you choose wall decals that look like a headboard or bedposts, they can look like they are a part of your bed.
 This can really tie your bed together. You can buy one from the store or make one yourself. You can even mimic the appearance of a headboard by hanging a large canvas or tapestry behind your bed. Just make sure that the canvas or tapestry is a few inches wider than your bed and that the bottom edge extends behind your mattress. To find out how to make a simple headboard, click here.


If you have an existing headboard that is made out of metal or wood, consider painting it a different color.
If you are using a canvas, you can paint it using stencils, a solid color, or ombre. You can even paint some abstract designs onto it.
 Find a tube of LED lights, and attach it around the perimeter of the back of the headboard. You can do this using strong glue or clear packaging tape. The lights won't show at all when they are off, but when you turn them on, they will glow from behind the headboard.
 Not only are they a great way to store extra blankets and save space in your closet, but they can help fill in the empty space under your bed.
 Remove all of your bedding and lightly sand your bed. Apply two coats of paint primer, and let it dry. Then, apply two coats of whatever color paint you want. Wait for the paint to dry completely before you put the mattress, sheets, pillows, and blankets back on.Try painting some designs onto your bed or the headboard.
Consider taking the entire bed frame apart before you paint it. This might make it easier to work with.
Just because a paint is dry to the touch does not mean that it is fully dry or cured underneath. Refer to the paint can for more detailed drying times. Some paints are dry and fully cured in as little as four to six hours, while others may require up to 72 hours.

