 If you are using shoes, consider using a pair of flip flops or sandals. Their soles have a different shape compared to other shoes; this way, you can be certain that they will fit the toe area right.;
, If you'd like a thicker pair of flip flops, stack two pieces of cardboard together.Trace and cut the shapes out first, then glue them together. If you'd like a softer pair of flip flops, cut another foot shape out of a sheet of craft foam (the flexible kind) and glue it to the top of the cardboard. This will cushion your foot a little., They need to be a little wider than the sole so that you can wrap it around to the underside. If you are making a thicker flip flop (with two pieces of cardboard or foam), be sure to account for the thickness as well.
 Make sure that you have an even amount of tape hanging over the edges of the sole. This includes the heel and toe area. Do not fold these edges over just yet, however; there is one extra step you need to do. Overlap the pieces of tape by a little; this way, you can be sure that there are no gaps.
 Make sure that you cut all the way too the cardboard, but be careful not to actually snip the cardboard.For an even better fit, cut V-shaped notches at the arch, where the sole curves inward. Cut straight slits in the toe and heel area, where the sole curves outward., The little strips of tape will overlap, thanks to the slits you cut earlier. This will give you a cleaner edge and reduce bulk., If you have not already, repeat this entire section for the other foot as well. Remember to trace your opposite foot or shoe this time, or else you will end up with two left (or right) flip flops!

, This will be enough to make one set of straps for one flip flop. You will need to do this entire section twice.


To make your flip flop look more interesting, consider using a contrasting color or pattern for the straps.
 Set a strip down in front of you, sticky side up. Fold the bottom long edge up to the halfway point and smooth out any air bubbles. Then, fold the top edge down and smooth it out. Repeat this step for the other strip of duct tape., This will be for the toe strap. It can be the same color as the straps, or a contrasting one., Make sure that the bottom edge of the tape is aligned with the bottom edge of the straps. Try to wrap the tape so that the straps roll up a bit into a tight, tube shape. This will make the toe strap rounded and more comfortable to wear.It might be a good idea to cut a second 4-inch (10.16 centimeters) long strip of tape, and wrap it around the straps, just above the first one. This will ensure that you have plenty of material to work with., Try to get the mark as close to the joint as possible. This is where the toe strap will go.Don't worry about making holes for the side straps. You will be wrapping them around the outer edges of the flip flop and taping them to the underside.
 You can do this with an Xacto knife on top of a cutting mat, or with a pair of scissors. If you are a child, it might be a good idea to ask an adult to help you with this step.


If you made a rolled/rounded toe strap, consider running a pencil or pen through the hole. This will make the hole more rounded and give you a better fit.
 Put the flip flop on before you tape the strap; this way, you can fit the strap to your foot. Tug the end of the strap down until the fit is comfortable, then fold the stub down and secure it against the underside of the sole with a piece of duct tape.
 Put the flip flop back on, and wiggle it down onto your foot until the toe strap fits comfortably. Wrap the straps over the top of your foot, towards the arch, until they are conform to your foot. Tuck the ends of the straps under the sole, and hold them in place., Holding the straps in place, take the flip flop off and turn it over. The straps should be crossed over on the bottom of the sole in an X shape. Place a strip of tape across the X and cut off any excess strap., Trim the tape so that follows the edge of the flip flop. For a sturdier flip flop, you might want to do two layers.
