 Don't defy the rumor - it may make you sound like you're trying to cover up something. Instead, just ignore it.
 This can be so hard to remember when someone has wounded you to the core and has found that element about yourself that you feel uncertain about. However, it's so important to remember because it helps you to realize both that you are not lacking as the bully is trying to suggest and that the lack actually comes from within the bullying person. That person feels so ashamed, disappointed, angry, down or confused that it's easier for them to pick on another than to deal with the issues confronting them. This can be especially the case where the bully has bad role models and is emulating the poor behaviors of others and has nobody else to guide them on the straight and narrow. Don't blame yourself, do be as compassionate as you can be, and do protect yourself.


Realize that a bully will always place their own needs ahead of yours. This is a survival mechanism, a cry from a very hurt heart. As such, even if the bully seems nice at times, be aware that this can change swiftly. It pays to stay neutral and polite at all times, especially in the workplace or social group contexts.
Bullies often have poor interpersonal skills. Having tried bullying and realizing that it works, in a weird way, they are often reluctant to let go of this bad habit.
The worldview of a bully is often rigid. This means they see things in terms of black and white, and anything that fails to fit their sense of the world is deemed odd or despicable. This can a reason behind the insults; while this does not excuse bad behavior, it may help to explain it.
 Having knowledge is a form of great power, as it helps you to realize that you're not alone and that others have dealt with bullying in effective ways. There are excellent articles available online through such sources as government, anti-bullying organizations and academic journals that will give you a range of experiences and tools that others have used to defeat the bully in their midst. Use this knowledge to your advantage and keep strong.

