 Ivermectin is the drug of choice against several different kinds of worms. The two most common worms treated by this medication are Strongyloides stercoralis and Onchocerca Volvulus.


Strongyloides stercoralis: This worm is prevalent in northern parts of the United States and Canada. It is found on soil and prefers warm humid conditions.
Onchocerca Volvulus: This worm, and its eggs, are transmitted by a blackfly. The blackfly bites you, and through its bite, the worms are transmitted. It is mostly found in Africa, Central, and South America.;
, Ivermectin comes in the form of an oral tablet or capsule. It is available in two doses: as a three milligram dose, and as a six milligram dose. Your doctor may prescribe that you take 150 to 200 micrograms per each kilogram of body weight that you have.


Talk to your doctor about what dosage is right for you.
 Some doctors hold that Ivermectin should be taken on an empty stomach, while some studies have shown that it is fine to be taken with food.Talk to your doctor about which method he or she recommends for your specific dosage.


In a recent study, it was found that taking the medication with food may increase the amount of the drug available for your body to use., This medication is usually taken all at once over the course of one day. It is generally prescribed in two doses that you take at two different times throughout the day., Depending on the severity of your infection, and your immune status, administration can be repeated after 6 or 12 months if necessary.


Because these parasites can live for 10 years or more in your body, long-term treatments are frequently carried out.
 It has been reported that the side effects Ivermectin can cause are due to the destruction of the parasites, and the reaction of your body to this process. When the medication kills the parasites, parts of the parasites remain in your body, which can cause the side effects to occur. The side effects of the drug may also depend on the severity of the infection.


The side effects generally appear within two days of taking the medication. Nonspecific complaints, such as fatigue, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, joint and muscle pain, rash, fever, have all been observed in patients taking Ivermectin.In very rare cases, more severe complications can occur, and these include CNS involvement, such as encephalopathy, confusion, and urinary incontinence. 