 Some parents use their newfound free time to encroach on their adult children’s lives. You drop by unexpectedly, you call at all hours of the day and night, and you constantly remind them to eat or sleep. Your children have achieved some measure of autonomy after moving from underneath your roof. Give them the satisfaction of finding their own way.


It can help to have a conversation with your children or simply wait and let them set the pace. You might say, “I just want you to know that I am here for you anytime you need me,” then let them call if necessary.
 Your adult children may not have the courage to tell you that you are calling or dropping by too often. Of course, they love you and want to hear from you, but they also want to enjoy the new experiences that come with independent living. Have a candid discussion with each child to settle on the right amount and method of contact for them.


For example, some college students may be terribly homesick and appreciate daily phone calls. On the other hand, some young adults may prefer occasional phone calls in addition to texts, emails, and cards via snail mail.
Ask your child what they prefer. You might say, “I want to respect your independence and give you space, but I also want to be a part of your life. How can we keep in touch?”, While becoming an empty-nester can be distressing at first, look on the bright side. In addition to having more time for yourself, you also have the opportunity to build sophisticated grown-up relationships with your children. Just because they have moved out doesn’t mean they won’t need you for advice, financial assistance, or emotional support.

Take some time to visualize what you'd like your relationship with your child to look like. It may be helpful to journal or write about how you'd like this new stage of your life to go.
As your child matures you will help them through difficult breakups, terrible losses, and even guide them as they get married and start families of their own. Even though they may not need you in the same way they once did, they will always need you.