 If your video includes sexual acts, it's a good idea to keep it private. Unless you work in the adult film industry, you could potentially get in trouble with your school or place of work if a sexual video of you surfaces. Store sexy videos offline and always password protect computers or other devices that contain adult videos.Many people share content online, through social media sites like Facebook. People commonly express regret at posting sexual content online after some time has passed. Even a mildly sexy video can be cause of embarrassment for you down the road. Also, if an employers googles your name and finds you connected to sexual content, this could affect your employment depending on the ethics of your place of work.
If you film a video with your partner, talk ahead of time about what to do with the video in the event you break up. It's a good idea to mutually agree to destroy or delete the video in the event of a breakup. You and your partner may feel uncomfortable with the idea of an ex having access to a very intimate video of you.
Make sure you only film sexual videos with someone you trust completely. Unfortunately, sometimes people upload sexual content of former partners online in an industry known as "revenge porn." This can cause a great deal of emotional turmoil.
 If you made a video for a long distance partner, be careful in how you send the video. There are a lot of simple tricks you can use to send sensitive information securely.Break sensitive information into chunks. This can help confuse hackers. If you uploaded a sexy video on a password protected site, or onto your iCloud account, e-mail your partner something like, "I'm texting you my iCloud password." Then, send the password out of context in a separate text.
Dropbox is a service where you can share files and videos. While it's an online service, it's fairly secure as it encrypts all user information.
Keep in mind sensitive data is best exchanged in person. Nothing is completely secure online, unfortunately. If you can upload a sexy video onto a DVD, and give it to your partner in person, this is the best route for sharing a sexy video. If your partner can't play a DVD, consider uploading the video on a USB drive instead.
 Sexual content shared via the internet and a smart phone is never private. If you are underage, you can face felony charges in some states for distributing child pornography. You may even end up having to register as a sex offender. Think carefully before sharing sexually explicit content via online outlets as it can have serious consequences for your future.If you are underage, some states have strict laws regarding distributing images of a minor. If you text sexually explicit videos of yourself to a boyfriend or girlfriend, you could end up in serious trouble. In Oregon, California, and Georgie, for example, sexting can potentially fall under child pornography laws, and could be considered a felony offense. Sexting between minors, however, is sometimes viewed as a lesser charge depending on the situation. In some states, like Georgie and Alabama, stricter laws about sexting could result in you ending up on a sex offender registry.Other states have slightly more lenient sexting laws. In Louisiana, for example, if a minor is caught distributing sexual images of themselves they may face mandatory counseling or another minor form of punishment.You should review your state's specific laws regarding sexting and sexual content. Laws vary greatly by state, and you should know the potential legal consequences before sending someone a sexy video.

