 If you have a saddle but not a horse, you can to improvise in order to practice your two point position at home or when you can't get to the stables. You will need to find an object that you can use to secure the saddle above the ground. Ensure it is sturdy and can take your weight before you use it. It could be a wide fence outside, or a barrel, a wooden polo practice horse, or something similar.Secure the saddle on the object you are using, and be sure it does not slip around or fall off.


Now mount up and push yourself up into two point position and hold it for as long as you can. Concentrate on your form and body position. If possible set up a mirror or camera so you can correct your position.
If you find yourself losing balance and falling forwards or backwards use this to improve your position.
If you fall forwards, try to open your chest a little and concentrate on pressing your shoulder blades down and back while in position.
If you fall backwards, try to press your hipbones forwards towards where the horse's ears would be.;
, If you don't have a saddle or an object to use as a practice horse you can try to replicate the position by standing up on the pedals of a bike. You can do this static or on the move. If you do on a static bike, you will need to secure the bike so you don't fall over. Stand up in the pedals and try to mimic the two point position.


Lean slightly forward and take most of the weight on your ankles and heels, as you would in the saddle.Doing this can also help you improve your balance, and with practice you might find you are able to keep your balance on the bike when it is static.
 One very simple way to try and practice two point position at home is just to use a chair as your imaginary horse. Turn the chair around so you are facing the backrest and then squat over it with your hands on top of the back rest holding imaginary reins. Lower yourself down towards the seat of the chair, but don't let your backside touch it.


Lean forward with a straight back and try to your body into a position similar to the two point position.
This will help improve the strength in your legs, and can allow you just to focus on your body position without thinking about your balance.

