 An EIN is the corporate equivalent of the SSN. Any business or individual who has to pay withholding tax on employees or that or files a separate tax return from that of its owners is issued an EIN. This includes any business or individual who pays employees, corporations, partnerships, LLCs, and other business entities. The EIN is sometimes referred to as a Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN) or the Federal Tax Identification Number.
 A single form, Form SS-4, must be completed to obtain an EIN.By far the easiest way to complete this application is by applying online at https://sa.www4.irs.gov/modiein/individual/index.jsp. Completing the form online is quick, free, and allows you to immediately obtain your EIN following the interview-style application.International applicants need to call 267-941-1099 (note that this is not a toll-free number).
If you prefer not to disclose information online, you can also apply several other ways. After you can find the most current version of the form at www.irs.gov/uac/Form-ss-4,-application-for-employer-identification-number-(EIN), you can download and print the application. Then send it in by doing one of the following:

Mailing the application to appropriate IRS address.
By faxing the application to the relevant state fax number.
 Complete the EIN form online or by downloading and printing it. If filling out the form by hand, be sure to use blue or black ink. The form should guide you through completing each section, but the following steps can assist you in providing the proper information.
 Write the full legal name of the entity in box 1. If the business is owned by one person and does not have articles filed with the Secretary of State organizing it as something other than a sole proprietorship, this will be the full legal name of the owner. If the business has organizing documents, this will be the full legal name of the business as stated on those documents. If the business goes by a name different than the name in box 1, put that name in box 2. Otherwise, leave box 2 blank.


For example, if John Smith is the sole owner of John’s Johns, but he has not organized as an LLC, corporation or other legal entity, he would put John Smith in box 1 and John’s Johns in box 2. But, if John Smith had registered his business as an LLC with the Secretary of State, he would put John’s Johns, LLC, in box 1 and leave box 2 blank.
 Write the name of the person to whom any correspondence should be addressed in box 3, and provide the full mailing address of the business in boxes 4a and 4b. If the address is in a foreign country, you must include the full address, including the country (not abbreviated).


Write the full (home) mailing address of the person named in box 3 in boxes 5a and 5b. If the address is in a foreign country, you must include the full address, including the country (not abbreviated).
Write the county and state in which the principal place of business is located in box 6. Do not abbreviate.
 Write the full name of the person or entity which will be ultimately responsible for this tax entity in box 7a and enter their tax ID number in box 7b.


If the entity is a US limited liability company or similar foreign company, check “Yes” in box 8a, enter the number of members who own the LLC in box 8b, and check whether the LLC was organized in the US in box 8c. Otherwise, check “No” in box 8a and leave boxes 8b and 8c blank.
Choose the entity that applies to the business and include any special information requested in box 9a. If you are unsure of the entity, review the instructions (http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/iss4.pdf, around page 3) for a description of each choice.
If the business is organized as a corporation, write the state and/or foreign country in which the Articles of Incorporation were filed in the boxes for 9b. If the corporation was organized in the US, leave the “Foreign country” portion blank.
 Choose the reason you are applying for the EIN in box 10 and enter the additional information (if any) on the appropriate line.

Descriptions of the purposes can be found in the instructions around page 4.

Enter the date you opened or acquired the business or the entity came into existence in the US in its current form.
Enter the month your accounting books are closed in box 12. If you are unsure of this, consult your accountant.
 Enter the number of employees you expect to employ during the next 12 months. Enter these employees under the appropriate heading for agricultural (farm), household, or other employees. If you anticipate employees, but not in all categories, enter 0 (zero) in the category you do not expect to employ. If you don’t expect to have any employees, leave the entire box blank.


If you expect your employment tax liability to be $1,000 or less in a calendar year, you can check the small box in box 14, and only pay employment taxes once a year. This will generally be the case if you pay $4,000 or less in wages in a calendar year. If you do not qualify to check this box, you must pay employment taxes quarterly on Form 941.
Enter the date you began or will begin paying wages in the US in box 15 in month, day, year format. If you pay or will be paying income to a nonresident alien, enter that date.
 Check the option that best describes the principal activity of your business in box 16. A description of each option can be found around page 5 of the instructions. Place additional details about your business in box 17. For instance, if you checked construction, describe whether you are a general contractor or a specific subcontractor, residential or commercial construction, etc.


If the business has ever applied for and received an EIN in the past, check “Yes” and write the previous EIN in the space provided in box 18. If not, check “No” and leave the remainder of the box blank.
 If you want a different party (other than the business owner) to receive your EIN and /or answer any questions the IRS may have regarding this form. Enter that person’s name, address, telephone and fax numbers (with area codes) in the spaces provided. If you do not want another person to handle these things, leave this section blank.
 Print your name, title, and telephone number with area code in the next to last line on the form. Then sign your legal signature, put the date, and enter your fax number with area code in the last line. By signing the form, you swear that the information entered is true and correct to the best of your knowledge. Knowingly providing false information can subject you to criminal sanctions including perjury.
 If you are not doing the abbreviated online form, you can submit the form by mail, fax, or telephone. There is no charge for this application.


Inside the US, you can call 1-800-829-4933 between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. local time. Outside the US, you must call 1-267-941-1099. Your EIN will likely be issued before you complete the phone call.
To apply by fax, fax your application to 1-859-669-5780 if you live one of the 50 US states or the District of Columbia. If your business is not located in any of the 50 US states or the District of Columbia, fax your application to 1-859-669-5987. You should receive your EIN within 4 business days.
To apply by mail, send your application to: Internal Revenue Service Center, ATTN: EIN Operation, Cincinnati, OH 45999 if your business is located in any of the 50 US states or the District of Columbia. If your business is not located in any of the 50 US states or the District of Columbia, mail your application to: Internal Revenue Service Center, ATTN: EIN International Operation, Cincinnati, OH 45999.
 You should receive a letter with your EIN in approximately 4 weeks.
 Generally, a business will need a new EIN every time its owner or physical location changes. In this case, simply apply for a new EIN as you applied for your original.Other events in the life of your business may necessitate a new EIN. See the IRS's official criteria for a complete listing that comes as part of the application. Below are common examples of events that may require an EIN change (note that this list is not exhaustive):

Undergoing a bankruptcy proceeding
Incorporating or adding partners to a sole proprietorship
Purchasing or inheriting a business to be operated as a sole proprietorship
Undergoing a merger



