 You must deal with your own anxieties, anger or frustration before you are able to care effectively for another.
Understand what is involved. Kids with Asperger's have special needs. These can range from poor social interactions, to not being able to verbalize.The tips following are general and you will need to tailor them to your child.;
, Every day should be similar for the child. If you can, give the child a calendar with pictures, especially for the older child. This will be helpful for the child to picture upcoming events and expected daily happenings.


Handle change with great kindness and care. Any last minute changes to the usual routine (such as appointments, arrival or departure of guests, and so forth) should be brought up in a frank manner. In this way, the child does not let their anxieties build up.
 Relaxation is a hard skill to teach. The next best thing is a type of breathing called "box breathing". You inhale for a count of 4, hold your breath for 4 seconds (if possible) and slowly exhale for a count of 4. Then, pause for 4 seconds before you inhale again. This process allows the child or caregiver to count, which in itself can be relaxing.
 Whether it is reading about animals, building blocks or counting items, the activity that the child enjoys is an important one to the child. Never try to stop them; just ask them questions about the activity, if possible. This shows that you have an interest and helps to build a bond of trust between you and the child. If the child is unable to talk, just being a silent supporter means more than you can imagine.
 This is extremely important for the well-being and development of the child. For example, if you notice that they are not confident in social situations, try role playing with your child to show the child how to start conversations and talk about basic things, such as weather and general or specific interests. Also teach the child how to recognize social cues, such as boredom or anger in others. Role playing is crucial––it gives kids a mock trial of what to expect. Be real, throw them a curve-ball and see what they do. This type of play is excellent when teaching kids how to deal with bullies.
 This is crucial. Treat them no different from any child their age. Give them responsibilities around the house like cooking or cleaning. Self care is an area in which Asperger's children really lack an interest or motivation to undertake. Not that do they not recognize as easily when they are dirty as non-Asperger's children, but they just don't see the importance of taking a bath or keeping clean. Teaching them to take care of themselves is a life-long skill. Having a routine is crucial, even writing down the steps and taping them to the bathroom mirror is a good way to ensure that daily hygiene functions get done.
 These children must learn they are no different from other human beings but are simply part of a broad spectrum of personality types in the world. Help them to see that they are able to achieve as much as they put their minds to. For kids who are higher needs, it is important that you learn to take care of yourself and reach out to support groups so that you can get the help you need.
 Doing this will keep them up to date with the latest information. This can help them to learn the importance of news issues and social norms.
 If you spell out what motivates people and how it is often hard for any person to fathom the actions and thoughts of another person, this will give them an insight into how emotions can affect a person. It can be harder for an Asperger's child to stand in the shoes of another person to try to see that person's perspective but this is a skill that can be taught. Ask things such as: How would this affect you if it happened to you? Do you think that person might also feel confused or upset? If the child seems indifferent, try to use situations or things that the child is interested in, such as a pet, a stuffed toy or a game that the child likes, and come at the teaching from that angle instead.
 This is a good way for your kid to practice their social skills in a less threatening environment. You can slowly increase the number of kids as your child gets better, although don't ever overdo it by having a big group––that may never be something your child finds tolerable (and there are plenty of people in the world who would find large groups intolerable too). However, make sure the child asks the kid on a playdate and not the parent or guardian. Teaching kids to go out on the limb and taking risks is important to build confidence.

