 Purchase some vegetables and fruits to infuse in your waters such as cucumbers, melons, strawberries, mint leaves and other herbs, different citrus fruits, apples, and pineapple.Consider buying glasses with lids such as mason jars or tumblers with attached straws. You can make individual waters all at once and store them in your fridge.The vegetables and fruits should be as fresh as possible, as should the water. If the fruits and vegetables begin to age, throw them away and restock.
 Doing a diet such as this for too long will have negative effects,
Ask your doctor about possible health issues before you begin this diet.
in that your body is not getting all the nutrients it normally does such as fiber and protein. It is best to do it for a week or less.


If you have diet limitations, this might not be a good way for you to lose weight.
If you find yourself overly fatigued or dizzy, stop this diet and go back to normal eating habits. Your overall health is more important than quick weight loss.
 You can make a pitcher of one type of water you enjoy,
The fruit and vegetables may rot or ferment after three days.
or individual servings of many different combinations. Experiment and find the flavor mixes that you like best.Be sure to not add any sugar or other sweetener, though it may be tempting. If you want to add different spices like cinnamon or nutmeg, that is fine. Avoid anything that would promote water retention, such as sodium, or has calories.
Cut off the rinds of any citrus fruits to avoid bitter flavors.
It is best to store it in the fridge, but it can be stored at room temperature for up to one day.
 Do not drink it all in one sitting, but instead have one cup of water at a time over the course of 9-10 water breaks. This is to replenish the water you lose throughout the day. Drink more water if you can; 64 ounces is the minimum.


It might be best to do this over a period of time away from work and other obligations so you can focus on drinking as much water that is as fresh as possible. If you cannot do this, try the diet over a weekend when you are spending a lot of time at home.
There will be a lot of bathroom breaks during this time. Stay near a restroom so you will not have to go hunting for one when the need strikes.
 When you do eat, find foods that have a high water content. Fruit and vegetables are great for this. Try watermelon, strawberries, zucchini, peaches, tomatoes, cauliflower, pineapple, eggplant, or broccoli. If you must eat meat, have a lean meat like chicken or turkey instead of red meat or pork.Combine a calorie-restricted diet and a water diet. Drinking 16 ounces of water before each meal and limiting daily calorie intake (1200 for women and 1500 for men) can jumpstart weight loss and help dieters maintain weight loss successfully for up to a year.
 Though this diet may help you to drop weight quickly, if your overall lifestyle does not promote healthy living, you will more than likely gain this weight back.

