 One thing that discourages autistic children is the fear that they are somehow "inferior" to neurotypical people. This couldn't be further from the truth. Helping them realize the incredible successes of other autistic people can help give them drive, initiative, and confidence to succeed:


Daniel Tammet is a writer and linguist known as one of the smartest men alive. He's appeared on TV shows everywhere as well as documentaries.
Satoshi Tajiri, the creator of the world-famous Pokemon franchise, is autistic. He still runs many of the game's creative decisions.
Donna Williams is an international bestselling author and sculptor. She still writes and creates art based on her experiences with autism.;
, A big part of autism acceptance is realizing you are not alone, and kids need social communities that they feel a part of. Use sites like the Autism Self-Advocacy Network, which have state-by-state databases of resources.


Because of shyness or social difficulty, many autistic children feel happier communicating online. This is a good way to build social skills in a safe, comfortable setting. Of course, you should still monitor your child’s online activity to make sure they are safe.
Look for friends, family members, and teachers who "get" your child. That is, those that treat him with the respect and love every child deserves.
 Autistic people may be shy or have difficulty expressing themselves with words, but that doesn't mean they don't want to get things off their chests. If your child struggles to speak or express themselves, encourage alternate methods like drawing, music, writing, or crafts. Don't ask to see everything, either. They will share it with you if they'd like you to see it.If you're unsure what they like to do, just ask. Try your best not to offer solutions or force your own ideas. Just listen to your child.
"We have the afternoon off -- how would you like to spend it?"

, In order to encourage success, a kid needs to feel successful, so find ways to allow him or her to truly shine. Instead of assigning chores, offer four or five different ones and see which ones they prefer. Try saying something like, "We need to clean up, what do you think you can get done for us?"


Don't get upset if things aren't done quite to your liking -- anger will only cause anxiety that will make future successes even more difficult.
Be specific with instructions for the best results. Don't just say "pick up pinecones." Tell them to pick them up, put them in the trash can, and return the can to the garage.
 Some children struggle with two senses at once, such as looking and listening, and thus avoid eye contact when being told something. They aren't ignoring you by looking away -- they are actually paying close attention. Autistic children find novel ways to cope with people who think differently from them, and you should extend this same courtesy to them as well. To help do so:

Focus on outcomes, not on the current moment. A child may have a different way of doing things, but what matters more is if they get the things done.
Pay attention to moments when they are comfortable or at ease. How can you replicate these scenarios more often?, Do not neglect your own well-being in an effort to make things perfect for an autistic child. It can be hard raising or teaching a kid on the autism spectrum, and you need to acknowledge that difficulty in order to overcome it. There are lots of resources and support communities where you can share your concerns, find solutions, and listen to stories from those in similar positions:


http://autisticadvocacy.org/
http://www.autismacceptancemonth.com/
http://www.autistichoya.com/

http://www.thinkingautismguide.com/