 It’s highly unlikely that you will find a good match immediately after you start looking. Instead, be prepared to wait until you locate the best possible companion dog for your family. Keep up the search by checking in regularly with your adoption contacts. Use this time to keep observing your dog to learn more about what they might like.If you choose to go with a puppy from a breeder, you may also have to get past the wait list and the holding period of 9-12 weeks before a puppy can be released.
 Whether you go through a breeder or rescue organization, make sure to ask about the dog’s history, if it’s available. Does it have a record of good interactions with other dogs? Does it come from a situation of abuse? Is there information available about the parents?

, To protect your current dog and avoid costly vet bills, you’ll want to find out as much as you can about the health status of your adoptee. Some illnesses, such as parvo, can pass from dog to dog. And, some puppies can be so sick that they pass away shortly after adoption, only causing more heartache.


Look for dogs with clear eyes, clean noses and eyes, unobstructed breathing, and consistent outward behaviors. Ask to see medical records, if they are available.
Getting another dog means that there is twice the possibility of some sort of medical issue. Make sure that you have some funds set aside in case something happens to your new dog., Even if you have to sit outside the kennel at an adoption facility, try to get some sense about how your potential adoptee has been socialized. Are they friendly overall or shy just at first? You want a dog that is not crippled by shyness, as that can turn into aggressiveness.


If you feel safe, place your hand down to see how the dog reacts. The dog should be cautious, but curious. Offering a treat will make your first meeting even more positive.
 Most rescue organizations and breeders will allow you to go on a trial run with your new dog. Bring the dog home and follow the introduction procedures outlined below. This brief visit, whether it be a few days or longer, will allow to see how this dog fits into your home life and the life or your current dog.