 If the latter, be sure it is permitted to camp by the river.


Look online for campsites located along riversides. The campgrounds will most likely make the river aspect a feature of the advertising.
In National Parks, ask the rangers which campsites are located alongside the riverbanks.;
, This should also include places to keep the boat safe while you set up camp and sleep.
 It may be nice and flat and look inviting but after a storm begins or a dam breaches, that river can fill up faster than you can imagine. If you're all asleep, the water can roar down from its source unbeknownst to everyone, leaving no time for escape.


Know the weather in the region. How quickly do storms occur? If they're sudden and high impact, it is important to bear in mind that flash flooding may occur quickly and with dire results.
 Even if you're on the riverbanks, flooding is still a danger in some areas where high rainfall can cause the river to swell quickly.


Do not camp inside caves, coves or dugout areas in cliffs alongside a riverbank unless rangers or locals have confirmed one hundred percent that this area does not flood. If you see dampness on the ground or on ledges, this means that the water penetrates inside.
 Do not dump your washing water, kitchen scraps/leftovers or fecal matter into the river. It isn't a dumping ground and this can promote disease and/or attract vermin and predatory animals. Instead, find a location away from the river to dump used water, follow proper hygiene practices for using the toilet (or use toilet facilities provided) and take all garbage out with you.
 If something happens, someone should be aware of your whereabouts and your activity.
 Not all rivers are easy to cross or safe to be in. Know what the river contains and stay well away from possible problems.


Beware the local wildlife. Some rivers have inhabitants such as crocodiles, alligators, biting fish and other sources of potential harm. Find out well before you set up your campsite and wander near the river's edge.
Some rivers may be a source of disease or parasites, depending where you are in the world. Do your research before venturing in for a swim or a wade with bare feet.
Watch out for rapidly flowing water, deep water (often in the middle or where there is a lot of water), sudden drop-offs, etc. if you plan on swimming or using the river water.
Know how to cross a river safely.
 Unless you're traveling by boat and want to keep moving on, you could remain at the riverside camp for several days and head off on river-related adventures.
 There are lots of fun opportunities alongside the river, including:


Boating, canoeing or kayaking. If there are white water rapids nearby, there might be a company offering rides.
Fishing.
Water skiing.
Swimming.
Riding a bike or a horse along the river's edge.
Walking along the river's edge.
Photographing, painting or writing about the river. If you can, catch a sunset/sunrise or a moonrise over a river––absolutely magical.
Treating the riverside as a beach; lay out your towel, pull out the sunglasses and a good book and simply relax.

