 You can turn most walls into a fun, interactive surface with chalkboard paint. This works great in kitchens, offices, and playrooms. It allows you to write recipes and shopping lists. It can also be used as an outlet for your creativity. This section will teach you how to apply chalkboard paint to a wall.
 If the wall you are planning has anything on it, you will need to move it out of the way. If you are unable to move large items, such as appliances, then consider covering them with a protective plastic cloth.
 You can either remove the light switches, outlet covers, and baseboards, or you can cover them with painter's tape. Cover any window sills with painter's tape as well. Be sure to seal the tape using a pallet knife or a flat painter's knife.
 Unless you will be screwing something back into the hole, you will need to fill it in using wall filler. Any holes or dents in the wall will remain after you paint the wall, so you will need to fill them in.
 In order to help create a smooth surface and help the chalkboard paint adhere better, you will need to prime the surface of your wall. There are two ways you can do it:


You can sand the wall using a sanding pole. Once you are done, make sure to seep and mop up any dust. If your house is from the 1970s or older, the walls may contain lead-based paint. Be sure to use respiratory protection so as not to get yourself sick.You can also paint it with primer instead.Simply apply the primer with a paint roller and wait for it to dry. This will take two to four hours, but refer to the can for more specific directions.
 If your wall is still bumpy and textured, even after priming it, you may need to apply wall liner. Heavily-textured walls, such as brick and drywall, will retain their texture even after painting. You will need to cut the wall liner down to the width of your wall (not the height). How you apply the liner will depend on what type of liner you buy:If you bought a wall liner with an adhesive backing, you will need to soak it in water for about 10 minutes. Refer to the manufacturer's instructions for more specific directions, as each brand will be different. Once the back of the liner is tacky, start applying it to the wall. Align the first piece with the top of the wall, where the ceiling begins, and be sure to smooth out any air bubbles or ripples. Apply the next piece just below it. Keep doing this until the entire wall is covered.
If you bought a plain wall liner, without any adhesive, you will need to apply the adhesive to the back of the liner yourself. Some adhesives come premixed, while others need to be mixed with water. Once the adhesive is ready, spread it onto the back of the wall liner, then press it to the wall, just where the ceiling begins and the wall ends. The paper should extend the entire width of the wall. Be sure to smooth out any air bubbles or ripples. Apply the next piece just below it. Keep doing this until the entire wall is coated.
 Using a paint brush, start applying the paint around the windows (if they are in the wall you are painting) and around the wall edges. This means that, if you are painting an entire wall, you will be painting the crease between the walls and the crease where the wall and ceiling meet. Wait for the paint to dry, about two to four hours, and apply a second coat.
 Do not pour all of the paint out at once. Not only will you be painting in small sections, but the paint may dry before you have finished using it. Whenever you refill your paint pan, be sure to stir the paint so that the particles do not settle.
 Apply the paint using an up-down-up-down motion. Work in small sections at a time. Wait for the paint to fully dry. This will take two to four hours, but refer to the manufacturer's instructions on the can for more specific drying times. Be sure to clean your paint roller before setting aside while you wait for the paint to dry. If you don't, the paint may dry on the roller, ruining it.
 Once the first layer has completely dried, you may apply a second coat, using the same up-and-down motion as before. Let the paint dry for three days; this will allow the paint to cure and make it ready to be used as a chalkboard.
 Once the paint has dried to the touch, you can start returning any appliances to their former positions. Wait until the paint has cured, however, before removing the painter's tape.
 After the paint has dried and cured, you will need to prepare the surface for use by covering it with chalk. Once you have the entire surface covered, wipe it clean again with a damp cloth. Your wall is now ready to be used.

