 Nightmares occur in both adults and children. Despite being a dream, nightmares are a real symptom of something that needs addressing in your waking life. The two main causes of nightmares are:Stress.
Major life event, such as the loss of a loved one or trauma.
 Beyond the two main causes of nightmares, stress and trauma, there are a multitude of additional potential causes. Examine the following possible causes of your nightmares to see if any of them are applicable to your situation:


A new drug prescribed by your healthcare provider. Certain medications could cause nightmares as a side effect. Interactions with existing prescriptions and any new medications could also be responsible. Ask your doctor about any new prescriptions and if they may be responsible for your nightmares.
Drinking too much alcohol. Alcohol consumption can cause nightmares by interrupting deeper levels of sleep, when dreams often occur. Reduce alcohol consumption to improve sleep quality and reduce the frequency of nightmares caused by heavy alcohol usage.
Eating just before going to bed. When you eat before bed, your metabolism increases, keeping you awake and preventing you from having deep, restful sleep. Avoid any snacks before bed to sleep better and lower the chances of having a nightmare.
Illness with a fever. Being ill, especially with a fever, can interrupt sleep patterns and cause nightmares. After you recover from the fever or illness, your nightmares should reduce in frequency. If they do not, talk with your doctor and look for another possible cause together.
Stopping certain prescriptions. Ending your usage of a prescription, with a doctor's order, can be responsible for nightmares. If you are experiencing nightmares after ending a prescription, ask your doctor if this may be responsible and what to expect as you end the medication.
 Your nightmares may have common elements or will be exact repeats of previous nightmares. If you have the same nightmare consistently there may be unique causes behind this type of nightmare. The two main causes repeating nightmares are:


Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). 71% to 96% of those with PTSD have been found to have may have nightmares.PTSD is caused by a terrifying event, either witnessed or undergone directly.Severe anxiety or depression. Suffering from either severe anxiety or depression can cause repetitive nightmares. Work with your doctor, therapist, or counselor to help reduce your anxiety or depression, which will in turn help to stop your nightmares.
 Bad dreams, nightmares, and sleep terrors are considered to be different events. They all have their own characteristics, and knowing which one you are experiencing, can help you to gauge what level your nightmares are at.Bad dreams are unpleasant dreams and they do not awaken you.
Nightmares have the images and sounds of a dream, and are so terrifying that you awaken.
Sleep terrors have no images or dreams, only an extreme feeling of terror and sometimes sleep paralysis.
 Your doctor may be able to provide a prescription, or recommend an over-the-counter sleep aid, to help you combat your nightmares. Medications for nightmares are not for everyone, and may only work in certain cases. Some of the more common over-the-counter sleep aids are:Melatonin. Melatonin is a hormone that is produced by your body and it controls your sleep-wake cycle. Effects may be mild but melatonin should increase the likely-hood that you will fall asleep easier. Melatonin may cause headaches and daytime sleepiness as side effects.
Doxylamine succinate (Unisom Sleep Tabs). Doxylamine is an antihistamine and has a sedating effect. You may notice side effects such as daytime drowsiness, dry mouth, blurred vision, constipation and urinary retention.
Valerian. Valerian is a plant that is used as a sleep aid. Studies are divided as to its effectiveness. There are generally no side effects when using Valerian.
Diphenhydramine (Benadryl, Unisom SleepGels, others). Diphenhydramine is another antihistamine with a sedating effect. The drowsiness caused by diphenhydramine can help you to fall asleep. Pay attention to side effects such as daytime drowsiness, dry mouth, blurred vision, constipation and urinary retention.
Sleep aids may leave you feeling tired and groggy during the day.
Medication interactions are possible with sleep aids. Side effects and safety are uncertain with many sleep aids. Ask your doctor if sleep medications are right for you.

