 A stock's return consists of both share-price growth and dividend yield. For example, a company that pays a 5% dividend yield in a given year and appreciates in share price by 5% that same year provides an annualized 10% pre-tax return to stockholders. High quality (dependable growth) is necessary to ensure that the dividend payout will be consistent (or even increase) year after year.


Dividends are typically paid by mature companies with stable earnings. The decision to pay dividends may create greater demand from investors who prefer steady, rising income associated with dividends.The greater demand provides a natural support for the stock price.;
, There are thousands of stocks on the market, but not all are suitable for dividend investors. There are several ways to narrow your search for top-quality dividend stocks:


Research the 30 stocks from the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA). These are large American companies that are leaders in their respective industries. Many of them have the high-quality characteristics required for long-term performance, but some may not. This list is important, because it is a widely used benchmark for the U.S. stock market. Evaluate each company on the list in light of the criteria discussed in later steps.Use an online stock screener such as eSignal to screen for stocks with a market cap of at least 100 million dollars and a dividend yield of at least 150% of the Standard & Poor's 500 average yield. (If the S&P 500 averages a 2% dividend yield, look for stocks with at least a 3% dividend yield). Search also for stocks with a five-year average return-on-equity of at least 15%, a long-term debt-to-equity ratio of less than 1, interest coverage of at least 5% (see note in the Warnings section), and a 10-year earnings-per-share (EPS) growth of 5% or more. This should narrow down the list of candidate stocks considerably. In fact, most stocks found by an online stock screener will fail to satisfy this list of criteria in full and thus will not qualify as high-quality dividend stocks. Additional research is necessary, as outlined in later steps.
Look at the list of holdings of mutual funds that invest primarily in high-quality dividend stocks, such as (among many others) the Vanguard Dividend Appreciation Fund. Such a list contains good suggestions for finding high-quality dividend stocks.
Find a list of dividend achievers, those stocks with a history of raising dividends over time. Look for such a list in the financial press, on financial websites, or from certified financial advisors.
Look at the list of dividend aristocrats: stocks that have consistently increased dividends every year for at least 25 years. You can find the most updated list by doing an internet search. This list of blue chip stocks consists of top-quality dividend stocks that meet the criteria mentioned here.
 From the list of candidate stocks, use an online financial website such as money.msn.com to investigate each company. Look at the financial statements over the past ten years, and immediately eliminate from further consideration any company that shows EPS loss in any of the past ten years.


For example, on money.msn.com, type in the stock ticker symbol (e.g. "T" for AT&T). On the stock page click on the "10-year summary" tab located at the bottom of the left panel, and look for any EPS deficits. For AT&T, there is red ink (an EPS loss) for the year 2008, so it must be eliminated from further consideration.If a company does not have at least a ten-year history of earnings, do not invest in it for the purpose of earning dividend income. It has not yet demonstrated an ability to generate consistent earnings and is therefore too risky to be considered a good investment.
 There are several key measurements that will help indicate a high quality stock. Look at the balance sheet and income statement for the following key measurements of financial strength:


Low debt-to-equity ratio. It should be less than 1. To calculate, look on the balance sheet and divide total liabilities by total shareholders' equity.Some companies with low or medium levels of debt can still be good investments. Key is their ability to pay debt comfortably. The debt can also be used to leverage returns to shareholders.


High interest coverage (net interest earnings that are at least five times interest expense, found on the annual income statement).
No shares of preferred stock listed on the balance sheet. Preferred stock can be more costly to the issuing company than are bonds. However, this depends on the terms of the preferred stock issuance. A convertible, non-participating preferred stock issue could have a lower cost than debt.
Ideally, total current assets should exceed total current liabilities. (Look on the balance sheet.) This can give you confidence that the company will not run into any immediate cash-flow problems. A current ratio (total current assets/total current liabilities) greater than 2 is desirable but not mandatory.

