 Princesses should speak well and so should you! It is important for a princess to use proper grammar. Practice your speech and improve your grammar and vocabulary to become more like an ideal princess.;
, Princesses should stand tall and proud. Work on your posture to achieve the princess look.
 Princesses are smart and help solve problems. Study in school and learn more about the world around you so you can be a problem solver too.
 Kindness is a very important princess quality. Be kind and help others every chance you have--be as beautiful inside as you are on the outside.
 Good princesses are humble. Try your hand at real humility and people will admire you like a princess.
 The ideal princess always practices using their manners. You can work on using manners by conducting online research or asking your parents or grandparents for help.
 Work on your politeness, an aspect of manners.
 Another important aspect of behaving like a princess is executing proper dinner etiquette. This includes properly using all of the different utensils, knowing when to start eating, how to act, etc.



Avoid spitting out your food. You definitely don’t want everyone to have to look at that chewed up spinach. Yuck!

Be neat when you eat. Your princess apparel could get ruined if you spill spaghetti sauce down your front! Eat neatly for a royal meal.
 An ideal princess is clean and always follows proper hygiene processes.
 Snow White worked hard, did her chores, and contributed to her home, both with the dwarves and while living at the castle. Being responsible like this is especially important for princesses! You should do the same and help out where you can, doing your chores, getting a job, and generally being more responsible.
 Cinderella was kind to everyone, from cruel sisters to tiny mice. This kindness was what made her inner beauty and brought about her happy ending. Be kind like Cinderella, even when you don’t have to. People will be mean to you or may not have much to offer you, but like Cinderella shows, that doesn’t mean you have to be horrible right back.
 Princess Aurora, also called Sleeping Beauty or Briar Rose, was kind and friendly with all the animals in the forest where she lived. She lived harmoniously with the environment around her and you should do the same. Respect nature, and do your part to protect the environment.
 Life can be hard sometimes and we can often get really caught up in school or other responsibilities, but Ariel shows us that it’s just as important to find joy in life. Ariel collected things and saw the beauty in things that no one else could see. Like Ariel, you should enjoy the world around you and find happiness in the things you do.
 Belle had it rough with the Beast, but she also saw someone who had real opportunity to be a better person. She helped him to heal his own pain and find happiness in life. Like Belle, you should help people be better. When you see someone that’s having a hard time, try to help them instead of just writing them off as a bad person. This graciousness is a truly princess-like quality!

, Jasmine didn’t listen to what was normal for her society, she saw problems and she fought against them to improve her own life. Follow your own heart, like Jasmine, and do what you know to be right. This can be hard sometimes, even mean going against what’s normal, but you’ll be a happier, stronger person, just like Jasmine.
 Pocahontas had good reason to be scared of the English settlers, just like the rest of her people, but instead of judging them for being different, she worked to understand them and find middle ground. She saw that we are all the same people, the people of the world, and she worked to bring peace and prosperity for everyone. Search for understanding and peace, like Pocahontas, smoothing out arguments and problems between the people in your life so that everyone is treated fairly.
 Lots of things that we have to do in life will be pretty scary. Mulan was certainly pretty scared when she had to go off to war to protect her family and her country. But bravery, or doing what you have to do even though you’re scared, is a quality that you’ll need if you’re going to face the challenges in your life. Be brave, like Mulan, and take your problems head on.
 Tiana learned from her father that you can have almost anything your heart can dream up but you have to work hard to get it. Tiana did just that and got everything she needed! Work hard like Tiana to make your own dreams come true. Study in school and get where you want to be by working the right jobs and getting a good education, rather than depending on someone to come to your rescue.
 When Rapunzel and Flynn got into trouble in the bar, instead of being afraid of the scary men there, she treated them all like normal people and became their friend. Like Rapunzel, don’t judge people. You shouldn’t judge a book by its cover and people will always surprise you.
 Merida had to save her mother after making a pretty serious mistake, which was hard and scary but very much the right thing to do. Like Merida, you should do the right thing, especially when it’s hard. This is one of the defining qualities of a princess and almost every princess on this list has had to do this exact same thing. It may not always be easy, but you can follow your heart do the right thing, and find your happiness.
 She is loyal, strong, brave, caring, and beautiful. She never gives up. She follows orders, but stays true to her heart. She met WALL-E and she doesn't want any harm to him and she's being kind to WALL-E. The right thing to do to be like her is to be brave, strong, kind, never give up, and do what's right.
 Anna learned that you shouldn't rush into love. You too must know that it is only after a while of knowing someone can you trust and love them. Elsa learned to be self-confident of her powers and not be afraid to show her talents and use them for a greater good. Both sisters learned that family is very important. You must learn to take love slow, be self-confident, and love your family dearly. If you have powers of any kind (such as seeing the future) accept them like Elsa and don't be scared of them.
 Take control of your destiny. Go out and do things that will enhance your life rather than just waiting for some prince to come. Your happiness will come when you pursue it, not while you're waiting for it to find you.


Be like Princess Zhao of Pingyang. This princess didn’t start life as a princess. She made herself one! She lived in China, a really long time ago and when her father decided he wanted to take control of China, she didn’t wait for him but instead joined in the battle, raising her own army and helping her father. She took control of her own destiny and you should do the same.
 Though you might not have the title of princess, you still have a people to protect. We are all, across the whole world, the same people but many are treated as less and are abused. Fight for their freedom, because that is what a real princess would do!


Be like Rani Lakshmibai. Princess Lakshmibai, who was really a queen as the wife of a king, was an Indian princess who fought for freedom for her people from the British. She saw her people being abused and treated as less than human and her son, who should have been king, stripped of power and a future. Instead of leaving the battle to the men, she fought for her people and their freedom. You should do the same.
 Don’t let anyone define you. Do the things that make you you and that you enjoy. The world will tell you what are girl things and what are boy things, or they'll tell you that something is only for white girls or black girls, but those things don't matter. Don't listen to those people. You just be the person that you are.


Be like Princess Sirivannavari Nariratana. This princess of Thailand studies fashion and is a just a typical girl...who plays sports! She doesn’t let “femininity” keep her from doing things that are usually considered boy things.
 Reach for the stars, no matter what people tell you. Want more for your life and pursue those dreams. Don't just take the same job as your parents because that's what they want you to do. Don't just listen when people say you have to take a girl job. Pursue your dreams to find your happiness.


Be like Princess Sikhanyiso Dlamini. This princess of Swaziland, in Africa, doesn’t let the rules of her culture define her. She fights against many of the outdated restrictions and pursues her dreams and the things she wants for herself. You should do the same.
 You should try to work to make the world a better place. Find causes you believe in and fight however you can. You can volunteer or hold a fund raiser. You can also help by donating toys or clothes that you don't need or use very often. Tell your parents that you want to help people, and they will help you find ways to contribute to the world.


Be like Princess Diana. Princess Diana was the mother of Prince William. Though she died very young, she worked very hard during her lifetime to make the world a better place. She worked for causes like fighting the AIDS epidemic and also worked to help people that a lot of others didn’t think were worth helping, like drug addicts and homeless people.
 Sometimes life gets really hard, for you and for everyone else. Times get tough and it makes people really sad. When this happens, you should try to inspire hope, even when things seem hopeless. Stay optimistic and always work for the best outcome, even in the toughest of times.


Be like Queen Elizabeth. She’s queen of Britain now, but Elizabeth was just a princess during World War II. At that time, the terror of war was at the forefront of children’s minds all across Britain. Elizabeth brought hope to all of them by speaking on the radio and working for the war effort.
 You should fight for equality, because we are all humans and we all deserve equal rights and opportunities. If you see people being treated unfairly, speak up, whether it's in your household or half-way across the world. When enough voices speak up, real change can happen and people's lives can be made better.


Be like Princess Ameera Al-Taweel. A princess of Saudi Arabia, Ameera is an icon of equal rights for women in her country and across the Middle East. She uses her power to try to improve conditions for other women, who have not been given the opportunities that she has.
 Never be afraid to be smart. If you see boys that don't like your brains, then they're bad guys, not Prince Charmings. Learn about things because learning is fun! You'll get to do so many more interesting things and the smarter you are, the easier it will be for YOU to save the world. Study hard in school and never be afraid to use your brains!


Be like Princess Lalla Salma. Princess Lalla Salma of Morocco got a degree in engineering and worked with computers before taking her royal title! Like this brainy princess, you should try to be smart!

