 Speak to your pastor about your interest in becoming ordained. If your pastor supports your goal, you will be brought before a local board at your church. This board or committee will ask you questions about your interest in becoming ordained.


You might be rejected if you express a mystical belief that God has chosen you to become ordained, if you suggest or imply that ordination would simply be a personal accomplishment, if you have few other professional options or have been unsuccessful in their professional life, or if you demonstrate an inadequate understanding about the purpose of ministry. You will also likely be rejected if you have a criminal history.
To be accepted as a candidate for ordination, express a willingness to serve the church and congregation, demonstrate that you are personable and have strong people skills, and show that you are willing to work hard.
Report back to the board periodically about progress you’ve made toward becoming ordained.
Be completely honest with your church committee.
 After passing the initial interview, the church might assign you a spiritual mentor -- an elder in the church or another person with strong faith -- to help guide you through the ordination process. If you are allowed to choose from a number of different potential mentors, select someone who you can communicate easily and honestly with who will keep you energized and focused throughout the ordination process., You will receive a Master of Divinity degree from a seminary accredited by the Association of Theological Schools. You could, alternately, obtain a Master of Arts in theology, though this is not preferred.


You do not need to attend a seminary explicitly associated with your denomination.
If you do not like your seminary, talk to your mentor and church committee about transferring to another seminary.
 You will engage in part-time work to gain practical experience as part of the clergy. In addition to the internship, a shorter period of internship called a practicum may be required. Check your seminary’s graduation requirements for specifics.
 You will also need to undertake sex-abuse training to identify and understand sexual abuse. Use training materials provided by the seminary to prepare for these tests.


You might also be given psychological and personality tests.
 You should also include some information about a specific topic or topics relevant to your ordination. For instance, you might write the main body of your ordination paper on a topic like “forgiveness in the Old Testament.”


The specific format of your ordination paper depends on the requirements of your seminary program.
 Some denominations like the United Methodists and Evangelicals have a probationary period for their pastors. You might need to rack up four years or more of ministry experience before you are properly ordained.During this trial period, find your own voice at the pulpit and gain more experience in helping, preaching, and providing inspiration to your community of believers.
Continue learning more about your role in the church and deepening your knowledge of the Bible through daily reading and reflection.
 You will also need to present personal references, some or all of which are from other pastors, deacons, or church elders. Talk to your mentor about the process in your church.

