 Go for daily walks and let the dog meet and greet with other dogs and people. You can even take your dog to new places like the beach, the park, or maybe even a pet spa for a special treat. There’s no need to plan a special day though, just spend some time petting your dog, playing fetch or tug of war, or even just taking a nap with your pup. The most important thing is to give your pup plenty of love and attention that will relieve stress and make your dog happier, which can improve quality of life., Start early, and focus training on making sure your pup is safe and free from stress. For instance, train your dog to walk on a leash. This will prevent them from running away, which could lead to injury caused by cars or other dogs. You should also house train your pet. It’s important to your health and your dog’s that waste be excreted outside, so train your dog to use a dog door, ring bells to alert you they need to go outside, or use any other house training system that works for your unique needs., Most dogs love riding in the car, so bring them along next time you run an errand. You can also plan a more extensive trip with your pup. For instance, you can take your dog camping or hiking. These types of outings increase your dog’s overall happiness, and camping and hiking may even give your pet some extra exercise.Prioritize safety and comfort in the car. Practice with short trips first, and tire your dog out beforehand; provide familiar comforts like blankets and toys; plan lots of breaks; and use either a familiar crate, a dog guard, or a seat restraint for safety., If you are out of the house for more than a few hours at a time, you'll need to give your dog something to do, and keep them in an area where they are safe. Bored dogs can become destructive, so make sure your pup has plenty of toys to play with. Consider puzzle toys that challenge your dog to get treats out or untangle them to keep your pet busy. You can also hide specials treats, toys or food around the home. Puppy proof a specific area for your pet where they will be unlikely to injure themselves or damage your belongings. Remove access to anything fragile, that your dog may rip up, or that may be harmful like sharp objects.


Always allow your pet access to water.
If your dog does not have a pet door or other access to the outdoors, make sure to have someone walk them regularly.
Some puppy parents keep their pets in crates while they're at work. As long as your dog has been properly trained and is comfortable, this may be a valid solution.