 Apply some face wash/scrub to your face and your neck, if it is an affected area. Work into a lather. Leave for a couple of moments, then rinse well with cool, but not cold, water. When all of the wash has been rinsed off, splash your face with cold water; make it as cold as you can stand it. Do this for a minute or two to close the pores.


If you have an astringent, apply some to the cotton wool and sweep gently over the face. Generally, dermatologists argue that astringents shouldn't be used by people with chronic acne as they can dry out the skin too much.
If you just have one spot to target, then simply hold the cotton wool soaked with astringent on the spot for a minute or two. No need to rinse it off. Do the same with the witch hazel/toner/alcohol., If you have bought the cotton pads, a clever tip is to simply 'poke' one of the pads with the Q tip, so that some of the product transfers to the Q tip. However, if you have a large area to target, simply use a pad or a cotton wool pad with salicylic acid on it. You can purchase these separately., Do not wipe it prematurely or the acid may not have had a chance to work its magic. Normally, salicylic acid dries in around 30 seconds to one minute. Take this time to discard your used Q-tip and any other toiletries you may have needed to apply the acid.
 The biggest side effect from salicylic acid is dry and flaky skin. You effectively change out a acne “spot” for a big flake of dry skin. That’s not what you want. Remember that salicylic acid is a powerful acne fighting tool, but is just one thing in your face-care repertoire. Coconut oil based moisturizers are a great choice because of their natural anti-bacterial properties., You can apply lighter dosages of salicylic acid two or three times a day if needed. For prescription strength, you’ll do it less frequently. Pay close attention to the guidelines on the particular product you purchase.Keep in mind that it may take up to three weeks for your face to respond to the salicylic acid.