 Romans 12:3 For I say, through the grace given unto me, to every man that is among you,not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith.;
, Romans 10:17 So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. The Word clearly states that faith comes by the hearing of God's word. Either by reading God's word, listen to other Godly friends testimonies, to listen to the Word of God Sunday mornings/evenings in church or in the children church. To hear the promises of God everyday will surely build your faith. Example of promises Jeremiah 29:11 For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the LORD, thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you an expected end. and Romans 8: 28 explains that the life of faith works out right:And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose.
 Hebrews 11:6 But without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. A good example is Abraham. In the apostle Paul’s letter to the Romans he says about Abraham that he was not startled by God's promises: He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief; but was strong in faith, giving glory to God; And being fully persuaded that: what he had promised, he was able also to perform (Rom 4:19-21).
 Build up your faith by praying in the Holy Spirit: (Jude20, 1Corinthians14:14)

, To know what it means to live by faith, you should know what faith means. Hebrews 11:1 Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. To have faith in in God's promises is not based on what you see, but on the fact/evidence that you believe God although you do not see the answer hoped for with your natural eyes yet. You should live by faith and not by sight, for example: If you lose your job, then you should believe that God is helping you find a good job. You should begin thanking God every morning that you are already receiving a new job, although you do not see it yet. When you apply for work, know it is on its way; that confidence will show through. That's faith. Confidence in God's ways. Romans 1:17 says,For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith: as it is written, 'The just shall live by faith'.

