 Varying the length of the crop top can change the way it makes your body look.


If you have a naturally trim and slim belly, you can probably afford to wear a notably short crop top that stops just below the bra-line.
For curvier bodies, however, crop tops that land at or just above your natural waist typically look best. By showing just a small sliver of skin at the thinnest part of your body, these tops draw attention to the narrow part of your curves and have a slimming effect overall.
If you feel uncomfortable regardless of your body type, you could ease your way into the style by wearing a faux crop top. These tops are just a little shorter than normal, so they'll only show skin when you lift your arms.;
, The cut of the hem can impact the overall look of the crop top, too. Vary the hem to flatter the shape of your body or appease your sense of modesty.


If you have a petite frame, consider choosing a crop top with a lifted center hem and slightly longer sides. A crisscross top would be one example. These tops can make a short torso look longer.
Try a high-low crop top that rises in the front and drapes down further in the back. This can be a good way to ease into the crop top style if you're looking for something a little more modest. Crop tops that tie in the front also have a similar effect.
 Some crop tops are meant to be a little loose while others are supposed to hug your body. Regardless of the cut, though, you need to make sure the crop top fits your body's dimensions.


Tight crop tops can have a sexy, powerful appearance, but they tend to be very unforgiving and will show any bumps or folds along your torso.
Loose crop tops can create a more covered appearance and may also look your middle look slimmer, Note, however, that loose crop tops should be made of structured materials. Flowing, draping materials can look sloppy in crop top form.
 Since this style is already bold, choosing a solid print is usually the easiest way to go.


Neutral solid prints are even better if you want to keep the top looking low-key. The shade will determine where the eye goes, however. For instance, wearing a lighter shade on top can make the upper portion of your body look wider, which can help balance out large hips. On the other hand, wearing a dark shade on top can make the upper body look thinner, which can be great if you tend to be rounded or curvier there.
Prints and bright colors can look amazing on lean or tall figures, but there's probably a great print for every body, so feel free to try on patterns regardless of your figure.
 Exposed midriffs are daring enough on their own. To prevent your outfit from looking too racy, you should choose crop tops that are fairly modest in all other ways.


At minimum, you should avoid backless crop tops and crop tops that show cleavage.
If you want to make the top look even classier, consider choosing one with a collar or a high neckline.
Sleeves can also make a crop top look more modest, and crop tops with sleeves work especially great in the spring and autumn.
 Put a dark crop top on over a lighter colored shirt. In doing so, you still draw attention to your narrow natural waist while gaining modest coverage provided by the undershirt.


This can work especially well if you're busty since the undershirt prevents anything from slipping out of the tiny crop.
Even if you aren't concerned with modesty, this can be a great way to wear your crop top in the spring, autumn, or winter.
 A more conventional cover-up would be a sweater or jacket. Coordinate the tone and color of the jacket with the crop top beneath it to prevent the two pieces from clashing.


In most cases, a structured jacket will look clean and stylish. For a more casual appearance, though, consider wearing a loose yet well-fitting cardigan sweater.
 By choosing bottoms that rise to your navel or just above it, you show a very thin strip of skin along your natural waistline and highlight the thinnest part of your torso.


Choose high-waisted jeans for something casual, high-waisted dress pants for something polished and professional, or high-waisted skirts for something chic and feminine.
High-waisted bottoms are modest and flattering, so they'll work on nearly any figure. If you already have a relatively slim or balanced figure, though, you could likely make the crop top work with mid-rise bottoms, too.
 Wear the overalls or jumper over your crop top. Latch up the front and back, but leave the sides unbuttoned or slightly exposed.


From the front, you won't be able to tell that you're wearing a crop top. The daring hem of your top will only play peek-a-boo from your sides, making this look both modest and playful.
Moreover, wearing crop tops with overalls can update the look and prevent it from appearing too dated or sloppy.
 As a general rule, consider wearing loose, flared bottoms with tight crop tops. Conversely, try wearing fitted or structured bottoms with loose crop tops.


Wearing opposite bottoms will create a more balanced look overall, but matching volumes will often create a less flattering appearance. If you wear a loose top with a large skirt, for instance, you might seem twice as large as you really are. Similarly, if you wear a tight skirt with a tight top, your look may overdose on sex appeal and look somewhat tacky.
 Just like volume, color and print are other aspects you'll need to balance out between top and bottom.


For the most part, avoid mixing patterns, and keep either the top or bottom plain while making the other stand out more. If you're anxious about the boldness of your crop top, wearing a bright skirt or pants with a muted crop top can be a good way to draw the eye beyond your exposed midriff.
One popular trend is to match the pattern of your crop top to the pattern of your bottoms. The pattern should be an exact match, however, and not an estimated match.
 Since crop tops are already provocative, you should stick with appropriate hemlines that won't expose too much along the bottom half of your body.


You can wear shorts and short skirts, but try to stick to the “fingertip rule”—the bottom hem of your skirt or shorts should extend to or beyond your fingertips when your arms are relaxed at your sides.
At the very least, you need to make sure that none of your rear hangs peeks out from beneath the hemline of your skirt or shorts.



To help reduce bloat when you want to wear your crop top, drink plenty of water, consume more fiber, and eat foods high in potassium (e.g. avocados, bananas, and spinach). Exercising more and regularly working up a sweat can help reduce bloat in the long-term, as well.
 While this rule does affect the idea of modesty, it's actually more concerned with how polished and fashionable your overall outfit appears. Exposed undergarments have a sloppy appearance at best and a cheap appearance at worst.


If your bra is exposed, your crop top neckline is too low or the hem is too high. Similarly, if your panties are exposed, your bottoms are way too short.
A less obvious concern would be shapewear. Most shapewear extends over the bottom portion of your midriff, which could cross over into the area exposed by your crop top. For that reason, wearing shapewear with your crop top can be very difficult to successfully pull off.
 Consider wearing a long, pendant chain necklace with your crop top. This skinny piece of jewelry can draw the eye down the vertical line of the torso, which can make your torso look longer.


Since crop tops tend to shorten the appearance of your torso, adding a necklace like this can help elongate and balance your torso again while still allowing your narrow waist to peek through.
Other accessories that create vertical lines along the torso, like scarves, can have a similar effect.
 No matter how you wear the crop top, it won't look good unless the newly exposed skin is presentable.


If you have hair along the belly area, wax it off. Shaving can create difficulties since the skin on your stomach is usually sensitive and prone to razor burn.
Regularly moisturize the skin with lotions or creams. Doing so can help it look firm, healthy, and glowing.
Resist the urge to use self-tanner on the exposed skin. You may think that a golden tan will make your belly look slimmer, but unless you tan your entire body, the tone of your tummy can easily become mismatched to your legs, arms, and face, making it look strange and out of place.
 Good posture is important no matter what you wear, but it's especially important when you're wearing something like a crop top. Make a conscious effort to stand and sit up straight as much as possible.


Slouching can create weird rolls in your stomach and sides, which will show thanks to the exposure provided by the crop top. These rolls shouldn't appear as long as your posture remains straight, though.

