 You can apply deductive reasoning in your workplace by using it to solve a company wide issue or problem. This logical approach can lead to smarter business practices and higher cost savings, as there will be less guessing and uncertainty around the problem or issue.For example, your company may have difficulty determining how many flats of printer paper to order every month for the office. You may decide to apply deductive reasoning to this issue.
First, you will start by asking several general questions: How often is the printer used each month? How many flats of printer paper did the office use every month for the past four months? Is the amount used consistent every month?
Second, you can use the answers to your general questions to form a deductive argument. If the printer is used every day, fifty times a day, on a constant basis each month, and if the office used an average of 50 flats of paper a month, you can then deduce that there should be an order of 50 flats of paper per month for the office. You have used information to form a premise (50 flats used on average a month) and then formed a deductive argument based on the premise.
You can then place the order and note if the paper lasts for the full month. If so, you can continue to order 50 flats of paper every month. If the paper runs out before the end of the month, you may need to adjust your premise and your deductive argument. However, the logic of your argument is based on a high probability of truth in the premise and will likely be proven true.
 You can apply deductive reasoning in a situation with a client that goes sideways, especially if the client is very logic focused. Deductive reasoning is useful for businesses who are trying to come up with practical solutions to problems or issues. However, it is important that you gather enough supporting information from your client to ensure the solution or deductive argument is based on a solid premise.For example, your client may have an issue with the way you are communicating with her. She may complain that she does not feel she is kept up to date on the status of the project you are both working on.
You can then ask your client several general questions: How can you provide more up to date information? In what ways can you make the client feel more connected? What information would she like to be made aware of in relation to the project?
Your client may note that she would like status reports every week. Based on the client’s answers, you can form a premise: weekly status reports will keep your client happy. You can then deduce that weekly status reports will ensure your client is up to date on the status of the project.
You can apply this deductive argument by providing your client with weekly status reports. The deductive argument has a high probability of being effective, as it is based on a logical and supported premise.
 You can also apply deductive reasoning to a dispute or argument between employees. To do this, you will need to isolate the premise of the dispute and form a deductive argument based on the premise.


For example, you may have one co-worker who claims that his cubicle mate is always forgetting to turn off his computer before he leaves for the day. The cubicle mate may then argue that the co-worker forgets to turn off his computer as well. This could lead to a heated dispute between both employees.
As the mediator, you will need to form a premise that could solve the dispute or the issue. You should ask the employees several questions, including: What tactics could you both use to remember to turn off your computers? How can you both support each other and make sure the computers are always turned off? What tactics are used by other employees to ensure their computers are always turned off?
You can then use the employees’ answers to form a premise. For example, the employees may agree that whoever is the last person in the cubicle will turn off both computers. The premise may then be: the last person in the cubicle is responsible for turning the computers off. You can then deduce that based on this premise, the computers will always be turned off.
Apply this deductive argument as a solution to the dispute between the employees and observe if the argument helps to reduce the dispute. Though it can be difficult to predict human behavior in terms of logic, you can safely assume the solution will work to resolve the dispute, as it is based on a strong premise.

