 Deep breathing helps to recover lost lung capacity. Begin either in a sitting or standing position. Place your hands on your waist and relax. Inhale as much air as possible. When you reach the maximum capacity of your lungs, hold your breath for 5 seconds. Exhale as much air as possible. Make sure that you exhale slowly and empty the lungs completely or as much as your health level permits.Repeat the procedure 10 times in each set. It is advisable to do 3-4 sets of deep breathing exercises throughout the day.;
, Perform Pursed-lip breathing will help you increase the oxygen intake of your lungs, while decreasing the amount of carbon dioxide. Start by relaxing your entire body. You can do this in a sitting or standing position. Inhale through your nose within a span of 3 seconds. Before you exhale, you need to purse your lips as if you are going to kiss somebody. Exhale through your pursed lips within a span of 6 seconds. Inhale and exhale slowly. Don’t force the air to come in and out the lungs.


Repeat the procedure. Pursed-lip breathing is done when the patient has shortness of breath. This breathing exercise should be repeated until shortness of breath is diminished.
 The diaphragm is the muscle that pushes and pulls air in and out of the lungs. Start by lying down on your back and bend your knees. Place one of your hands on your belly and another hand on your chest. Take a deep breath. Let your belly and lower rib cage rise while making sure that the upper chest cavity won’t move. This is the challenge you need to overcome in diaphragm breathing. Inhaling should take about 3 seconds. Exhale for 6 seconds. You need to purse your lips as well to better control your breathing.Repeat the whole procedure. At first, this exercise might be difficult for you. However, more practice and repetition of this exercise can train the diaphragm and will eventually increase your lung capacity. As time passes by, diaphragm breathing will become easier.
 Doing huff-cough breathing will help eliminate bacteria and respiratory secretions by triggering the cough reflex. Sit down or elevate the head of the bed if you can’t get up. Relax and prepare yourself. To do the huff-cough exercise:


Step 1: Perform 3 to 5 deep breathing exercise. Combine your breathing with the pursed-lips and diaphragm breathing exercise. Push out air as if you are coughing. When you have done 3-5 cycles of deep breathing, open your mouth but do not exhale yet. You need to hold your breath, tighten your chest and abdomen.
Step 2: Force air out from the lungs in a fast manner. If you have done this correctly, you will elicit the cough reflex and loosened secretions stuck within your respiratory tract. If phlegm comes out, spit it out and repeat the whole procedure.

