 People who maintain a healthy weight maintain healthy glucose levels, which then help to regenerate tissues. A physical trainer in a gym or a general practitioner can come up with an exercise routine to help you obtain a healthy weight.;
, Aerobic exercise has been shown to increase the hippocampus, which in turn increases spatial memory. Aerobic exercise can include walking, cycling, running, flow yoga, swimming and more.
 The number of heartbeats per minute to achieve aerobic activity changes with age, but is generally listed as exercise that increases your heart rate but still allows you to keep up a light conversation.


Understand that the longer that you maintain an aerobic exercise routine in your life, the easier it will be to maintain a good memory. However, it is never too late to start. People between the ages of 55 and 88 have been shown to diminish the likelihood of dementia by starting an aerobic exercise routine.
 Breaking away from the same pattern helps exercise the brain and allows it to make new memories. Your intelligence increases as you form new memories.
 The act of throwing the ball and focusing on catching it helps to improve hand-eye coordination. Try this combination of exercise and hand-eye coordination by playing catch, baseball, squash, racquetball, football, basketball, tennis, badminton or ping pong.


Use your weaker hand to play catch. Using a subordinate hand will help to increase the use of neurons. It helps to increase brain power and will have long-term positive effects on brain function.
 Scientists believe that walking on rocky or uneven surfaces can help the vestibular system, which helps with balance. This connects with the brain's ability to remember and cope with obstacles.
 Straying away from your comfort zone will increase concentration, allowing you to remember and stay focused for longer. Also, stray from your comfort zone with hobbies, conversations and intellectual pursuits to increase your memory.


Doctors suggest you get at least 150 minutes of aerobic activity per week, or 30 minutes of aerobic activity 5 days per week. Increase your workouts to 40 minutes or do them 6 to 7 days per week.

