 This method is a super-quick route to a colourful hideaway that your cat will love and that also works with your home decor! Using items from around the house you can whip this stylish divan up with just a t-shirt, wire hangers, old fabric scraps and a safety pin.


You could use one of your old t-shirts that your cat already loves the feel of.
You could pick one to match your home décor, bright or black, patterned or plain - the choice is yours. Better still you can change it up as often as you like!

, This is how you will make the tent shape which will sit over your cat by shaping the hangers into an arch.Think about the height of your cat and make sure that the arch you make is high enough to make them comfortable inside. If your cat is small and likes a cosy den then you can cut the ends off the hangers before you start to make a smaller arch.


Shape the hangers into two arcs and cross them into an X shape. This is your tent frame. Check the frame is solid. Wind tape through the “X” to secure it tightly.
Create small “feet” at the bottom of each arc by bending the ends of the hangers. This will make it sturdy. Wrap tape around the each “foot” to protect your cat's paws from any sharp ends.
 This will make the tent cover. The t-shirt needs to be large enough so that it will cover the frame with some fabric to spare. This means you will be able to pull the t-shirt tightly over the frame to make a snug home.


Slide the t-shirt over the tent frame, keeping the t-shirt neck at the front and center. This is your door.
Pull the t-shirt tightly over the frame at the back and fasten it with a safety pin to make it easy to remove for washing.
 You can choose to sit the tent over a ready-made cushion or any other soft base. The point is to make sure your cat feels comfortable and safe so whatever fits that criteria – go for it! You can use your cat’s favourite textures – a pillow, cushion, towel, some felt or even vintage curtains or a throw.


Add something that smells of you such as an old t-shirt or sweater.
Add a favourite toy, or a little bit of cat nip to make it even more desirable.

