 You will need a mechanical pencil, pen, scissors, tape, and rubber bands.


For the pen and mechanical pencils, cheap, simple brands like Bic will work well.;
,

Remove the cap from the pen, then unscrew the part of the pen that holds the ink from the outer plastic tube.






After you have done this, cut the closed end of the outer plastic tube so that you have a single tube with holes at both ends.


Remove the grip from the mechanical pencil, and, if possible, unscrew the top (the part where the lead comes out). (You may need to cut this part off if it cannot be unscrewed.)






Remove the eraser from the other end of the pencil and take out any lead that is inside.






The mechanical pencil is made up of 2 parts, the outer tube that you hold onto and the inner part that is made up the eraser holder and the thin inner tube that holds the lead. Cut the end of the outer tube so that you can remove the inner part (eraser holder and lead holder). This is the part that you will need.






You should now have only 2 components: the outer tube of the pen, and the inner part of the mechanical pencil (with the eraser holder, but without the eraser).
 Use the scissors to cut 2 notches in the circular part of the pencil that usually holds the eraser. The notches should be located directly on opposite sides of the eraser holder. It should look more or less like this: ( ), where the gaps between the parentheses represent the notches that you have cut, and the parentheses represent the uncut plastic. This is the part that will hold the rubber band(s) in place later.


At this time, you can also remove the plastic clip that is connected to the eraser holder. This is the part that would be on the outside of your breast pocket if you carried your pencil there.
 Slide the lead/eraser holder from the pencil into the pen tube. You want the eraser holder to remain outside the pen tube. If the pencil part is too thin, it may slide all the way into the pen tube. If this is the case, wrap tape around the pencil tube just below the eraser holder so that it is thick enough that it cannot fit through the opening in the pen tube. Now, when you slide the tube over the pencil part, the eraser holder will not slide into the pen tube, nor will the part that you have made thicker with tape. Thus, there will be a few centimeters of the pencil tube that remain outside the pen tube. This is the part that you will pull back to fire the gun.
 Slip the rubber band into the notches in the eraser holder that you cut earlier. Stretch the rubber band about 3/4 of the length down the pen tube toward the open end. Twist the rubber band a few times around the pen tube, and attach it with tape.

Note: When you twist the rubber band around the tube, do not just wrap both sides of the rubber band around it, or else the rubber band will come unraveled. Rather, wrap one side of the rubber around so that the pen is actually inside the rubber band. Wrap this same side a couple of times, and then wrap both sides tightly around the whole tube.






Note: You can add more rubber bands for greater power. Follow the same method for wrapping subsequent rubber bands.
 After taping the rubber band(s) onto the tube, you should now be able to pull back on the eraser holder to cock your new BB gun. When you release, the pencil tube should shoot partially through the pen tube, but the tape should stop it from going completely into the tube. Now you can find ammo for your gun. You will need to find round objects that will fit into the space at the end of the pen tube that it created when you pull back on the eraser holder.
 You can now fire your weapon, but remember to be careful and not to aim at anyone's eyes.

