 From wikiHow to Squidoo, many sites take the content right from the unsolicited help of users committed to making the site an excellent resource. Hubpages, Articlesbase, Ezine, and many other sites work on this basic model, differing only slightly in terms of the content they produce and the way users interact with the site.


Of course, if you're already here, we humbly recommend that you join the wikiHow community, if you haven't already!

, To learn more about how the site is updated, start an account by registering your email address, selecting a user name and password, and verifying your identity by passing a Captcha and clicking an email link. Fill out your user profile, including as much information as you're comfortable providing with the online community.
 Don't jump immediately into the conversation and start yelling. Listen to the tone of it, and get a sense of what other people are saying. If you're new to a wiki, it's important to pay attention to how the procedure works, who the top dogs in the yard are, and how to go about making contributions to the site. No trolling.


Reach out to experienced users and ask for advice, or consider reaching out to a community manager for help in negotiating the new website. There can be a lot to take in at first, but most wikis are designed with the user in mind, making them extraordinarily friendly places to explore.
 Because of the nature of the website and the structure of the writing, you may spend lots of time working on an article, only to find that someone else has edited it considerably. A wiki is not a good place to get territorial about your writing. If you want to write things that no one else will be able to touch, start a personal blog and produce content for it on your own. If you want to collaborate, a wiki is the place for you.


Collaboration is a two-way street. Don't jump on other people's articles without getting in touch, or leaving them a polite personal message, if you suspect they might be especially passionate about the topic or the content.
 When you start to get your feet under you, don't be afraid to get on the site and start making changes, contributions, and updates. Many options are available for new users, like patrolling recent changes, copyediting other pages, fact-checking, and a variety of other writing tasks that need to be performed. wikiHow has lots of specific ways in which people can contribute to the function of the community. Among others, here are some essential tasks completed by users under the Community Tab:


Patrolling Recent Changes
Method Guardian
Tips Patrol
Fix Spelling
Answer Requests
Expand Stubs

, Whatever wiki you're contributing to, make your content the best content possible. Write according to the mission statement and guidelines of the company, working to uphold the principle of the community that you're contributing to.


Most wikis have data-tracking software that will allow you to check in with the progress of your articles, based on your improvements. Keep track of the data around your articles to get some sense of how people are enjoying your articles and how they could be improved.

