 For any type of bond, including a private bond, the court will keep the bail amount and issue an arrest warrant if you miss a court date. The judge sets a bail amount for each case based on crime severity, criminal history, and flight risk. As long as the accused makes all his court dates, the amount is returned after trial whether he’s found guilty or innocent. Private bonds are loans taken from companies that will pay bail, but keep a percentage of the amount (usually 10-15%) as payment.;
, A private bondsman can choose to only take cases with high bail amounts, ensuring they'll receive more money for their efforts. This doesn't help someone with a low income, whose bail amount might be lower, but still unpayable on limited means.
 Because of the criticisms described above, some states have outlawed private bonds. In these states, the courts will provide public bonds.


If you live in Oregon, Illinois, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Maine, Nebraska, Washington DC, or Wisconsin, you cannot get a private bond., Before contacting a private bond company, make sure you have all the information they'll ask for in your first conversation. This includes:Where the person is being held in custody (city, state, and name of jail)
The full name of person being held
The booking number
The charges against the person being held
The bail amount

, There will likely be many in your area if private bonds are legal in your state. Bond companies are licensed and regulated by the state, so bond fees and rates shouldn't be exploitative.You can compare different bondsmen rates by calling around and asking about fees.


Almost all bond companies are open 24-hours a day, 7 days a week. Don’t wait for morning to contact a bondsman.
 If the accused misses any court dates, the bond company will have to give the court the entire amount of the bail. To protect themselves, bondsmen ask you to put up collateral that they will keep if they don't get the bail amount back from the court.


Common examples of collateral include real estate, cars, credit cards, stocks and bonds, jewelry, personal credit, and bank accounts., At that time, you will fill out whatever paperwork is necessary to enter into an agreement with the bond company. After that, the bondsman will post bail for the person in jail, and he or she will be released.


If you don't live in the same city as the jail where the person is being held, ask if you can complete the paperwork over the phone or online.
 If he or she misses any court dates or fails to meet either the court or the bondsman’s terms, you will lose the collateral you signed over to the bondsman.

