 Waiting for a flight can be long - and whether you are actually hungry or just bored, you may find yourself wanting something to eat. Food at the airport, however, can be notoriously overpriced. Try to eat before you leave for the airport, and take some light food with you.;
, While this may sound obvious, many people still forget to do it or leave it till they arrive to the airport. Transaction fees at the airport differ significantly from those in other places and not in your favour.
 Yes, there is an exciting journey ahead of you and the mood is right to have just a brief look at the souvenirs and other small items in the airport shop. But almost all of it is probably available at your travel destination, and the prices may be significantly lower.
 Some airlines provide good discounts if you check your bags online.
 Besides being extra convenient, travelling with a carry-on only is cheap. No payments for an overweight suitcase, no extras, no long lines and unnecessary trouble. Do check your carry-on complies with the airline's size and weight requirements - if it doesn't, the airline has the right to ask you to check your bag.
 If you have nothing to do before boarding, you may be drawn to the magazines sold at the airport shops. Why spend on something unnecessary if you can take out your own newspaper or book? You may as well have them on your smartphone or tablet.
 Carry it through security and then fill with water from the drinking water fountain to avoid buying overpriced bottled water or soft drinks at the airport.
 Many policies will protect you in case of trip cancellations, delayed departures, or scheduled airline failure. Your personal possessions and valuables will be covered as well.
 Depending on the country, baggage regulations may be quite surprising. The last thing you want is to see your belongings being thrown away at security - only to have to buy them again afterwards.
 Pack your prescribed medicine if you have any (and remember to take a copy of the prescription with you!) and also take some basic medication for colds, headaches, diarrhea. Buying them at the airport could be costly.

