 The death of puppies can be a difficult event to manage emotionally. You may experience sadness, anger, or even denial that the puppies passed away. Acknowledging these emotions and expressing them, as opposed to suppressing them and acting as if they are not there, will help you address and eventually deal with your sadness.In order to address your grief, you might consider joining a pet-loss support group. You might also write about your loss in a journal or visit a mental health professional to deal with your grief.
 If you have children, it is important that your talk with them about the death of the puppy or puppies. Explain to them that this is a normal and natural occurrence and that many young animals do not survive infancy. Because your children will likely have been very excited about the arrival of puppies, you should prepare yourself for them to be very sad and disappointed.To avoid your child feeling betrayed, tell them about the death of the puppies right away.
Once you get the necropsy report back from the vet, you may want to let your child know what caused the puppies’ death. Say something like “I know that it’s sad, but this is a natural part of life.”
You might break the news to your children by saying something like “I have some bad news about the puppies” or “There’s something I need to tell you about the puppies.”

, Listen to your child’s questions about the loss of the puppies and be sure to give them answers that are appropriate and do not traumatize them. Let them know that it is okay to be sad and that disappointment is a normal feeling in this situation. Finally, be on the lookout for signs that your child is struggling with the grief. Talk to your child if they have difficulty sleeping, seem constantly sad, or have a hard time in school.Seeing a dead animal for the first time, especially if they are the puppies of your family’s pet dog, may be traumatic for your children. Try to comfort them by saying things like “At least the puppies didn’t experience any pain” or “This is nobody’s fault. These things happen sometimes.”

, Give yourself and your family the opportunity to express their grief and remember your pets through a ceremony or tribute. You can hold a burial ceremony in your backyard or plant a special tree or flower to remember the puppies. You can ask your child to help you in the planning of the ceremony or talk about ways that they would like to pay tribute to the animals.