 Unless you want to convey that you didn’t really appreciate doing the job for someone or don’t appreciate them in general, it is best to avoid a sarcastic tone.;
, Responding with a “thank you” conveys a reciprocal sense of gratitude. However, avoid repeating it multiple times in the same conversation. One thank you for each person in the conversation will do just fine., It can be heard at five star hotels but could be used more widely.For instance, if a friend says, “Thanks so much for making this delicious meal!” You might respond by saying, “It’s my pleasure.” This conveys your enjoyment of cooking for for others.
 It also communicates confidence in your ability to help and activates the reciprocity of the partner.For instance, if your friend says, “Thanks for helping me move into my new apartment this weekend. I don’t know what I would have done without you!” You might reply, “I know you’d do the same for me.” This conveys an understanding that you have a great friendship built on reciprocity.
 This is a common response but should be used sparingly, especially in a business setting.It conveys that what you did was no big deal. This can be fine in certain situations but can also diminish the relationship building opportunity of the interaction.Only say "no problem" if it is true. If something took effort or time, don't be afraid to accept the other person's gratitude.
For instance, if your friend says “thank you” for a small act like grabbing something out of the trunk of the car, you might say “no problem.”
Avoid saying “no problem” in a dismissive tone. This conveys that you didn’t really put any work into whatever it is that you are being thanked for. Your friend or business partner will feel like your relationship is not important., If you are replying to gratitude in casual settings or relationships, there are a variety of phrases to choose from. If you are responding to expressions of gratitude for very small things and a you need a quick response, these phrases may be appropriate.


Say "it's alright". This phrase is best used in moderation. It can be used in situations where "thank you" is being offered for very small or petty things. Like “no problem,” it should not be said in a sarcastic or dismissive tone.
Say "anytime!" This is another one which can be used to assure the person that in such situations help can always be given. It conveys that you are willing to do the favor or task anytime.
Say “glad to help.” This conveys that you are happy to help your friend or acquaintance with the job or task. For instance, if your friend says “thanks for helping me install my new bookshelf.” You could say, “glad to help!”

, Your expression and body language can help make you seem sincere, personable, and helpful. When accepting thanks, remember to smile. Make eye contact with the other person as you speak, and nod along to what they say. Avoid crossing your arms or looking away.