 It’s found in nuts, seeds, avocadoes, mango, papaya, tomatoes, red peppers, and spinach. Talk to your doctor about your diet and if you get less than 5mg of vitamin E daily, consider taking a supplement., Vitamin B9 contains folic acid which, along with vitamin B12, may help prevent brain deterioration. Folate and B12 are the most helpful for this; vitamin D, magnesium and fish oil supplements may also be beneficial.Try to get as much folate from your food as you can. Foods high in folate include lentils, spinach, beets, broccoli, cauliflower, parsley, collard greens, asparagus and romaine lettuce.Foods containing B12 and other B vitamins are fish, potatoes, eggs, poultry, cereal marked as “fortified,” and red meat – but eat red meat sparingly and get a lean cut to keep cholesterol down., Berberine is a natural chemical extracted from numerous plants, including Goldenseal, Oregon grape, Barberry and Chinese Goldthread.Berberine was used in ancient medicine, and is now being researched more for medical purposes. It may lower blood sugar, lower cholesterol, and decrease the risk of Alzheimer’s.Research is still early, but speak with your doctor about taking any kind of herbal supplement.
 Alpha-GPC may be helpful in slowing progression of mild to moderate Alzheimer’s, especially when used in conjunction with standard medications. It is considered a safe non-prescription drug in many countries, and in the United States it is classified as “generally recognized as safe” (GRAS).Ask your doctor about its use and availability.
 No medication cures Alzheimer’s, but some prescriptions medicines exist that can help improve your symptoms. A class of drugs called cholinesterase inhibitors is used in cases of mild to moderate dementia. These include the medications Aricept (donepezil), Exelon (Rivastigmine), and Razadyne (Galantamine). In more severe cases, a drug called Namenda (Memantine) is usually used. Another, newer medication for moderate to severe dementia is Namzaric, which combines Namenda and Aricept.These medications have side effects, and should only be used as directed. Your doctor will help you choose the best medication for you or a loved one.

