 To "come out of the closet" about this major discovery can be very enlightening and/or burdening for people. It is not necessary to disclose your sexual orientation if you do not want to do so. Tell only the people you want to tell, on your own terms. It is your life and being forward and honest about your sexuality is a personal choice.


You do not have to tell everyone at once, nor should you.
If you are confident in yourself and your sexuality, this will become much easier.
It is totally normal to feel scared, exhilarated, anxious, or even confused when coming out to someone., Unfortunately, unlike straight people, you will eventually have to choose between telling people and not telling them. This decision will make you stronger and more empowered by your sexuality, but it is still a difficult decision to make. Some pros and cons include:



Pros:

Living an open and honest life, without feel like you have a secret.
Ability to connect with other LGBTQ friends and groups.
Show friends and family that it is okay and amazing to live with a lesbian friend and family member.



Cons:

Some people may react with confusion or even anger.
Permanently alter some relationships, though often for the better.
Potential for harassment, bullying, or distance from family, friends, and acquaintances., You may want to tell your whole family at once, or individually. Either way, you should choose a time when everyone is relaxed and calm, not right after a fight or during a stressful evening. This will help you feel comfortable and in control of the conversation.


Start by talking to the friends and family members you know will support you. Having this support system is crucial for feeling secure., You can try tentatively introducing the idea to them before telling them if you're very unsure of how they will react. Try watching a movie or show related to lesbian issues and see how they react. Bring up queer politics, like the Supreme Court's decision to allow gay marriage, and feel out their responses.


If they seem hostile or aren't respectful, take some time and think of another way to bring up the topic. Have someone else with you for support, like a mutual friend or family member, to help them see your side of things.
 When you tell them, be sure to explain your feelings in terms they can understand, especially if you know it's a difficult topic for them. Just be honest, clear, and to the point. Help them identify with you and your sexuality, letting them know how this decision has made you much happier.


Be clear and direct when talking to them.
Tell them that this is who you are. You came to them because you trust them and want their support.
Enlist them to help you as you tell others and support your new lifestyle.People will take their cues from you. If you seem nervous, upset, or anxious, they will feel the same way. Be confident and assertive about yourself.
 Having questions is normal. Don't be offended if they have questions and don't try too hard to avoid questions. Don't get upset if the questions are offensive, as any offense usually comes from a place of confusion and curiosity, not anger. This may be a new topic for people. They likely have a limited view of things until you help them see more.


Be sure to ask if they have any questions and answer them gracefully. This lets them feel like they are part of the conversation. It also eases the shock of a sudden announcement.
 Many people will unlearn the dangerous stereotypes and myths they have about lesbians once they know one. It took you some time to accept your sexuality. It will also take some time for some people to change their view of you and of homosexuality. While you shouldn't take abuse, you should be there for them and keep on being your normal, kind self. In time, most people will turn around.People may react to your decision with anger, confusion, or misunderstanding. Many people, however, react with happiness, honor to feel trusted, and acceptance. Never assume you know exactly how someone will respond.

