 This is especially important with multiple animals. Most of the time, they have very different ways, likes, dislikes, and styles. They also respond differently to requests and affections.;
, Put aside any silly supernatural notions and realize that you genuinely and actively wish to hear from them. You won't actually start to hear them speak. But they are more mentally present and responsive than sometimes assumed.
 Stay calm and level with the animals, as though they can really hear what you're saying (in some way they can) when it's time to go to the vet or administer medication. They know something is up and feel nervous. Aloof energy increases the chances of mayhem. Contrary to common belief, cats can be trained.It is easier when the relationship begins when the animal is still young. A combination of positive reinforcement and non-physical messages of disappointment and/or urgency when the act is not carried out will work best.
 Be consistent with the signals you use to identify and reward a request. That includes key words and phrases as well as visual cues. Most of the time, this practice brings the owner and animal into a closer, more mutually respectful relationship and eliminates some of the minuses of having an animal. Keep this in mind when considering giving a pet to an elder or family with small children.
 Give every pet rules, boundary limits, similar to their natural habitat where the mother rewards them with food for doing the right thing like waiting and being calm.
 You can control and claim the area. In addition, give your pet exercise (e.g. dog gets a walk). If kept at home all the time, they will have a bad behavior.
 Don't be scared of any animal in front of you, even though you're in their territory. Just don't give eye contact. Don't touch them, let them smell you.
 Accordingly reward them for the way your pet is treating you. When he's calm, give affection. Let them be part of the family. Cats get the "midnight crazies" running around the house and jumping all over. They love to include you at this time. Get out the cat toys and play with it. These crazies may happen at 7 am or any time. Don't punish this activity, as it is the way they burn off excess energy.
 You can tell what a cat, dog, etc, wants by its ears, tail, or the body. If a bird is hungry, it will peck you, or may it is just trying to get your attention. Maybe your dog wants to play. He/she will do the playing.
 Many animals feel safer and calmer in cozy spaces like a carrier or even a laundry basket with some blankets (for an inexpensive quick-fix) when traveling or dealing with a crowded house. No matter what it looks like when you leave your pet, they really have a good time at the vet. After it leaves its owner a dog perks up and is fine.


They seem extra excited when you get them back and it seems like they had a horrible time, but they probably didn't. Sometimes, it is better to forget the baby talk and reconsider the character of the animal. When used as a tool of persuasion, it works to the contrary and deters the animal from following your request.
Of course, these practices may not work with all animals and it is prudent not to attempt such close-proximity activity with wild animals. cats and rabbits should go to the litter box when they need to do their business. Dogs will go do their business when ask for and understand your emotions.

