 Press the “ON/OFF” button at the top of the camera. The camera will power on and the lens will come out.;
, At the top of the camera is a switch. Bring it to the far-right mode. The icon for this is a camera with a letter A and a film strip in the background.
 Under the Hybrid Auto mode, there’s very limited settings you can do for the shot. It’s in auto-mode anyway, so you have to let the camera do its job.

The only settings you can change are for flash, timer, and movie quality.
 Frame and compose your shot. Aim the camera at your subject, and the camera will adjust its settings automatically based on your subject.
 The settings the camera has set will be displayed on the upper-right part of the screen. Icons representing the scene, shooting mode, image stabilization mode, and flash will be present.
 Adjust the zoom level by switching the round zoom focus at the top of the camera.
 Press the shutter button halfway and let the camera’s autofocus do the trick. Make sure that the camera has captured the proper focus points. Adjust your focus if necessary by releasing the shutter button and restarting your focus.


It is during focusing that the camera records the 2–4 second clips for the digest movie. Whatever the camera captures this time will be recorded. It will be a good idea to aim the camera at your subject a few seconds before shooting.
 Once you’ve achieved the focus you want, press the shutter button all the way. Keep your hand still to prevent camera shake. The camera will record the shot and display it for a few moments on the screen.
 The camera will record the movie clip and end with the still image you took. This set now composes a single chapter for the digest movie. Press the “Play” button at the back of the camera to view your picture with the movie clip.
 Press the “Play” button at the back of the camera to view the most recent picture. Pictures taken under the Hybrid Auto Mode will display a SET icon on the upper-left corner of the screen.
 Press the left and right buttons on the middle circular button to move backward or forward. Each set will be displayed. You can only view the pictures taken, not the movie clips that went with them.
 The day’s sets under Hybrid Auto mode will be compiled in another one file as the digest movie. This is also stored under a separate item in your camera.


The digest movie is differentiated with the other sets by the SET with a play icon on the upper-left corner of the screen.
 Once you found the digest movie, press the “FUNC. SET” button found at the middle of the circular button. Select “Play Movie” from the toolbar that will appear. The digest movie will play all the sets under it.

