 The ectomorph, or straight, body type has shoulders and hips that are roughly the same width, low muscle mass, delicate bone structure, and generally frail appearance.Ectomorphs have a hard time gaining muscle or fat., Tai chi is an ancient Chinese practice that involves mimicking a sequence of motions. Practitioners of tai chi report better health and clearer minds. To engage in tai chi, you could rent a DVD from your local library or watch one online. However, it’s best to see the motions in person and receive assistance in perfecting your form before striking out on your own. Visit your local Chinese martial arts studio or wellness center to enroll in a tai chi class., Yoga is an ancient practice that comes from India. It involves moving the body through a series of motions to stretch the back, arms, legs, and neck. Visit a yoga studio so you can see exactly how to perform yoga safely and get feedback from a trained instructor., Perform six to 10 repetitions at a slow pace. The slow pace will keep the muscle under stress for a longer period, thereby increasing muscle mass. After your first set of repetitions, pause for sixty seconds, then perform two or three more sets., Incorporate cardio into your workout thrice weekly. Perform cardio for no more than 30 minutes each time or, because of your body type, you risk burning your muscle., A deadlift overhead press involves grabbing a pair of dumbbells and standing with your feet slightly wider than the width of your hips. Bend at the hips until your back is almost parallel to the floor. Bring your body back up using your glutes, then lift the dumbbells overhead so that your palms face each other.Repeat three sets of 12 repetitions.
When lowering the dumbbells along with your body, they should not reach past your shin level.
 Holding a pair of dumbbells, stand with your feet together and your arms by your sides. Place your right foot far behind you and lower yourself so that your front (left) leg is bent at about a 90-degree angle. Bring your rear foot forward a bit and stand halfway up so that your knees are bent at about 135 degrees. Then, lower yourself again to the position in which your left knee is bent at a 90-degree angle.Stand up and repeat on the opposite side.
Repeat three sets of 10 repetitions.
 A V-raise involves standing with your knees slightly bent and one dumbbell in each hand. Extend both arms straight out so that they form a symmetrical “V” shape with an angle just under 90 degrees. Brace your abs for support. Hold the position for five seconds before slowly placing your arms at your sides.Repeat three sets of 12 repetitions.
 The fencer’s lunge extension is an exercise that mimics striking an opponent with a sword. Stand with one leg ahead of the other bent at 135 degrees. Your other (rear) leg should be extended straight behind you and the foot should be flat on the floor. Raise a dumbbell with both hands and place it behind your head. Then, move the dumbbell over your head so that your arms and back form a straight line.Repeat four sets of eight repetitions.

