 Just as an athlete limbers up before exercising, it’s important to warm up your voice before doing any singing, public speaking or yelling. Spend a few minutes humming to work out the tension in your voicebox. Humming is a great way to get your vocal cords loose and ready for the stress of projecting sound.It is possible to damage your voice if you produce loud, prolonged sounds without a proper warm-up.Warming up your vocal cords can even make your normal speaking voice smoother and more pleasant.
 When getting ready to sing or deliver a speech, try getting your voice ready by humming in different pitches. Carry the sound through both your nose and your mouth, switching from one to the other as you transition. Hit each note as high or as low as you can.The higher the hum, the more you will feel it in your nose and up in the sinuses and forehead. As you lower the note, the vibrations will sink into your through and resound in your chest., Singers can incorporate humming into their vocal warm-up exercises with great results. Practice reciting harmonic scales the way you ordinarily would, only hum rather than sing. Maintain a steady, constant pitch as you work your way through the ascending and descending notes. Good singing technique should be observed before you even open your mouth!Humming eliminates the need to focus on lyrics or shape words as you warm up, allowing you to focus purely on hitting the right pitch., Humming can be very relaxing when used as a meditation technique. Find a quiet place to sit and relax your throat and diaphragm. Take a deep breath in and hold it for a moment or two. Release the breath slowly, humming as you exhale. The hum should ride out naturally on top of the breath.During this exercise, you should not be making an attempt to project or exhale forcefully. Simply let the hum escape as you breathe. Exhale and hold a gentle hum for as long as you can.
Humming while breathing is a good way to clear your head, relax your body and alleviate stress.

