 Vintage designs are available at second hand shops, while hand painted versions are popular at farmer’s markets. You can also find them at large box stores or hidden in your own linen closet.;
, You can choose a synthetic or down pillow in a lumbar or square style. Make sure it is no more than 12 inches tall and two inches thinner than the width of your tea towel.
 You can use this method, but create the seams with fabric adhesive in place of stitches.
 Place the right side out.


You can find the right side by looking at the seams. If you can see where the seams were folded, turn it over.
 Keep the iron nearby so that you can fold and press your new seams.
 Place the pillow form on top to ensure the tea towel is wider than your pillow.
 Fold the top of the tea towel down on top of it. You want it to be the exact height of your pillow form.


If your pillow form is very small, you may need to cut off part of the tea towel across the bottom or top. Otherwise, you can avoid cutting the tea towel entirely., Adjust as necessary. Allow one side to overlap the other side by at least four inches, so that it doesn’t pucker when it’s turned right side out and wrapped around the pillow.


Measure from the center, the right and the left. This will ensure your seam is even., Pin the sides of the pillows together, letting the pins stick out perpendicular to the side edge of the pillow. Skip the pinning if you are doing the no-sew option.
 Press the top inside edge against it. Ensure the seams are matched all the way down the side as you press them together.This is the no-sew option.
Repeat on the opposite side.
Leave your glue to set according to package directions.
 Sew just inside where the top and bottom selvedge seams meet on the sides, or with approximately a one-half inch (0.6cm) seam allowance. Backstitch on the top and bottom to ensure a sturdy stitch.
 Turn the pillow cover inside out through the overlapping center.
 Insert the pillow form.
 Insert the buttons through the buttonholes to hold the flaps flush.Wash the pillow cover along with your normal towels when dirty.

