 When you buy cat treats from your local pet store or online, make sure you read the list of ingredients. The ingredients should be items you recognize, such as protein like tuna, beef, or chicken. Avoid treats that contain additives, preservatives, or dyes. You should also look at the number of calories and the fat content to ensure the treats are not too high in calories or fat.The treats should also contain an Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO) certification. This ensures the treats meet the industry guidelines and are considered safe for your cat to eat.
 Catnip, also known as catmint, catwort, or field balm, is a fragrant herb that is natural and low-calorie. It is very popular with cats and makes a great treat. You can find dried and fresh catnip at your local pet store or online.You can also buy catnip seeds and grow your own catnip at home by a sunny window.
 Cats can find it difficult to digest human food. Try to give your cat human food as an occasional treat, such as small pieces of cheese, cooked tuna, chicken, fish, or liver. Do not give them too much human food at once, only small bites or pieces at a time.Avoid giving your cat human foods that are toxic or harmful to cats, such as raisins, grapes, onions, alcohol, salt, tea, and whole milk.
 If you really want to ensure you know exactly what is in your cat’s treats, make your own at home. Prepare organic cat treats made with tuna, chicken, or cheese. Use basic ingredients and a few easy steps to make healthy cat treats that also taste good.


Making your own cat treats is also a good idea if your cat is a picky eater and only likes certain cat treats. This way, you can customize the treats to suit your cat’s preferences.
 If you are not sure what types of cat treats will be beneficial for your cat, ask your vet for recommendations. Speak to them about which brands of cat treats they would recommend as well as any human food they suggest you avoid giving your cat as treats.


Talk to your vet if your cat suffers from obesity or other medical problems before giving it treats.

