 Use the power of imagination to fully envision what your partner's perspective might be in a given situation. Be aware that there might be factors you don't know about. When he or she is talking, putting yourself in his shoes can help you understand why your behavior, or the situation at hand, may be frustrating for him. When you're angry or upset, it's hard to see past your side of the argument, but this technique can actually help you reach a resolution faster.Empathy can always help you solve a problem in your relationship. Emphasizing that you're trying to be understanding by saying, "I know you must be feeling upset because..." or "I know you've had a hard week at work..." can make your partner feel like you're really listening.
Putting yourself in your partner's place can help you validate his feelings and let him know that you understand his struggles.
 Though it's great to be able to talk about all of your frustration, sometimes your partner is still working out his thoughts and feelings and wants some time to himself. Giving him space and time to reflect can prevent him from jumping into an argument and saying something he regrets down the line. There's a fine line between encouraging a conversation and pushing your partner before he's ready to talk.


Just saying, "I'm here when you need to talk," can make your partner feel like you care without smothering him.
 Know the cues that your partner wants to talk -- and that it's serious. When he or she wants to talk, you should turn off the TV, put away your work, hide your phone, and do everything you can to give your partner your full attention. If you're multi-tasking or distracted, then he or she will get even more frustrated. If you're really in the middle of something, as if you can have just a few minutes to wrap it up so you're less distracted when the time comes.


Maintaining eye contact instead of looking around for other things that may hold your interest can also help your partner feel like you're really listening.
Let him or her finish, but nod your head or say, "I understand how you feel..." from time to time to stay involved.
 Though he may say something completely outrageous or something that you feel like you just have to correct, don't jump in and interrupt him right in the middle of the discussion. Make a mental note of a point you want to address later and let your partner say everything he has to say. When he's done, it'll be your turn to respond, and then you can address his points one by one.


This may seem nearly impossible when you feel like you just have to jump in then and there and make a counter-argument, but your partner will feel much better once he gets everything off his chest.
 When you're listening to your partner, you should know that you don't have to accept or understand everything he has to say. No matter how in sync you are, how similar you are, and how aligned your goals are, there will be times when you just don't see eye to eye on a situation, no matter how hard you both try to articulate your feelings. And that's okay -- being aware of the gap between your understanding of the situation and your partner's will make you more receptive to what he has to say.


Being aware of this discrepancy will help you get less frustrated when you're just not getting each other.

