 This means that it modifies what you are trying to say and acts as a descriptive word in your sentence. “Only” can have a strong presence in a sentence and can shift the meaning of a sentence drastically if it is used incorrectly.To create a clear sentence, you should place “only” next to the noun, subject, verb, or phrase you are trying to modify.


When the word “only” is misplaced in a sentence, it becomes a “misplaced modifier”. This means the modifier, for example “only”, is not placed beside the noun or other word it is trying to modify. This creates confusion on the part of the listener or reader because the sentence becomes awkward.;
, You may notice that in everyday speech, people tend to place “only” in the wrong place in a sentence, and often, you can get a general sense of what they are trying to say. As with some grammatical rules, it can feel awkward to use the proper placement of a modifier in a casual conversation. Sometimes, you do not need to use “only” correctly, and your listeners can still understand what you mean.But it’s important to use the correct placement of “only” in your sentence when writing a formal letter, a paper, or a piece of writing for the general public to ensure you do not confuse your reader.
 When we are talking in a conversation, we will often use “only” to indicate someone did only one thing. For example: “She only ate strawberries for dinner.”In this sentence, the speaker likely means to say, she had strawberries for dinner and nothing else. The speaker is trying to modify “strawberries” when in fact “only” is misplaced and is modifying the verb “ate” in the sentence. So this means that the subject in the sentence, “she” does nothing else but eat strawberries for dinner. She doesn’t pick strawberries, she doesn’t prepare strawberries. She just eats them.
The correct placement of “only” in the sentence, based on the intended meaning, is: “She ate only strawberries for dinner.” The modifier, “only” is next to the noun it is modifying and is now grammatically correct. At first, it can feel awkward to say this sentence out loud. However, when you realize that the original sentence didn't mean what you intended, the correctly constructed sentence will start to feel more comfortable.
 The best way to get a sense of the proper use of the word “only” is to make your own example sentences and note what the “only” is modifying in each sentence.For example, consider these five different placements of “only” in the same sentence:
“Only I like dancing at a party.”
“I only like dancing at a party.”
“I like only dancing at a party.”
“I like dancing only at a party.”
“I like dancing at only a party.”

, For example: “Only I like dancing at a party.” In this sentence, “only” is modifying the subject “I”. You are telling someone that no one else likes to dance at a party, only you. You could view this sentence another way: “Only John danced at the party.” In this case, John was the only person who danced at the party, no one else. If this is your intended meaning, that John was the only dancer at the party, then you would place “only” at the beginning of the sentence so it modifies the subject, “John”.
 For example: “I only like dancing at a party.” In this sentence, “only” is modifying the verb “like”. So this sentence means that the “I” likes to do just one thing at a party: dance. The “I” doesn’t praise or put down dancing at a party, the “I” just likes it. This use for the actual meaning is kind of rare because it's used to distinguish which verb is being referenced., For example: “John only cooks meat for his family.” This sentence works if John is a vegetarian and does not buy, prepare, or eat meat. But when he is with his family, who are diehard meat eaters, he will cook meat for them. In this case, the modifier is correctly placed as the sentence indicates that John will only cook meat for his family, and not do anything else with the meat.
 For example: “I like only dancing at a party.” In this sentence, “only” is modifying “dancing”. This means that the “I” likes only one thing at a party: dancing. The speaker does not like talking, singing, chatting, or drinking in a party setting. The speaker likes dancing at a party and that is all, nothing else.


The use of “only” works better in a sentence that indicates the speaker only does one thing in a certain situation. For example: “I eat only vegetables.” This sentence is clear if you are a vegetarian and are telling someone about your diet. This means you consume vegetables and no meat or other food products.
 For example: “I like dancing only at a party.” In this example, “only” is modifying “at a party”. This indicates that the speaker likes to dance when she is at a party, and that she does not dance any other time or at any other type of event.You can look at this use of “only” another way: “John drinks scotch only with his dad.” This sentence means that John drinks scotch with his dad and with no one else.
 Now that you have looked at the four different ways “only” can be used in a sentence, note how you use “only” in your next essay, letter, or conversation.Remember to always place “only” next to the item you want to modify in the sentence so the sentence is clear and your meaning is not confusing or awkward to your reader or listener. Look at the above examples to determine where "only" belongs in your sentence.
Another good tip is to do a search of your document if it is on a word processor for the word “only”. Check that you are using “only” correctly in each sentence and adjust the placement of “only” in a sentence if it is unclear or incorrect.