 Stretches can flex your calves, thighs, lower back, neck, hips, and shoulders.


Do a quick walk or a light jog for about five minutes before stretching.
Hold each stretch for about 30 seconds.For instance, if you sit on a pad or mat with both legs out in front of you and try to touch your toes, hold the position for 30 seconds.
Focus on stretches that relate to your workout. For instance, if you’re going for a jog, your stretches should work the hamstrings, calves, and ankles.
You can end your workout with a stretching session too, if you wish.;
, Volleyball, tennis, and soccer are all great summer sports that can help you get fit. Sports are an especially great way to get fit during the summer if you are competitive.
 Some might also offer the opportunity to join a community basketball or soccer team. Check your local community events page online or contact community development organizations and ask if they offer fitness classes or sports programs., Enjoy the fresh air, the quietude, and the simplicity of communing with nature. Lose yourself on a mountain path or a hiking trail. Visit your local public park for hiking and biking opportunities.
 All you need is a comfortable, well-fitting pair of tennis shoes and your legs to take you wherever you want to run. You could run along a natural trail, on a community track, or on a treadmill.


Start by walking for about five minutes. This will stretch and warm up your leg muscles.
Start at a time or distance you feel comfortable with. For instance, you might start out by running ten minutes each day. Add minutes or distance every few days to continue building your running endurance and strength.
When you’re close to finishing your run, sprint hard for about thirty to sixty seconds. If you do this before ending your run every time, you’ll be able to build speed as well as endurance during your runs.
When you’re done running, walk around for about five minutes to cool down.
 Try a variety of exercises and focus on the ones you like best.


Cardio (or aerobic) workouts involve working the heart in whole-body exercises like biking, running, jumping rope, or walking.
Anaerobic workouts could include bench presses, push-ups, pull-ups, chin-ups, sit-ups, lunges, and squats. These are the best exercises for burning fat and building muscle.
Switch back and forth between cardio and anaerobic exercises. For instance, run for 30 minutes, then do 30 pushups.
If you're unfamiliar with gym equipment or certain exercises, ask the staff for assistance. For an added cost, many gyms also offer personal workout trainers to help you develop a routine that works for you.
 For instance, start out by walking or running two miles each day, depending on your current physical fitness level. After you can easily do two miles (usually after a week or so of daily workouts), start doing two and a half miles. Increase your distance to three miles after another week. Continue adding distance until you feel you’re working out at your maximum capability.

