 Prayer can be an effective healing method, regardless of your personal religious or spiritual tradition. It allows areas to be accessed that are beyond the analytical mind, relying on trust. It helps you to believe that self-healing is possible and relieves the stress that an illness or injury can cause, especially if the outcome is not certain. Engage in prayer regularly, either alone or with others, to promote healing., Healing circles have been used since ancient times to encourage healing. When group energy is focused on healing an individual, it can bring additional successes in self-healing for you. Surround yourself with people who care about you, those determined to help you heal or multiple practitioners focused on healing.
 Biofeedback helps to train your mind to see how thoughts and emotions affect you physically. Using electronic monitors, you can learn to modify your mental and emotional responses to help control symptoms. Monitors can measure things like heart rate, respiration, blood pressure, muscular tension, and brain activity so you can learn to keep your physical responses under control as well., There are many supplements that can help you heal and alleviate symptoms, depending on the issue. You can try herbal remedies, vitamins, or nutritional supplements. Always consult a doctor before you take any supplements.


Some herbs like Echinacea can improve immune system function as can higher doses of some vitamins, such as vitamin C. Consult a herbalist or alternative medicine practitioner for more information on what may help you heal.Some people use chlorella or other types of algae as a nutritional supplement to improve health or help deal with sickness. Though there is insufficient evidence for it’s effective use for many conditions, you might try it to see if it helps. Follow product labels and your physician’s recommendations.
 Essential oils are absorbed through the skin and can help heal your body. Many have antibacterial, antifungal, or antiviral properties. You often only need a few drops, so a small bottle can last a long time. Popular essential oils include lavender, eucalyptus, tea tree oil, peppermint, and chamomile.Dilute with a carrier oil like almond, sesame, or coconut oil when using on babies or those with sensitive skin.
 Regular massages can reduce stress, pain, and muscle tension.Massage therapists are trained to provide proper massaging techniques. Plus, you will feel great after your massage.
 Study religious or philosophical texts that offer you solace and guidance. Attend a church or temple regularly for fellowship and to get in touch with your spiritual side. Use spiritual guidelines to help you make decisions and focus on self-healing. Consult with a spiritual leader for further direction.
 This method may help reduce stress and promote healing and overall health.Take a class or see a provider who can practice the technique on you and show you how to do it properly. You do not have to follow a certain spiritual practice to benefit from these techniques.

