 You can go to the app store online, but it is easier to just go to the app store on your iPod as it will save you the hassle of plugging the iPod in and waiting for the download (you still have to wait for the download on your iPod, but you can play a different game while you wait for it to load).;
, There are lots of options. Here are a few genres:

Stupid Tests- These are quite fun but they can be extremely frustrating. However, it is a pretty good brain exercise because these games really get you thinking and make you exercise every possible possibility. If you want a Stupid Test game, start with the Imbecile Test because it isn't as hard as some of the others as your options are very clear, just not the answers.
Personality Quizzes- It's mostly girls that opt for these types of quizzes but some guys might enjoy them too.
Trivia- Trivia is basically just what the name says. It's trivia questions to be answered on your iPod.
Puzzle- There are lots of puzzle games on iPod. One of the popular ones is Cut the Rope (Cut the Rope costs money though).
Tower Defense- You might be able to find a few tower defense games in the App Store.
Angry Birds- Angry Birds gets it's own category because of it's popularity and because of all of the variations of Angry Birds (Angry Birds Rio is one variation).
Cooking Games- If you try, you might be able to find a few of these games in the App Store.
Food Decoration games- In these games, as the title states, you decorate a food dish of some kind whether it's S'mores, or fruit salad, or cookies.
Miscellaneous- This category is for any game categories I might have missed because there are probably many more game categories.
, There should be a short description of the game when you press on a game or app.
 If it does, then you either can't get or you need to use an iTunes card or credit card to buy the game.
, See if you like it or not. If you don't like it delete it. To do this, press on the app as you normally would but instead of just tapping it, hold the app button until the app (and all the other apps) start to shake. There will be a tiny X in the corner of the app, so simply press on that X to get rid of it.

