 The office of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, at USCIS.gov, contains information about citizenship and green cards, secure links for you to track your own immigration case, and even an online chat feature for you to get instant answers to questions you may have., There are many private organizations that provide assistance with the immigration process. A simple online search for “U.S. Immigration” will bring up many references. Some of these provide reference information, while others actually provide legal services. One example is the American Immigration Council.Be careful in deciding whose advice to follow. If you are not familiar with a particular company or agency, do some additional research. Search around on the web for other references to that agency or for opinions or reviews from people who have used it. You cannot just assume that everyone writing advice on the Internet really knows about the subject.
 WikiHow has several articles about immigration that you may want to review. For example, you may want to review Immigrate Into the United States Permanently, Get Immigration Papers or Apply for Citizenship. There are other similar reference resources online as well that you can find. Just search for something like "immigration to US," and you should find a great deal of information. The more you read, the better prepared you will be.
 Look at message boards, private blogs, online bulletin boards and chat rooms to get personal experiences of other people who have been through the immigration process. Although these are not going to provide official information or legal guidance, they may give you things to consider. You might also connect with someone from your country who can add some personal insights.Be careful not to rely heavily on these personal references. This suggestion will give you some insight into personal experiences, but do not accept these personal comments as legal or official advice.
 In your research, make sure you understand what will be required. There is a great deal of information available online, and you should read as much as you can to understand the process. The more you know about how the immigration process works, the more prepared you will be and the easier it will seem. Here are the steps of the immigration process in a brief outline:


Submit a petition. You will need a sponsor in the U.S. to submit a petition on your behalf, agreeing to support your immigration to the U.S.
Begin paper processing with the National Visa Center (NVC). This is the office that handles your application. You will need to provide an email address, which will speed up communications.
Identify an agent. Your agent will be the person who will communicate with the NVC and receive information. You may be your own agent, or you may identify a family member, attorney, or even a friend who has already been through the immigration process.
Pay the processing fees. The NVC will inform you when the payments are due and the amounts you will owe.
Collect and submit paperwork. This will include a visa application form along with certain financial and civil documents (you will be notified of these in detail when they are due). If these are not in English, you will need to obtain certified translations. You will be instructed how to submit all this material to the NVC, either by email or by regular mail.
Schedule and complete a medical examination. This will be in your home country, before coming to the U.S.
Prepare for and participate in an interview. You, your spouse, and any children who are immigrating with you will be required to participate. You will need to bring originals and translations, if needed, of all your paperwork, passports, and other supporting documentation.
 From start to finish, the immigration process can take months, depending on your home country. Going into the process, you need to understand that it takes time and energy. Each of the steps outlined above has a waiting period of several weeks to a month while someone in the immigration office reviews and approves your submissions.You can check the approximate processing time for applications from your country on the website of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service.