 Because your sister is older, she’ll have done many things before you, and it’s only natural that you’ll sometimes compare yourself to her. For example, you’ll compare your B+ in Algebra to her A-, or the fact that played first chair in orchestra while you were third. Comparing yourself to her in that way is one of the surest ways to create resentment and conflict between you, so do your best to remind yourself that you’re your own person and avoid those comparisons.You shouldn’t make your sister feel bad about herself by making comparisons either. Whether the comparison makes you look good or not, it can cause trouble in your relationship.
 Everyone needs time and space to be by themselves sometimes. To make sure that the two of you get along, it’s a good idea to give her time alone on a regular basis. Remember that you don’t need to spend every minute together to have a good relationship.Your sister isn’t the only one who can benefit from time alone. Make sure to take some time for yourself too.
If you share a room, talk to your sister about coming up with a schedule where each of you gets a couple of hours or so a week of private time. You can do the same with shared spaces in the house, such as the family room or game room.
Don’t try to tag along every time that your older sister goes out. Understand that sometimes she just wants to hang out with her friends.
 Most people are protective of their things, such as clothing, jewelry, books, and headphones, so if you and your older sister aren’t respectful of one another’s belongings, it can be a major source of conflict. Make sure that you never borrow your sister’s things without her permission, and always return them in the same condition. You should also make it clear to your sister that you expect the same from her.If you’re not sure whether you’re being respectful of your sister’s things, just ask yourself, “Would I want her to treat my stuff like this?”
Respecting one another’s belonging doesn’t just involve the things that you borrow. Don’t go snooping through her stuff to read her diary or take her phone to see who’s texting.
 Even if your sister is several years older, there are bound to be some things that you have in common. Whether it’s a sport that you both play or a TV show that you both watch, a shared interest is an ideal thing for the two of you to bond over -- and a way to ensure that you always have something to talk about.If you're struggling to begin a conversation with your sister, start with your shared interest. Ask her a question about it, such as "What did you think of that episode/game last night?," so she has the opportunity to share her opinion.
 If you want to have a good relationship with your older sister, it’s important that you both make time for one another. That’s why it helps to set up a weekly or monthly “date” that you set aside to spend time with one another. You might go for a hike every Sunday afternoon or plan a movie night every Thursday. Even a regular trip to the mall can be fun with your sister.Working on a joint project together can be a good way to spend time together. For example, you might agree to make dinner for the family together once a week.
It’s also a good idea to set aside some time each month just to support one another. You might go to your sister’s soccer match, while she attends your dance recital, so you’re both taking an active interest in the other’s life.

