 Apart from the basic types of chocolate - bittersweet, semisweet, milk and white - you can choose to melt chocolate bars, chocolate chips, or discs of special melting chocolate. They can all be melted using the same basic methods. Keep these tips in mind when you're deciding which form of chocolate to buy:









Melting chocolate is available at specialty baking and confectionery stores. It's formulated to melt easily and withstand higher temperatures than ordinary chocolate.
White chocolate is fussier when it comes to melting, since high heat can cause it to get dry and crumbly.
Unsweetened chocolate bars can also be melted for dipping. Sugar may be added to taste after the chocolate has been melted.;
, Even one stray drop of water can cause melting chocolate to seize, or harden, ruining its texture and consistency. Seized chocolate won't melt smoothly, no matter how long you stir it.









As soon as you unwrap your chocolate, place it in a dry bowl away from the sink or other water sources.
No matter what melting method you choose, be aware that even steam and condensation can cause chocolate to seize.
 Overheating chocolate can also cause it to seize. Overheated chocolate takes on a dry, crumbly appearance. Avoid this outcome by making sure you always melt chocolate slowly using low heat, no matter what melting method you use.
 Adding a drop or two of vegetable oil to seized chocolate can sometimes save it from having to be thrown out.









Stir a tiny amount of vegetable oil into chocolate that has seized because of the presence of water. If only a small portion of the chocolate has seized, the vegetable oil might help to smooth out the chocolate.
Stir a tiny amount of vegetable oil into chocolate that has seized due to overheating. Vegetable oil should help restore moisture to the chocolate.
 Chocolate cools and hardens quickly after it melts, so it is best to have your dipping items to start dipping as soon as the melting process is complete.









Make sure the fruit you are using has already been washed and stemmed. Pieces of wet fruit could cause the chocolate to seize; be sure to towel dry strawberries, blueberries and other freshly washed fruit pieces.
Line a baking sheet with waxed paper or parchment paper. As you dip fruit and other items, lay them on the sheet. Place it in the refrigerator when you are finished dipping. The chocolate won't stick to the paper once it has cooled and hardened.

