 When being teased, you might feel that your blood is boiling or that you are on the verge of tears. To avoid reacting, ignore their comments completely. Put in ear phones, think of something funny that happened recently, or scroll through some memes on social media.If you are at work, you might shut your office door, work on emails, or call a customer/client.;
, If ignoring their comments is not effective, walk away from them. Walk towards a crowd of people or towards other friends. They will likely not tease you as much if you are around your support system.

If you are in school, walk towards a teacher or administrator.
 Deep breathing is a calming technique often used to combat anger or frustration. Instead of reacting, take ten deep breaths. Breathe in slowly through your nose and out through your mouth., It can be really tough to have others pick on your appearance, especially if they are teasing you about things you can’t really change. However, it’s important to find ways to keep positive and to build yourself up. Make a list, either on paper or in your phone, of uplifting quotes or compliments that you have received. Read over this list in the mornings or when you are being teased.

One quote you might list is from Eleanor Roosevelt who said “No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.”
If someone has told you that you have nice hair or clothes, write that down, too.
 When someone is being mean to you, it can be tempting to be mean back or to lash out in anger. However, this usually will only make the teasing worse, as most bullies are looking for a reaction. Identify a friend or family member who is level-headed and who gives good advice and call or text them. They can help to get your mind off things or give you advice on what to do.

You might say “Hey girl, remember that kid from my school who I told you keeps making jokes of my glasses? He just did it again. What would you do?”
You might also talk to a coworker who you you are close with.

