 Ginger is a common natural remedy for nausea, and many people use it for motion sickness. Consult your doctor before taking ginger if you are pregnant, nursing, or taking other medications with which it might interfere. If your doctor approves of you taking ginger, there are many tasty ways to do so:Ginger chews, lozenges, or candy, now widely available.
A warm cup of fresh decaffeinated ginger tea. This will both help settle your stomach and keep you hydrated. You can sip it slowly over the course of your travels. You can bring it with you if you are traveling by car or by boat. If you are traveling by plane, you may need to bring freshly sliced ginger and then ask for a cup of hot water on the plane. Airports generally do not permit you to carry liquids on board.
Ginger soda. You can bring ginger soda or ginger ale with you on a boat or in the car. If you are traveling by plane, check to see if you can purchase it in the airport cafes where drinks are often sold after people have gone through security.
Ginger cookies or breads. These are always tasty snacks.
Ginger supplements. Contact your doctor or the manufacturer’s instructions to determine the dosage that would be right for you.
 If you will also be driving, however, you should not take these medications because they may cause you to be too drowsy to drive. Follow the instructions on the packaging. Consult your doctor before taking them if you are pregnant, nursing, taking other medications, or treating a child. Possible medications to try are:Dimenhydrinate (Dramamine, Gravol)
Meclizine (Antivert)

, If you have severe motion sickness and are planning a cross country car trip, a transoceanic boat trip, or several days of air travel, you may need medicine to manage your motion sickness. As with all medications, tell your doctor if you are pregnant, nursing, or on other medications. Your doctor may prescribe a scopolamine or hyoscine adhesive patch (Transderm Scop). This treatment may not be possible for people with asthma, glaucoma, urine retention, epilepsy, heart, kidney, or liver problems.
However, scopolamine has no effect on people under the age of 12.
If this medication is available over-the-counter, consult a doctor before treating a child or an elderly person.
The patch is generally worn behind the ear. It is usually effective for about 72 hours. Side effects include sleepiness, dizziness, and blurred vision.

