 The Novaskin Skin Editor is a website that will allow you to build and download a skin which you make yourself on the website. Though you could use software like Photoshop or MS Paint, Novaskin is likely the simplest way to make your own skin.
 There will be an invisible outline of the character which you will need to locate to begin coloring it. The easiest way to do this is to select one of the colors at the bottom and to randomly color the center of the screen until you see it.
 Once you've found the frame for the character, you can begin creating your skin. There are a variety of tools which you can use, varying from a dropper (which lets you copy an existing color from a pixel) to layers (which let you do your shading separate from your base color). Experiment to get the hang of how the tools work.


Color the base skin color. Choose a base color for the skin by clicking one of the colors at the bottom and using the color slider to select the color. Color all the skin by clicking and dragging across all of the pixels on the character.
Color the clothes. Make whatever clothing you would like on the character. The simplest would be jeans and a tee shirt.
Color the face and hair. Coloring the face and hair can be difficult. Remember to use multiple shades of the same color on the hair to make it look real. Minecraft characters do not usually have a nose drawn.
Use the pre-made shading to make your character look better. From the sidebar on the left, click “Wear”. Select one of the first two shading options to make your character look better.
Use one of the pre-made skins as a base if you would rather not make one from scratch. You can also choose one of the pre-made skins on the left (under the Gallery tab). Find a skin you like and click on it or hover over it and click “+ layer”.
Make sure that all sides of the character are colored. You can select different sections of the character frame in the bottom left corner. Make the disappear to reach the hidden areas that need coloring.
 This will save the file as a .png, which you can add to your game.
 Log in to the Minecraft website and click the “Profile” tab.
 Find the png file you saved and click “Open”.
, Once the file uploads, your character should now be wearing the custom skin.

