 Natural laughter usually comes as a surprise, or as the result of a stimulus, like tickling. This results in an unplanned vocalization - laughter! By its very nature, laughter is irregular, so the measured tones of your fake laughter can easily be spotted.Add variety to your laughter by starting with low tones and ending with a higher pitch, or vice versa.;
, Listeners are more likely to believe a fake laugh is real when the speed is increased.Instead of slower, deeper laughs, you might try imitating a lighter, quicker giggle.
 Human brains distinguish between real and faked laughter by the breath inserted between your chuckles and chortles.Allow your breath to come in staggered, haphazard intervals to cue your friends that you did find the joke funny, even when you did not.


More breathy-ness will make your laugh sound more genuine. There are typically more breathy parts in natural laughter than faked., Both men and women have been found to tend toward different laughing styles, and using these might help you fool your audience. Women tend to laugh in a more lyrical, sing-songy way, while men more frequently grunt or snort in amusement., This is a tricky part of faking a laugh, as laughter is the spontaneous explosion of vocalized joy. Too much regulation will come across as false and unnatural, but the opposite is also true. Laughing too much can signal your listener that you don't actually find what is being said is humorous.Aim for a volume for your laughter that is around the same volume of those laughing around you, or that is about the same volume as conversation.
A general guideline when faking: don't allow your laughter be so loud that you cannot hear conversation over it.
 You might have the experience of laughing out loud at something at an inappropriate moment. Laughter sometimes strikes when it's less than convenient, but you can use this to your advantage when faking. Make your first bark of laughter loud enough to get attention, and then cover your mouth and pretend to be embarrassed.Be sure to smile throughout this process. Smiling triggers tiny muscles in your face to flex and wrinkle, imitating the look of natural laughter., A common error of inexperienced fakers is cutting a laugh off too abruptly. Natural laughter is rarely cut off suddenly. To imitate natural laughter, allow your tee-hees to dwindle until you feel the moment is right to stop.Observe the expressions of those around you. When you notice the upward pointing "laugh lines" softening back to a more neutral expression, you should begin wrapping up your laughter.
 If you're already in a good mood, it'll be easier for you to shift gears into laughing mode. Start your day browsing some webcomics you find humorous, or maybe turn on the stand-up comedy special that always tickles your funny bone to get yourself ready to laugh throughout the day., Smiling has many positive health benefits, like raising attractiveness, boosting your immune system, and lowering blood pressure. But more importantly, smiling can give your mood a boost, which can help you transition from a small grin to a chortle of amusement., This is the main reason why laugh tracks have been used in sitcoms and other comedic television shows - the sound of laughter is contagious.Listen carefully to the laughter of those around you, and see if you can catch the chuckle-bug.
 Laughs occur predictable throughout language. Though there are exceptions, generally laughter occurs at the end of phrases or during pauses in speech. To give your fake laughter the best chance of passing as real, you'll want to "punctuate" your speech with it, instead of choosing a time to laugh randomly., There are some images that, no matter how frequently you see them, still strike you as hilarious. Or maybe there's a joke that gets you laughing no matter how many times you hear it. Keep these in your mental "laugh bank" for use when you need to fake a laugh.


Funny events from your personal life, like the antics of a comedic aunt or cousin at a family party, can serve well as laugh bank material.
 This doesn't simply include somber events, like funerals and passport photos, but also higher risk situations, like job interviews. If your interviewer cracks a joke and you don't find it funny, he may detect insincerity in your fake laughter, and it could affect your chances of getting the job.
 This is an obvious way you can show your social support to your conversation partner without coming across as dishonest. Grin, nod, and offer other positive social cues, like saying:"I wish I had thought of that one!"
"I've never heard that one before. Where'd you hear it?"

, When a joke is made that falls flat, you might pick it up by putting a twist on it or by making a joke of your own. Humor is a social tool that we use to express shared values and joys, and by cracking a joke of your own, you can show your social support. An example of this might look like:Boss: What do you call a cow with no legs? (followed by silence)
You: Hungry?

, There are many reasons you might not find a joke funny. For example, you may have heard the exact same joke a few days earlier, ruining the punchline for you. Some other excuses you could offer:


"Sure I thought it was funny. I was just laughing on the inside."
"I'm sorry, I didn't hear you - what did you say?"

