 Eating foods that you may have a sensitivity to can cause heartburn. Common heartburn causing foods include:


Citrus fruit
Chocolate
Tomatoes
Garlic and onions;
, Fatty foods can cause the sphincter separating your esophagus and stomach to stay open, which can cause heartburn.You should avoid fatty foods if you are struggling with heartburn. Spicy foods can also cause heartburn in a lot of individuals. Lay off the spices to help get rid of your heartburn.
 Food is not the only substance that can cause heartburn. Certain beverages can give you heartburn. Try to reduce the number of caffeinated beverages you drink to help alleviate heartburn., The pectin in the apple skin acts as a natural antacid. Bananas contain natural antacids. Try eating an apple or a ripe banana to help with heartburn., Since pregnancy causes many changes to your body, things that normally don’t bother you may cause you heartburn now. If you have heartburn a lot, try to figure out what foods are causing it. First, start with the common heartburn trigger foods. Then, start to look at the foods you eat just before a case of heartburn.


This may involve keeping track of foods that cause problems. Write down the foods you eat and see how you feel about one hour after eating. If the food you ate an hour ago is bothering you, you should eliminate that from your diet.For example, if you have spaghetti and meatballs with tomato sauce for dinner and have heartburn within an hour, your trigger could be the spaghetti, the meatballs, or the tomato sauce. Next time, eliminate the tomato sauce. If you have no heartburn, you know that the tomato sauce is the trigger. If you still have heartburn, it could be the pasta or the meatballs. Next day, have some leftover pasta alone with no meatballs and no sauce. If you have heartburn, the pasta should be eliminated from your diet.
 Large meals can lead to heartburn. To prevent this from happening, eat smaller amounts of food at any one time. This reduces the stress pressure on your stomach., Slowing down when you eat may help get rid of your heartburn. Eating more slowly allows the food to be digested more easily and quickly, leaving less food in the stomach to wash back up into the esophagus., As you try to fall asleep, you can put pressure on your esophagus and cause heartburn. To help eliminate this, don’t eat two to three hours before bedtime.Don’t lie down after eating, even to take a nap. If you are tired, then try reclining in a chair or use some pillows to elevate your head and upper body.

