 Your goal is to make him remember you and like you for who you are, not just for your good looks. Make him think you're special - be charming, smart, sexy, and fun to be around; in a word, show off your best parts. Let him know you're not like the other girls - so he will eventually treat you differently, too.;
, Faking affection is forbidden. This guy will show no respect for you if you're willing to accept everything that comes from him. When he goes overboard, for instance saying unpleasant things to you or making fun of you, gently, but firmly warn him you don't accept this kind of behaviour. Also, be careful how YOU behave yourself. If you look like you're trying too hard and flirt with every guy you encounter, he will think you're promiscuous and treat you accordingly.
 Being "just friends" works in the beginning. But beware: don't act COMPLETELY like his pals; don't lose your femininity. But don't make romantic allusions just yet. Getting to know him better will prove helpful later: you will know when he's lying, what's his general attitude towards girls and so on.
 Don't make it too obvious though. Subtlety is the key here. He will most likely understand the message and respond. But don't let him get too comfortable; as soon as he wants to get closer to you, you'll going to have to reject him gently. But let him know he can call you again. Tell him you *kind of* like him, but you don't fully trust him yet- and he'll have to prove himself worthy of your trust. At this point, he's already supposed to like you back, if you've shown him your best traits AND a little bit of interest in him. He will hopefully try harder to get you- these guys have a huge ego, and wouldn't like the idea of not being able to get a girl. Tell him that you can change your mind if you go on a few *real* dates with him, and during these dates, he must prove himself to gain your full trust.
 They shouldn't be official (in the way that it doesn't mean you two have a relationship), so there can be no 'break-up' in case things don't work out between you two, and reason no.2: because such guys act differently in a relationship than they do in a non-official date. Make them fun, interesting and original; you can choose romantic to unusual locations, you decide; just make sure he doesn't get bored with you around. Be yourself, so he will get to know the real you; and -very important- don't get jealous if he happens to look admiringly at other girls (jealousy will turn him off instantly; after all, you're not yet a couple).
 Be distant most of the time; but not that distant so you're completely out of his life; just enough to make him miss you and not get bored of you. You can accept to be his girlfriend when you know he has true feelings for you. You can test him from time to time: for example, making him jealous and seeing if it works.
 Be the girlfriend of his dreams.

