 A hot shower can help you feel better when you are recovering from a sinus infection. Not only will the steam help open your nasal passages, but the warm water can also help you relax and leave you refreshed for your upcoming day.
 Red, irritated, and puffy eyes often come with a sinus infection. Cool them down to make them feel rested and refreshed. There are several good ways to do this:


Drop a few ice cubes in a plastic bag, wrap it in a paper towel, and hold them against your closed eyelids for five to 10 minutes.
 Believe it or not, something as simple as the sun's rays can have a major effect on the way you feel. Humans need vitamin D (which is created when the skin takes in sunlight) for a variety of important body processes, including the functioning of the immune system.In addition, sunlight has been found to help fight depression, which can be a big benefit if your sinus infection has left you feeling miserable.As long as it's not overcast, you can usually get sun no matter what it's like outside. If it's winter, sit by a sunny window with a good book. If it's a bit warmer outside, trying sitting on the porch or in the yard, even if you have to bundle up a bit.
 When you're sick with a sinus infection, you often just plain don't feel good. This can carry over to your mood as well. One great way to feel better with a sinus infection is to have someone give you a massage. It's hard to feel bad when you're getting a massage — the gentle pressure relaxes you, elevates your mood, and helps you forget about your symptoms (at least for a moment).


You can also try giving yourself a facial massage. This is an especially good option if your sinus infection is causing painful pressure behind your face. To do this, use your fingers to gently press on the spot between your brows just above your nose. Press and rub for about one minute. Next, slowly move your fingers around your face, rubbing as you go. Start at your forehead, then gradually move down to your temples, cheeks, and jawline.

