 You can find them in shades of red, pink or orange, as well as white. They may also be a combination of a few colors.


The larger the bulb, the more flowers the amaryllis will have.;
, Their ideal storage temperature is between 40 and 50 degrees Fahrenheit (4 and 10 degrees Celsius).Use your refrigerator’s crisper drawer to store your bulbs for a minimum of 6 weeks. However, you should not store the bulbs next to fruit, like apples, or they can sterilize.
 This will depend greatly on your climate. If you have cold temperatures, below 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius) in the winter, you will need to plant the bulb in a pot and keep it inside.


Winter blooms are generally bigger and last longer than summer blooms.
You can plant during both seasons, as long as there is 6 weeks of cold storage between the last bloom dying and the replanting.,, Do not use pots without holes in the bottom. Amaryllis bulbs are very sensitive to overwatering.


Amaryllis prefers to be pot bound, although it can be planted in some smaller garden beds.
Plant in the garden bed when temperatures are above 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius) and there is no risk of a bad frost. Use the same instructions as you would to plant in a pot., There should be able 2 inches of soil between the side of the bulb and the pot. Most amaryllis bulbs prefer a sturdy 6 to 8 inch pot.,, You can buy pre-made mixes that will work well for this type of flower. Only garden soil will not work, because it will not drain adequately.
 Gently fill in potting soil around the bulb. Leave the stem of the bulb, approximately 1/3 of the plant, above the soil.


Don’t pack the soil in too much, since you want the roots to remain intact.
If you worry that planting them with the stem above the soil in a garden may force them to fall over, place a planting stake next to the bulb to keep it upright.
 It grows best in 70 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit (21 to 24 degrees Celsius) weather.
,, They should bloom for approximately 2 weeks. The blooms will last longer in a 65-degree temperature (18.3 Celsius) than a hotter temperature.
 Add liquid houseplant fertilizer at regular intervals.
 When the flower stem wilts, cut it off where it meets the bulb. You can maintain the plant as a green plant for several weeks or months.
,,, Be gentle to avoid harming the bulb.
 Dry it and store it in a cool dry place, just as you did before you planted the bulb. It should be kept cool and dry for 6 to 8 weeks before you plant it again.

