


The four sets are called Pung, Sheung or Kong sets.
Pung is a set of three identical tiles from any set
Sheung is a run of three tiles from a suit -- for example, you could hold a 4, 5, and six of bamboos
Kong is four identical tiles from any set
Ngan is a pair of the same tiles and is also needed to get Mahjong;
, These tiles have 36 characters, 36 bamboos, 36 circles, 16 wind tiles, and 12 dragon tiles. The groups of 36 tiles are each divided into 4 sets of numbers 1-9.
, Because of the number of tiles, Mahjong is a game played by strictly four players.
 This person will deal out the first set of tiles to all the players.
 You will want to set the maximum number of points and the hand that represents it.


The maximum number of points (called the Fan) must be held by the winning hand.
, The four tiles represent different directions and will determine how the players sit.


The wind tiles are North, South, East and West and the players should sit accordingly around the table.
,, They should remain face down and players cannot look at the walls in front of them.
 Whatever number the dealer rolls, he or she counts that many tiles from the right edge of the wall and begins dealing tiles from the left of that spot.
 Each player will receive 13 tiles except for the dealer, who will have 14 tiles.


Players can look at their tiles but should not show them to others.
 When you discard a tile, place it face up in the middle of the square of walls face up so that all the players can see it.
 The player to the right of the dealer (East) then discards one of their tiles and can either pick up one of the face up tiles or pick one up from the wall.


The idea is to pick up tiles that will help you reach your Mahjong hand -- so for example if the face up tile combines with one of the tiles in your hand to create a pair, you would want to pick it up.
,,, Make sure that the winner has a combination of four sets and one pair. If all the tiles are used and no one has declared Mahjong, then there is no winner.

