


The practical aspects of a live-in retirement community must be integrated into the design. This is a crucial element in order to truly know how to design a retirement community that serves the needs of its residents. Elements that must be considered include access to grocery stores, retail shopping areas, public transportation, pharmacies, and restaurants. A convenient means of taking delivery of essential items, like grocery deliveries, should also be integrated into the design for retirees who are less mobile.;
, Study the differing aspects of each type of community and design the community with these elements in mind.


There are generally 3 different living situations for an elderly person in a retirement community. Independent living means the senior is living in their own individual home or apartment as part of the larger community. Assisted living means the senior must have daily assistance with practical matters like getting dressed, buying groceries, and driving. The third level is nursing care, which involves the senior having regular medical care in a live-in setting that is similar to a hospital.



Many retirees will be walking with the aid of canes or walkers, and some residents will be wheelchair bound. Walkways must be smooth and flowing to accommodate these people. Handrails should be designed into walkways. Handicap parking and handicap access must be integrated into the community's design. Steep steps and difficult to negotiate upper stories should be eliminated or built with elevators that are easy for seniors to access.
,,


Hallways in a retirement community must be large enough to allow wheelchairs to move easily. The bathroom must have safety rails, and toilet seats should be raised up. A security call system should be available for easy emergency alerts. Door handles and cabinet latches should be easy to maneuver for arthritic hands.
 Retirement communities are often built in warm climates, which make the winters much easier on seniors.
 Community areas, like meeting rooms, a picnic area, and a public library space that are conducive to conversation and group activities should be added into the community's design scheme.


Kathryn McCamant, of the architectural firm, McCamant & Durrett, which specializes in building senior communities and communally-oriented housing developments, says that social connections have a major impact on the physical and mental health of retirees. Thus, retirement communities should be planned with an open, friendly feeling that invites social interaction and connection between neighbors.
, Have the architect draw up plans for a retirement community that serves the needs of those who live there.

