 One of the best ways you can help your family member is to get more informed about the condition. TS affects the nervous system, which manifests as tics. Tics are sudden movements, twitches, or sounds that people perform without the ability to stop. Tics will get worse when the person is stressed or worried and will calm down when the person is focused on an activity. When your child's TS is first manifesting, the tics will likely be in the head and neck area. The tics can manifest as:


Motor tics, which are movements of the body such as shrugging the shoulders, jerking an arm, or blinking
Vocal tics, which are sounds made with the voice such as clearing the throat, humming, or yelling a phrase or single word
Simple tics, which only involve a few parts of the body such as sniffing or squinting the eyes
Complex tics, which involve multiple parts of the body and completed in a pattern, such as shaking the head while lifting the arm then jumping in the air., The treatment options for your loved one's TS will vary depending on the severity of the tics. If the tics are not extreme or do not disrupt normal activities and everyday life, your loved one may not need any treatment options. However, if the tics are disruptive, violent, or severe, your loved one may be on medication, do therapy such cognitive behavior therapy or talk therapy, or undergo a combination of these treatments.


The treatment options for your loved one may also change over time as the TS evolves.
Treatment will also include those for any co-occurring conditions as well., Many people with TS will also have additional mental, behavioral, or developmental condition. 86% of children diagnosed with TS have a co-occurring condition, such as obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) or attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).


Other common co-occurring conditions include anxiety, depression, speech or language problems, or conduct disorder (CD).
These additional issues will need to be treated as well, so make sure your doctor keeps a check on these as well., When a family member is diagnose with TS, you should ask the doctor about the condition. The doctor will be able to explain exactly how TS affects your loved one, what treatments are necessary for your loved one, and how you can help manage TS.


Your loved one's doctor will be able to help you understand exactly what your loved one's tics are, help you track how they change over time, and keep up with possible treatment options if your loved one's condition changes.If you can't find a doctor that specialized in TS, there are online locators to help find one that may work better for you and your family.
 Even if you have asked your doctor for information, you may still have questions or concerns about how to live your daily life with a loved one with TS. Looking online for help can provide you with great resources from official organizations as well as other people who are dealing with similar issues as you.



The Center for Disease Control (CDC), Tourette Association of America, Mayo Clinic, and other state or local associations have invaluable resources for those with TS and their families.
 If you still need help understanding TS, look for a local TS support group. These groups are made for those with TS and their families. The support groups can help you figure out how to better treat the condition and learn better ways live with TS in your life.


Support groups, such as local chapters of the Tourette Syndrome Association, also have the added bonus of providing much needed personal and emotional support for you and your family while dealing with TS.
You will be able to find other families or parents dealing with TS, who may be able to trade tips and resources on how to help your loved one.To look for a support group, find online locators that list groups in your area or ask your doctor for a recommendation.

