 If you don't ask her why she's upset, or angry, then she will pull away a little bit more. If she is not willing to talk about it, wisely put your concern aside for the moment and ask open-ended questions about her day or goals or interests or friends. However, ask interesting questions: a 'how did your day go?' Will just be responded to with a 'good.' If she begins to trust you, you may be able to share about your own. Be sensitive to how much she is willing to hear and talk about at each interaction.;
, Let her know that you want what's best for her, but she needs to open up and tell you how she is feeling, so you can talk to her about it.
 It will demonstrate that you value her opinion!

, At eighteen, you have a lot of new stress--not only with school, but also considering a career, and glimpsing into the future ahead. She may be just trying to sort out her life, and finding who she is. The way she is acting, could simply be her way of coping with all these issues of life.
 This also let's her know you care. Do an activity (or two) a couple times a week, if possible.
 (Calling her to see how she is doing counts, too). Regularity is important. Check on her just to see how she is doing. Don't be thrown off by a temper. But don't pry (until or unless she has grown to trust you when you do). If you have time, ask open ended questions with gentleness and having faith in her and her future.
 Teenagers hate being analysed like animals, and doing this will just push her further away. For example, teens hate those 'Why is your teen behaving like she is?' articles because they act like teens aren't human, and must be acting up because of some kind of thing that doesn't affect regular humans. For example, if an adult has a bad day at work, they will act stressed, and everyone will think, 'Oh, they must be stressed from work.' But, if a teenager has a bad day at school, and they act stressed, adults will try to analyse their behaviour, and assume they're acting stressed to get attention or something.