 Look for patterns, not just names.Some common job scams are:



Reshipping - Victims are offered bogus contracts and other documentation to gain trust. Packages are shipped to their home to be shipped elsewhere by the victim. The packages often contain stolen goods.







Envelope Stuffing - The victim pays a "registration fee" then is told to post an ad similar to the one the victim responded to in order to gain more "registration fees".







Medical Billing - The victim is asked to pay a fee in order to do the work.





;
, Is the salary in line with the going rate for comparable work in your area? Is it advertising that you can work from home or some other attractive perk? If so, look for, or ask about, good reasons that the pay is higher: does the job include some special duty or require qualifications that might warrant higher pay, or is it just bait?

, Many job listings require that a candidate be over the age of 18, and that's nothing new, but a real job listing should also list qualifications and job duties that describe the job itself. Generic job listings may be an attempt to draw in as many prospective targets as possible.
 Never send bank or credit card information, either. Either request should be a red flag that something is wrong. You should not have to pay for software, a credit check, a resume tune-up, job information, or anything else in order to get a job. You should not be asked to open or change a bank account.


Legitimate employers will often even pay your travel expenses if they ask you to travel out of your area for the interview.






Legitimate employers, if they require anything to do with a bank account, will ask for a voided check in order to set up direct deposit. This is standard, and it should happen in the first couple of weeks of working there. You should never need to open a bank account, transfer funds, or send money during a job application process.



Most companies, especially larger ones, will have job openings posted through their own websites. In the U.S., all government jobs are publicly posted, as well.If you find listings on job boards, look for the original. Sometimes scammers use big company names to draw people's attention.






Ask if a company is really hiring through a particular recruitment or placement firm, too.
 Does the service cost anything? If so, how much? Is there any refund if the process is unsuccessful? Remember that many recruiters are paid when they successfully find and hire a candidate into a client company. If a firm is asking a job hunting candidate to pay, why?

, If they found you on Linkedin, check their profile there.
 If you're applying at Acme, you should see email from an @acme.com or similar address, not from a personal email account., Look for bad grammar and poor English. Real recruiters and companies may occasionally send typos, but be on the lookout for communications riddled with misspellings, poor punctuation and English grammar.
 If you are offered a job, ask to receive the offer in writing, including the salary, before you begin working. A firm which is hiring you legitimately will not hesitate to supply a written offer, and it will protect you if you are not paid.
 You may begin working before all the paperwork is finalized. Benefits, especially, may not take effect right away, but you can generally expect to see an employment contract during your first couple of days at work. If you are promised benefits and don't see applications for them within the first week or so, ask.


You are not a volunteer but an employee. Even if your work begins with training or with a provisional or trial period, you should still be paid for that time.
 If you spot a questionable post on a job board, report it or flag it on the job board. If you are taken in by a scammer, you can report it to the FTC (in the US)., Does the pay and benefits sound great and work sound easy?






Are you offered an interview via instant messenger? Yahoo instant messenger is very popular among scammers, so be especially cautious if any part of the process involves Yahoo instant messenger.






Do communiques use a personal email address? If any non-company email addresses are involved in the search process, it is probably a scam.
 To seem legitimate the scammer may list job requirements and qualifications that are broad and vague and that almost anyone can meet.

