 These are generally found on notes, but occasionally you may stumble across a book that gives you the information you need to make a potion.


Notes and books are located across Skyrim, so you will need to keep your eyes open for sheets of paper and hardbound books to make a potion without any problems. Of course, you don’t get to choose what is in the items you find either.
Some shops also sell recipes. If you want to use this method to make your potions, make sure you keep a good bit of coin on hand.;
,, For example, Potion of Fortify Marksman requires at least two ingredients (Canis Root and Elves Ear).


If you use a third ingredient you can make the potion stronger, but you need at least two ingredients to create the potion.
 These are located all across Skyrim, with at least one in every village (usually located in the taverns). You can also have them installed in your homes once you start buying real estate.


Having them in your home is extremely useful, although using the labs in inns and alchemist shops means that you can buy some of the ingredients necessary for a potion. Then again, you can store ingredients in your home, so the choice of where you want to make your potions is yours.
 Every recipe you encounter and every successful experiment will appear under Ingredients. They are spaced out so you can see when you have created every available potion and poison.


The names of potions begin with words like Resist, Fortify, and Restore.
 You can repeat this action as long as you have the necessary ingredients to continually make the potion.
 You will be asked to make sure you want to leave before leaving the table.
 Alchemy Labs are located all across Skyrim, with at least one in every village (usually located in the taverns).


A list of every successfully made potion will appear under “Ingredients.”

, If the particular potion is grayed-out, it means you do not have the necessary items to make it. If it looks active, proceed to the next step.
 If you use three ingredients your potion will be stronger, but you may not want to use the rarer ingredients like that.
 You can repeat this action as long as you have the necessary ingredients to continually make the potion.
 You will be asked to make sure you want to leave before you can actually move away from the lab.
 Alchemy Labs are located all across Skyrim, with at least one in every village (usually located in the taverns).
 For example, selecting Blisterwort will show you any potions and poisons you have successfully crafted (Frenzy and Restore Health), and for those that you have not discovered it will read UNKNOWN.
 You may want to use more than two because it increases your chances of a successful experiment.


The more times you succeed, the more information you learn about each ingredient, which begins to take out a lot of the guesswork from your experiments.

