 Determining what has caused the lack of intimacy in your relationship can really help you move forward and improve it. There are many reasons intimacy dwindles. Start by thinking about why you believed the intimacy is gone, and then discuss this with your partner. Ask them if they think the intimacy has decreased, and why.This can be very effective, especially if you and your partner have different reasons for why intimacy is lacking. It can be a good starting place to start discussing issues in your marriage.
For example, bills, jobs, kids, parents, commitments, and lack of time commonly lead to a decrease in intimacy. However, you will never know for sure what the problem is unless you talk about it. Without asking directly, you will only be guessing about the problem.;
, Life is full of distractions and responsibilities. When you are busy with kids, a job, commitments, and other responsibilities, you may not have time to focus on your marriage. This can lead to a decrease in intimacy. Your marriage should be an important part of your life, not something you push to the side. You should make your marriage an important aspect of your life every day.This means you should consciously choose to work on your marriage and relationship every day. You may need to give up some commitments or push some things to another day so you can make your marriage an important part of your life.
For example, you may order takeout instead of spending an hour in the kitchen cooking a meal, you may tell your children to go play alone for half an hour, or you may decide to not check your work email at home so you can use that time to spend time with your spouse.
Instead of watching television for two hours, you may take a bath with your spouse, sit on the porch and talk, play a game together, or do a shared activity.
 Sometimes, people lose touch with their spouse when they have kids because all their attention goes to their kids. Part of having a healthy family and raising kids is a healthy marriage. You can take some of the time you spend with your children and devote it to your marriage to help improve the family.This doesn’t mean you are neglecting your kids. Having a stress-free, intimate, happy marriage is just as important for your children as your time with them.
For example, on weekends you may encourage your children to play with their siblings or in their room for half an hour to an hour to give you and your spouse time to spend together. Allow your child to go to a slumber party or consider not going to every sports practice in favor of taking that time to work on your relationship with your partner.

