 When you turn in work late, it creates extra work for a teacher. Teachers appreciate receiving each student’s completed work on time as it allows them to determine what material they need to spend more time on in class.


Remember that math teachers spend significant time and effort determining what homework they assign. You will impress your teacher by showing respect for their judgement., It can be tempting to simply provide the answer if you understand a problem, but it is important to show the process that you used to get your answer. In math, the process used to reach the answer is very important and teachers appreciate when students show that work.


If in doubt, show more than is required. A teacher will not punish a student for showing a lot of work. In fact, their homework might be used as a class example in a class where most kids fail to show work.
 If you are given class time to work on an assignment, start the new assignment or review the old one in class. If you work on other subjects, you can inadvertently signal to your teacher that math is less important to you than other classes. Study for an upcoming test or review previous homework assignments. This will show your teacher that you are interested in the subject that they have dedicated much of their life to teaching.


You can ask for additional problems if you are enjoying the work. The teacher may be able to give you more challenging problems that will help you understand the material more fully.
 You do not need to teach yourself a topic or concept in advance. If you have a rough idea of the lesson ahead, you will be able to engage the material while your classmates are confused. If your textbook came with supplemental materials, use them.


At home, you can go online and explore multiple sites dedicated to helping you learn math. Keep in mind that different sites will be directed at different age levels and math topics. Ask your teacher if they recommend any particular sites or search for materials by entering the subject and level that you want to explore into a search engine., It can be tempting to try to impress a teacher by never asking for help. Rather than cast a false image of already being an expert, allow your teacher and classmates to help you with specific question. Not only will this help you learn more, it will show your teacher the degree of your dedication.

