 Items left lying around will make your home look cluttered and unorganized so be sure to have a home set aside for every item. A good practice is to stand in a room and pick up every visible item and ask yourself if that is where that item should be at all times. If it’s not, find a place for it to go.


You will especially want a set home for items like your keys, phone and wallet. Keep a set spot for them near the door and develop a habit of always putting them in that spot. Doing this will keep you from constantly misplacing your items.
 Store items in a way which minimizes the amount of space they take while maximising how much use you can get out of them. With items organized efficiently, your home will have more space and look less cluttered.


Small items in a ‘junk’ drawer can be sorted into labeled used Altoids tins, for example (to keep them from getting mixed up and wandering everywhere).
Tension rods can be placed in a tupperware drawer to hold back and separate lids.
Place metal sheets on the inside of cupboards so that you can use that space to store recipe clippings, instead of attaching them to your fridge.
Organize necklaces on coat hooks, earrings in ice cube trays, and purses on hangers.
Put stock cooking ingredients (like sugar and flour) into tins or mason jars, to make them stackable and easier to store. Put spices into metal spice tins and store them on the side of your fridge.
Use a filing cabinet to store laundry supplies and a shoe organizer on the inside of cabinet doors to store kitchen cleaning supplies.
 For items of which you have multiples or large numbers, you will want to instigate a system of organization to help you find the individual items when needed. This will also help you use less space to store them to begin with, allowing for more storage space.


Get a filing cabinet or filing boxes for files and papers. This is especially important for crucial documents like tax papers, birth certificates, and other sensitive information which you may need to find in a hurry or do not want to get lost.
Have a set system for your clothes. You will have to devise a system which works best for you, but be sure you have a clear way of organizing both clean and dirty clothes. Dirty clothes can be separated by color into different baskets. Clean clothes should be hung neatly when needed and otherwise stored in drawers or baskets. Take a cue from frequent fliers and roll your clothes when storing them in drawers to minimize wrinkles and maximize storage space.
 Think about spaces which go unused and how they may be turned into good storage space. Finding ways to use the extra space in your home will maximize your organizational options.


A cubby space between a fridge and a wall could be home to a pull-out shelving unit for small items like cans and jars.
An awkward spot in a hallway could be home to a small bookshelf and used for various items.
The space under your bed can be used to store off-season bedding and large coats and sweaters (using boxes, bags, or roll-out storage).

