 All-in-ones (AIOs), pocket diapers or all-in-twos (AI2s), prefold diapers, and fitted diapers.


AIOs are used just like disposables. Place them on the baby, and when they are wet or dirty, take them off and put them in the diaper pail.
AI2s and Pockets are used the same way as AIOs at diaper changing time, but require "stuffing" or "snapping" after being washed.
Prefolds and fitters  must be used with a cover, so they involve a two-step process of putting on the diaper and then putting on the cover at each diaper change.
Flat diapers are not widely available in the U.S., as they require extensive folding before each diaper change.;
,


Pros: As easy to use as disposables. Daycares and babysitters love them.
Cons: Take a long time to dry. Are often the bulkiest option. Cannot be customized to be extra absorbent. Most expensive.



Pros: As easy to use as disposables when doing diaper changes. Daycares and babysitters love them. They dry more quickly. They can be customized to be extra absorbent.
Cons: They must be stuffed after each washing. Similar cost to AIOs.



Pros: They dry quickly. They can be customized to be extra absorbent. They are inexpensive..
Cons: Require a separate cover. Not all covers work with all fitted diapers.



Pros: They dry quickly. They can be customized to be extra absorbent. Least expensive option.
Cons: They require a separate cover. They also require folding during each diaper change

, How often do you wash laundry? Which of the pros and cons listed above is going to be a big issue for you? For your child care provider? For other members of your family?

, Overall, cloth diapers will save you loads of money, but you will need to pay more cost up front.
 Figure 10-12 diapers a day for a newborn, 8-10 diapers a day for an older infant, or 6-8 diapers a day for a toddler. Remember, cloth diapers are not as absorbent as disposables, so they must be changed a little more often.
 Sized diapers will give a trimmer fit, but the typical baby will need at least three sizes to go from newborn through potty training. One-size diapers will seem huge on a newborn, but one set will last through potty training.
 Aplix is another name for hook and loop closures, similar to Velcro. This is entirely a personal preference. Aplix wears out or frays faster but can be re sewn. Snaps last longer but can't be fixed at home if they break.
 Diaperpin.com has reviews of many products, and any parent can tell you, not all diapers work on all babies. A skinny baby may have trouble with a brand that works perfectly for a chubby baby.
 There are dozens of wonderful online retailers and many storefront shops that sell diapers. Prices are usually equivalent unless you find a truly unusual coupon or discount, but you can shop around to ensure you're getting a reasonable price.

