 Clearing the surface of debris will improve access to sunlight and air, both of which can help dry out the dirt naturally.


Depending on how you aerate the soil, there is also some risk that the debris will work its way into the soil as you dig into it. For that reason, you should clear the area before aerating it instead of waiting until afterward.
Remove anything presently sitting on the surface of the soil. It is especially important for you to remove absorbent plant matter, like dead leaves and old mulch, but any obstruction can keep the dirt soggy and should be cleared away.
You should also improve air circulation and access to sunlight by trimming down sources of shade, like heavy branches or dead flower stalks.
 This method will only work if the dirt isn't soggy. It can be wet, but if there are huge puddles of water on the surface, you will need to wait for those puddles to disappear or try a different method.


Sunlight and increased air circulation might help dry some soggy dirt if you don't get additional precipitation for several days.
The soil is ready to aerate once it becomes firm. It can be firm and wet, but it cannot be so soft that it loses its shape and turns into mud.
 For yards and similarly small patches of dirt, a step aerator will work best. Long-pronged gardening forks and rakes may also work.


When working with a larger area of wet dirt, you may need to invest in an aerating machine.
 Work across the entire patch of wet dirt with your aerator, removing plugs of dirt every 1 to 2 feet (30.5 to 61 cm).If using a step aerator, you'll need to position the aerator over the ground and press it into the dirt using your foot. Remove the aerator and plugs by simply tilting the handle bar back.
When using a rake or garden fork, stab the prongs into the ground and rock the tool back and forth to loosen the soil.
If using an aerator machine, follow the manufacturer's instructions while operating it.
 Rake away the plugs of dirt when finished and try to keep additional debris away from the area.


By removing plugs of dirt, you've given the soil more room to expand, which should improve its ability to drain, too.
The process should be complete once most of the soil plugs have been removed.

