 Make sure no new teams have been added to the participants this year. Confirm that your list is complete and you aren’t forgetting anyone. For the round one matchups, you’ll need to know the initial team seeding, which establishes the first pairings. This information is generally posted online on the NCAA website.


Each team will also belong to one of four divisions: East, Midwest, West, and South. Teams should only play other teams in their division until the final four.
Follow March Madness updates on major sports networks. Set a Google alert for things like “March Madness seeds.”
Social media networks, like Facebook and Twitter, can help you keep up on the latest March Madness developments., Open a blank Excel document. Assign four column headings for the five rounds that are played throughout the tournament: Round One, Round Two, the Sweet 16, and the Elite 8 (semi-finals), and the Final Four (finals). In the first column, input the names of the 64 teams participating in round one.Keep in mind the eight lowest seeded teams will play four separate games to determine the four that move on to round one.
If you're only filling in your bracket to follow along, matchup teams as they are seeded fill in the winners as they are decided.
If you're filling out a prediction bracket, make sure that you separate teams by division (East, Midwest, West, South). Each division will send only one team to the last round.
 There are many MS Excel features that you can use to manage your bracket. The Validation feature, for example, allows you to define possible input options for a cell. Use this to prevent accidental incorrect input by:


Selecting the cell to the immediate right of a two-team matchup.
Accessing the “Data” tab of the status bar/ribbon.
Choosing “Data Validation” from the “Data Tools” section.
Allowing the use of “List.”
Selecting the cells containing the names of the matched-up teams.
Completing the data validation by pressing the “Ok” button., If you intend to use this bracket to track your predictions, you may want to mark your incorrect guesses. Watch the games live and record the results. Color code and highlight cells so you can tell how your bracket is doing at a glance.


If you’re watching the results for fun or other reasons, you may only want to fill in wins and losses as they happen.
You might also want to highlight your favorite teams so you can clearly see clearly see how they are doing as well.

