 Bento boxes contain a variety of healthy foods like vegetables, sandwiches, rice, and fruit in a small box. The food is arranged into appealing shapes, such as animal faces, stars, or flowers.


For example, you can make rice balls by cooking short-grain rice. Roll it into a ball, and then shape it into a rabbit's face. Use sliced carrots and peas to make the face. On one side of the rice balls, put melon cut into flower shapes. On the other, you can put put carrot sticks.
Cut a sandwich into the shape of a cat's head, and use small pieces of cheese to make the face and ears. Stack crackers beside the sandwich, and make a small mouse shape out of cheese to put on top., Create special lunches for holidays and other occasions. This will help make the day extra exciting, and it will create variety in your child's lunch. It may encourage them to eat more of their lunch on that day.


For Halloween, peel oranges, and use a food coloring marker to draw jack-o-lantern faces on them. They will look like pumpkins.On St. Patrick's Day, put only green foods in their lunchbox. Make them a wrap in a spinach tortilla. Match it with green grapes and a green cookie.
For Valentine's Day, make a raspberry or strawberry jelly sandwich. Cut a heart out of the top slice of bread so that it looks like a red heart is appearing in the middle of the sandwich.
 If your child does not enjoy sandwiches or if they are not eating the bread, you might try making them a wrap instead. Place the ingredients in the center of the wrap, and roll it up. You can slice the wrap to make smaller pinwheel pieces that are easy for a child to grasp and eat.


If your child likes fruit, make a strawberry wrap. Spread a little bit of cream cheese on the wrap. Pile spinach and strawberries on top, and roll it up.Cut up some turkey, and put it in a wrap with lettuce, tomato, and provolone cheese slices.
 If your child is hesitant to eat fruit or vegetables, you can dress it up by adding chocolate, peanut butter, or other dressings. These will make the fruit taste more appealing, and it can encourage them to eat more of it.


Slice apples, and smear a little bit of peanut or almond butter on each slice.Slice celery in half, and fill the inside with cream cheese. Add either plain or yogurt-covered raisins on top to make ants on a log.Melt chocolate chips, and dip strawberries into them. Let the chocolate shell harden in the fridge before packing them in your child's lunch.

