 If you have a sudden water leak and need to shut off the water immediately, most homes will have a main shut off valve in the basement. Others without basements will usually have a main shutoff in the crawl-space or in a utility closet (usually near the furnace). Here is a quick list of where to look first and how to it shut down.


Basement. Look on the basement walls for the line coming in. At or near the floor there should be a shut off valve.
Crawl space. On the exterior of your home look for an access. Once found, remove the access door and observe inside with a flashlight. Most main shut off valves will be within reach, however; many aren't, so you may need to crawl inside to find it. This can be dangerous. So it's best to call a professional at this point. If you found it right inside the access, follow the instructions below for shutting off the water.
Utility closet: If you live in a flat and have a closet with the furnace and/or water heater in it, chances are the main water line is here too. Search this area and follow the instructions below for shutting off the water.;
,


With a regular round valve (like the valve outside for your hose), turn all the way to the right.
With a straight line valve (a straight metal valve), turn so the handle is no longer parallel with the water line.
 This is usually in your yard and will have a metal lid marked water (don't confuse this with the gas line main). Some are small around 6–7 inches (15.2–17.8 cm) in diameter and others are larger (around a foot). Most of these cannot be turned on/off by the general public. You must have a special tool to reach the shut off valve called a street key.


However; in an emergency, given there is no other alternative, you can check the access as some are easy to reach and can be turned off with a wrench. Just turn the valve so it's non parallel with the main line.
Also if you would like one, you can purchase a street key at your local hardware store and/or plumbing supply desk. This key will work on both your water and gas line mains.

