 You'll install the threshold first and the side columns next, so it's a good idea to measure everything out first before you start slapping it on the tub. This will ensure that your shower door will be even and level. Use your level to make sure the mark is true.


Mark where you'd like the threshold track of the shower door to go. Measure the width of the front lip of the tub to find the center point. You want to install the threshold of the shower in the center, so it will be even on the wall and secure. Mark the center point at each end of the tub lip and once in the center with a marker to give yourself a good indicator during installation.
Hold each side column on the tile wall, even with the marks you've made on the lip of the tub. Most of these columns will come pre-cut with holes where the screws will go, usually three of them. Use your marker to make a little dot where the screws will go later, when you're installing the columns.
 Load the tube of silicone plumber's caulk into the caulking gun, if necessary, and cut the tip to open the flow. Squeeze a thin line of caulk to the underside of the threshold, which should be the flat side.


Silicone-based plumber's caulk is water-proof and perfect for attaching the bottom rail to the tub. Water can't permeate the layer of caulk and escape beneath the rail, making your shower efficient and clean.
 Line the metal threshold up with the marks in the center point of the tub's lip and press it down to secure it, smoothing out the caulk underneath. Make sure the rail is secure and lined up perfectly with your marks in the center line. If it's off and it dries, the wall columns will be out of alignment and the shower door won't close properly, so this is critical.


It's a good idea to use a little bit of masking tape to keep the threshold secured to the tub while it dries. It shouldn't take long, five minutes at the most, but while you're working it's a good idea to make sure it can't be jostled and misaligned.
After the threshold dries, hold your side columns back up to the wall to make sure everything lines up evenly before you move on. You may have to remark the holes that you're going to drill if you made a mistake in securing the threshold. Check again with the level to make sure everything is true.
 Fit a small-gauge drill bit designed for cutting through ceramic tile into your power drill and drill into your pre-marked holes about two inches deep. Ceramic tile drill bits have a sharp point with a wide, flat-faced beveled edge that cuts through tile very efficiently.


Some people like to put a little piece of masking tape over the mark on the tile for the drill bit to grip onto while you're drilling. Because most bathroom tile is so smooth, it's easy to slip while you're trying to push the drill bit in, which can be dangerous. It also decreases the chance that the tile will crack or flake while you're drilling.
 Take the wall anchors that came with the shower door and hammer them into the holes firmly with the hammer. These create a solid base for the wall screws to grip into, securing the side columns to the wall. If you don't use these, there won't be anything for the screws to grip.
 Line the holes back up with the wall anchors and secure the column to the wall by screwing them in with the corresponding wall screws. They should seat perfectly into the wall anchors. Repeat this process with the other column to secure it.


Squeeze a thin layer of silicone into the gap where the column meets the tile, on both sides of each. To avoid seepage, it's usually a good idea to apply a thin layer of caulk around each column.
 For most kits, this is a simple press-on fixture that should fit snugly onto the top of the columns. As long as you've measured and screwed everything in correctly, it should snap right on, providing the top edge of the shower door assembly.
 Orient the doors so the handle is on the outside and won't interfere with the opening and closing. On some glass shower doors, you'll probably have to install the rollers into the recesses on the top and bottom edge, which should slip in easily, but will vary some, depending on the manufacturer. Consult the instruction manual for more specific instructions.


Maneuver the glass door so the rollers fit up inside the track, and gently lower it into the threshold. This may take a little practice, especially if you've got a limited amount of space. If you've measured and installed everything correctly, though, it should fit right in with some maneuvering. Make sure the door or the doors slide open easily and smoothly.

