 Finding your own measurements to compare to your jean measurements is basically a matter of putting the measuring tape in the places on your body that correspond to the different jean measurements. For example, to get your waist measurement, you'll want to wrap the tape around your torso about where your pants would normally sit. Find the spot where the tape touches itself — this is your waist measurement.


This measurement can be tricky if you're shopping for jeans with a non-standard waist measurement (like low-rise jeans, high-waisted jeans, etc.) You may need to move the tape measure an inch or two up or down to compensate. To find your natural waist, bend to one side and find the spot where your body creases. Measure from this spot around the torso, passing through the belly button.
To get the most accurate results, all measurements in this section should be taken in your underwear, a pair of short shorts, tights, or something similarly form-fitting.
 Find the fullest part of your thigh — on most people, this should be near your crotch. Take a tape measure and wrap it around this point of the thigh. This is your thigh measurement.


Try not to pull your measuring tape too tight or you can give yourself an inaccurate thigh measurement and wind up in an uncomfortable pair of jeans. The tape should be snug, but you should still be able to slip one finger underneath.
 Measuring your inseam by yourself can be a little tricky, so if you have a friend you trust well enough to help you may want to use him or her. Stand up straight with your legs shoulder-width apart. Stretch the tape measure from an inch or two below your crotch all the way down the inside of your leg to the middle of your ankle. Keep your leg straight and keep the tape tight against the inside of your leg. This is your inseam measurement.


For the best results, don't bend over to read the measurement, as this can subtly change the length of your leg. Instead, use a mirror or have a friend take the reading for you.
If you're struggling to hold the measuring tape in place, try using adhesive tape to secure one end to your ankle while you hold the other at your crotch.
 Stretch a tape measure from just behind your crotch line (the bottom of the crotch of your underwear) up and over the front of your pelvis to your waist. For women, this is around the belly button; for men, usually an inch or two below. It can be helpful to wear a belt for the front rise measurement to give yourself an indication of where your jean waist would lie.


For the rear rise measurement, you'll want to measure from the crotch line back and around to your rear belt line, passing over the seat of your underwear.
 As noted above, the rest of the measurements in this section will usually be enough to get you a good-fitting pair of jeans. However, for extra accuracy, you may want to take the measurements below as well — it's up to you and the person you're buying jeans from!



Knee: Wrap the tape measure around your knee at its widest point. Generally, this is near the top of the knee.

Seat: Wrap the tape measure all the way around your pelvis and bottom at their widest point. This is usually midway between your waist and the start of your thighs, but this can differ, especially on women.

Hem line: Wrap the tape around your ankle at its widest point.

