;
, If you don't have an eBay account you will have to click on "register" to fill out the registration form and then return to the eBay homepage to sign in.
, This will take you to the eBay Musical Instruments page.
 This will show you the subcategories of products sold on eBay that are related to guitars, including the following:


Parts and Accessories: picks, straps, tuners, strings and effects pedals are included in the subcategory.
Electric: this shows electric guitars of all shapes and brands that are available.
Guitar Amplifiers: you can buy amplifiers for bass as well as rhythm and lead guitars.
Bass: this subcategory can be chosen to see only the bass guitars.
Vintage: here you can see classic guitars that were made before 1980.
Beginner Packages: beginner guitar players can choose from bass, electric and acoustic guitar packages that have all the basic equipment needed to start learning to play the guitar.
 This will take you to a list of the guitars that are being sold on eBay within the category that you have selected.
 Ebay offers the following filter options for guitars:


Brand: select guitar brand names such as B.C. Rich, Epiphone, Fender, Gibson and Ibanez.
String Configuration: indicate how many strings you want on the guitar. A standard rhythm or lead guitar has 6 strings, but you can also have as few as 4 or as many as 12 strings.
Condition: pick the condition that the guitar should be in. Options include new, refurbished and used.
, Your maximum bid should exceed the current bid for the item.
 If you have won the bid for the guitar that you wanted to buy you will see it as a won item on your bidding list.
 Sellers can allow buyers to pay using various payment methods, which may include the following"


PayPal.
Credit card (Visa/MasterCards, Discover/American Express).
Wire transfer/direct debit.
Money order/cashiers check.
Personal check.
 You will receive a receipt informing you that your payment has been received successfully and the estimated time when you can expect to receive your guitar through shipment.

