 The candle can be any size you want, but keep in mind that you will be wrapping the cinnamon sticks around this candle. The thicker the candle is, the more cinnamon sticks you will have to use.


Choose a candle that is the same height as your cinnamon sticks.
You can also use a tea candle, and stick it in a glass candle votive instead.
For a twist, try a vanilla-scented candle. The cinnamon fragrance will blend well with it.
 If you are using a candle votive instead, then place the rubber band around the middle of the votive instead. The rubber band will hold the cinnamon sticks in place. Don't worry about how the rubber band looks for now; you will be covering it up later., Keep adding cinnamon sticks until the candle/votive is completely covered and there are no gaps left. How many cinnamon sticks you end up using will depend on how thick or thin the candle/votive was.The cinnamon sticks don't all have to be the same height. For a more interesting-looking candle, consider cutting some of the sticks shorter, so that you get a more natural, jagged look., It's okay if the cinnamon sticks are different heights or extend past the top of the candle, but they all need to be flat on the bottom. Gently tap your candle against a flat surface, such as a table, and push down on the cinnamon sticks until they are all even on the bottom. This will make your candle more stable, and prevent it from wobbling.All cinnamon sticks have a groove or seam. You can have the sticks all facing in the same direction, so that the groove is facing inward or outward. You can also make it random, with some of the sticks facing inward, and others facing outward., For a more rustic feel, you can use burlap ribbon instead. You can also wrap some baker's twine or jute string around it, then tie the ends into a bow; you'll have to wrap the twine/string a few times in order to cover the rubber band.You can use any type of ribbon you want, but something warm colored (burgundy, copper, or brown) will look best. You can also use fabric, gingham ribbon for that rustic, country feel. Grosgrain ribbon will also look great.
If you are using baker's twine, consider using the red-and-white or red-and-ivory kind. It will make your candle look more interesting.
 These types of candles already look pretty rustic, so anything that is related to fall, winter, or cozy, country cottages is a safe bet. Small pieces of branches, especially those with red berries attached, are a great choice. These branches and berries don't have to be real; craft stores sell realistic-looking plastic ones that last many years.


If this is for winter, consider something with holly leaves and red berries. You can also use a mini branch with fake "ice crystals" attached.
If this is for fall, consider something simple, such as a bare branch, or a branch with red berries.
If you used a fabric, gingham ribbon, get a plastic button in a matching color, and glue it over the top of the bow.
 Simply set the candle on a heat-safe surface, and light it. The heat from the fire will cause the cinnamon sticks to warm up, and release their fragrance. If you made a cinnamon-wrapped candle votive instead, you must use real candles; those battery-operated candles do not give off enough heat.

