 A winter fruit salad consists of fruits like kiwis, oranges, bananas, apples, and pears. Cut up the winter fruit into pieces, then add them to a large mixing bowl. Too add sweeter and more robust flavors to your fruit salad, consider mixing in honey or agave nectar.This is a healthy and fresh dessert that uses the winter fruit as the star ingredient.
 A winter fruit compote is similar to making a apple compote, except it has other winter fruits incorporated into it. To cook the compote combine two chopped apples with a half cup (75 g) cranberries, raisins, apricots, pineapple, a can of peach filling, 3/4 cups (177.4 mL) of orange juice, and a cinnamon stick into a slow cooker. Set the cooker to low and let it sit for 5 to 6 minutes. The result will be a smooth and tasty winter fruit compote., Bake your fruitcake as you would any other fruitcake but use winter fruits in it. Things like clementines, figs, and kumquats taste delicious in fruit cake.Other options include pears and dried or frozen cranberries., Lemon upside down cake utilizes lemons, a common winter fruit, as the star ingredient of the recipe. To utilize the lemons, create the cake as your normally would, but create very thin slices of lemon to put on the top of the cake before you bake it. The lemon will add a fresh winter fruit taste to your cake., You can easily use winter fruit in a tart to create a delicious and sweet winter fruit dessert. Make the tart the same way you usually would, using a pie crust or dough to act as the base of the tart in a pie dish. Combine 8 ounces (226.79 grams) of mascarpone, heavy cream, sugar, vanilla and fresh winter fruit as your filler or topping. This will create an easy to make and delicious fresh winter fruit tart., You can bake a winter fruit pie as you would normally bake an apple pie. Instead of just using apples, however, consider adding other winter fruits like pears, raisins, and cranberries.Experiment with different combinations of flavors until you bake a winter cake that you enjoy.