 So first, make sure you have the right pieces. If you don't, a substitute is pretty easy to find, such as a denim jacket if you don't have a leather one lying around. So what are some staples of Aria's style?


Black leather jacket. It's Aria's signature, plus it really provides that edge. Use a bomber, a motorcycle jacket, or something else entirely.
Feather Earrings: Aria's got a tad of boho in her style. If you don't know where to find a "peasant blouse" or a "maxi skirt," these earrings instantly add the hippie-vibe. Plus they're stylish and super-easy to find (If you don't have pierced ears, try clip-on feathers or a feather headband).
Daytime Dresses: Aria loves her dresses! They add the girly part to her style. Aria is often seen in floral, vintage-style dresses. You can get them super-cheap at thrift stores (Aria loves them, and you will too!). But any simple dress will work. Plus, a cute dress is what every girl has in her closet!
BOOTS: In case you haven't noticed, Aria is obsessed with boots, no matter what season. Whether they be knee-high slouch boots, high-heeled ankle booties, or edgy combat boots, she is always seen with some sort of that footwear. No dainty flats for this girl! (But check out Spencer). If you don't own any, it's a good idea to save up. You don't need the most expensive sheepskin UGG boots, any are great!
Leg wear: Have you noticed Aria's leg wear? It's crazy and awesome and creative. Get tights and Leggings in bold patterns and colors. Leg Warmers work as well, and show that you're bold.
Jewelry: The more the better! Aria loves to layer, even with her jewelry. Wear a bunch of necklaces all at different lengths. Or invest in a funky ring or a set of bangles. Be creative! Vintage stores have all sorts of cool jewelry, so you can be original. Ethnic bling is also her style.
Bags and Hats: A big leather hobo bag is just Aria's style! But don't worry, you don't need it.;
, Add your own personal spin on things! Aria didn't need to raid someone's closet, she just was herself. Toss in a studded bracelet, a fedora, or a kooky belt. It'll look cool and creative. It might even make YOU a style muse.
 Aria is the most mature of the pretty little liars, so she's not really into bright colors (But check out Hanna or Emily). No, this girl tends to embrace the dark side. This doesn't mean you CAN'T wear bright colors (It's all about being yourself) but keep an eye out for clothes in black, brown, plum, and gray.
 But if you're stuck in a mall, there's a few places that might have some Aria-style clothes. Such places are Forever 21, Urban Outfitters, Free People, Anthropologie, and H&M. But also check out smaller boutiques you haven't been in. You might find cute stuff! If you can, try to stay away from the big-name stores. Shop at independent stores, boutiques, and Aria's favorite...THRIFT AND VINTAGE STORES! Also, if you're traveling, pick up a few items there. Foreign clothes are really cute!

, This is Aria's favorite, and it gives your outfits a boho vibe. Plus, layering can really alter an outfit. Let's say you have a white tank top and plain skinny jeans. Well, a grey cardigan, chunky layered necklaces, a leather bomber, a braided belt, and a knit scarf can really change it, can't it? Plus it's Aria's key fashion secret, and it always looks great.
 This looks brilliant, and you'll see Aria using it a ton. The idea is simple: mix feminine items like floral rompers or girly skirts with edgy items like a leather jacket or some punk jewelry.
 Aria was always the "weird" one in the group, but it also made her special. She was also brave. Be ready to mix bold colors, textures, and patterns. It will look fantastic.

