 On most staplers, you lift the top. There may be some latches on the side that need to slide to unlock it. In some cases, the stapler doesn't open upward; instead, a large push button on the top rear ejects the tray out the front. Examine the stapler you're refilling to work out which method will open the stapler tray.
Your product manual will also be able to help you determine which method of staple loading your particular standard staple will use.;
, This is done by placing a stick or row of joined staples in the tray. Align the stick so the edges go inside the tray's slots on each side. If your stapler opens on the top, you can pop it open and drop in a strop of staples. It may also load from the front, in which case you'll have to pop out a magazine from the front of the stapler; or it may load from the back and you can slide out a tray into which you'll drop the staples.Staples are held together gently in a stick or row by force or glue. This is to make their addition much easier.
You may need tweezers to remove fresh staples from the stapler package if you find it hard to get your fingers in.
If you have partial rows, you may add these as long as they slide into place easily.
While it is possible to add single staples, this is not recommended.
 This may require pushing the top of the stapler down, or sliding the tray back in. Usually, you will notice a small click as the magazine slides into the correct position.


If you’re not sure whether or not your stapler is completely closed, check and see if a staple is released when you press the magazine to the base.
If the stapler wasn’t completely closed before, this might close it.
 Place a small stack (2-3 pages) of scrap papers between the magazine and the staple base. If it works, you've added the staples correctly.


If your staples emerge bent, or they remain stuck inside your stapler, you’ll need to reopen the stapler.
Usually, the alignment of the staples will be at fault. Remove the staples, and reinsert, making adjustments so that the staples are properly aligned with the magazine edges.
Avoid stapling too many papers at once with a mini-stapler, as this can cause jamming or even break the stapler. Stick to the amount recommended by the manufacturer.

