 Individuals with ADD like to see things visually. Write down tasks that need to be completed. This can include regular housework as well as special projects for work or school.


Break large projects into smaller ones. If children have a research paper due at school, for example, help them make a list of steps that can be taken to complete the project.
Set a timer for certain tasks so that the individual with ADD knows when it is time to take a break or move on to the next task. The timer helps keep them from getting sidetrack or losing sight of time.;
, This can include towel sets, dishes, toy bins, files, and bedroom sets. Color coding helps those with ADD keep things organized by adding a visual element to each item. The individual with ADD can then transfer this organizational system to their study or work environment.
 Have a morning and bedtime routine. Eat meals at the same time each night. Hang a family calendar so everyone knows when special events are coming up. Plan ahead as much as you can, but plan to be a little,if needed, for detours along the way if the schedule needs to be revised to accommodate for minor changes.
 It is important to limit distractions while individuals with ADD study or work. Creating separate study areas and entertainment or play areas will remove potential distractions. Keep the work room simple. Give them the tools they need to work and leave everything else out.
 Your local community may offer resources to help your family put organizational systems in place. Ask people who are naturally well-organized to help you and your family find a good organizational system to use. You can also ask others for encouragement.
 Keep your priorities in check. Setting up a home organizational system is important for individuals with ADD, but having a positive home environment is probably the best thing you can provide for them.


Have family nights. Laughing and talking together is a great way to invest in those relationships. It also provides an opportunity for you to model positive social skills that the individual with ADD needs to see.
Encourage each family member to take some time for themselves. Everyone needs time to refresh. If that means that some chores occasionally go undone, it is okay.

