 Use a piece of rebar (a steel bar commonly used as a tension device to reinforce concrete) to break the bamboo's internal nodes. This is done by shoving the rebar in and out of the bamboo pole on one end, then the other. You should end up with a hollow tube.
 Vapor builds up during the application of heat to the bamboo pole. In order to let the vapor escape, it is recommended that you drill a few holes at the nodes.
 Take your torch and begin applying heat to the pole with the flame, continually moving from the widest part of the bamboo, to the thinnest. The heat should be above boiling temperature. This achieves two things:


The heat coloring of the bamboo. Application of the heat acts as a stain on the bamboo and gives it a warm, coffee color.
The lignin and pectin in the bamboo becomes soft and pliable allowing you to more easily mold the bamboo.
 Using a wet rag, sweep down the bamboo pole, wiping moisture over surface. Test the flexibility of the bamboo by bending the pole slightly. It should give fairly easily.
 Hit the bamboo with the side of your hand or the side of the small shovel to move the sand all the way to the bottom of the pole. The sand stabilizes the bamboo so the walls do not buckle when you bend it.
 Dig a hole in firm earth that is 6"-8" deep and slightly larger than the circumference of the pole. Holding it firmly for leverage, you are now ready to shape the pole.


Begin by torching the pole again. Concentrate on the area you wish to bend, and keep the flame moving.
Periodically wipe the pole with a wet rag. The water prevents the bamboo from drying out and becoming brittle. Dried bamboo can break or split easily.
As you work the pole with the torch, begin to bend the bamboo pole into your desired shape.
Repeat torching, bending, and dampening until you finesse the bamboo into the desired shape. This may take time. It is at this point that bamboo often splits, due to all of the stress it is under. The more time you take shaping the bamboo gradually, the less chance you have of splitting your pole., These larger poles are used primarily for furniture, but can also be made into a variety of crafts.

