 Before you aim to run longer, it's a good idea to make sure you've mastered the basics. Using awkward form might not make a difference when you're only running a couple of miles, but when you add more time and mileage your running form makes a bigger difference.


Pump your arms and take comfortable strides.
Relax your upper body instead of holding it stiff.
Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth.
Make sure you're running in a comfortable pair of shoes that fit your feet well.;
, Before trying to add time, see exactly what you have to work with. Wear a watch on your next run and time yourself. You'll be adding time in small increments, so it's a good idea to know what your starting point will be.


Run as long as you can before needing to stop. Try to keep going even after you feel tired and your legs start aching. You likely have a little more endurance than you realize, since a big part of being able to run longer is having the ability to deal with some discomfort.
Consider setting a goal based on your starting time. If you can run 15 minutes, your goal might be to make it to 30. If you can run 30, maybe you want to be able to run for an hour.
 It might not sound like much, but adding 5 - 10 minutes per week, depending on your initial endurance level, will build up very quickly. This is a good, steady amount of time to add to help you run longer without jumping ahead too fast and over-straining your muscles. Make a commitment to running the extra time, even if it's a struggle - that's how you build endurance.


If your first timed run lasted under 30 minutes, start by adding 5 minutes next time. Keep adding 5 minutes week after week until you can run for 30.
If your first timed run was over 30 minutes, add 10 minutes per week. Keep adding 10 minutes per week (and no more) until you reach your goal.
 You can work on your speed later - for now, just focus on the goal of running longer. Your pace should be easy enough that you can have a conversation while you run. Run at a pace you feel like you could keep up indefinitely. Pushing yourself to run both faster and longer could lead to burnout, so if you're concerned about speed, make it a goal to run faster after you've reached your goal to run for a certain amount of time., What you eat and drink before working out matters. If you feel heavy or bloated, you won't be able to run as long. It's very important to be completely hydrated and sated with nutrients so you'll be able to endure the entire run.While you need to have fuel in your body, it's not necessary to "carbo-load" before a run. This can actually really slow you down. Unless you're running a marathon, your body really doesn't need a rush of carbohydrates to complete the run.
Try eating a handful of almonds, a banana, or half a bagel with peanut butter about an hour before you run. This should be sufficient to get you through the run without weighing you down.
Don't hydrate with sports drinks - just drink water instead. Again, your body doesn't need the extra sugar to perform well. In the end, the extra calories will just make it more difficult to stay in good shape.
 Building endurance happens when you make a plan and keep at it, week after week. If you skip a few weeks of running, your fitness level will drop a bit and you'll have to build it back up again. If you end up needing to take an extended break because life gets in the way of training, that's OK - just get back out there and start adding time again. Fitness is a work in progress, and you're going to have super-fit times and not-so-fit times - that's just part of the game.
 Attempting to skip ahead in your plan and add more than 10 minutes per week will backfire on you. Your body needs time to slowly build muscle and fitness, and if you try to push too hard you could injure yourself or simply get burned out. You'll be more successful if you build endurance slowly but surely.Make sure to incorporate rest days into your routine. Don't run every single day - you should rest at least 1 or 2 days a week to give your muscles a chance to heal and rest.
On the days when you don't run, you can cross train. Try biking, swimming, or hiking as an alternative.

