 Pink and white are common colors for tulle skirts, so you can always go for one of these colors if you want to create a soft, classic tulle skirt look. However, choosing a bold color can set your tulle skirt look apart from the rest. It can add interest and change your whole look.For example, you can try wearing a black, purple, red, or dark blue tulle skirt for something more dramatic. Or, go for a fun take on the tulle skirt look with a neon colored tulle skirt, such as lime green, hot pink, or tangerine.;
, You can find tulle skirts in a variety of different lengths, and the length can change your whole look. For a casual look, go for a shorter length like just above the knee or mid-calf length. For a more formal look, go for a floor length maxi skirt.Keep in mind that no matter what length you choose, you can dress it up or down depending on your needs.
 Tulle skirts vary in fullness as well. You can find an extra full tulle skirt, or find one that is more subdued. Try out a few different levels of fullness to see which one looks best on you.Tulle skirts are flattering on just about anyone because they flare out at the hip. Therefore, they make the waist seem smaller and produce an attractive A-line effect. However, a skirt with less fullness may not give the same effect as one that is full.
 Some tulle skirts are layered and simple, while other tulle skirts may have other details, such as tiers, pleating, a ruffled hem, or a cloth underlay.Try out different styles to see what you like and what works best for your body type.


Pay attention to the waistband as well. Some tulle skirts have wide waistbands, while others have very slim or even nonexistent waistbands. A thicker waistband may define your waist more, while a slim waistband provides more subtle definition.
 Tulle skirts are the height of feminine fashion, so why not go all the way with it?By choosing a top that is fitted, you will be balancing out the look and enhancing your feminine curves.Try pairing your tulle skirt with a soft, form-fitting scoop neck sweater or a delicate fitted blouse.
Look for tops with feminine cuts as well. For example, you could choose a top that reveals a bit of your chest, shoulders, or back.
 Lace is another great way to intensify the femininity of your tulle skirt. Try wearing a tulle skirt with a form fitting lace top or a top that has lace details.For example, you can look for a tank top with lace around the neckline, a long sleeved top made entirely of lace material, or a blouse that has a wide strip of lace down the front.
 A masculine touch can make for an interesting pairing, and emphasize the contrast between your skirt and top. Try wearing your tulle skirt with a plaid flannel shirt or a plain white button down shirt to get this contrasting effect.Other ways to add a masculine touch to your tulle skirt look is to wear a denim shirt or a band t-shirt.Both of these tops will contrast with the feminine, fluffy skirt in a fun way.
 Pairing your tulle shirt with a simple top can tone down a tulle skirt for casual daytime activities, and make it easier to transition your look from day to night.Try wearing your tulle skirt with a plain white t-shirt, band t-shirt, or a solid tank top for a toned down daytime look.


Carry a cardigan, shrug, or shawl that you can slip on later in the day to transition your tulle skirt look from day to night.
Make your look more glamorous with some decadent jewelry, like a pearl necklace, so diamond (faux or real) studs, or some gold bangles.
 Tulle skirts are traditional ballerina attire, and you can play on this by pairing your tulle skirt with a bodysuit.Try wearing your tulle skirt with either a short or long sleeved white, pale pink, or black bodysuit.
 Tulle skirts are so versatile that they can be worn year round. You just need to pair them with the right kind of top to make it work. Try pairing your tulle skirt with a sweater in cold weather for a glamorous winter outfit.


Different length coats and jackets pair well with tulle skirts as well. You can wear your tulle skirt with a short length jacket or a long coat.
 Tulle skirts are feminine on their own, but you can intensify the femininity with your accessories. This can take your look from feminine to ultra-feminine in a heartbeat.For example, you could try wearing a pearl necklace or a pair of pearl earrings. Other great feminine jewelry options include statement necklaces, bow shaped earrings, and anything pink.
If you are trying to downplay the look, then you may want to opt for something very simple or skip the jewelry altogether.
 The shoes you wear can also change the tone of your outfit. You can dress up a tulle skirt with some high heels, or dress it down with a pair of flats.To build more contrast into your look, try wearing a pair of sneakers or combat boots with your tulle skirt.
If you want to bring out your inner ballerina even more, then wear a pair of ballet flats. However, it is best to avoid anything that laces up your ankles because it may make you look like you are wearing a ballerina costume., Wearing tights with a tulle skirt is a good option in cold weather, but you can also go bare-legged if the weather is warm enough. If you decide to wear tights with your tulle skirt, then choose a color that will complement your skirt.


Black tights are usually a good option, but you can try other colors as well. For example, you could pair pale pink tights with a pale pink tulle skirt, or purple tights with a purple skirt.
 Adding a belt to your tulle skirt look can be a great way to accentuate your waistline.Try wearing a wide belt around your natural waist for a slimming effect.


You can try a slim belt as well. Try getting an extra-long one that you can double up around your natural waist.

