 Even if you cannot find anything, think about what you are interested in or your past time then find something anyway. It can be any hobby such as painting, drawing or woodworking. Or join a club: you will be hanging out with people who have some or similar interests too. It will get your mind off your problems.;
, Consider volunteering. If you are not quite ready to go back to work just yet, volunteering in potential workplaces can be a good way to transition back into the workforce at a pace that suits you. It also gives you the chance to try things to see if you like them or not. Or try participating in charities. Doing something positive or fun with your free time can be very fulfilling.
 Some do work, there are multiple choices for treatment.
 Avoid contacting, harassing, bothering your adult children. Avoid intention of seeing them. Do not make your life harder by relying on them and thinking about them.
 Give yourself a good speaking if you become angry over the thing that the other person has done. It is not serious if you really think about it. Try to calm down, count to 20, go for a walk, say the serenity prayer or call a friend.
 If you cannot manage yourself, see a professional/doctor to get help.
 This does not mean you cannot know anything about a person who is lost to you. Although your friends may share news with you and it is understandable that you would be interested in how an estranged loved one is doing, however realize that what they are doing is their own life, especially it is their own decision. For example if they choose to be a prostitute that’s their choice, if they choose to waste time to write a novel, it is their choice. It does not matter if it is fortunate or unfortunate as it seems, that’s their decision. As adults we are born free and all free to lead our individual lives and deal with our problems in our own way.
 Spend time with a friend who cares about you, who is honest and also interested in you. If you do not have anyone like that in your life, get involved in a good project.
 Do the best that you can, be kind to people, gentle with yourself, and get involved with other people in ways that improve the world. Eventually whatever stage of estrangement you are in, the situation will become more bearable. You will find other people to appreciate and who appreciate you. You will gain a different perspective. You must accept the fact that your grown children disowning you is real: they are free and independent, and they will not see you again. The sooner you accept it, the sooner you will be able to get back to a happy side. It all takes time.
 Write down all the things you'd promised yourself you get around to doing one day. Now is the time to start doing them. Pin this list somewhere obvious and start working through it. Build new friendships or revive lapsed ones. Friends are an important part of your transition from parent full-time to person-at-home-without-kids. Meet new people. There will be other empty-nesters like you looking for friendship too. And friends can prove a useful source of information about hobbies, activities, and job openings too. Go back to college or university, if needed, this is a completely new path you're setting out on, or whether it's to upgrade your existing qualifications or getting even better jobs. Either way is good. Restart a career: either pick up where you left off or start a new one. Realize that even though you're "rusty", you have the advantage of experience, so after some initial relearning, you'll be off to a much faster start than when you were fresh out of school or college.
 Focusing on some of the positive changes resulting from your children moving out can ease the sense of loss considerably when you weigh up what you've gained. While this does not belittle the importance of your sadness and the big transition you and your children are going through, it does help you to try to see the brighter side of your future. Some of the positive points include:


You may notice that the refrigerator does not need refilling quite as often. This means less trips to the grocery store and less cooking required!
Romance with your spouse may increase. The two of you have time and space now to return to being just a couple; make the most of it. If you used to do all of your children's laundry, there will be a lot less washing and ironing for you to do now. You've got your bathroom back.
Smaller water, phone and electricity bills will help you save money. And that saved money can be put toward a vacation with your spouse or friends!
Feel extremely proud of yourself for having raised children who are capable of going out into the world and surviving and thriving on their own. Give yourself a pat on the back.

