 The longer a stain is allowed to sit on your nice tablecloth or summer dress, the harder it will be to get out. Whether a stain is from food or ink or anything else, drawing it out from linens will work best when it hasn't yet dried.


Some older stains require dry cleaning to be removed.
Dry cleaning can ruin linens so it’s imperative that you try and treat stains quickly so that you don’t have to resort to harsher methods to remove the stain.;
, Use a flat butter knife or spoon to gently lift off any residue. For example, jelly can be scooped up with a spoon so that there’s less of a mess to clean up. You want to remove as much of the substance as possible before beginning to treat the stain.Do not squeeze or press the linen or stain. Doing so may grind the stain substance into the fibers of the linen and make it harder to get out.
You can gently shake off residual liquids like wine or juice instead of wringing them out.
 Gently dab up and down with a paper towel, for example, to lift the stain from your linens to the towel. Work from the outside of the stain’s perimeter to the inside. This will prevent the pressure of blotting from spreading the stain., For best results, use a specific product for removing stains rather than regular soap. A chemical reaction is an efficient way of removing stains from your linens. Lay out your linen and place a few paper towels or rag clothes underneath to catch excess liquid.


Sprinkle baking soda on the stain and add a few drops at a time of vinegar. Blot the stain with a paper towel to soak up the moisture.
Lemon juice will help whiten any dingy materials. Squeeze some juice onto a stain or discolored linen item and let it sit until you see it begin to lighten, and then rinse it out.
You can also buy a stain treatment to apply to the stain like Tide or Oxyclean.
Don't even rub a stain. Rubbing and applying too much pressure will help a stain to set into the linen rather than get it out.
 Let the faucet run long enough to fill a sink, bathtub, or washing machine with enough water to cover the linens you’re washing. Hot water should only be used with an additive to help lift the stain. Heat makes stains settle into the fabric so make sure you’re adding another ingredient to the water., Because hot water alone is detrimental to proper stain removal, you need to pair it with another cleanser. You can either purchase a specific stain removal product or make your own with household items.


An example stain removing recipe is as follows: 1 scoop of Oxyclean, 1 cup of Biz, ¾ cup of ammonia, and a gallon of hot water.White vinegar will help to cut grease as well. Use an ⅛ to a ½ cup based on how big your load of laundry is.A mild dish detergent will work well too. Use a quarter to a full cup of detergent depending on how much you’re washing. , Make sure the fabric is completely saturated and under water. Let the material soak for at least an hour or overnight. Every once in a while, stir the water with a wooden spoon to agitate the water and make sure the solution is dispersed well., Put them on a gentle cycle in the washing machine and not in hot water so that the delicate fibers aren’t ruined. You can add more white vinegar, Oxyclean, or mild dish detergent to the load to help fight stubborn stains.
 Your dryer is another heat source that could cause a stain to set into the linen. Instead, air or line dry the fabrics so that you don’t undo your progress after soaking them. Hanging linens to dry also helps minimize wrinkles.

