 Scary movies are by nature designed to make people fearful. If you are bothered by frightening stimuli in a scary movie, this may encourage a fight or flight response. This can cause your body to release epinephrine.If you want to get an adrenaline rush, watch a scary movie online or rent a DVD.


Choose a theme that genuinely bothers you. If zombies have never really scared you, marathoning The Walking Dead is unlikely to encourage an adrenaline rush. However, if you have a longstanding fear of the paranormal you may be frightened by a movie like The Ring.

Pay attention to outside opinions. Certain movies are generally considered scary by critics and audiences. Psycho, Night of the Living Dead, Alien, and The Exorcist are considered amongst the scariest films of all time.If you want an adrenaline rush, a movie with a lot of jump scares and surprise moments might be better than something's that frightening on a psychological level. Remember, you're trying to stimulate a fight or flight response so something that's direct and action-based will work best. Go for a scary movie with a lot of action. For example, a film from the Halloween franchise might be a better option than Rosemary Baby.;
, If you're really into a computer or video game, you may get an adrenaline rush. Violent games tend to result in the release of adrenaline. Consider renting or purchasing an action-packed game with a high level of gore and violence. Military games and first person shooter games often encourage the release of adrenaline in the body., Risk-taking on occasion can release adrenaline in the body.In addition to causing an adrenaline rush, periodically taking small risks is healthy as it encourages you to step outside your comfort zone.


The idea here is not to do something that could potentially hurt you. Closing your eyes while driving will certainly give you an adrenaline rush, but it's absolutely not worth the risk. Instead, stick to behaviors that would normally make you uncomfortable.
Ask someone out on a date. Sing karaoke at a bar. Dance with a stranger. Buy a lottery ticket. Audition for a play. Anything that feels risky to you can cause an adrenaline rush.
If you're interested in a bigger rush, there a certain behaviors that provide a kind of controlled risk. Things like bungee jumping and ski diving, for example, feel risky as you're falling from large heights. However, as long as you're working with an experienced sky diver or bungee jumper you should be safe. If you choose to engage in such activities, work with a trained professional and follow all safety instructions exactly.
 Fear can also stimulate the release of adrenaline.Facing your fears periodically, in safe and controlled situations, can provide you with a nice adrenaline rush.


Think of something that scares you. If you're afraid of heights, for example, makes plans to go to a rooftop bar with friends. If you have a longstanding fear of dogs, go to a local dog park. Expose yourself to small things that scare you. This can result in the fight or flight response that can trigger an adrenaline rush.
 Haunted houses can often cause adrenaline rushes for those in attendance. This can trigger the fight or flight response that releases adrenaline. The nice thing about a haunted house is that it's a controlled setting. You can expose yourself to scary stimuli while knowing logically you are still safe, allowing you to experience an adrenaline rush without genuine anxiety or fear.Seasonally, it's easiest to find a haunted house around Halloween. However, keep your eyes open throughout the year. Some organizations may do haunted houses as part of special benefits or fundraisers during odd seasons.
If you live near an amusement park, there may be a haunted house attraction that's opened year-round.

