 Pop the popcorn kernels using a pot on a stovetop, or in a microwave. For more tips on popping popcorn, read wikiHow's instructions for making popcorn.


If you're using a microwave, consider reading about how to microwave popcorn.;
, Line a baking tray with parchment paper or a silicone baking sheet.


If the baking dish is non-stick, you could rely on that, but note that the Kool-Aid will probably make the surface sticky and harder to stir/remove the popcorn pieces, as well as clean the dish.
 Using a wooden spoon, spread the popcorn on the baking dish. Try to avoid heaping the popcorn, instead aiming for a neat and flat single layer. If you find the dish isn't large enough, use two dishes.
, In a small pot, place the sugar, syrup and butter into a saucepan. Heat to boiling and boil for three minutes until the liquid bubbles. Remove the pot from the stovetop and set aside for about 10 minutes. This forms the sugar syrup.


Keep an eye on this while the syrup boils and stir if needed. Do not let it boil for too long, as it can easily burn.
 Add the two packages of Kool-Aid in a medium mixing bowl. Pour the baking soda and mix thoroughly using a spoon.
 Slowly pour the sugar syrup into the Kool-Aid mixture. Stir with a wooden spoon to combine completely.
 Using a fork, drizzle the Kool-Aid colored sugar syrup evenly over the spread-out popcorn. Mix the popcorn around with the wooden spoon to coat the popcorn pieces completely with the syrup, turning each piece a new color.
 Place the baking dish filled with colored popcorn into the preheated oven. Bake for 10 minutes, then remove and stir.


Hold the dish with oven mitts each time, and have a heatproof surface to set the dish down onto.
 Repeat this remove-and-stir process two more times for another 10 minutes of baking, stirring, then baking. In all, this will take about 40 minutes of baking time.
 Remove the colored popcorn from the oven. Allow to cool. Sit the baking dish over a wire cooling rack to provide sufficient aeration for cooling.
 Break up for serving. When it is cool enough to handle, pull apart any pieces stuck together. It is now ready for serving. Tip into a suitable large bowl and serve. Enjoy!

