 These instructions were made for a standard piece of A4 printer paper, 8.5 x 11 inches (216 x 280 mm) in size. You may use larger paper instead (such as A3) for a louder sound. , If your paper is the same color on both sides, you can make a small mark on one side to keep track. This shouldn't be necessary for this project, but it's a useful technique to know about when making origami out of regular paper. , Once you're done, unfold it so that the paper is laying flat again.


At this stage, the orientation of your paper doesn't matter, but you want to make sure that you are making a valley fold. When you unfold the paper the crease should look like the bottom of a valley

, Once again, after you have made a crease, unfold it.


You should now have two creases in your paper when it lays flat, creating a cross in the center.
 Rotate your paper if necessary so the short side faces you. Now fold the top corners into the vertical centerline. Your folds won't reach the horizontal crease. Think of it like you’re folding a paper airplane.
 Just as before, fold the corners on the other end of your paper into the centerline. You should now have two folded over triangles with a space of flat paper in the middle.
 Your origami banger should now be lying flat on the table with two folded triangles on either side of your paper and a lane of flat paper running vertically down the middle.
 Now you want to fold your paper up along the horizontal centerline.


If done correctly, you should now have a trapezoid shape with a long, flat bottom, and a smaller flat top to it.
 Position the trapezoid so the short side is facing you. Fold the top left corner inward to meet the vertical center crease. Fold the top right corner inward to meet the crease as well.These corners should stick out past the short side of the trapezoid, meeting to form a diamond.
 Pick up the paper and turn it over on the table, from left to right. There should be two flaps of paper on top that do not quite meet the bottom corner of the diamond.
 Fold the left corner over to the right, creasing along the same centerfold. You now have an origami banger, which looks like a triangle.
 Hold the bottom corner between your thumb and finger, with the longest side of the triangle facing you. Make sure you are only holding the two outer layers of paper, not the flap inside.
 Hold the banger above your head. Swing your arm down as fast as you can, snapping forward with your wrist at the same time. The inner flap of the banger should pop out into a "balloon" in front of the banger, making a noise. It may take a few tries to get this to work. If you're having trouble getting this to work, try tugging the innermost flap out a tiny bit.
To re-use the banger, just gently push the paper back in. You might need to experiment with the positioning of the flap.

