 Pick an eye primer or eyeshadow base to help your eyeshadow better stick to your skin. Special eye primers work best, but a general makeup primer will also be fine.Use your fingertips or a fine brush to add a thin, even layer on all skin you plan on adding eyeshadow to. This will generally be your entire eyelid and the area slightly below your eyebrows.
 In general, you will want at least two shades: a lighter base shade and a darker lid shade. These can be similar or completely different colors. As with other types of powder makeup, eyeshadow can come in compacts as pressed powder or in small jars as a loose powder. Loose eyeshadows tend to be more vibrant but difficult to work with. These often contain pigment without binders and are therefore also called simply "pigments."

, Picking a fine pencil brush will be easier to work with. However, wider brushes can be used when shading a large area, such as your entire lid. Shadow brushes with a rounded tip are generally best when working with loose pigment.You may also choose to use a sponge applicator instead, but blending with these takes a lot more time., Be careful not to overload your brush. Too much powder can cause eyeshadow fallout on your cheeks. Remember that you can always easily add more eyeshadow, but removing it without ruining the rest of your makeup is much more difficult.


If you're working with pressed powder, simply run your brush back and forth over your eyeshadow once or twice.
If your lighter shade is a loose pigment, tap a small amount into the lid of its jar. Dip your brush into the smaller amount of pigment. Tap your brush on the side of the container to remove excess powder., Generally, you will want to use this lighter shade as a base. To do so, start with the bottom of your lid and sweep up. Stop somewhere below your eyebrow., Load your brush with darker eyeshadow the same way as you did with the lighter color. In general, you will apply the darker shade across your entire eyelid, stopping at the crease. Do this with a single sweep of your brush, starting from the outer corner of your eye towards the inner corner., Using your brush, sweep the border between the two colors back and forth a few times. Try to make the blended area as close to your eyelid's crease as possible. Avoid pressing down too hard by using light strokes. Repeat until the two colors have blended together seamlessly at their border.