 Just as you'd never want to write a novel without reading one, you need to immerse yourself in the sounds of hip-hop if you want to learn to MC properly. As the MC, you'll be the master of ceremonies, the mic-controller, so you'll need to be the most skilled rapper on the stage. Listen to Dirty South rap, listen to New York boom-bap, listen to old-school rap, listen to West Coast gangsta rap, listen to rap you don't even like, and listen to the classics. Get studying, because it's the best homework you'll ever get.


If you have an interest in story-telling, check out Raekwon, DMX, Nas, and Slick Rick for their ability to spin a compelling yarn out of rhymes.
If you like crazy imagery and stream-of-consciousness word play, listen to Ghostface Killah, Aesop Rock, and Lil Wayne for their ability to catch you off guard with strange rhymes and surprises.
If you like hip-hop with great hooks and catchy choruses and unforgettable flow, listen to Rakim, Freddie Gibbs, and Eminem.;
, No one wants to hear recycled rhymes or weak stuff bitten from other rappers, no matter how cool you look or how much swag you've got. The place to start if you want to be a proper MC is working on writing the most creative, unexpected, and catchy rhymes that you possibly can.


Get a rhyming dictionary and revise the rhymes you do write to make them more surprising and exciting. Avoid using clichéd or obvious rhymes to pad out your verses.
Try to write ten new rhymes a day, even if you're not actively working on writing a song. The lines might develop into their own song, or you'll have something to start with when you get a beat you really like and want to jump on.
 Even if you're writing straight-up publishable poetry, if you can't rhyme it to a beat, it won't play. Rappers who can stick to the flow are more likely to succeed than great writers of rhymes.


Get on YouTube and check out other rappers freestyles over beats that you like. On any given hit rap song, there'll be dozens of other rappers doing a freestyle over the beat. It's a good way to study up on the differences in style.
 Spend lots of time with the beats you Try to rap to, letting them seep into your mind before you Try to force awkward rhymes into them. Play with different rhyme schemes and flows in each beat. There's any number of different ways to jump on a beat and you might not jive with every beat you listen to.


Seek out producers who make beats you like and use their rhythms whenever you can. Who knows, it might blossom into a good working relationship.
 The best MCs are adept freestylers, who have the ability to make up unforgettable rhymes straight off the dome. But freestyling isn't a skill that comes from nowhere, you're not born with it. You can learn to develop a cache of rhyme words from which you can deviate, learning to fit in spur-of-the-moment variations on the set patterns that you've developed.


Have a store of one-liners that you work toward. If you've got a good end-line, you can come up with good lines to lead up to it, rather than using your good line as a jumping off point.
Just spit. Stop thinking about what you're doing and start rhyming when you're by yourself. If there's no one around to hear, don't worry about how stupid you sound, or that it doesn't make sense. If you freestyle for five straight minutes without losing the beat, chances are you'll stumble onto at least a couple of great lines you can use later.
 If you're a teenager from the suburbs, it's probably not the best idea to rap about the global cocaine trafficking empire you run. That's not to say you can't stretch the truth some, but it's important to seem real on some level. People have to believe that you're saying things that come from the heart, things that you can stand behind.


Even rappers like Riff-Raff and Die Antwoord, who are often questioned for being some kind of "joke," are serious hustlers who take their craft and their music seriously, using social media and preconceptions about what hip-hop looks like to their advantage. And they can spit.
Music should come first of course, but realness should influence your look to. Cultivate a fresh look that people will gravitate toward, one that represents your music visually. Look cool.
 If you don't have anything to say or add to hip-hop, it'll be hard to get anyone to listen to your songs. You don't have to be Shakespeare, but you do have to be able to craft a catchy hip-hop song that will stick in someone's mind, combining words and sounds that people will want to listen to.


Listen to lots of rap and find the gaps. Talk about the angles in popular topics other rappers don't talk about. Go where other rappers are afraid to go. Explore uncharted territory.
Rap about where you come from and reference local things. Even though he's mostly rapping about traditional gangsta rap tropes, Freddie Gibbs is unique because he's a technically flawless rapper who raps about Gary, IN, an unexpected and unique place to set a rap song. It makes him and his music unique.
 As the MC, you'll be the master of ceremonies, the controllers of the mic, and probably the most skilled rapper of the bunch, but to make yourself really stand out, you'll need some help. Aside from your own skills, you'll also need:



A DJ who knows how to scratch, mix, and perform. To back you instrumentally, find someone who digs your music and is skilled on the wheels of steel, someone who knows how to hold it down while you perform. It's also a good idea to find someone who's already got all the gear necessary for performing DJ sets live. Go hear some local guys spin on DJ nights and see who catches you ear.

A hype-man. Typically, a hype-man is someone who backs you up on the end-rhymes of your songs, adding another layer of texture and volume to your songs. Check out live videos of the Beastie Boys to see how the others come in on the rhyming words to emphasize the song, or how Flavor Flav rocks the stage in early Public Enemy tracks. They're not the main rappers, but a good hype man has stage presence and charisma that makes for a great performance.

Complementary MC's. The Wu-Tang Clan was built around the idea that one talented MC was great, but eight would be even greater, especially if unique and unpredictable styles and flows were all included on the same track. Find other rappers who have slightly different styles or personalities to collaborate with in your performances, giving you each an extra element to play off of.
 As the MC, you're the main attraction. You have to own the stage and get people excited about the show. The DJ's got to keep the beat moving and the hype-man is there to back you up, so the pressure's on.


Banter with the audience to get them invested. Cue the DJ to drop the beat and let people sing along once you've coached them on the chorus.
If you want people to be into the music, you've got to be into it to. Move around, feel the beat, and look like you're excited to be on stage. If you stand stock-still at the mic stand and look like you're bored, people will look the same way in the crowd.
 If you're well prepared, you should feel confident in your abilities and in your music, so you can throw yourself into putting on the best possible show you can for the people. It's time to shine. Give them a performance they'll never forget.Make sure you've got all your lyrics memorized and have practiced using the mic so you can be confident that all the technical aspects of the performance are going to go off without a hitch. It's hard to perform with confidence if you're trying to remember all the words.
It's always important to do a mic check before performing. Part of the work of performance is being there before the show to make sure everything is set up and working as planned. Don't be a fake rock star and blow off the pre-show responsibilities. Be a professional.
Always go on stage sober and well-rested. Save the partying for after the show.
 It'll be hard to get into your music if you're mush mouthed, too quiet, or muddy in the mix. Rap shouldn't sound like one of the adults from old Peanuts cartoons. Put your vocals up front and make sure it's loud enough to be heard from all corners of the room.


If you have trouble keeping your voice up while you perform, practice reading magazines and books out loud to get your voice naturally into a louder register. It might annoy your roommates, but it'll be worth it to amp up your performance to where it needs to be.
 Both at your shows and online, be active about interacting with your growing fanbase. The MC will be the face of the crew, so you need to take the publicity side of the rap game seriously. Stay out after your gigs to meet people and sell any merch that you have, being friendly and available.


Encourage people to come out to the gigs on social media and respond to people personally on Twitter and Facebook. Rappers, maybe more so than any other group of musicians, are known for taking control of their social media and working it to its fullest potential. You're just as likely to get signed to a record deal from a popular YouTube video as a successful mixtape.

