 Perhaps one of the key symptoms of a sore throat is a scratchy sensation, like you have an itch in your throat that you cannot reach. You may also feel pain, such as a burning or irritated sensation in your throat.This scratchy sensation may feel worse when you swallow or speak. You may find it difficult to swallow food or speak to someone due to the scratchy or painful sensation in your throat.
You may also notice your voice sounds hoarse or muffled when you try to speak to someone due to your sore throat.
If your symptoms become so bad you cannot swallow any food or are having difficulty breathing properly, you should see a doctor right away.;
, Your tonsils are the two glands that hang on either side of the back of your throat. Open your mouth and inspect your tonsils to see if you have this symptom. Examine them in a mirror to see if there are any white patches or patches of pus on your tonsils.You should also notice if your tonsils appear swollen and very red. Your condition may cause your tonsils to appear bigger and more swollen than usual.
Check if your neck or jaw also appears swollen, as sometimes your condition can cause the glands in your neck or jaw to become irritated and enlarged.
 Often, you develop a sore throat along with other symptoms of illness, such as a fever, a cough, a runny nose, or sneezing. You may also experience body aches, a headache, nausea, and/or vomiting. You should pay attention to any other symptoms you are experiencing as noting these symptoms can help you diagnose the cause of your condition.If you develop a rash or an earache in addition to your sore throat, you should see your doctor right away. You should also see a doctor if your sore throat lasts longer than a week or you develop a fever that is higher than 101 Fahrenheit (38.3 Celsius).
 One of the most common causes of sore throats is a viral infection like the common cold, the flu, or mononucleosis (mono). If you have a viral infection, you may have a sore throat along with a cough, a runny or stuffed up nose, a headache, a fever, and general aches in your body.Sometimes a viral infection can affect your tonsils and you can develop tonsillitis. This infection causes your tonsils to become inflamed and may require the removal of your tonsils. If you have tonsillitis, you may experience swollen tonsils, a sore throat, have a hard time swallowing, and your lymph nodes, located on the sides of your neck, may feel swollen or tender., If you have a sore throat, it may be a symptom of a bacterial infection like strep throat. You may also have other symptoms like swollen glands in your neck, difficulty swallowing, and swollen tonsils. Your tonsils may also have white patches or pus on them.If your sore throat is persistent and painful, you may have strep throat. This bacterial infection often affects individuals between the ages of 6-12., Your sore throat may be triggered by external issues like allergies or irritants. You may be allergic to pet dander, mold, dust, or pollen in the air and this could lead to a sore throat. You may also develop a postnasal drip due to your allergies, which can then irritate and inflame your throat.Your throat can be irritated by dryness indoors, especially in buildings that are heated. You may wake up in the morning with a rough, scratchy throat. The dryness in the air may cause you to breathe through your mouth instead of your nose, leading to a dry, sore throat when you wake up.
Irritants like air pollution can also scratch your throat and lead to soreness. Your throat may be irritated by chemicals in the air or tobacco smoke. Chewing tobacco, drinking alcohol, and eating spicy foods can also cause you to develop an irritated, sore throat.
 Your sore throat can also be caused by other health issues like gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), a digestive disorder where stomach acid builds up in your esophagus. If you have GERD, you may have other symptoms like hoarseness or vomiting, or feel like there is a lump in your throat.In rare cases, a sore throat and flu-like symptoms can be signs of an HIV infection. If you have been diagnosed with HIV you may have a chronic sore throat due to a secondary infection.
Sometimes tumors in your throat can lead to a sore throat. If your sore throat is due to a tumor, you may have other symptoms like difficulty swallow, loud breathing, hoarseness, a lump in your neck, and you may find blood in your saliva.
If your throat feels infected and irritated, it may be a symptom of gonorrhea. Though this sexually transmitted infection often grows in your genital area, it can also appear in your mouth and throat., You should let your doctor do a physical examination of your throat to help determine the causes of your condition. They may gently feel your jaw and neck for any swollen glands. The doctor may also ask you to open your mouth wide so they can check your tonsils and throat with the help of a light pen.The doctor may ask you to describe your symptoms as they examine you to help determine the cause of your condition.
 If your doctor suspects you may have strep throat, they may perform a rapid strep test. This test requires the doctor to swab your throat and then process the swab, which usually takes about 15 minutes.Your doctor may also do a throat culture to determine if you have a specific bacterial infection or virus. The throat culture will take 24 to 48 hours to process but is more accurate than a rapid strep test.
If your doctor suspects you may have mono, they will perform a blood test. The results of the blood test will help them determine if you have mono.
 Your doctor will likely be able to determine the cause of your sore throat and let you know if you have a viral infection, a bacterial infection, or other health issues. Your doctor may prescribe different treatments based on your condition.If you have a viral infection like the common cold or the flu, your doctor may not suggest any major medical treatments. Most viral infections go away on their own after five to seven days. You may take mild pain relievers to help reduce the symptoms of the viral infection.
If your sore throat is due to a bacterial infection, your doctor will likely prescribe antibiotics. You may need to take a full course of antibiotics to ensure your infection goes away.

