 Determine how much sugar you want to melt. Since sugar is so tricky to melt evenly without letting it burn, you shouldn't attempt to melt more than 2 cups at a time.If you need more for your recipe, melt a second batch separately.









Use white granular sugar, also known as table sugar.
A good rule of thumb when melting sugar is that 2 cups of sugar will make enough melted sugar to make 1 cup of caramel.;
, A heavy-bottomed pot insures an even distribution of heat. A medium-sized saucepan is usually perfect to use for melting sugar. An aluminum or steel pot will work best.









Use half as much cold water by weight as the amount of sugar you are using.
Make sure the pot is completely clean. If sediment is left in the pot, sugar crystals could form around it.
 Using low heat means the sugar will take awhile to melt, but don't be tempted to turn it up; sugar will quickly burn when cooked over higher heat. Using low heat gives you better control.
 Stirring at the beginning of the process helps break up lumps and make sure that the sugar is heated evenly. It's best to use a wooden spoon. Keep stirring until the sugar mixture turns clear and begins to simmer.









Use a pastry brush to wash any sugar off the edge of the pan back down in with the rest of the sugar.
If crystals form on the edge of the pan, they can seed crystal formation in the entire mixture and the sugar will seize. Brushing the sides of the pot very carefully with warm water can prevent this.
 Once the sugar has melted and starts to simmer, let it cook until it caramelizes. Stirring at this point could cause crystal formation, so don't stir any more from this point on.
 If you want the sugar to stay in its liquid form, it is ready when it reaches 340 to 350ʡF (171 to 177ʡC). At this point the color will be a rich golden brown.









Different temperatures are desirable for different applications. When your sugar reaches the desired temperature for your particular recipe, it is done.
 This classic Mexican dessert is made by pouring the melted, caramelized sugar into a pan, then topping it with a creamy egg mixture and baking until set. The pan is turned over onto a plate so that the warm brown caramel tops the dessert.
 To make a creamy caramel sauce, cream and butter are added to the sugar after it has melted. This mixture is then used as a delicious topping for ice cream, chocolate cake and other decadent treats.
 Spun sugar is made by cooking melted sugar until it reaches the hard ball stage, meaning it will harden once it cools to room temperature. It can be used to make amazing designs to decorate all types of desserts.
 This buttery, flavorful candy is made by adding cream and butter to the melted sugar, then cooking the mixture until it reaches the hard ball stage. At this point, the caramel is poured into molds and left to harden at room temperature.








