 Locate the app on your home screen or app drawer. It’s the one that looks like a tablet with a magnifying glass over it. Tap to open.


If you don’t have the app yet, you can download it from Google Play. Search for the CPU Monitor app by ECN Apps.;
, Tap the “Details” option at the top left of the menu bar. A screen will open showing you all the details like CPU usage, average usage, max usage, core 1 usage, total memory, etc. It continuously shows the processor usage and memory usage in terms of percentage, which makes it easier for you understand that memory is low.
 CPU Monitor can also display the details of running apps on your table. If you want to view the information, tap “Running apps” in the middle of the top menu bar. The next screen will show the details of CPU and memory usage of the particular running app.


Tap “Sort by” at the top to sort the data in terms of CPU Usage or Memory Usage. The indicators on the left side shows the intensity of the processor and memory usage. Intensity refers to how much processor and memory is used by the app.
Tap on “Refresh” at the top to refresh the data.
You cannot stop apps from running in CPU Monitor.
 Once the app is installed, the app’s icon will also be displayed in the notification bar. This is an indicator that the app is running and monitoring the device’s memory.


To view information from the home screen, pull down the notification bar by swiping down from the top of the screen.
Next to the app icon, you will see an overview of the information (i.e., memory usage) you will see if you open the app. The app will run continuously and provide you the data.
 This menu is where you can select different indicators, where you can enable the indicators, and where you can change the indicator type (e.g., color of the indicator).
 To do this, tap on “SET” available adjacent to the indicator name in the control menu. For example, to change the Memory Usage icon, tap on “SET” adjacent to its name.


A menu will appear displaying different icon options, like multi, ice, white, etc. Tap the icon you want to use.
 You can turn an indicator ON if you want to view the info of an app; turn it OFF if you don’t want to view the app’s information.


To turn an indicator icon ON or OFF, just tap the ON/OFF option adjacent to the icon name.
 Do this by tapping “'RESET” under the control option. This clears and resets all the values of used memory, RAM used, etc.


It is recommended that you reset every now and then to help the apps run smoothly.
 If ever you want the app to stop monitoring data, simply tap the “STOP” in the Control menu.