 With Photoshop open, click on File in the menu bar at the top of the screen, the click Open... and select the image.
,

, It's in the lower-right part of the screen.,,,,,,,, This fills the layer with a white background color.

You should now have three layers in the layer window: A "Tracing" layer at the top; a locked layer with your image in the middle; and a locked, white background layer at the bottom. If they're not in this order, drag them to arrange them as such.
,, Click on Zoom In or Zoom Out in the View drop-down to adjust your image to a size that's comfortable for you to trace., To do so, click on one the overlapping squares in the color menu in the upper-right part of the screen, then click on a color in the spectrum below the squares. Click on the other square and then click on the same color.

Black and white are at the far-right end of the spectrum

,


Pencil Tool: creates even, untapered strokes that are the same width in the middle as they are at both ends. This tool works well if you're going to trace using several small strokes that meet at the ends. The Pencil Tool is a pencil-shaped icon near the top of the second section of the tool menu. If you see a paintbrush icon but not a pencil icon, long-click on the paintbrush icon, then click on Pencil Tool.

Brush Tool: creates tapered strokes that are thinner on the ends and thicker in the middle. This tool works well if you're want to create a softer, brushstroke appearance with your tracing. The Brush Tool is a paintbrush-shaped icon near the top of the second section of the tool menu. If you see a pencil icon but not a paintbrush icon, long-click on the pencil icon, then click on Brush Tool.

Pen Tool: creates editable paths with anchor points that can be moved or adjusted. The Pen Tool works well for tracing objects that you'd like to change or alter considerably when you're done tracing. Click on the fountain pen icon below the T in the tool menu to select the Pen Tool.
 They're in the upper-left part of the window.

Click on the drop-down next to the tool's icon to adjust the heaviness of the strokes and they're level of gradient (hardness) they have. Strokes with higher gradients appear more like a real pencil or brushstroke.
Click on the folder-shaped icon to the right of the size drop-down to adjust the shape and qualities of the brush or pencil.
 They're in the upper-left part of the window.

If you want to use the Pen Tool to create paths as you trace, click on the drop-down to the right of the icon and click on Path.
 Use your mouse or track pad to move the tool over the lines you want to trace.

To use the Pencil and Brush Tools, click and hold as you drag the tool over the lines. Release the click to move the tool and start a new stroke.
To use the Pen Tool, click and release along the lines of the image you're tracing and a line will appear between each set of points. Curved lines and greater detail require more clicks.
 To see how your work is progressing, click on the eye icon next to the middle layer that contains the original image. The image will disappear and you'll see your tracing on a white background.

When you're finished, click on View in the menu bar, then click 100% to view your image at its actual size.
 Do so by clicking on File in the menu bar and Save As…. Name your file and click on Save.