 When your baby is four months old, she will begin to show an actual interest in food. Talk to your pediatrician about beginning to feed her purees, while also continuing to feed her breast milk or formula, depending on which one you use. The doctor will most likely suggest that you try feeding your baby purees two times a day.

When your baby is this age, stick to feeding her purees made of only one kind of fruit.;
, Gala and Red apples are both recommended for apple purees for children four to six months old. This is because these kind of apples are soft and easily digestible. They are also fortified with vitamin C and fiber, which can help your baby to move her bowels easily. Try to buy organically grown apples if possible. Avoid fruits that have been left out in the sun, or that do not smell fresh.

To make the puree, wash and clean the apples. To start, wash and clean the apples. Next, peel the apples and remove the core using your paring knife. Then, cut the apples into small cubes and place them in the pot. Add a cup or two of water; just enough so that all cubes are soaked in water. Bring the pot to a boil then lower the heat and simmer for about 4 minutes. After that, you can let it stand for 20 minutes until cool enough and transfer to a blender or food processor.
If the consistency is too thick after blending, add a couple of spoonfuls of water until it has reached the right consistency. You will know it has reached this consistency when you take a spoonful and it slides slowly down the spoon.
 Bananas are rich in potassium and may help to soothe your baby’s tummy. When selecting your bananas, make sure that the peels are completely yellow.

To make banana purees, you will need a big, clean bowl, a paring knife and a potato masher. Start by peeling one ripe fresh banana. One banana usually yields about 6 ounces of pureed fruit. Cut the bananas into small slices and place in the bowl. Then, start mashing using the potato masher or a fork; there’s no need to add liquids. Make sure to mash it well since your baby is not yet ready for solid, chunky food

, The process for making peach or nectarine puree is the same. When in season, buy fresh peaches or nectarines; when not in season you can buy the frozen variety. Both fruits are packed with vitamin C and are sweet enough that babies love them. Each peach or nectarine you choose should give a little when squeeze so that you know it is ripe. Below is the method for making peach puree; use the same method to make nectarine puree.

To make peach puree, begin by washing the peaches; one peach gives about 5 ounces of fruit puree. Bring a pot of water to a boil. Once boiling, place the peaches inside the pot of boiling water and leave to step for 45 seconds. After that, take out the peaches using a slotted spoon to drain the hot water. Transfer the peaches to a bowl filled with water and ice to stop the cooking process
Once the peaches are cooled down, peel the fruits using a paring knife or just with your fingers. Cut and make an incision along the diameter of the fruit, working your way around the pit inside (peaches have a hard pit in their middle). Twist the peach so it “gives” and then open it up. Using a spoon or a knife, twist the pit around until it pops out of the fruit. Next, cut the peach into small cubes and place in the food processor and blend well.
 Pears can be both sweet and tart at the same time, which can help your baby’s taste buds to experience some variety. Buy pears when they are in season to get the sweetest, ripest pears; in fact, they will be so ripe that you won’t need to cook them before pureeing them. Avoid pears with brown marks.

To make pear puree, clean the pears well. Cut the pears in half and then core them. Cut them into small chunks, place them into the food processor, and blend them. Add water until you get a consistency that slides down your spoon easily, but does not have the consistency of a milk shake.

