 To start, clean your colander. Use white vinegar as this will wipe down the colander and remove any great or residue. Add a small amount of vinegar to a paper towel and gently wipe the colander down.If the colander is a little wet after cleaning, set it aside until it's dry. You can also dry patting it dry with paper towels.;
, You want to start with spray paint primer. This will help your paint stay on better.Spray paint outside with a large drop cloth underneath your colander. It's best to set the colander on top of something high up, to avoid slouching while spray painting. For example, set it on a work bench outside.To spray paint, make horizontal swiping motions. This will help the paint be distributed evenly. Keep going back and forth, making horizontal stripes, until the colander is completely coated with primer.
Make sure to read the instructions on any primer or spray paint you use. You want to make sure you follow any specific instructions.
 Primer take about two hours to dry. After the primer dries, spray paint your colander in your chosen color.Remember to use horizontal swiping motions while you spray paint and read the instructions on your spray paint can.Depending on your type of spray paint, you may be able to get away with a single coat. If your paint looks thin, however, add a second coat of paint after the first one dries.
 You want to be completely certain your colander is completely dry before proceeding. Let your colander sit overnight to dry. Put it in a safe place, such as an outdoor shed with a door that closes, to prevent damage., Use more fabric than you think you will need. You will trim it down later. Use a pair of scissors to trim your landscape fabric into a circle.Set your colander upside on the landscape fabric. Draw a circle an inch or two bigger than the colander to cut out. The circle does not have to be perfectly round.
If you can't find landscape fabric, set coffee filters inside the colander instead. Set down as many as you need to cover the inside of the colander completely.
 Place the landscape fabric in your colander. Flatten it against the bottom and sides of the colander so it's covering most of the colander's interior., If you have any extra fabric pouring over the sides of the colander, trim it. When you're done, the landscape fabric should fit neatly into the colander. You shouldn't have any excess fabric spilling out.Again, the circle does not have to perfectly round. You will be filling the colander with soil and then plants, so the fabric will not be highly visible.
 Get potting soil at a greenhouse and most department stores. Add a small amount of potting soil at first, just enough to secure the landscape fabric., If you're transporting a plant into the colander, make sure to remove it with a spade at the roots. Then, insert the roots into the new soil. If you're planting seeds, consult their label. This should tell you how deep to plant them., You want to make sure you cover the roots of a plant you transported to the colander. You also may need to add more soil to assure a seed is planted deep enough. Add extra soil as necessary to your colander., Use wire cutters to cut your chains. Cut them to the length you want. For example, cut them around a foot in length if you're going to hang your plant from a ceiling in your kitchen. Cut out three chains of equal length.It's important the chain's lengths be equal, so use a ruler.
 Attach hooks on one end of each chain. Feed the hooks through the slots in the colander. You should have three hooks that essentially surround the colander, keeping it balanced. Keep the hooks roughly equal distances from one another. This should keep the colander steady when it's hanging., An S-hook is a larger hook shaped like an "S." You can get one at a local department store. Hook all three chains together using the S-hook., You can hang the colander off of a mantel or ceiling hook in your kitchen. You can also hang it outdoors, using hooks around your porch or railing.