 While you might think you have a good idea of how much your property is worth, you should obtain the official valuation of a professional appraiser. This will assure that you purchase the right amount of coverage for your home and that you have a detailed assessment of current value on hand when any future problems or claims arise.Your appraiser will take into account all of the relevant information about your home, including the age of the fittings and fixtures such as electrical, plumbing and other systems within the home, as well as the materials used during the construction. All of these factors are important and can substantially affect the cost of your premiums.
If you already have homeowners insurance and want to make sure that it covers your home adequately, ask your provider for a customized estimate of your home’s replacement cost.;
, Your appraiser will tell you both the current value of your home, as well as its replacement value, i.e. how much it will cost to reconstruct your home in the event of extensive damage or total demolition. This value is almost always more than the sale price, so you will want to insure your property for its replacement value.Be sure that your appraiser has taken into account any special renovations or unique features of your home which could influence replacement cost. Such features include custom molding or windows, or upgraded bathrooms, cabinets, or kitchen appliances., You should consider all of the environmental conditions which affect the area where your home is located in order to determine what kind of coverage you need.For example, if you live in an area like Oklahoma where tornados occur frequently, you should put tornado coverage at the top of your priority list.
If you live in California or another area where wildfires are rampant, you should purchase a policy with extensive fire damage coverage.
Other environmental factors to consider are hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, high winds, and damp rot., Look up crime rates in your area and decide if this should be factored into your policy.


For example, if you live in a neighborhood with significant incident rates of burglary or vandalism, you should opt for a policy which covers property damage and theft generously., Many insurance policies cover personal belongings by default, but your level of coverage can vary wildly depending on the specific policy. So, depending on how valuable you estimate your belongings to be, you should pay attention to the amount of coverage a policy provides for personal possessions.Do a room-by-room inventory of your things in order to assess the value of your possessions. Keep this inventory up-to-date so that you can adjust coverage to reflect new purchases and assets.Even if personal belongings are covered, they will be subject to coverage limits, so you’ll need to adjust coverage if you own any exceptionally pricey items like expensive jewelry or furs., Never forget to ask the seller to provide you with the history report of the home's insurance claims. These reports present an outline of the previous damage to the home and provide invaluable insight regarding potential future problems.


For example, if your claims history indicates that the house has a history of wind damage, you might want to look into additional coverage for roof and window repair., Taking security precautions can get you as much as a five percent discount on your premium., Functional smoke detectors can get you up to five percent discounts on premiums, and cutting-edge sprinkler systems that provide early detection warnings can earn you as much as fifteen to twenty percent off your premium.Similarly, check for brush and dead trees in close proximity to your home. If you find any, clear them out and reduce the risk of wildfire., Such home improvement measures can be initially pricey, but they will significantly reduce eventual damage costs as well as grant you a discount on your premium., Deteriorated shacks or outbuildings on your property will cost you extra to insure, so do yourself a favor and get rid of them before obtaining coverage.


Recreational facilities like pools or trampolines are extremely hazardous and are sure to boost your premium, so consider removing them from your property as a way of reducing premium costs., Keep paying off your mortgage in your list of top priorities and you’ll see a payoff when it comes to your homeowners insurance rates., Insurance companies charge wildly different rates for similar coverage—according to a recent study, costs ranged by as much as 188%—so make sure you get quotes from at least three different carriers.Many companies will give you a quote online, but some will only do so after an in-person inspection with an adjuster, so be prepared to set aside some time to meet with different insurance agents.
 The most common policy is the Basic Homeowner Policy, otherwise known as an HO1. This policy covers the contents of your home like furniture and personal belongings, as well as damages to the structure caused by fire, storms, vandalism, air- or land-bound vehicles, explosions, smoke, volcanoes, or personal liability.The HO2 is another common policy which covers a bit more than the HO1. In addition to all of the hazards covered in the HO1, it covers falling projectiles, accumulated weight from ice and snow, accidental water overflow, accidental rupture, freezing, and accidental electrical discharge., There are several forms of more comprehensive policies, which means that they cover a much broader range of incidents and are consequently pricier.


Unlike HO1 and HO2 policies which cover only those perils specifically named in the policy, an HO3 policy covers all perils except those specifically named.Typical exceptions include war, neglect, intentional or malicious demolition, or nuclear hazard.
HO5 policies—otherwise known as Premier Homeowners Policies—are typically reserved for newer homes or those renovated within the last forty years. Although HO5 offers the most comprehensive coverage of all policies, it still does not cover flood or earthquake damage, so, if you live in an area where such a natural event is possible, you should consider adding this coverage to your policy., Don’t just look at the monthly premiums for the policies you’re considering. Lower premiums often carry higher deductibles—that is, the out-of-pocket expenses you have to pay before any insurance coverage kicks in.A high deductible in exchange for lower premiums isn’t always a bad trade-off. For example, if you live in a geographical area with a mild climate and low crime rates, the likelihood of ever filing a claim is fairly low, so you’ll save in the long run by paying minimal premiums. Or, if you have a fairly solid nest egg of liquid funds put away for emergencies, you can feel fairly secure about having a substantial deductible.
In order to calculate your deductible, you should take stock of how much money you can afford in the short-term. Take stock of your savings and assets and assess how much you could hypothetically afford out of pocket in the event of an emergency., Many insurance carriers provide discounts if you purchase multiple types of insurance from them, so make sure to get quotes from the companies which already cover your car or life., In addition to obtaining quotes from multiple insurance companies, you should also research the providers’ customer satisfaction ranking and record of complaints.First, check with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners for information about the company.Websites like consumerreports.org, Yelp, and the Better Business Bureau can also be invaluable resources to find out if the providers offering you quotes have a history of dodgy practices or denying valid claims.
 In addition to consulting your own analysis, it’s always a good idea to use other people’s experiences as a resource. Ask friends and neighbors what type of policy they selected and why, as well as what experience they’ve had with the claims process.
 Just because you’ve selected a homeowners policy that’s right for you, doesn’t mean that you’re all done with the process. The condition of your property can—and will—change over time, so you should reevaluate your policy and needs frequently.Take into account any renovations you’ve completed on your home. Changes which improve the durability of your home can earn you a discount, or remodeling that increases your home’s market value might warrant a boost in your coverage and premium.
 In order to avoid loss from inflation, you should adjust your coverage to keep pace with national inflation rates.


You can do this manually, recalculating for inflation every year, or you can add an endorsement to your policy that automatically accounts for inflation. Such amendments are called Inflation Guard Endorsements, and they adjust your coverage and premiums automatically in order to keep pace with the rate of inflation., Having an up-to-date record of your home’s contents and structural condition will provide enormous help during any claim processes. Add any new purchases or losses to the inventory which you used when initially purchasing your policy.


In addition to a spreadsheet detailing your assets, keep photographic and video evidence which document your possessions and the home’s current condition.Take note in particular of any valuable possessions you purchase, such as jewelry or expensive designer clothing. If these purchases constitute a significant percentage increase in your assets, you should adjust your homeowners policy to cover them.

