 Dogs tend to reflect back their owner's energy, so think about your own mood and behavior when analyzing your dog's. Your own nervous or anxious mood may be adversely affecting your dog, meaning that helping yourself also means helping your pet. Portraying calm, assertive confidence for your dog will definitely help them and will likely benefit you as well., Aromatherapy has gained acceptance as a way to relieve anxiety and stress in humans, and it is also a viable option for pets. Dogs experience life largely through scent so aromatherapy can be helpful, especially in relieving stress that might manifest itself as hyperactivity. A calming scent like lavender could make a world of difference for your hyperactive dog.Be careful not to overdo it with aromatherapy oils; dogs are incredibly responsive to smell and could suffer an allergic reaction.
 Get your dog accustomed to periods of quiet, relaxed time with you or another family member. Introducing this kind of calm to your dog may encourage it to behave. Try to exercise with your dog right beforehand to reduce its anxiety before attempting "quiet time", which could include:


lounging in the living room with a favorite chew toy
resting comfortably with you while you watch a movie or read

, There is no shame in seeking an expert opinion if your efforts to calm your hyperactive dog don't work. A vet can determine whether physical, hormonal, or physiologic factors are responsible for your pet's hyperactivity and prescribe medication or other treatments accordingly. If this is not the case, a dog trainer may be able to help improve your dog's erratic behavior., Your dog's hyper behavior could be attributed to an allergy to its food- most commercial pet food is full of additives, including by-products, pesticides, preservatives, and food coloring. They are also filled with cheap ingredients like inferior meat and corn, rice and soy. Discuss feeding options with your vet- to avoid food intolerances that could contribute to your dog's erratic behavior, a vet might suggest feeding it a diet of healthy, raw food.