 It is important to choose weapons that will sabotage the defenders and keep your team incognito on the defender's HUD. Silenced weapons and explosives are great choices for this situation. Perks are also key for helping your squad members. Make sure each player on your team uses different SQUAD SPECIALIZATIONS to strengthen your entire team. If any of your team members don't have any SQUAD SPECIALIZATIONS, that's okay as well.;
, Attackers in "SQUAD RUSH" have a set amount of tickets that total the amount of lives your team can spare until the game is over. If you are an "ASSAULT" soldier, you can revive your team-mates and re-gain tickets for your team while receiving XP points for yourself. This is why the "ASSAULT" class is the most popular class used by players in "SQUAD RUSH". However, it is not wise to have all your team-members be "ASSAULT" soldiers. But don't forget about the other classes. They each serve their purposes as well, so use them depending on how the game is going.
 As an attacker, it is important to know areas in your map where defenders can camp, and to locate routes for getting to the M-COM. Study the maps of BATTLEFIELD 3 and pay attention to the HUD once in a while to recall where you are and locate enemies. Remember, the defenders can be anywhere, so keep your eyes peeled.
 If the M-COM is within a building or an enclosed area, blow it up. It's harder for the defenders to predict where you'll be coming from instead of having only one entrance. A common strategy used by defenders is to surround the M-COM area with explosives so the attackers can't arm it. So again, blow it up. If your team has armed the M-COM, and the defenders are starting to spawn, don't just wait for them to come, find their spawn point and take them out. It's better to lower their changes of defusing the M-COM than having them come to you, risking your victory.
 Big mistakes defenders make in "SQUAD RUSH" is to camp in the same area over and over again, or to camp near the M-COM. Make sure the area is clear prior to arming an M-COM by taking-out any defenders around you. It is also possible to shoot while arming and defusing an M-COM, so keep this in mind as well.
 One of the highest advantages for attackers in "SQUAD RUSH" is the ability to spawn on your team-mates. If you just died and are ready to go back on the battlefield, it's key to choose the best spawn point.
 Do a reconnaissance of the defenders and find out their style of playing. Using this information and changing your tactics based off the enemy's strategy can give your squad the upper-hand.
 This is the most important key to winning any BATTLEFIELD game. Communicating with others about your status and the enemy's position could mean the difference between a loss and a win. Provide ammo/health and help your team out in any way you can to ensure your victory.

