 This washes away impurities and leaves your skin with a healthy glow. Water will also help hydrate your skin, and make it look more firm and youthful. If your skin looks dull and grayish, you need to drink more water.


Green tea is also great for your skin. It is rich in antioxidants and has anti-inflammatory properties. It can help your skin look more clear. Try drinking iced green tea, without any sugar added; hot green tea may increase redness in skin., Sleep is important for both your skin and your overall health. It gives your skin time to heal and replenish itself. Try to sleep on your back, instead of on your side or tummy. This will help prevent wrinkles, puffiness, and under-eye bags.
 Certain foods are not only good for your body, but also for your skin. They contain vitamins and antioxidants that help your skin look healthy. Here are some things you could add to your diet, and why:Healthy fats, found in avocado, fish, nuts, and seeds, also contain vitamin E. Most also contain Vitamin E. They help hydrate your skin, and keep it youthful.
Selenium is an antioxidant found in broccoli, eggs, fish, nuts, shellfish, and tomatoes. It protects your skin against cancer, sun damage, and age spots.
Vitamin C is an antioxidant. It can brighten your skin and give it a healthy glow. It can also lessen blemishes. You can find it in: blackcurrants, blueberries, broccoli, guava, kiwi, oranges, papaya, strawberries, and sweet potatoes.
Vitamin E is found in avocado, nuts, seeds, and oils. It helps slow down aging and makes your skin healthier.
Zinc helps repair damage and keeps skin feeling soft. You can find it in fish, lean red meat, poultry, nuts, seed, shellfish, and whole grains.
Some foods do your skin more harm than good. Try to eat less, dairy, carbohydrates/white flour, and sugar. These tend to lead to acne, sagging, and premature aging., Exercising will help increase increase blood-flow to your skin and make it healthy. It may also reduce stress; too much stress can cause your skin to produce too much oil, which can lead to acne.Try going to the gym or enrolling in some dance or yoga classes. If you do not have the time or money, you can always go for a walk or jog around the block.
 Stress can lead to breakouts and acne. If you can, try to set aside some time during the day or week where you relax, decompress, and de-stress.Here are some ideas on what you can do:


Take a walk or exercise. This will help your mind focus on moving, rather than what is stressing you.
Try meditating. Find a quiet spot, and focus on your breathing. Be aware of your surroundings, but don't focus on them.
Listen to some music. If you are musically talented, you can also try to sing or play music.
Try doing some arts and crafts, such as drawing, painting, or knitting.
 Studies have shown that smoking can lead to premature aging and wrinkles.