 Due to the natural alpha hydroxy acids, ingredients found in many acne creams, many people believe pineapple and papaya can help lessen skin discoloration. You can combine a cup of pineapple, half a papaya, and a tablespoon of honey to create a DIY face mask with natural ingredients.If you have a juicer, use it to juice the papaya and the pineapple. If you don't have a juicer, you can simply blend the fruits into a fine pulp using a blender or a fork. Then, add the honey.
Apply the mask to your face, using a cotton ball. Then, lie down for 10 to 15 minutes. The mask may cause some tingling and itching. This is normal. Try to ignore it.
Rinse with warm water. Use this mask 1 or 2 times a week for best results.
 Oatmeal is often used in baths to treat skin inflammation. Oats can help soothe dry, cracked, or irritated skin. You should use powdered oats. If you cannot find powdered oats, run some regular oatmeal through a food processor until it forms a fine powder. Combine a tablespoon of powdered oats with a tablespoon of raw honey until it forms a paste-like substance.Apply the mask to your entire face. Let it sit for 5 to 10 minutes. Rinse thoroughly with warm water.
 Eggs are a common ingredient in natural face masks. The protein found in eggs can supposedly help protect skin and may remove wrinkles and fine lines. Some claim coffee can help with complexion. You can mix one whole egg with a tablespoon of coffee grounds for this mask.


Combine the egg with the coffee grounds. Then, apply the mixture to your face. As always, be sure to avoid your eyes.
Leave the mask on until it dries and then rinse. If you want to exfoliate, scrub your skin with a washcloth in circular motions as you remove the mask.
 Many advocates of natural face masks find cucumbers are beneficial for oily or inflamed skin. If you're curious about natural face masks, it's worth giving cucumbers a try. In a blender, blend half a cucumber with one tablespoon of honey and one tablespoon of bentonite clay. You should be able to find this clay at a craft or health food store.Apply the mask to your face. Let sit for 20 minutes and then rinse thoroughly.
 Wine is an ingredient in a lot of DIY face masks. It is believed the antioxidants found in red wine can help with wrinkles. You will need 1/4 cup red wine, 1/4 cup kaolin clay, 2 tablespoons of grapeseed oil, and a tablespoon of oat flour. You can find most of these ingredients at a local health food store.Mix the ingredients into a fine paste. Apply to the face and neck. Let sit for 10 minutes and then rinse off with warm water.
 You should purchase polished clam shells for this face mask. Clam shells found at the beach are too rough on the skin to be effective. You can submerge two shells in ice water for 10 to 15 minutes. Then, stick your fingertips into the clam shells. Rub them against your face, focusing on areas that are puffy or irritated. Do so until the shells are no longer cold. Supposedly, shells are good conductors of cold and can help reduce skin inflammation when cooled and applied to the face.