 Perhaps the biggest danger the internet poses is the loss of your personal information. As a result, you need to be very careful about who you supply that information to.


Look for the padlock symbol at the bottom of your browser when you enter personal information.
Do not provide your address, credit card information, or similar info to a website or payment service unless you can verify that they are legitimate. To make sure, first verify that the website has a current SSL certificate and then run a web search to investigate the website's reputation., Whether you're playing a browser game or streaming music, your computer may be at risk of picking up a virus that could compromise your security. As a result, you should make sure your computer has virus protection.


Make sure your virus protection software is up to date. For example, subscribe to a service like Norton or McAfee.
Turn on a firewall. Your antivirus protection or operating system may come with firewall protection.
Don't install or download programs unless you can verify they are safe., An important part of having fun on the internet is to make sure you don't spend too much time online. If you do, healthy fun could turn to an addiction and you ignoring important responsibilities.


Don't waste time on the internet when you're supposed to work.
Avoid playing games when you're supposed to spend time with your family.
Consider setting aside a certain amount of time per day to have fun on the internet. For example, limit yourself to 1 hour a day.
Studies have shown that spending a lot of time online will make you moodier and possibly depressed., While you may be very comfortable communicating with strangers online, the internet is full of potentially dangerous individuals looking to take advantage of people.


If you have to meet someone you met over the internet, make sure to do it in a safe public place, like at a busy mall near a security guard or police officer.
Children should tell their parents or the authorities if someone on the internet asks them for pictures of themselves.
If you're using a dating or social media website to meet a romantic partner, make sure the person has been verified by the dating website or by someone you know.
Never invite anyone you met on the internet to your home.
Children should not provide any personal information, such as address, phone number, or full name to anyone on the internet.