 Smoking cigarettes increases your risk for all sorts of health problems, including vision problems. If you are a smoker, then quitting is one of the best things that you can do to protect your vision and overall health.Talk to your doctor about options that may help you to quit smoking, such as smoking cessation programs, nicotine replacement aids, and medications.
 Carrying excess weight puts you at risk of developing several conditions which may result in vision loss, such as diabetes, stroke, and heart disease. If you are overweight or obese, then work on getting to a healthy body weight.To lose weight, you will need to create a caloric deficit, which means that you burn more calories than you take in. To create a caloric deficit, you have to eat less and exercise more.
 Drinking too much alcohol also increases your risk of vision problems, especially cataracts.Limit your intake of alcohol to one drink per day if you are a woman and two drinks per day if you are a man.


If you find it difficult to stop after just one or two drinks or if you often tend to binge drink, then you may need to seek help to stop drinking. Talk to your doctor about treatment options.
 High blood pressure puts you at a higher risk of developing vision problems as well. If you have high blood pressure, then make sure that you work with your doctor to get it under control.If you have high blood pressure, then you may need to make changes to your diet, activity level, and find ways to manage stress. You may also need to take medication to help control your blood pressure until you can get it under control., Having high cholesterol increases your risk of developing a condition that may lead to vision problems, such as diabetes, cancer, or heart disease.To reduce your cholesterol, cut out or reduce foods that contain saturated fats, such as butter, cheese, and baked goods. Instead, try to eat more foods that contain unsaturated fats, such as olive oil, avocados, and nuts.
 Uncontrolled diabetes also puts you at risk of developing vision problems. If you have diabetes, make sure that you follow your doctor’s advice regarding diet, exercise, and medications. By controlling your diabetes, you may reduce your risk of developing vision problems in the future.