 Choose something that is memorable but that also reminds people of your business. Avoid names that are too long or confusing.For example, “Megan’s Massage” is basic but boring. “Megan’s Magnificent Massage” is wordy. “Massage Memories, LLC” might be just right.


Make sure that your name contains the required designation. Your name must contain the words “Limited Company” or “Limited Liability Company” or the abbreviations “L.C.,” “LC,” L.L.C.,” or “LLC.”
You can also abbreviate “Limited” to “Ltd.” and “Company” to “Co.”;
, You can’t use a name if someone else is already using it. Accordingly, search the business name database at the Secretary of State’s website: https://businessfilings.sc.gov/BusinessFiling/Entity/Search.


Also check whether the URL is available. If you create a website, then you’ll want the URL to be your business name. Check by typing in different combinations of your name and seeing if someone is already using it.
You can also use websites such as Instant Domain Search or GoDaddy’s domain search.
 You can reserve a name for 120 days if you pay $25. Complete the “Application to Reserve Name,” which is available at the Secretary of State’s website.You don’t have to reserve the name if you are ready to file your Articles of Organization.


Submit two copies of your completed form to Secretary of State, 1205 Pendleton Street, Suite 525, Columbia, SC 29201.
Make your check payable to the South Carolina Secretary of State., Registering your trademark is not required. However, it can provide you with extra protection in case someone uses your name to sell goods or services. You can apply for a trademark by filing an application with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). You may register both your name and any logo you use.


You already have trademark rights as soon as you start using the name in connection with the sale of your goods or services.
However, registration allows you to sue in federal court and is proof of your right to use the mark exclusively throughout the country., The Secretary of State provides a printed, fill-in-the-blank form you can use for your Articles of Organization. Download the form here: http://www.sos.sc.gov/forms/LLC/Domestic/ArticlesofOrganization.pdf.


You may also submit your Articles of Organization online at the state’s Business One Stop website. You will need to create a user account first., You can type your information into the form or print neatly in black ink. Provide the following information in the space provided:name of your LLC
office location
your agent, who can receive official service of process
name and address of each organizer
name and address of each manager
date you want the LLC to be effective (if not immediately)
signatures of organizers

, You must submit two completed copies of the form along with a self-addressed stamped return envelope. The filing fee is $110, made payable to the South Carolina Secretary of State.


Send to the following address: South Carolina Secretary of State’s Office, Attn: Corporate Filings, 1205 Pendleton Street, Suite 525, Columbia, SC 29201., The operating agreement contains important information about the LLC. Although it isn’t required, your business will benefit from having one. Keep a copy at your primary business address. A properly drafted operating agreement will contain the following information:members’ percentage ownership in the LLC
members’ voting powers
members’ rights and responsibilities
rules for daily management of the LLC
rules for how meetings may be called
provisions for members selling their interest in the LLC

, You can get the EIN from the IRS website: https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/apply-for-an-employer-identification-number-ein-online. If your LLC has only one member, you can use your Social Security Number provided you don’t have any employees.However, if you have two or more members, then get the EIN.
 You’ll need a state tax ID if you collect sales tax or if you have employees. Register with the state’s Department of Revenue.You can register at the MyDORWAY website here: https://dor.sc.gov/mydorway. Click on the green button to start the registration process.
 Before you can begin business, you’ll need certain local business licenses or permits. There is no statewide business license in South Carolina.Instead, you’ll need a business license in all municipalities where you conduct business.


You can find out what you need by visiting the South Carolina Business One Stop website., If your LLC will have employees, then you need to take additional steps. For example, do the following:Obtain a Withholding number from the Department of Revenue.
Get unemployment insurance from the South Carolina Department of Employment and Workforce.
Verify your employees’ legal authorization to work using E-Verify. Retain Form I-9 for each employee.
Report new employees to the Department of Social Services.

