 Baby gyms are a great way to develop hand-eye coordination. The dangling toys encourage hand-eye coordination and stimulate your baby's sense of curiosity.Lay your baby under the arch of the baby gym and encourage your child to bat at the hanging toys.
If your baby has a hard time figuring out how to bat at the toys, try gently taking your baby's hand and guiding it to the toys hanging overhead.
As your baby's skills develop, you can advance to more complex toys. For example, you may want to try pegboards or stacking rings once the baby gym is no longer useful., Hand games are a great way to play with and teach your baby. Most hand games involve synchronized vocal and hand movements, which can be tremendously helpful in teaching your baby coordination and hand strength.Pat a Cake (also known as Patty Cake) is a classic hand game that develops hand-eye coordination.
Clap hands in a criss-cross motion, then teach your child to mime rolling, patting, and marking dough with your hands.You can also teach the Itsy Bitsy Spider. Children find the sing-song lyrics fun, and the hand motions that mimic a spider's movement encourage muscle growth and hand-eye coordination.
 Stacking and moving blocks can be a great muscle builder that also develops hand-eye coordination. You might need to help your baby, as your child may struggle with lifting or putting down objects at this point.Make sure the blocks are big enough that your baby will be able to grasp them.
Never give your baby small blocks. Anything small enough to fit in your baby's mouth poses a choking hazard.
 Drawing with crayons or markers helps your child develop muscle strength and learn hand-eye coordination.Most infants will only be able to grip writing/drawing instruments with their entire fist. This is normal; your baby's skills will be very clumsy at first.Buy large, thick crayons or markers for your child. Remember that your baby will only be able to grip the drawing instrument with an entire fist, so it needs to be easy to grasp.
 Playing in the sand can provide endless fun for young children. By providing simple tools like spoons, spatulas, cups, and cookie cutters, you'll be able to turn that play time into an opportunity to develop hand strength and a broader range of motion.If you don't have a sandbox at home you can bring these toys with you to the beach and have your child play on the shore.
You can also give your child natural materials to play with in the sand. These include large pieces of bark and branches that aren't sharp/pointy.
 Finger painting is a fun (though messy) activity. Kids enjoy creating colorful works of art, while the physical actions involved in finger painting help strengthen the muscles in each individual finger and promote hand-eye coordination.Be sure to provide paper for your child to paint on.
Put down plenty of newspaper to minimize the ensuing mess.
Encourage your child to paint by gently taking one hand, dipping it into a paint, and smearing it across the page. It may take some practice, but your child will eventually get the hang of it.
 Puzzles are a great way to teach your baby hand-eye coordination and spatial reasoning while also developing hand muscles. You can purchase simple, easy puzzles for infants at most toy stores or through an online retailer.Buy simple jigsaw puzzles that only have five or so large pieces.
Show your baby how to pick them up and put them into the frame.
Help your child figure out how to connect the pieces.

