 Trim deciduous and fruit trees when they are dormant, flowering trees after the blooms fade and evergreens during springtime or their growing season.;
, You'll need a handheld pruner and a larger lopping shears to trim branches that are small to medium-sized. For mature trees, you'll need a pole pruner to safely reach high branches and a handsaw or chainsaw to remove thick limbs.Wear eyeglasses in accordance with ANSI standards or risk your vision! You might also need a ladder.



Identify dead or diseased branches.
Look for crisscrossing branches that are making contact with each other or about to. When branches rub against each other, the resulting wound makes the tree more susceptible to disease.
Examine the tree for branches extending inward, rather than outward. These should be removed to avoid crowding, so sunlight can reach the leaves at the tree's interior.
Stand back and look at the shape of the tree. Identify any branches that make the tree look misshapen.
Look for branches that need to be removed to reduce the size of the tree. Limbs that are too close to the house should be removed. They can cause damage to the house when blowing in the wind as well as allow insects and animals to reach your house.
Branches that are below head height on more mature trees should be removed. This is called "raising the canopy."
Check for new growth along the trunk and main branches, called "water sprouts," and from the roots, called "suckers." This is known as epicormic growth and these branches are more susceptible to disease and breakage.
 This will help you to keep a natural shape to the tree.
 Do not cut the branch collar because this is where the tree will heal and close up the wound.
, If you want the tree to grow upward, rather than outward, cut an outward branch right below a side branch that stretches upward.
 Second make a cut on the top of branch outwards from the first cut. Make the second cut all the way through. The first cut prevents the branch from tearing the trunk bark. Lastly remove the stub above the branch collar, which is where it widens before reaching the trunk. This will allow a callous to form over the wound. If you make the cut flush with the trunk, it won't be able to heal properly and will be more susceptible to disease.( Some tree like pines need to be cut back all the way to the trunk)

