 After deciding the friendship is over, do not let your friend know with an email or text message.The best way to end the friendship is by talking about how you feel and what you want for the future of your friendship in person.


Find a time when you can both meet and ensure that your friend does not have anything planned after your meeting (like going to work or a family gathering), since ending friendships can take an emotional toll.
If you believe your friend might grow hostile or violent, do not meet them in person. Instead, write them a letter or an email explaining that you wish to end the friendship and provide your reasons for doing so.
If your friend refuses to meet you at all, write a letter to your friend expressing how you feel. Write the things you wish you could say to them. You do not have to send the letter, though you certainly can if you think your friend would read it., Explaining to someone that you’ve decided to no longer be their friend can be hard. The circumstances behind the dissolution of each friendship are unique. However, being honest and structuring the inevitable conversation in a logical way can help the process proceed more smoothly.


Open the conversation with an acknowledgment that you have -- at some point -- enjoyed being friends with the individual. For instance, say, “We’ve had some great memories together. Remember when we went camping at Big Bear Lake?” Use happy memories and reminisce together for a few moments.Move slowly into talking about the period in which the friendship started to decline. Frame it as a transition. You might say, “Ever since I started university, I feel that we have been moving apart.” Use passive terminology to avoid placing blame on your friend or yourself. Don’t beat them up verbally.
 Close your conversation with some resolutions. You could say simply, “I no longer feel that our friendship is in either of our best interests. Let’s avoid unnecessary pain and difficulty by ending our friendship amicably.” Shake hands with your friend and wish them well when your meeting has concluded.


Sometimes you can’t end a friendship on a good note. If the other person remains angry, hostile, and bitter about what you think or feel, or does not forgive you, tell them, “I’m sorry you feel that way,” or “I’m sorry I offended you.”Do not, however, compromise on your resolution to end the friendship just because they are angry or hurt.
Remember, you are in charge of your own feelings, not your friend’s. Even if your friend reacts in an immature or childish way, you should not. Stick to the high road.
 If, for whatever reason, you’ve decided to end your friendship, you should not feel guilty. When people grow apart, it is nobody’s fault. If one of your friendships ends, it does not make you a bad friend.


Don’t feel guilty for deciding that a friendship is over just because the friend has few other friends. You have to do what is right for you; sometimes that means deciding a friendship is over.
Try to think about it as an opportunity for you and your friend to make new friends.
 Now that you’ve decided the friendship is over, you have to live with that decision. Think about the good times you’ve had with your friend and understand that friendships -- or relationships of any kind -- can be temporary.People change! Don’t keep yearning for the friendship to fix itself, or wish that you could go back to do things differently.


Don’t try to “fix” or change your friend. Only they can change themselves.While it is normal to feel sad after deciding to end a friendship, you should not obsess over it or let the memory of it cloud your judgment. Remember, the friendship is over for a reason.
If you’re having trouble accepting that your friendship is over, talk to another friend or trusted family member about the situation.
If you and your friend part on a bad note, recognize that you cannot control what happened. Focus instead on your future. You don’t have to forget your friend, but you can’t live in the past.Look at each day as a chance to meet new friends.

