 When your memory changes, it will disrupt your life. You may notice yourself forgetting recently learned facts, forgetting important events, or not remembering dates. This will make your life harder or cause problems in your daily activities.


This may manifest in an increased need to write things down, rely on electronic devices to keep track of things, or have others remind you of important events and dates.
Your family and friends may call attention to these issues if you don’t notice them yourself.;
, When you experience memory problems, you may notice changes in your ability to do every day problem solving.This will likely affect your ability to follow through with a plan, develop solutions to problems, or concentrate on the task at hand


This may manifest as difficulty with paying your monthly bills, trouble playing a favorite game, or difficulty following recipes., When your memory starts to fail, your ability to follow through with your tasks at work and at home will start to diminish due to an inability to remember the things you need to do. At work, you may fall behind on your projects or stop fulfilling your work duties to the best of your abilities. At home, you may fall behind in your responsibilities or forget to take care of certain family tasks.


This can cause problems with your boss and coworkers or cause tension with your family., When your memory starts to go, you may start to lose things more often. You may misplace your keys more often than before, forget where you parked your car when you are out, or find where you left the stuff you use every day.


Doing this every so often is common, but if it becomes a continual problem, it may point to some sort of memory problem., Everyone forgets things from time to time, especially as people age. However, if you notice that it happens more often than before, especially if it is numerous times a week, your memory may be getting worse.


Keep a list of how frequently you forget things so you can evaluate it over time. Write down each time that you forget something that you typically should remember., Every memory lapse you have may not be a sign of memory problems. There are situations where lapses in memory are not a sign of a larger memory problem but are instead caused by situational issues. These situations include:


Starting new medication
Only you are worried about occasional slip-ups, but your family hasn't noticed a change in your memory
You’re overly stressed out