 Every antique once served a practical purpose. Think about what purpose that antique once served and choose a room in your house in which it would naturally belong based on that analysis.


For instance, a display of antique dishes and silverware would seem perfectly natural in a dining room but may appear misplaced in a spare bedroom. An antique quilt, on the other hand, would fit in with the décor of a bedroom or family room but might look odd in a dining room or kitchen.;
, The eye typically looks for blank wall space in square-like dimensions, but oftentimes, there are large patches of empty space that run in either a predominantly vertical or predominantly horizontal direction.


This primarily applies to antiques you'll hang on the wall, like platters and pictures. Many homes have sections of unused vertical wall space along stairways and near doorways that you can liven up with the right antique display.
 Antiques that can easily be damaged when knocked or handled should be kept in a protected area, but there are still ways to protect these collections while also keeping them on display.


Curio cabinets and similar glass display cases are probably the safest and most traditional option.
Tabletop terrarium boxes and heavy fish tanks are less conventional but equally safe. They also allow you to take advantage of spare space on a desk, shelf, or table.
A high shelf can work well enough for moderately fragile items that you want to keep away from kids and pets, especially if these shelves are kept in an area that sees very little foot traffic.
 Sturdier antiques that can withstand the occasional bump or tumble can be kept out in more visible areas, but it can still be a good idea to avoid placing them in high-traffic spots of the house.


Antique books, suitcases, candelabras, and durable statues are a few examples of objects that can usually be kept out of protected areas.
End tables placed in guest bedrooms or coffee tables placed in secondary dens are usually fairly safe options to consider. Shelves can also work well as long as you can keep kids and pets away.
 Many antiques can fade, dry, or otherwise take on damage when placed in direct sunlight for extended periods. Ideally, you should display your antiques in an area with relatively low amounts of light.This is especially important when dealing with antiques that have been dyed, painted, or otherwise colored. Examples of such objects include antique quilts, photographs, prints, paintings, and painted statues or pottery. The colors of these objects will fade when exposed to bright light.
 If you have multiple antique collections, consider arranging them in separate areas based on nature and original use. The items in any one area do not need to be the exact same, but they should be related to one another.


For example, various antique teacups can be arranged in one area, even if the individual teacups differ in design. You can also display the teacups with other dishes since the original function of both collections are similar enough to work well together. A collection of antique teacups would work less well with something completely unrelated, though, like antique sewing supplies, books, or tools.
 This can require a lot of creativity, but the end result may leave a stronger impact than a more conventional display would.


For example, antique toys and antique clothing may not have a direct connection with one another, but if the toys and clothes are from the same era, you can paint a picture of life from that era. That picture can be further enhanced by including other antiques of the same era in your display, including dishes, jewelry, tools, or figurines.
 Group like colors or coordinating colors together to avoid displays that clash. Keep the color of the room in mind when choosing where to place the antique collection, as well.


A strong visual impact can be created when you display a large group of antiques in a single hue, even if the exact shades vary.
The objects in your display do not need to match, but the colors should at least work well together. For instance, if the majority of your antiques have warm hues (reds, browns, oranges, yellows), a single blue piece placed among the rest may look out of place.
 Heavy, sturdy antiques can often be stacked on top of one another to save space and create some visual interest. Never place any item that could break beneath something heavier, though.


A few examples of antiques that can typically be stacked include suitcases, trunks, and books.
As a general rule, the heaviest objects should be placed on the bottom and the lightest should be placed on top.
 Antique paintings, prints, and photographs will need to be framed, but you have both convention and unconventional framing options to consider. Additionally, there are other small objects you may wish to frame that would not usually be framed.


Look at both vintage and modern frames when displaying antique pictures. The best styles will vary on a case by case basis.
Small antique pictures can also be placed in vintage glassware or beneath a heavy sheet of glass set over a modern coffee table.Vintage buttons and small pieces of jewelry can be framed over sample paint cards or similarly colorful backings.Vintage playing cards can be framed behind any glass surface.
Antique cookie cutters, pins, or similar items can be framed in three-dimensional shadow boxes., You can arrange antiques in clusters and groups, but avoid cramming too many objects into one space. Clutter generally looks bad even when it's neatly arranged.


You should be able to spot each individual piece when the entire collection is viewed from the front.
In addition to looking bad, clutter can also cause damage since it increases the risk of objects banging or wearing together.
 Since most antiques will need to be displayed out of direct sunlight, the display area may look a little dark. A safe way to bring more light into the space would be to position surfaces that reflect light behind and around the display.


Mirrors are the most common way to draw and reflect light. Antiques displayed on a shelf or in a cabinet can be placed directly on top of a large, flat mirror, or you can position one or more mirrors directly behind the objects on display.
Metal platters and trays are a less conventional option, but when polished well enough, they can reflect light just as well as mirrors would. This can be an especially great option to consider if you have antique platters mixed into a collection of other antique dishes.
 Your antique display does not need to consist entirely of antiques. When appropriate, weave in a few modern day items that work well in terms of theme, design, and color. The juxtaposition between old and new can create greater aesthetic appeal.


The modern items may serve as nothing more than a backdrop for your antiques. For instance, you could use new fabric to create a background for antiques displayed on a shelf, inside a frame, or inside a shadow box.
On the other hand, the modern items can be decorations that share the spotlight with your antiques. In this case, it's usually best to keep the antique items and modern items clustered separately within the same space. For example, for a display that combines vintage baseball cards with newer baseball cards, the vintage cards can be clustered together just above or beside the cluster of new cards, but both sets can share the same wall or shelf space.
 Try not to display any antique in a manner that stresses the material it's made from. If you notice some wear and tear on an item you've had on display for a while, change the display or put the item in storage.


For example, you should avoid hanging or draping an antique quilt. The weight of the quilt can cause the threads to break and fray. A better option would be to fold or spread the quilt out on a flat, relatively undisturbed surface., If you have multiple collections and plenty of storage space, it can be a good idea to swap out your collections from time to time. The collection you've had on display for the past six months can go into storage while the set of antiques you've had in storage during that time can then be put on display.


Make sure that your antiques are carefully packaged and protected when you place them into storage.
 As dust and other debris gets onto the surface of your antiques, you will need to clean the items in your collection. Make sure that you clean each antique in a way that will minimize the risk of damaging it.


For most antiques put on display, all you should really worry about is periodically removing the dust. Hard surfaces can be cleaned with a dust rag. Soft surfaces, like quilts and other fabrics, can be cleaned with a low-powered vacuum.
Be careful about “restorative” cleaning, though. Some antiques can decrease in value when you make repairs to them.

