 HAIR: For a Pink Jock, you want it out of the way but still glamorous. Most Pink Jocks will wear French braids, ponytails or messy buns with neon headbands and hair clips etc. Messy buns, at the moment, are particularly in style, and the higher you wear it on your head, the better. Pink Jocks are perky; every hairstyle you wear must be HIGH UP on your head. Think Whoville. Droopy, at-the-neck ponytails? So amateur. Blue Jocks want to be boys, so hair? Think boys. Short, shaggy and cropped. Hair accessories are a big no-no. Except for an exercise band that makes you look like Mikey's older brother from Goonies. If you have long hair and don't want to cut it or can't find a wig, then go for a messy bun. Ponytails and braids are way too girly for a Blue Jock.;
, Pink Jocks, wear sweatsuits. Preferably pink or purple ones. With sequins. And glitter. And gems. Sunglasses are an added bonus. If it's too hot for a sweatsuit, buy an off-the-shoulder pink T-shirt with someone like Katy Perry on the front and pair with pink knee-high sweatpants. Blue Jocks, your favorite jersey and a pair of shorts is the way to go.
 Something that doesn't require chipping nails. Blue Jocks, you like the more physical sports. Soccer, football, baseball. These are just suggestions; often they can be switched.
 Track shoes, tennis shoes, and Converse are the way to go.
 First of all, know what you're talking about. If you choose football, choose a favorite team like the Jets or the Bengals. Watch a few football games. Learn the names of different plays and what a Wide Receiver is. If you choose tennis, read books on Justine Henin and talk about her all the time as your role model. Most importantly, PLAY your "favorite sport" so you can know what you're talking about. Then...talk about it!! That sport is your life. What else IS there to talk about besides your sport?

, They'll probably know more than you do. If they DO mention something you don't know about your sport, DON'T ADMIT IT. A jock is extremely conceited and popular and knows everything. Just shrug and say, "Yeah, whatever," and shift the topic to something you do like. If they ask you a question you don't know the answer to, just say, "If you really knew the sport that well, you wouldn't need to ask such simple questions," and ignore them.

