 Set a total dollar amount that you and your partner are willing to spend. Be firm about sticking to that total amount (or go under it). You will inevitably find more fees and costs that you did not anticipate, so be sure to think through what you need to spend money on.


Aim to spend about half your budget on the venue, food and beverages.
Periodically review your budget as you plan. Of course you want to stay firm to your budget. But planning a wedding will mean you will have to adjust as you find out more information as you go along. Some expenses may be more expensive, or some things less so, or maybe you get help from friends and parents. ;
, There may be certain parts of your wedding that you feel you absolutely must have. You may be committed to a church wedding, for instance. Or you want your reception meal to be catered by your cousin. Talk with your partner to determine where you are both willing to compromise and where you are not going to bend., Are you financing the wedding yourselves, or will any family members be contributing to the overall budget? Many parents or other family members want to contribute money to a wedding. Determine who wants to give money and establish how much money it will be. Have a conversation about whether there are strings attached to accepting this money.


Some family members may want to chip in to pay for something specific, such as the photographer or the cake. This can be wonderful, but you can run into problems when everyone wants to dictate what you spend on certain aspects while often ignoring mundane expenses such as portable toilets for your wedding.
Be sure to give your benefactors reasonable and realistic estimates for their contribution, and respects any limits. Your grandmother may not realize how expensive a high-quality wedding cake is, for instance.
 Use a spreadsheet on your computer to make lists of different aspects of your wedding planning. This will make it easier to compare them for price and amenities, so you can see what the best deals are.This will also help you keep track of what to plan and when to complete tasks.

