 Maybe you tried to hold your girlfriend's hand and she did not want to. This can happen, but it isn't anything to get too upset over. Maybe she wasn't ready for it and it took her by surprise. It could be that she hadn't thought about holding hands before, and she needs some time to consider if she wants to. , After she tells you she doesn't want to hold hands, don't retreat or go silent. It may be that she isn't ready to hold hands or was taken by surprise. You don't want to make her feel bad for not wanting to hold hands.


Say something like: "That's ok, I just thought I'd ask". This will stop her from feeling bad or guilty.
You could also say: "That's fine, it's nice just to be with you". Saying this saves the situation from being awkward and shows her that no matter what, you care about her.
 You know the old phrase "It's not you, it's me?" Well, it really could be her! There are a lot of reasons why she could have rejected your offer, so try not to take it personally or as a reflection of your relationship. , Holding hands is often a sign that you are part of a couple. Are you public about your relationship? Maybe she didn't want to hold hands because she felt it was the wrong moment for your relationship to go public. Don't ask your girlfriend about your relationship status right after you try and hold her hand. That could make it seem like you are overreacting. If you feel comfortable having a conversation like that, choose another day to bring it up.
If you don't want to talk about it with her, take a minute to think about it yourself. Do your friends know about it, and have you appeared together at a dance or some kind of event where people saw you as a couple? Answering these questions to yourself can give you an answer about your relationship status.
 It could be that your girlfriend was taken by surprise and said no before she could think about it. It also is possible that she wants to hold hands, but she wants to be the one in control who initiates it. Keep the opportunity there by walking beside her when you're walking, or keeping your hands on the table when sitting.

