 You can purchase dust powder or bathing sand from a pet store. These may be for rabbits or chinchillas, but can be used for the hamster., Pick a container that is made of ceramic, but is fairly shallow. These containers should not be easily overturned. Fill the container enough to allow the entire animal space to roll in it. Allow the hamster a few minutes to roll around in the sand., Use a soft brush or clean Hold the hamster in one hand, or let a helper hold them rag. Gently dust off the hamster with the soft brush or rag.Avoid the eyes, ears, and mouth. Use quick, light strokes.
 Clean the dish out thoroughly with water, and towel dry it to make sure it’s completely dry before a later use.Use a fresh batch of dust or sand each time

, If brushing and bathing doesn’t improve your long haired hamster’s fur then you may resort to trimming. Avoid holding the hamster on its back while you do this. Keep it held in your hand or the hand of a helper. Use a small pair of scissors to trim just a little at a time from the matted fur.Trimming may even be preferable to the hamster
Feed the hamster a small piece of fruit or vegetable to keep it calm during the process.
 Get a shampoo specifically designed for hamsters or small pets from a pet store or pet aisle. Set some towels around to protect against splashing.Make sure you’re in an area you don’t mind getting wet like a sink or basin.
Wet baths are usually not a great idea for hamster’s as they can remove essential oils from the hamster’s coat.
 Use a soft grooming brush. Hold the hamster in one hand, or let a helper hold them. Pour a little of the shampoo onto the brush with some warm water. Work it into the hamster’s fur with brief light stokes.Avoid the eyes, mouth, and ears.
 Use a soft towel. You can cradle the hamster in the towel as long as the hamster has support, and feels safe. Make sure to gently pad down all of the hamster’s fur so it’s dry. Don’t be so rough you scrape the skin.If the hamster seems to be panicking or squirming then revert to the single hand-held method.
 Check for drafts. You want to make sure the hamster is not exposed to any cold air vents, wind, fans, or anything else that might make it cold while wet. You need to leave it in this warm place until its fur is completely dry.You might want to leave some rags, treats, and toys for the hamster to have while it waits.
 Use a pair of small human nail clippers or nail clippers designed for a pet such as a cat. Hold the hamster in one hand or the hand of a helper and clip the lower tips of the nails. You want to take extra care not to clip too far up the nail and risk clipping a blood vessel. If you trim the “quick” or blood vessel then you can use some baking soda on the area to help stop the bleeding.Usually a hamster wears down their toenails through digging and climbing, but if the nails are growing so long they harm the hamster’s ability to walk or function then you can try trimming them.
 Remove the hamster to a temporary holding area like a shoebox. Completely remove all bedding from the main cage into a trash bag or similar disposable container. Thoroughly cleanse the cage with water, and dry it with towels or paper towels. Once try replace the bedding with a less entangling material.Tangles can occur with paper bedding too, but this might be a slightly better option. Consider sawdust as a bedding material.
 You can buy chew toys from a pet store. You can also improvise some gnawing elements for the hamster by putting in a small piece of untreated wood or tiny untreated branch from a hardwood tree. These all need to be pesticide free. Hamster teeth, like that of other small rodents, grow continuously. Hamsters need something to gnaw on to keep their teeth at a comfortable length.
Trees that tend have good wood for hamsters to chew include aspen, oak, apple, and cherry.
 Do short cleaning sessions especially with the brush and bathing techniques first. Increase the time you spend cleaning the hamster’s fur for each session until you can get a complete cleaning and drying session performed.Matted fur can be a problem as the coat comes in later, but you want the hamster used to the cleaning routine early

