 In order to ensure you don’t forget any important items, you should make a list of everything you plan to take on your honeymoon. The list will help you organize your belongings and you can check things off as you pack them.;
, If you are traveling internationally you will need to have your passport and other travel documents, such as tickets for flights, hotel confirmation, and rental car information. You should also have your health card, credit cards, and travel insurance information.Take photocopies of important documents, like your passport, in case anything happens to the original.
 Your trip destination will determine the type of clothing you need to pack for your honeymoon. Consider the weather and activities you plan on doing, to help pack appropriate clothing. It can also be helpful to pre-plan outfits, to avoid over packing. Some essential clothing items, for a 7-10 day trip, may include:Shirts: 4 t-shirts or tank tops, 2 long sleeved shirts or sweaters, and 2 nicer tops for dinner.
Pants: 2 pairs
Shorts and/or skirts: 4 or 5 pairs
Underwear and socks: 7-10 pairs
Sleepwear: 1 or 2 sets
Swimwear: 1 or 2 bathing suits
Formal wear: 1-2 full outfits
Jacket: 1

, Shoes are bulky and take up a lot of room in your luggage. Try to cut down on the number of shoes you take, by packing shoes that work with lots of different outfits and activities. However, depending on your trip, you may need a few different shoe options. These could include:Casual walking shoes: 1 pair
Running shoes: 1 pair
Sandals: 1 or 2 pairs
Dress shoes: 1 pair

, Toiletries can add up, so make sure to use travel sized items when possible. This will help conserve some space in your bag. If you are tight for space, you can also purchase some items on your trip. You should consider packing the following toiletries:Toothbrush and toothpaste
Soap and shampoo
Hairbrush and hair supplies
Razor and shaving supplies
Deodorant
Cosmetics
Perfume or cologne
Sunscreen, aloe gel, and bug repellent
Medications - Asprin, antihistamine, antacid, antidiarrheal, any prescription medications, etc.
Birth control/condoms

, You will want to bring some form of entertainment to use on a long flight or to enjoy while lounging on the beach. You may want to pack:A book and/or magazine
A camera and charger
A music device, such as an ipod or phone, along with headphones and charger
A deck of playing cards
Sunglasses
Travel/guide book
Electric power converter/adapter
A hat, such as a baseball or sun hat.
A tote bag or small backpack, for taking to the beach or other day trips during the vacation.
 This is your honeymoon so you may want to pack a few items to help spice things up. Some options include:A formal outfit to wear to a nice dinner, such as a dress or suit.
New lingerie, sleepwear, or bath robes as a surprise for your partner.
Massage oils or lubricants.

