 There are German enthusiasts around the world. Many of them stay in touch and expand their knowledge through study groups and online forums. Joining one of these groups or forums can help you meet new people and quickly improve your German.Ask your local university or other German enthusiasts about groups who study or speak German together.
Consult online forums offered by organizations such as the Goethe Institute. Some may require registration or a subscription. This means that you may need to send an email stating why you’d like to join. You may also have to commit to participating regularly., You can improve your German and meet new people by trying tandem partnering. This is when two people who want to learn each other’s native language meet and talk or do other activities such as cooking or going to a café. Having regular meetings with your tandem partner can improve your German and your partner’s English.Look for tandem partners at student unions, international offices, and university language centers.
Find a local tandem partner using an organization such as Tandem Partners or Tandem Exchange., “Stammtisch” is the word for group of regulars or regulars’ table and is held at the same local restaurant or pub every week. Going to regular “meetings” can improve your German. It can also help you meet new people with similar interests.Other German enthusiasts or organizations such as Meetup and Italki can help you find a local Stammtisch.Set up your own Stammtisch if you can’t find one and know other people who would participate.
 Immersion is generally the best way to learn a language. If you are able, schedule a trip to one of the three countries that have German as their official language: Germany, Austria, or Switzerland. Once you arrive, only speak, read, listen to, and watch German. You may quickly see improvements in your German.Take a language course while you’re traveling. Organizations such as the Goethe Institute or Berlitz often offer one- or two week German intensive courses.
Recognize that some German speakers may speak English with you. They’re not being rude, but trying to help. You can say, “Thank you for your consideration. I’m trying to improve my German and would like to try this in your language. Could you please help me?”

