 Wet your hands with warm or cold running water. Lather your hands with soap for at least 20 seconds. Rinse off the soap thoroughly and dry your hands with a clean towel. This can prevent infections in your mouth.Use a hand sanitizer if running water and soap aren’t available.;
, If they’re available, put on a pair of latex gloves. You can often find them in first-aid kits. This can prevent the cut on your tongue from becoming infected.If you don’t have gloves, make sure your hands are thoroughly washed before putting them in your mouth.
 Gargle some water for several seconds. Focus your rinsing on your tongue. This can clear away blood and any possible debris in or on your tongue.Avoid removing anything stuck in the cut. Instead, seek medical attention., Use a piece of clean gauze or a clean towel and put pressure on the cut. Don’t remove it until the bleeding stops. If the bleeding doesn’t stop, continue to place new gauze or towels on the cut until it stops or you can get medical attention., Wrap an ice cube in a cloth. Place it on the cut and hold it there for a few seconds. This can constrict blood vessels and stop the bleeding. It can also ease any pain or discomfort you have.Remove the ice cube if it is very painful or gets too cold. This can prevent burns on your tongue.
 See a doctor if your tongue doesn’t heal on its own. You should also get medical attention if you have any of the following symptoms related to a cut on your tongue:Uncontrolled bleeding
Cut across the edge of the tongueGaping woundShockDebris in the cut
Pale, cold, or clammy skinFast or shallow breathing

, Use a non-alcoholic mouthwash twice a day. Concentrate the gargling on your tongue. This can kill bacteria, prevent infection, and promote healing.Avoid mouthwashes with alcohol. They can cause pain and discomfort on your tongue.
 Salt is a natural antiseptic that can kill bacteria. Mix one teaspoon salt with warm water and gargle it twice a day. This can promote healing and may soothe any discomfort on your tongue.Use a medical saline solution if you prefer this to salt water.
 Apply a thin layer of aloe vera gel directly on the cut and surrounding skin. This can quickly soothe any pain or discomfort you may have. Aloe vera can also help your tongue heal more quickly., Add the following to your diet to speed healing without increasing any discomfort :Oranges
Mangoes
Grapes
Blueberries

, During the healing process, eat foods that are soft. This can minimize pain and promote the healing process.Some examples of soft foods that may help healing and reduce discomfort include:Eggs
Ground and tender cuts of meats
Creamy nut butters
Canned or cooked fruit
Steamed or well-cooked vegetables
Rice
Pasta

, Salty, spicy, and dry foods can make the pain from a cut on your tongue even worse. Alcoholic and caffeinated drinks can also increase your discomfort. Staying away from these foods and beverages can promote healing and ease pain., Dry mouth can make any pain or discomfort on your tongue worse. Drinking a lot of fluids throughout the day can minimize pain and promote healing. It can also prevent unpleasant mouth odor.Drink warm water with a few drops of lemon or lime if this is more comfortable.
 You may have discomfort or swelling on your tongue.Taking pain relievers such as ibuprofen and naproxen sodium can ease your pain and minimize swelling. Follow dosing instruction given by your doctor or on the packaging.

