 The A1C test measures your blood sugar control over the past two to three months and aids in the detection of Type 2 diabetes and prediabetes.This blood test is not affected by recent food intake so you don’t have to fast before the test.;
, If your doctor has recommended an A1C test, she will give you a form detailing what test should be conducted. Bring the form to the laboratory you will be testing at.


You may also want to make an appointment for the test. Some laboratories or testing centers will take appointments, which should reduce the time you need to wait in line.
Be sure to use a laboratory that is the primary provider for your health insurance.
 The A1C test is a simple blood test that can be done by two different ways, either using a venipuncture or a finger prick test.During venipuncture, a needle will be inserted into a vein in your arm and blood is drawn into a test tube.
During a finger prick test, the tip of your finger will be punctured with a needle (lancet). The laboratory technician may also gently squeeze your finger to form a blood drop that she will then collect.
Once the blood is drawn, a sample is sent to the laboratory for testing

, The A1C test measures what percentage of your hemoglobin is coated with sugar, also called glycated hemoglobin. When your A1C level is higher than normal, it indicates a poor blood sugar control, which translates to a higher risk of diabetes.A normal A1C level ranges from 4.5 to 5.7% glycated hemoglobin. A 5% A1C level translates to 97 mg/dL (5.4 mmol/L) blood sugar level.Results ranging from 5.7 to 6.4% are considered to be in the prediabetic stage and indicates a higher risk for developing diabetes.
Results showing an A1C level of 6.5 percent or higher are considered diabetic.
If your results are positive for diabetes, your doctor may confirm the results with an oral or plasma glucose test (see below) and/or will initiate a treatment plan for you to begin.
 You should be aware that the effectiveness of an A1C test may be limited, including:Falsely low A1C may result due to a recent heavy or chronic bleeding, blood transfusion or if you have an uncommon form of hemoglobin or hemolytic anemia.
Falsely high A1C may result if your bloodstream doesn’t contain enough iron or you have an uncommon form of hemoglobin.
The normal range for A1C results may also vary among laboratories.

