 Teens who are considering suicide may demonstrate acting-out behaviors that are drastically out of character. They may also have an attitude of ambivalence or apathy. These behaviors may be self-destructive in nature like engaging in unprotected sex or drinking and driving. If you notice any reckless behavior in your teen that seems more pronounced than normal, take notice., Many teens who are thinking about suicide give warning signs such as a strange preoccupation with death. Your teen may write poems or songs about death or loss. They might be obsessed with films or TV shows that have undertones about death.

They might also be preoccupied with what happens after death, such as the afterlife.
 If your teen makes inferences about going away or seems to be saying “goodbye” to loved ones, they may have a plan to commit suicide. Other signs might include them giving their prized possessions away to siblings or friends, or simply throwing them away. They may even ask to visit all their relatives.This sort of behavior is common in teens who have a clear plan to harm themselves. Therefore, you should get your teen professional help right away to keep your teen safe. Also, avoid leaving your teen alone if you notice this behavior.
Other similar forms of the behavior might include refusing to make plans for the near or distant future, or refusing to commit to things.
 A teen who has made the decision to take their own life may totally drop out of the social scene. They no longer have an interest in hanging out with friends and try to skip family gatherings. If you notice a generally outgoing teen who starts to pull away from friends and family, this could be a warning sign., Another warning sign associated with teen suicidal behavior is an overall neglect of their lives. Teens who were once incredibly interested in their appearance no longer seem to care if their hair is unkempt and too long. Their grades drop significantly at school. They dodge extracurricular practice and make up excuses as to why they aren’t participating.