 Brush your hair to remove any tangles. If your hair is curly, you might want to finger-comb it instead, or brush it with a wide-toothed comb. This will help prevent it from getting too frizzy. If you have straight hair, curl your hair using your favorite curling method.









This style works well for both short and long hair.;
, You can also create a side part instead, but make sure that it angles towards the center-back of your head. You want your hair to be split evenly in the back.
 Leave the other side of your hair loose. This will make it easier to create the braids, especially if you have thick, curly hair that likes to get everywhere.
 If you plan on doing a Dutch braid (reverse French braid), cross the left and right strands under the middle one. If you plan on doing a French braid, cross the left and right strands over the middle one. You only need to braid for two cross-overs.









A Dutch braid sticks out of your hair. A French braid lays smoothly against your hair.
 Add a small strand of hair to the left and right sections before crossing them under







, You can tie it off now with a clear elastic or a hair tie that matches your hair color.If you have very long hair, you can continue normal braiding for a few more cross-overs before tying it off.
 Unclip the hair on the other side of your head, and make another identical braid. If you crossed the strands under last time, make sure that you cross them under this time around. If you crossed the strands over last time, then you need to cross them over this time as well.
 If you have naturally curly hair, you could shape the curls by wrapping them around your finger. Feel free to make one big curl, or several small ones. If you curled your straight or wavy hair previously, you may need to touch it up with a curling iron.
 For a more boho-chic look, you could muss up the hair at your temples to give it a wispier look. You could also tie pretty ribbons around the ends of your braids to hide the hair ties, or clip in cute hair accessories.








