 Grilling utensils, plates of uncooked food, marinades, seasonings, and more all need a place to go while you’re grilling, and not having a place to put them can be frustrating. Get a grill with sturdy shelves on the sides to satisfy this storage necessity., Being able to tell the temperature of the inside of the grill at all times is a big benefit. Meat is especially sensitive to temperature, so the more aware you are of it, the better the meat will turn out., A grill’s power is measured by how many British Thermal Units, or BTUs, of heat it produces. Frequently, BTUs increase along with grill size. If you’re only grilling for a few, you don’t need to worry as much about this, but it’s an important feature for large quantity grillers.A grill with 12,000 BTUs per burner has the capability of cooking a lot and cooking quickly., A grill cover is a worthy investment because it will lengthen the lifespan of your grill by protecting it from the elements.Go for an unlined vinyl, polyester, oil cloth, or weather-proof nylon cover.


Stay away from felt-lined and flannel-lined grill covers; mice and squirrels like to use the fabric as nesting material.
It is especially necessary to get a cover if your grill is made of stainless steel, because it will protect your grill from tarnishing., Having at least two burners allows you to have one off and one on. It’s better if you can get a grill with even more burners because this will allow you to have different heat zones, which may be useful when grilling several types of food at a time. Stay away from aluminum and cast iron burners because they rust and corrode easily., It can be very challenging to grill vegetables and certain types of seafood, such as shrimp, without having a few fall into the flames or onto the ashes. Getting this accessory along with the grill itself will keep that from happening., Especially if you’re a little new to grilling, think twice before splurging on smoke boxes, electric charcoal starters, and rotisseries. More often than not, these features cause more frustration than they’re worth.