 To make these ham and bread "pancake" sandwiches you will need the following items:


Bread
Ham (It doesn't matter what type you use)
Butter
A spread you like putting on your bread (Nutella, Peanut Butter, Jam, etc.);
, Get a slice of bread and grab a cup. If you don't want to waste bread, use a small glass or possibly a shot glass to make the circles. Push the cup down on the bread and twist it a few times and when you take it out of the bread a bread circle should be in the cup or on the plate/counter.
 Turn on your panini press and let it heat for at least ten seconds then smear a little bit of butter under your bread circles and drop them on. There isn't a problem if you hear a sizzle, it's just the butter melting around the bread.
 Get a slice of ham and fold in half or fold it so there is a little loop in the middle. When you've folded it, use a spatula or something you can pick it up with that has a flat surface and then drop it on your panini press with the bread circles. This is so the ham will become a little more crisp depending on how long you leave it on the panini press.
 When you've put the ham slice on the panini press, flip your bread slices but before you flip them, smear a bit of butter on the top and then flip it. After flipping it, leave the side to "cook" for at least 10-15 seconds depending on how crisp you want them.
 A few seconds after you flip your bread circles, flip your ham but before you flip them do the same thing with the bread circles and smear a little bit of butter on it. This will cause the ham to be moist and juicy.
 Smear a bit of butter on your bread circles again and then flip them. After flipping them, turn of your panini press so it can cool down and doesn't overheat. Don't worry, it won't immediately go cold, it will stay hot and cool nice and slowly.
 After it's been 10-15 seconds, turn your panini press on and flip your ham doing the same thing you did the first time you flipped them. Then flip your bread circles, again, smearing butter on top before you flip them.
 When it has been 10-15 seconds, turn of your panini press and put your bread slices and ham on a plate. Make sure to clean any stains with a cold cloth. The water will help with the panini press cooling down.
 Put your folded ham in the middle of your bread slices and spread your chosen topping spread on the top and eat!

