 This means "I don't understand." Pronounce it "juh-nuh com-prond pah". This is a good phrase to use if you are trying to hold a conversation with someone in French, but you simply don't know how to translate something that they just said. If you say it politely, odds are your conversation partner will be understanding.
 This translates to "I don't speak French."Pronounce it "juh-nuh pahl-pah frahn-say". This is a good way to politely inform people that you aren't equipped to hold a conversation in French. If you want to try to start a conversation with someone, however, you might just say "Je ne parle qu'un peu le français,"—"I only speak a little French." Pronounce it "juh-nuh pahl koon pay-oo le frahn-say".If someone stops you on the Paris metro and starts speaking aggressively to you in frenzied French, you might be able to turn them away by looking confused and saying "Je ne parle pas français."
If you're trying to impress your boyfriend's French grandparents, smile and sheepishly say "Je suis desolée—je ne parle qu'un peu le français."

, This directly translates to "Do you speak English?" Pronounce it "Par-lay-voo ahn-glay?"If you are learning French and you are still a beginner, you may come to a point at which communicated efficiently is a matter of safety or great convenience. Depending on where you are, you may or may not find someone who speaks fluent English—but this is still an important phrase to have in your arsenal.
 This means "I don't know this/that person/place." Pronounce it "Juh-nuh-conn-eye pah." "Personne (pronounced "pair-sohn) means "person". "Place" (pronounced "plahss") means, quite literally, "place".Add a specific person or place name to the end of the phrase to make it more specific. For example: "Je ne connais pas Guillaume," or "Je ne connais pas Avignon."

, This is an expression that means "I don't know what." Je ne sais quoi is an indefinable, elusive quality, usually positive and often descriptive of someone's personality. The phrase is often colloquially interjected into English speech. For instance: "The actress had a certain je ne sais quoi that immediately charmed everyone she met." Pronounce it "juh-nuh-say-kwa," and imitate a French accent if possible.