 A retiree can start collecting Social Security benefits at any age between 62 and 70. However, starting later means that the checks are larger. From a tax perspective, only 50 percent of your Social Security benefits count towards your income. This means that waiting to collect benefits until later could maximize your income while reducing your tax burden., You have several options for tax-free income in retirement. The first is municipal bonds from your own state. Interests from these bonds is typically not taxable at any level (local, state, or federal). However, capital gains or discounts on bond purchases related to these bonds may still be taxable. Losses recognized on the sale of the bond may be used to offset income or other capital gains in some cases.


Another tax-free option is taking advantage of the cash value of a life insurance policy. These may be tax-free if the policy follows IRS rules for tax-free distributions., Withdrawals on Roth accounts are tax free, because after tax income is used to add to the accounts.You can withdraw from the contributions in a Roth account at any time, tax and penalty free.
You can withdraw from the earnings after 5 years and age 59½, tax free and penalty free. Prior to these time limits, withdrawals of earnings are still tax free, but not penalty free.
 Mandatory Required Distributions (MRDs), are amounts from your retirement accounts that have to be withdrawn after you have held them for a certain length of time or you’ve reached a certain age.Traditional IRAs, 401(k)s, and Roth 401(k)s all have MRDs. With traditional IRAs, the MRD begins at 70½ years. The two types of 401(k)s have the same age requirement, with the exception that for people 70½ who are still working.If the MRD is not taken, the amount of the MRD is taxed at 50%.
 Taxable accounts include mutual funds, brokerage accounts, and any money realized from capital gains.Taking from these accounts late allows you to take advantage of the benefits of long term capital gains on your investments. Remember to keep assets as long as they are appreciating in value. Let profits run while cutting losses short.


You want to draw from these accounts first because the longer you live, the more you tap into your retirement savings, which diminishes them. At the end of life, you don’t want to see the money you use to live on taken by taxes.
These are called taxable because you invest in the account initially with post-tax income, and you pay whenever you receive the return on the investment. So if a credit union pays yearly dividends on a savings account, you have to pay taxes on those dividends each year.
Collectibles are taxed at a higher rate than other capital gains—as high as 28%--but that is still lower than the tax on earned income.
The distributions from 401(k)s and IRAs are taxed at ordinary income tax rates. Therefore, you can liquidate all or a portion of an account like a 401(k) or an IRA at the beginning of retirement, make a capital investment with the money, and then sell it off after a year. Even if you take a loss on the investment, the loss might be less than the difference in tax liability.
Capital gains taxes are progressively bracketed like regular income taxes, just at lower rates. Charles Schwab provides a full table.
 Traditional retirement accounts are taxed at withdrawal and include traditional IRAs and 401(k)s. IRA stands for Individual Retirement Account and a 401(k) is a retirement sponsored by your employer. These two account types are among the oldest and most popular types of retirement accounts to invest in. However, traditional accounts have few advantages for a retiree unless he or she has considerable taxable income. Since taxes are typically lower for a retiree with less income, a Roth account is almost always preferable to traditional accounts.You must retire, die, or turn 59 ½ in order to withdraw without penalty from a 401(k). There are hardship exemptions with some plans, and you can see a list of common ones at http://www.finra.org/investors/401k-hardship-withdrawals%E2%80%94understand-tax-bite-and-long-term-consequences


