 Some chemicals are known to negatively impact fetal growth. Furthermore, some activities--like heavy lifting or performing x-rays--are known to be dangerous for pregnant women. If you’re in a job with dangerous conditions, you should ask to be shifted to other duties (not involving chemicals handling, heavy lifting, or x-rays) for the duration of your pregnancy and lactation.If you work in an industry that handles chemicals, find out immediately what is safe for you to be around and what is not.
Look into your legal rights and be sure that your workplace is not violating them.;
, Try to make your work experience as comfortable as possible. If you'll be sitting, choose a comfortable chair. If you'll be standing (in one spot), add an additional mat under your feet. If you'll be at a computer, aim to create an ergonomically correct workstation. If you need to grab or pick up items (for instance, in retail work), consider using a "grabber arm" in order to avoid excess bending., Talk to your employer about implementing any reasonable accommodations that will help you to work more comfortably. If you are comfortable, you'll be able to work more effectively and stay at work later into your pregnancy. Review your employee handbook and/or state/province/country guidelines to find out what rights you are entitled to.For example, you might need to run to the restroom more often that the average employee. You might say, "Can we make a plan to manage times when I need to step away?"
If you need more breaks/snacks, you could say, "Would it be possible for me to take shorter breaks more often, instead of a long lunch?"
If you need some time off work for doctor's appointments, you could say, "I need to schedule my doctor's appointments during business hours and these can conflict with my work schedule. I thought maybe we could work together to find the best times before I made official appointments."

, Even if your "regular" clothing still fits, it may press on your body in uncomfortable ways. You can help ease any discomfort and feel cute by wearing specially-made maternity clothes. You may also need to change your footwear. Choose shoes that cushion your feet, while allowing room for swelling.Dressing in layers can also be a good way to cope with hot flashes!

