 Buddhism, Confucianism, and Taoism are the main influences of Taekwondo.Each one of these religions teach people to be altruistic, to help their fellow man, and to avoid needless conflict.Korean Buddhism is a strain of the Mahayana tradition and dates back to the 4th century. It stresses thoughtful contemplation and the recognition of suffering. The Buddhist insistence on non-violence is probably its most profound influence on Taekwondo.
Confucianism made its way into Korea gradually around the 3rd-2nd century BCE. Confucianism is often considered to be as an ethical and philosophical system more than a religion. Its main tenets stress the importance of family and respect for others. The stress on respect in Taekwondo, in part, owes to Confucianism.
Taoism has had the least influence on Korea and Taekwondo out of the three intellectual systems. It first spread in Korea around the 8th century. Yet, its respect for nature and focus on thoughtful meditation have influenced and reaffirmed basic principles in Taekwondo.;
, They are courtesy (Ye UI), integrity (Yom Chi), perseverance (In Nae), self-control (Guk Gi), and indomitable spirit (Baekjul Boolgool). Professional Taekwondo martial artists take these principles very seriously., Discipline means practicing your craft constantly, but it also means only using your martial art techniques in situations that call for it. Don’t be quick to fight. Find non-violent means to resolve conflicts.


Truly great Taekwondo marital artists are dedicated to their practice. They practice their techniques and study Asian philosophies on a regular, if not daily, basis. If you want to be a great Taekwondo martial artist, you'll need to show the same level of dedication.
 Taekwondo teaches its practitioners to avoid idleness, which breads boredom and contempt. Have goals for yourself and persevere in those goals.


Find goals that benefit you and your community as a whole. While Taekwondo is not an evangelical movement, it does encourage its practitioners to set a good example for others and to be able to spread its message of discipline and peace.
 Taekwondo teaches you to avoid conflict whenever possible. This starts with your manners. If you enter a situation and immediately insult/offend someone, you’ll invite conflict. Be calm and respectful to everyone. Courtesy and mutual respect are central tenets of Taekwondo.

