 You don't need to immediately say a well-rehearsed line. Position yourself close to your partner's ear.Once your intimacy has progressed, try saying something like this softly into their ear:


"Mmmmmm"
"Ohhhhh"
"Yes"
"Ahhhh";
, You're merely saying one or two words that will increase the dirty talk. You could whisper these into your partner's ear or even try saying them with a moan:"Keep going"
"Wow"
"Faster"
"Deeper"
"Don't stop", Once you've become comfortable saying simple sounds or easy phrases, you're ready to use full on phrases. Both long and short phrases are effective and really vary on people and the situation.If you are still unsure what you should say, try some of these out:


"You feel so good"
"I want to feel you deeper"
"I want to be yours"
"I wish you could do that all night!", Just say what you're feeling, what you're doing, or what you're experiencing in that moment.As you start speaking dirty in the bedroom, try to avoid crude terms until you have a good idea of how your partner will respond., After the act, take some time to go over what worked and what didn't. You won't be an expert instantly, so you'll need to give your partner and yourself time to discuss your turn-ons and turn-offs. The best time to talk about these is right after sex, when both of you are relaxed and want to be close., If you are feeling the urge, just whisper to your partner during sex, "talk dirty to me." You may find that even this phrase will spice up the action. There is also a chance that your partner is turned on by this invitation and could really move things forward., Many couples will initiate foreplay with speaking dirty to one another. You could call your partner on the phone and tell them how you're excited to see them and drop a simple line like, "I'd like to kiss and nibble your neck."Catching your partner off guard with dirty talk could lead to an exciting night.
 Changing the way you say something in order to release what you are feeling can elevate both of your moods. Whether you scream, whisper, or moan, release whatever you're feeling. Respect your partner and be careful not to put them out of their comfort zone.