 To determine how much you want to spend on a drum set, assess its desired application. A drum set used by an introductory student can be had on the lower end of the price spectrum. A set used for a recording session, however, might warrant a larger budget, as the quality and tone of the drums will be under greater scrutiny.;
, While buying online is a very good option, the downside is that you must purchase drums without having played them first. To remedy this, visit a local music shop to demo several of their drum sets in person. Most shops will allow you to play the drums right in the store; if you are new to drumming or buying the set for someone else, you can ask an employee to demo the set for you.


Physical stores will have a limited selection of drums compared to online retailers. Even if you cannot demo a specific kit in person, you can get an idea of the kit's quality by playing other kits by the same manufacturer.
 There are many online retailers that specialize in musical instruments; some of the major ones are Musician's Friend, Sam Ash, and Casio Interstate Music.


Make sure to compare each drum set in which you're interested across multiple retailers. Check for differences in price and shipping charges.
Read customer reviews for each drum set to assess whether the set will meet your needs.
 After deciding on a drum kit to purchase, read about the store's return policy carefully. Because of their weight and size, drums are very expensive to ship. Look for stores that offer free shipping for returns or exchanges, in case you aren't happy with your purchase or receive a defective kit. Retailers with physical stores will often allow you to make exchanges at the store even after buying online.
 If you are buying your first drum set, you will need cymbals and a few accessories. At the minimum, you need a ride cymbal, hi-hat cymbals, cymbal stands for both, a snare drum stand, and a bass drum pedal. Purchasing these along with your drum set may save you money on shipping.

