 Simply gargling with salt water can sometimes alleviate the symptoms of a sore throat. Salt water mixed with warm water can be a soothing to the back of the throat.


Mix a cup of lukewarm water with about a tablespoon of salt. Mix the salt in until it's dissolved and the water looks milky.Gargle with the salt water about 30 seconds and then spit into the sink. Repeat as needed as symptoms persist.;
, Dry air can be the cause of a chronic sore throat. If you're living and sleeping in a dry environment, your throat can dry out and become sore. Try using a humidifier and see if symptoms improve.


You can purchase a cool air humidifier online or at a department store. Try using this in your home or bedroom to humidify warm, dry air.You can also humidify by simply sitting in a steamy bathroom for several minutes for once a day. See if this results in any improvement in symptoms., Throat lozenges can be purchased from most drug stores. Depending on the type, they contain ingredients to numb the throat and soothe pain. If your sore throat has been bothering you for awhile, considering trying lozenges.


You should not give lozenges to small children as they pose a choking hazard. Also, certain medications contained in the lozenges might not be healthy for young children.Lozenges tend to be most effective for mild pain. If your pain is severe or your you have other cold-like symptoms, try over-the-counter medication over lozenges., Make sure to stay hydrated if you have a sore throat. This can help diminish symptoms of a sore throat and prevent further complications.


Opt for high quality fluids. Go for soup broth, water, and whole juices without added sugar. Overly sugary or carbonated beverages can further irritate a sore throat.If your sore throat is accompanied by a fever, you especially need to drink water. Fluid requirement increases when the body is sick.Hot teas, especially those with ginger and lemon, can be particularly good for the throat. Try adding honey, as it has antibacterial products that can eliminate viruses that cause sore throats and other flu and cold like symptoms., If you have a sore throat, you may have a virus, cold, or flu. Bed rest is important. Avoid rigorous physical activity, such as exercising, and try to get more sleep. If it's possible, stay home from school or from work until symptoms pass., A sore throat is usually not cause for concern. Most sore throats are caused by mild infections that will pass on their own. When tackling a sore throat medically, opt for over-the-counter medications first.


Painkillers, like Tylenol and ibuprofen, can effectively treat the pain that accompanies a sore throat.A chronic sore throat may be caused by congestion, especially if it's allergy season. Look for a decongestant or nasal spray. Use as directed and see if it makes a difference in regards to pain and discomfort.If your sore throat is caused by reflux over gastrointestinal issues, an over-the-counter antacid might help alleviate symptoms., A sore throat should generally clear up on its own. If your sore throat lasts longer than three or four weeks, you should make an appointment with a doctor to evaluate the cause.


Your doctor will ask you about your medical history and lifestyle. Certain chronic conditions, like thyroid issues, as well as habits, like smoking, can lead to soreness in the throat. To prepare for your appointment, write down all symptoms you have, your general lifestyle, and any existing health conditions.Your doctor may prescribe medication the day of your appointment if he or she can easily identify what is causing your sore throat. However, if the cause is unclear further testing and possible blood work will be needed. Your doctor may do a throat swab, where the doctor runs a sterile swab over the back of your throat and sends it to a lab for testing. He or she may also complete blood count or an allergy test., Antibiotics may be necessary in the treatment of a sore throat. If your sore throat is caused by a bacterial infection, your doctor will probably prescribe a round of antibiotics.


Penicillin, taken by mouth for five to 10 days, is the most common round of antibiotic treatment. If you have a penicillin allergy your doctor might have to find an alternative.Take the full round of medications, even as symptoms improve. Do not drink alcohol while on antibiotics as this diminishes their effect. If you forget to take a dose, call your doctor or pharmacist and ask how to proceed with the meds., Thrush is a yeast infection in the lining of the tongue and mouth. Thrush can occur in children and young adults, usually if you have a compromised immune system due to chronic health conditions. This can cause a chronic sore throat. If your doctor feels your sore throat is caused by thrush, he or she might prescribe antifungal medications.


Antifungal meds can be taken as a pill, spray, mouthwash, or lozenge. Your doctor will determine the best form for you.Usually, thrush is accompanied by white sores in the mouth and difficulty swallowing. A doctor can usually diagnose thrush by examining your mouth. However, they may need to look at mouth scrapings under a microscope to confirm., A sore throat is usually curable and not a sign of a serious illness. However, a chronic sore throat can point to several more serious health complications.


Glandular fever, better known as mono, is a viral infection with symptoms that can last up to six months. Fatigue, fever, and other cold like symptoms accompanying a chronic sore throat could mean you have mono.In rare cases, a chronic sore throat could be the sign of various types of mouth cancers. This is why it's important to have a sore throat lasting longer than three weeks examined by a doctor.If you are HIV positive, you need to get a chronic sore throat examined as soon as possible. This can be a sign of a serious, possibly life threatening condition.If your tonsils are large enough that they frequently become infected, your doctor may recommend a tonsillectomy to correct the problems. This means your tonsils will be surgically removed., Tobacco smoke is one of the biggest culprits when it comes to a chronic sore throat. Cigarette smoke is a well-known irritant to the eyes, nose, mouth, and throat. If you smoke or live with a smoker, limiting your exposure to tobacco can help ease symptoms of a chronic sore throat.


If you smoke, try cutting back or quitting. Not only can smoke cause irritations like this, it can also lead to serious health complications down the road. Talk to your doctor about making a plan to quit smoking and consider joining a support group, either online or in person.If you live with a smoker, try to separate their smoking from your home. Require that smoking be done outside at a reasonable distance from your home., Muscles in the throat can be strained, as can arms and legs. If you work a job or engage in hobbies where you're yelling or talking for long periods, this can cause chronic sore throat. Make sure you take a few days a week to rest your vocal chords and minimize verbal communication. Also, strive to stay hydrated throughout the day if you must use your voice often., Allergies can cause a chronic sore throat, especially during seasonal changes. Try to identify any potential allergens and limit your exposure to them.


If your sore throat usually comes at a certain season, you may be allergic to something in the air. Staying in more often can help. You might also want to invest in over-the-counter allergy medications.If you're not sure what's causing an allergic reaction, talk to your doctor about taking an allergy test.If your sore throat came on suddenly, consider any new products you're using. New dental products or unusual foods could be potentially allergens causing your throat irritation. Cease use and see if symptoms improve.