 Focus entirely on what your boss is saying. Listen attentively and remain silent while your boss is speaking, except for occasionally asking a clear, constructive question.Avoid responding immediately. Instead, practice reflective listening by periodically paraphrasing what your boss says, which will reduce potential for miscommunication and show them that you’re engaged in the conversation.Encourage a cooperative conversation by refraining from using silence to form your next point, which can make the conversation seem competitive and put your boss on edge. Instead, be in the moment and adapt to the natural nuances of the conversation., Asking open questions will allow you to approach the conversation with a cooperative, rather than a competitive, mindset. Questions that start with the 5W’s (who, what, where, when, why) or with “how” can lead to thoughtful responses. Questions that start with “should,” “is,” or “would” can lead to limited responses.Remember that the goal is to ask questions that show you are paying attention and are thinking critically about the information your boss is conveying to you.
Refrain from asking “multiple-choice” questions. In other words, don’t ask an open question like “What’s the best way to present this information?” and follow it up with potential answers like “Is it PowerPoint, Word, Prezi?” You want to give your boss the opportunity to think and respond mindfully, as this will allow you to learn the most from your interaction., Active listening, and in turn a comfortable conversation, will involve leaning slightly forward, nodding occasionally, and making eye contact. Refrain from fidgeting or adopting closed body positions like crossing your arms., Doing this every so often can make your boss feel that their input is appreciated. More importantly, it shows that you value their opinion. It can also allow them to see you collaboratively work out a solution to a problem or question., Your boss will likely appreciate being asked how their weekend was, so be the one who does the asking. Go to lunch with your boss if possible and inquire about their interests and hobbies outside of work. Building rapport is an essential part of building strong interpersonal relations, so start today.At the same time, limit the amount of personal details you give out. Be friendly, but remember that your boss is not your friend. Whereas brief, non-work related updates are acceptable and even encouraged, refrain from providing lengthy descriptions of your weekend or explaining to them everything you do with your free time.
 Your boss is in their position because of a combination of expertise, training, and experience. Part of your job expectation is to be respectful to them. You can do this by maintaining a courteous tone, listening attentively, considering your boss’ point of view, and remembering your role prior to your interactions so as not to overstep your bounds.


You can still constructively disagree with your boss. A respectful disagreement will involve being clear, focused, and calm instead of confrontational or apologetic. Don’t embarrass or make demands of your boss, and choose the right timing - for example, ask for a meeting when you know your boss won’t be busy., You can do this by avoiding participating in office gossip, being on time, dressing professionally, and staying focused on your job so that you can meet deadlines.