 It shouldn't be too hard to find most of these materials at a craft store or general retailer. However, if you don't have a spare picture frame on hand, you can usually purchase one inexpensively at thrift and secondhand stores. You'll need:


Adhesive hooks (several)
Angel ornament
Christmas lights
Christmas stockings

Christmas wreath (small size)
Fishing line (or similar transparent line)
Picture frame (large size; empty)
Tape (optional; clear kind preferred), Wrap the picture frame entirely with your Christmas lights, but leave enough of the string to either side of frame so the lights can extend to both edges of the mantel. Excess length can be draped down the mantel sides.


Make sure you leave enough length to connect your lights to a power outlet. You may have to use an extension cord.
Your lights, if tightly wrapped, may stay in place without a fastener. However, to ensure your lights remain in place, you may want to attach them with a few pieces of clear tape.
 Take an adhesive hook and attach it to the top-center of the frame. From this hook, hang your angel ornament on a long piece of fishing wire so the angel hangs in the center of the frame. Then, add your small wreath to the same hook to hide the hook from view.


You can hang any decoration or ornament you desire from the center of your frame., You should be able to stably lean your picture frame against the back wall behind your mantel. However, in some cases, you may want to put a heavy object, like a snow globe, nutcracker, or a similar item in front of both bottom corners of the frame to keep it in place.Be careful not to move the frame too suddenly. This can cause the hanging decoration to move erratically, and could cause damage to it.
 You may be able to hang your stockings from the decorations holding your decorative frame in place, but you could use adhesive hooks. Hide these behind decorations, like lights, decorative pine cones, trains, snow globes, and so on, then hang the stockings from the hooks.

