 Even though APGAR refers to the designer's name, it can also be used as an acronym: "APGAR" can stand for appearance (skin color), pulse, grimace response (reflexes), activity (muscle tone), and respiration. This test is used to measure the overall well-being of the baby by looking at the major indicators of wellness., The first category is appearance. In this part of the test, the medical staff will look at the baby's skin color. The skin color can indicate whether the baby is receiving enough oxygen or not.A zero in this category means the baby is blue all over.
A one means the baby is mostly a healthy color but may be bluish at the hands and feet.
A two means the baby is a healthy color all over, including pink at the hands and feet.
 The next category on the APGAR test is heart rate. A nurse, doctor, or midwife will check for the baby's heartbeat. The medical staff will also determine the pulse rate to see how the baby is thriving.If the baby doesn't have a heart rate, the score is zero.
A score of one indicates a heart rate under 100 beats per minute, which is not quite as fast as it should be.
A score of two indicates the baby's heart rate is over 100, which means the baby is thriving in this particular category.
 The grimace response is how the baby reacts to mild stimulus. For instance, the baby may be lightly pinched to see if the baby responds a lot or if it doesn't respond at all to the stimulus.A zero indicates no response.
A one means the baby pulls a face (grimaces) but doesn't sneeze or cough.
A two means the baby pulls a face and either cries, pulls away, sneezes, or coughs in response.
 Next comes a check of muscle tone. Muscle tone just measures the baby's activity to see if it is moving around on its own. An active baby indicates that they are doing well.A zero indicates the baby is limp or not moving much at all.
If the baby is given a one, it means they are moving with smaller or less active motions, but they are not as vigorous as the doctor would prefer.
A two means the baby is actively moving around.
 The last category on the APGAR test is breathing. A person on the medical staff examines the baby to see how they're breathing, then assigns a number to the breathing effort from zero to two based on what they observe.A zero means the baby is not breathing, while a one means the baby has irregular breathing.
A two means is the baby is breathing just fine, which usually means the baby is both breathing and crying with normal effort and at a normal rate.
 The score from the APGAR is generally taken as a whole rather than in individual categories. In other words, all the scores from each category are added together to get one number. The best possible score is ten, which means the baby is doing as well as they can be. However, most babies don't score a ten at birth.A score from seven to ten means the baby will just need standard care.
If the score is under seven, the baby will need more monitoring and possibly interventions, such as help breathing., While a low score may seem scary, it usually doesn't mean the baby will have long-term health effect. Rather, it just means the baby needs a little extra care right after birth to help stabilize their health.Certain factors can cause the APGAR score to be lower. Often, it's caused by a C-section, premature birth, or a birth that's a bit more difficult than other births. A low score can also be caused by fluid in the airway.
 If the baby has a low score, generally one of two things will happen. With the first intervention, the baby's airway will be cleared out if it has fluid, and the baby will be given oxygen. A second option is the baby may be given stimulation to get the heart beating more rapidly.Keep in mind that if these basic interventions do not work, the medical team will do whatever is necessary to improve the baby's condition. This can vary based on the causes of the score.
 Generally, the baby will be placed somewhere warm while the test is performed. That can either be on a parent's belly or under a warmer. Keeping the baby warm is important., As the name implies, the one-minute test is performed a minute after the baby leaves the mother's body. It tells the medical staff how well the baby did during the birthing process and accesses the baby's need for assistance., The five-minute test, as it sounds, is given five minutes after birth. This test is the same as the one-minute test, but it's given to measure how the baby is doing out in the world (out of the womb).This test also helps evaluate whether any interventions are working., While the test is usually just performed twice, it may be given a third time if the baby has a low score. Usually, it's given at the ten minute mark to see if the baby has improved any from the five-minute test.