 When riding an Icelandic you should follow the basics of English style riding.Sit up straight and hold the reins in both hands. You should be able to draw a straight line down your side from your ear, to your shoulder, to you hip and then down to your heel. On each side, the stirrup should be at the ball of your foot. Your heels should be pointing down, and your toes pointing up.


Hold your hands around six inches above and in front of the saddle’s pommel.
Hold the reins with your thumbs up, and try to keep your hands steady.You can apply a little pressure with your legs to get the horse moving forward.
 Once you have him walking nicely, you can apply a little extra pressure with your legs and heels to bring him into a trot. You can either go for a sitting trot or a rising (or posting) trot. Try to relax your elbows and keep your hands steady. If you’re trying a rising trot, move in and out of saddle in rhythm with your horse’s trot. Don’t try to move too far out of the saddle, or make an exaggerated movement, instead try to make a slight forward thrusting movement with your hips.


For a sitting trot, the key is to relax and stay relaxed.
Don’t allow your legs or back to tense up. This can be difficult if your horse has a bouncy trot, but comes with practice and experience.
Tensing up will make your horse think you want to go faster, and will also make the ride more uncomfortable for both of you., To bring him into canter from trot, move your leg on the side you want him to lead the canter from backwards slightly. Keep your other leg in the normal position. Sit up straight and give him a gentle squeeze or small kick to move into canter.


Don’t hold the reins too tightly, and try not to tip forward in the saddle.
If you do, you may bring him back into trot.
Keep your elbows relaxed, and allow your hands to move forward and back in rhythm with his bobbing head.
Keep your back relaxed and supple, and let your hips rock with the horse’s movement.In Iceland, canter and gallop are consider one gait.