 Harry needed to go to Diagon Alley for his wand, but you can create your own at home. For this project, you will need a 15” bamboo cooking chopstick, brown acrylic paint, a foam brush, a hot glue gun and glossy spray sealant.Use the hot glue gun to carefully dribble glue on the bottom third of the chopstick to create the wand’s handle. Use between 1 – 2 glue sticks to make the handle extra thick.
The handle should look thicker than the rest of the wand, but other than that can be decorated however you'd like.
After the glue is dry, paint the wand.
After the paint is dry, apply a coat of sealant to all sides of the wand.;
, You don’t need to catch a Golden Snitch on the Quidditch pitch if you can make your own at home. For this project, you will need a ping pong ball, a thin piece of cardboard, a marker, a glue gun, scissors and gold spray paint.Use the marker to draw two wings on the cardboard. Snitch wings should be small enough to attach to your ping pong ball.
Use scissors to cut out the wings.
Carefully dribble hot glue on the ping pong ball to create an intricate design of your choosing.
While the glue is still hot, affix the wings to either side of the ping pong ball.
Apply two coats of spray paint to the ping pong ball and wings.
Hot glue a piece of string to the top of the Snitch and hang it from your Christmas tree.
 Hermione used her Time Turner to take additional classes and now you can make your own version at home. For this project, you will need gold spray paint, wire, 3 different sized key rings, a hot glue gun and some small beads.Take two small beads and thread them through the wire. Hot glue gun the beads so they are affixed to the center of the wire.
Thread the wire through the smallest key ring, so the beads are positioned at the center of the key ring.
Thread the wire through the middle key ring, so the beads and small key ring are positioned in the center of the middle key ring.
Wrap some excess wire around the middle key ring to hold it in place.
Thread the wire through your largest key ring, so both smaller key rings and the beads are positioned in the center.
Wrap some excess wire around the large key ring to hold it in place.
Spray paint the Time Turner gold.
Allow the Time Turner to air dry for 25 minutes, before removing any excess wire.
 Every year, Harry had to shop for new textbooks for his classes, but you can make your own very easily. For this project, you will need some old books (preferably old textbooks), craft paper, a printer, glue and a photo editing software, like Photoshop.Measure the front, back and binding of your book. Design covers for your book in Photoshop that are the same size as the front, back and binding of your book.
If you don't feel comfortable using Photoshop, look for Harry Potter book templates online. Make sure to resize them so they fit your book.
Cut your craft paper down to 8 1/2" x 11" and print your designs onto the paper.
Attach your printed designs to your book using glue or tape. Cut any excess paper off your book and display your book on a shelf or mantle.

