 Henry Rollins says that dressing up for him when he was the singer of Black Flag, one of the most respected hardcore bands of all time, meant putting on a black t-shirt and black pants. Traditional hardcore was the music of the working class and was spawned in direct response to the popularity of New Wave and traditional punk music in the late 70s. Hardcore is heavier and more aggressive than other strains of punk rock and the attire should reflect that.


While contemporary hardcore style is much bigger and includes elements of emo, goth, and hip-hop clothing, it's important to understand that identifying as "hardcore" is a loaded thing. You need to understand the history and significance of that term.
 Artillery-style work pants, work boots, and close-cropped haircuts all signify traditional hardcore culture. Black Flag practiced with military-like precision and work ethic, and hardcore music often uses military imagery as part of its aesthetic and style.


There's a lot of crossover between British-style "Oi" punk fashion and early hardcore style. Shaved heads, leather and denim jackets, and tight-fitting jeans could be considered common hardcore styles as well.
 Traditional hardcore bands like Bad Brains, DOA, Black Flag, and Minor Threat will be your go-to music. Featuring a heavy, repetitious groove and aggressive, politically-conscious lyrics, the music often sounds like "metal" to the uninitiated listener. Contemporary hardcore bands with a classic sound like Converge will also be up your alley. Research the earliest hardcore sounds and check out the forefathers of the genre., More than any other music or scene, hardcore is defined by DIY attitudes, styles, and opinions. Some hardcore members are extremely liberal in their politics and some are conservative and Christian. The scenes are united in their celebration of individual spirit. Hardcore scenes exist on the local level, with bands passing out fliers and putting on shows in loft spaces and all ages locations without the support of promoters or labels. This kind of attitude is at the center of hardcore.


Make a habit of going to hardcore shows in your area and meeting other members of the community. Learn about the local hardcore bands and make connections.
Adopt the philosophy that you're not going to get any help in this world. If you don't do something yourself, it won't get done, says that hardcore way of thinking. Get out there and start creating. Whether it be starting a band, getting that new job, or taking an alternate direction in life, hardcore philosophy makes it necessary for you to do it yourself.
 The Minor Threat song "Straight Edge" was not written with the intention of starting an anti-drug, anti-meat movement, but it had that effect. Many members of the hardcore community are also "straight edge," which means they abstain from alcohol, tobacco, and recreational drug use. Occasionally, straight edge practitioners will also avoid eating meat and having casual sex. Edgers are often quite militant in their beliefs.


Straight edge hardcore people will sometimes signify themselves by wearing an "X" on their jacket, or on the back of their hands with marker.