 Without proof, you can claim to be virtually anyone. Going off of what you know is a good idea; it's tough to pretend to be a biologist when you know nothing about the field.;
, Some things you will want to include are:

Name
Gender
Age
Birth date
City (including ZIP codes)
State
Country
Appearance (Eye color, hair color, weight, height)
Personality traits (likes, dislikes, general attitude)
Background information (parents, siblings, pets, relationships, school)

,, A notepad file stored somewhere on your computer is good.
 Keep in mind that if you're doing this in a community where moderators actively check who you are and you're trying to start over, your real identity may be discovered.


Consider just apologizing, and pretending you are a new person; turning over a new leaf, if you will.
 Always check and double check what you're saying to make sure you're not jeopardizing your identity and that it is on par with who you are claiming to be.
 It doesn't have to be a big change, but enough so that you can be yourself without people knowing who you are. Vocabulary changes, attitudes, and grammar can affect who people see you as. Take these different posts for example; they all say basically the same things, but in different ways:


"man dats bunk dude. i mean really dats sum major bull rite there. you wanna know what i think? he should be locked the heck up"
"Wow. I can't believe that... That's not right. I think he should be thrown in jail."
"Well, I am astonished to hear that. What this man did was unbelievable, and in my opinion, he should be sent to prison."

, This is a vital part of keeping the identity up; if you tell people different things, soon you will forget who heard what story and eventually you will slip up and it will all come out.
 Some things you need to keep updated would be age, relationship status, hairstyles, weight, and other things as you see fit.
 This is necessary, because unless you are willing to use real pictures (which really contradicts the anonymous idea), you won't have any real pictures of your fake self, although you could use pictures of your friend, sister, etc. Simple excuses can be you don't have a camera or a web cam, or your parents won't let you upload pictures of yourself.
 You will get mixed up some time and post as the other. Not only that, but your IP will match both the accounts. If the moderators of the forum see this, they could out you or ban you.

