 Rain collection is legal in most states, but more and more are edging towards outlawing this practice. Might be best to just "do it" and let the government agency that cares find out on their own. If you ask the government beforehand, you will likely get a "no." You can if you pay collection fees, get your system inspected, and follow any local procedures. Many off-grid homeowners set up a rain catchment system for all their water needs.


The main idea here is to reduce your water use. Avoid washing your car, minimally water your lawn or shrubs, and practice alternative methods of waste disposal.
 Rainwater is very soft water—great for clothes-washing, bathing, hair shampoo, etc. You can get a simple ceramic cartridge filter ("candle filter") gravity flow system to filter this water and use it for drinking and cooking with no harmful issues. Be careful about collecting rainwater you live in a highly toxic or dense urban area.
 Run gutters around the larger areas of your house or barn, or carport and pipe into a tank. Even a 50 gallon drum will do, but that's not very much water for all the cost of guttering and some piping. You can find 500-800 gallon plastic tanks new for around $500 if you shop online—but be aware of high shipping costs. Just look online for these sellers in your area.


A good rule of thumb is: if you have a one thousand square-foot roof area and have it all guttered and piped into a rain holding tank, you should gather 600 gallons from a 1" rainfall event.
Metal roofs are best, but shingle roofs can work fine.
Most folks will design in a "first flush" device that routes the first 20 or so gallons of run-off into a separate small tank. This "first flush" rainwater will contain dust, bird droppings, small leaves, etc that you don't want to get into your main holding tank. But if not, these items will settle to the bottom of your holding tank and won't be a big problem.
Most rain tanks have a 2" threaded hole on one side just above the bottom of the tank, so you can attach a hose, or a pump to pump for a distance uphill. You can gravity feed from the bottom of the main tank into your system for garden watering. You can also use a small 12 volt electric, "on demand" pump. Think about how to protect this pump and piping if you live in a cold climate.

