 The ingredient you’re looking for in devil’s root is ingredient harpagoside. Take sufficient amounts of devil’s claw extract (such as Doloteffin or Ardeypharm) to provide 50-100 mg of harpagoside daily. This treatment may be as effective as some non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in treating lower back pain.The packaging of different products will indicate what amount of the extract you need to take to get this amount of harpagoside. Take 2000-4000mg of Doloteffin and Ardeypharm per day to get 50-100mg of the harpagoside per dose.
Talk to a doctor about taking devil’s claw if you are taking medication for a stomach or liver ailment, or have a disease related to your heart or your blood.
Do not use devil’s claw if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or have gallstones or ulcers.
You should not take devil’s claw for more than a year. Side effects include gastrointestinal complications, headaches, ringing in the ears, loss of appetite, allergic reactions, and changes in blood pressure.
 To reduce back pain, take enough willow bark extract to provide 240mg salicin. While a dose as low as 120mg may work, higher doses are more likely to be effective. It will likely take a week to notice reductions in lower back pain.This chemical has effects similar to aspirin, and has been in use since the father of medicine, Hippocrates, was still alive.
Willow bark has also been used to treat bursitis, tendinitis, and recurring headaches.
Avoid willow bark if you are allergic to salicylates or are sensitive to aspirin.
Do not take willow bark for longer than 12 weeks.
Side effects may include digestive system discomfort.
Talk to your doctor before taking willow bark if you have a blood disorder or are taking medications, and stop using willow bark two weeks before getting surgery. Do not take willow bark while pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you have kidney disease.
 While medications and herbs such as devil’s claw and willow bark may reduce your back pain, it’s important to have back issues addressed. Schedule an appointment to see your doctor at your earliest convenience.


Record all the symptoms you’re experiencing that may be related to your back pain and bring this information with you.

