 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the breakfast sliders, it’s important to to preheat it. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Make sure that you know how your oven indicates that it’s reached the proper temperature. Most models will beep or flash a light to alert you.;
, Crack 8 eggs into a large bowl. Add salt and freshly ground pepper to taste, as well as 8 tablespoons (120 ml) of whole milk. Use a whisk to lightly beat the mixture until it is light and and foamy.You can season the eggs further if you’d like. Garlic powder, onion powder, cayenne pepper, and crushed red pepper are some options to consider.
 Place a large nonstick skillet on your stove, and add 3 tablespoons (43 g) of butter. Turn the burner to high, and allow the butter to heat until it melts and starts to bubble, which should take approximately 1 to 2 minutes., Once the butter is melted, pour the egg mixture into the center of the pan so it pushes the butter to the sides. Use a rubber spatula to gently stir the eggs to start scrambling them until they form large clumps, which should take 3 to 5 minutes.If you don’t have a rubber spatula, a wooden spoon will also work.
If you aren't a fan of scrambled eggs, you can use your favorite type for the sliders. A sunny side up or egg over easy would both work for the sandwich, as would over medium or over hard eggs.
If you prefer a vegan option, you can warm crumbled tofu in a pan for 2 to 3 minutes. To add flavor, saute the tofu with diced onion and minced garlic.
 When the eggs start to form large curds in the pan, reduce the heat to low. Continue moving the eggs but fold them over themselves instead of stirring them. Cook the eggs until they’re no longer liquidy, which should take approximately 3 minutes., When the eggs are finished cooking, remove them from the heat. Place them on a plate that’s been warmed in the oven until you’re ready to assemble the sliders.You don’t have to worry about the eggs getting cold if you don’t make the sliders right away. They’ll be warmed when you bake the sliders in the oven.
 To bake the sliders, you’ll need a 9-inch by 13-inch (23-cm by 33-cm) baking dish. Take the bottoms of 8 dinner rolls that have been sliced open horizontally and place them in a single layer in the baking dish. Set the roll tops aside for now.You can use any type of small rolls that you like, such as white, whole wheat, Hawaiian, or English muffins.
 When the rolls are in the baking dish, take 8 slices of colby jack cheese and place one on each roll bottom. Next, set a pre-cooked sausage patty on top of the cheese on each roll.You can substitute any type of cheese that you like for the colby jack in the sliders. Cheddar, American, pepper jack, and Munster are all good options. Vegan cheese alternatives would also work.
For a healthier breakfast slider, substitute a turkey sausage patty for the traditional pork sausage.
If you want to make a vegetarian breakfast slider, you can omit the sausage patty or substitute veggie breakfast patty.
 When the sausage patties are in place on the roll bottoms, spoon enough eggs over the sausages to cover them on each sandwich. Next, take place a piece of cooked bacon that’s been cut in half on each sandwich.You can omit substitute a piece of ham for the bacon if you prefer.
To make a healthier breakfast slider, you can substitute turkey bacon for the usual pork bacon.
If you want a vegetarian breakfast slider, switch the bacon for veggie bacon substitute.
 After you’ve added the eggs and bacon, place a slice of the remaining cheese on top of each sandwich. Next, set the roll tops on top of each slider, pressing down gently.You can add other toppings to the sandwich for more flavor. A splash of hot sauce or spoonful of salsa can give your slider a spicy kick, while a drizzle of honey can add some sweetness. Ketchup and mustard are other options.
 Add ¼ cup (57 g) of butter to a microwave-safe bowl. Heat it on high in the microwave for 30 to 40 seconds or until it melts completely.You can use either salted or unsalted butter for the glaze.
 Once the butter is melted, pour ¼ cup (79 g) of maple syrup into the bowl. Stir the two together until they’re completely combined.If you aren’t a fan of maple, you can leave the syrup out of the glaze. Plain butter will still give the sliders extra flavor.
 When the butter and maple syrup are mixed, cover all of the sandwiches with the mixture. Distribute the glaze as evenly as you can across the baking dish.You can omit the glaze entirely if you prefer. Move straight onto baking the sliders.
 Once you’ve poured the glaze over the sliders, place a piece of foil over the baking dish. Let the sliders sit for 10 to 15 minutes so they have time to absorb the glaze.You can prepare the sliders the night before, and let them sit in the refrigerator overnight. When you wake up the next morning, just bake them as you normally would.
 After the sliders have had time to soak up the butter and maple syrup mixture, place the baking dish in the preheated oven. Allow the sliders to bake for 15 minutes with the foil covering them., After 15 minutes, take the baking dish out of the oven and carefully remove the foil. Put the sliders back in the oven and bake them for 3 to 5 minutes, or until the cheese melts.Keep an eye on the sandwiches to ensure that the tops of the rolls don’t burn.
 When the cheese has melted, remove the baking dish from the oven. Use a spatula to carefully lift the sliders out of the dish, and place them on plates for serving.If you want to make the sandwiches portable, wrap them in foil or wax paper to take on the go.

