 Many law enforcement and militaries around the world rely on pistols for their sidearms.
 The pistol primes itself for the next shot through the action of a slide - a piece of metal that covers the barrel. The forces of the gasses propelling the bullet from the barrel after it is fired push backwards on the slide, causing it to travel to the rear and pulling/ejecting the spent shell from the gun, at which time a spring compressed by the rearward action pushes the slide forward, which causes the slide to catch the rear of another cartridge from the magazine, pushing it into the barrel.
 In the past 50 years, however, the reliability of semi-automatic handguns has improved markedly as compared to revolvers.
 While you don't have to spend thousands of dollars, expect to pay at least $400US for a brand new semi-automatic handgun with a reasonable level of quality.
, (Note that this only holds true for as many magazines as you have pre-loaded with ammunition. Reloading a magazine under stress with loose rounds can take a painfully long amount of time, or be nearly impossible to complete due to the decreased motor skills caused by the effects of large amounts of adrenaline.)






The force required to operate the slide on the firearm makes them much more desirable for multiple-shot encounters as the slide's action dampens the recoil to some degree. This allows for faster and more accurate follow-up shots. The rearward action of the slide as it ejects the spent casing reduces the overall recoil from firing the round due to its action reducing the energy created by accelerating the bullet down the barrel.
 Clearing the handgun (removing the ammunition to make it "safe") takes more steps and discipline than a revolver.






The mechanical operation of pistols is more complex than that of revolvers, creating more opportunities for the failure of one or more components to disable the pistol. As you might imagine, stoppages of this nature in a life-threatening situation can be very problematic. In the case where a cartridge fails to feed properly into the chamber, a pistol is rendered inoperable until the stoppage is cleared, whereas with a revolver, pulling the trigger again when a cartridge fails to fire will rotate the cylinder, bringing a new cartridge into line with the firing pin. This drawback to a pistol requires extra training and practice ensure the steps to clear the stoppage and return the firearm to working order can be performed instinctually.






The multiple moving parts of a pistol means that in general, they are chambered for less powerful calibers than Revolvers.







