 Low blood pressure can accompany dehydration, so you may be able to raise your blood pressure by increasing your water intake. Aim to drink at least eight to ten 8 oz cups of water per day.You should drink more water if this doesn’t help your symptoms or if you spend time outdoors or exercising.


Health drinks with electrolytes can also help raise blood pressure, but you should avoid drinks with high sugar content.;
, Eating several small meals, rather than one or two large meals, can help regulate your blood sugar and blood pressure. Aim to make these meals healthy and low in carbohydrates.When you do eat carbohydrates, avoid processed carbs such as pasta and white bread. Go for complex carbs instead, such as oatmeal, whole grain pasta, whole grain bread, and barley.
 An important way to regulate your blood pressure and improve your overall health is to eat a healthy, well-balanced diet. A balanced diet includes lean meats and fish, whole grains, and a lot of fruits and vegetables.Avoid heavily processed foods that are high in sugar and fat. While these do often contain higher levels of sodium, they are not a healthy source of other nutrients., These vitamins contribute to a healthy blood pressure function and circulation.Fortified cereal contains both minerals. Some other sources of B12 include fish and dairy products such a cheese, milk, and yogurt. Folate can be found in dark green vegetables such as broccoli and spinach., Alcohol contributes to dehydration, even if consumed in moderation. If you have problems with low blood pressure, you should avoid drinking alcohol in any amount., Caffeine constricts blood vessels, which can increase blood pressure. Increasing your caffeine intake by a moderate amount can help raise your blood pressure., Herbal remedies are not proven to help blood pressure, but there is anecdotal evidence that some herbs may lessen the effects of low blood pressure. Some of these include aniseed and rosemary.Adding these to your diet may offer some benefits, but you should ask your doctor before taking any herbal supplements. Cooking with these herbs is unlikely to have measurable effects, however.


Ginger may actually lower blood pressure, so do not use ginger supplements if you already have low blood pressure.Cinnamon may also lower your blood pressure. Do not use cinnamon supplements if you have low blood pressure.Pepper may also lower blood pressure.