 While horses do naturally lie down, they only do so when they’re feeling safe and comfortable. Training your horse to lie down will only work if he’s in a place where he feel comfortable, and around things that make him feel safe. If you are not located in such a place, you may want to move the training to another location.You may already know your horse’s comfortable and safe places, but if not, observe your horse to determine where he likes to rest and sleep. This is likely the place where he feels the safest.
Horses like to roll around in the dirt or mud at certain times. If there is a location they prefer to do this, it is at this location you’ll want to train them to lie down.
If you ever start training and you’re horse isn’t interested in participating, stop. Even if your horse has a connection with you, and is comfortable around you, they may not be having a good day.
 While riding your horse is definitely a lot of fun, and will build a connection between the both of you, you also want to spend time with your horse when not riding. This more peaceful time shared together will build a different connection between you and your horse that will be invaluable with training him.One great way to spend more one-on-one time with your horse outside of riding is to take him for a walk after you’ve removed his tack after a ride.
When walking your horse around, reward him for his excellent behaviour.
Pay attention to your own body language. Your horse will notice if you’re tense or uncomfortable. You want to make sure you remain relaxed and calm.
 Before you attempt to train your horse to lie down, you want to train him to repeat or imitate you. Once your horse learns he’ll be rewarded for doing what you do, he’ll want to imitate you all the time.This step can only be done when you are not on your horse. You need to be at the ground level with him.
You’ll also want to let go of the lead, as you want your horse to decide what movements he’s going to make and when.
Do something simple like walk around the paddock. If your horse follows you, reward him.
Walk around and then stop, if your horse does the same thing, reward him.
 If you’re able to, enter the paddock when your horse is already lying down. Approach him and encourage him to stay lying down. When you get beside him, reward and praise him for staying in that position.Make sure to approach your horse calmly, quietly, and slowly. Speak softly while on your approach, telling your horse how wonderful he is.
You may need to try this over and over again if your horse doesn’t want to stay lying down when you walk up to him.
Remember that your horse needs to trust you completely to stay lying down. If you attempt this step before your horse truly trusts you, you may not be successful. If needed, re-try the previous steps to gain your horse’s trust before attempting this step again.
 Once you’ve build a good connection with your horse, and he’s interested in imitating you, act out the movements required to lie down. Stand still in one spot and bend over at your waist. Bend your head forward so you’re looking at the ground. Reach your hands and arms towards the ground.If you notice that your horse also makes certain sounds when lying down, you can imitate those sounds when making your movements. That might help signal to your horse what you’re trying to get them to do.
This only works if your horse is actually paying attention to you and is interested in what you’re doing. If you’re horse ignores you and walks aways, try to walk after him and get his attention.
Always reward and praise your horse when he copies your behaviour. If he actually lies down at this stage, give him a LOT of praise and treats.
 It may even help if you actually sit or lie down in front of your horse. If your horse is paying attention, and wants to imitate you, he too will lie down. Reward and praise the proper behaviour., If things are going well, or your horse just isn’t interested, stop trying after 15 minutes or so. Longer than this and your horse (and you) might just end up getting confused, frustrated, or both., Training takes more than one session or day. Whether a particular day was successful or not, try it again the next day. Even if your horse has picked up on all the cues, keep going.Again, the most important point about training a horse is to be patient.
Also remember that your horse isn’t ever doing anything wrong, that’s why punishment isn’t involved. You’re only rewarding for the behaviour you want your horse to repeat, but other behaviours are just as acceptable (although not rewarded).
This method is based on your horse imitating or copying your behaviours. While you may need to act out the process of lying down until your horse understands the process, eventually your horse may lie down when he sees you starting your “lie down” movements. In other words, eventually you won’t need to physically lie down every time you want your horse to lie down.

