 Cornstarch and tapioca starch are possible alternatives for talcum powder. They help absorb moisture and protect against chafing. Cornstarch and tapioca starch are both readily available in supermarkets. Many brands even sell safer cornstarch-based baby and body powders.


Cornstarch and tapioca starch can serve as “food” for skin bacteria and yeast, especially Candida. If you or your baby have a yeast rash, refrain from using this alternative because it can make a yeast infection worse.These yeast rashes tend to show up in the folds between the thighs and the groin.
If you are concerned about talc-based makeup, you can even face powder, eye shadows, and blushes made with cornstarch.
 If you don’t want to use cornstarch, try a different kind of powder. You can also use certain kinds of flour as a talcum powder alternative.Rice powder and chickpea powder will absorb moisture and help keep you dry. They are good alternatives to cornstarch or talc.
Try corn flour or oat flour. They also work well to absorb moisture.
You can find these flours and powders at the grocery store. Make sure you keep them in airtight containers so they stay fresh.
 If you are using an alternative powder, add some powdered herbs such as lavender, rose petals, and chamomile flowers. These herbs can help deodorize and soothe the skin.Make sure to grind the herbs into a fine powder. You can use a coffee or spice grinder. Before using, sift the ground herbs to separate any larger pieces.
 You can combine any of these alternatives and make your own powder. Additionally, you can use use arrowroot powder and white kaolin clay powder for the base instead.Use equal amounts of arrowroot and kaolin clay. Add three drops of lavender essential oil for every four tablespoons of the arrowroot and clay mixture and mix well.
You can substitute any of the talc alternatives listed for either the arrowroot or the clay. For example, try mixing ½ cup of rice powder with ½ cup of oat flour.
You can substitute dried herbs for the essential oil if you have a young baby or your baby has sensitive skin.

