 Every vehicle has specific points on the frame that were designed to withstand the stress of jacking up the vehicle. These jack points are not always easily identified, so refer to your vehicle’s owner’s manual to help you find them if you are having difficulty.There are commonly jack points on the frame of your car to the inside of each wheel, and at a center point on the front and back of the car.
Jacking the car up at a point that is not designed for it can bend the frame of your car and cause significant damage.
 Trolley jacks utilize hydraulics to lift your vehicle off of the ground. When the hydraulic valve is open, the jack will not create pressure on the piston and it will fail to raise your car. Use the handle of the jack or a pair of pliars to turn the valve clockwise until it is completely closed. Re-insert the handle into the jack once done if you used the handle to close the valve. Different jacks may place the valve in different places, but it is often a different color than the rest of the jack or is left unpainted completely.
The valve is usually located on the end of the jack that faces you while in operation.
 Slide your trolley jack beneath the jack point you’ve identified so the cup of the jack is sitting just beneath it. You may need to raise the cup of the jack slightly by lifting the jack handle and pressing it back down once to make sure the jack is positioned properly.The cup on the jack should be centered on the designated jack point for the vehicle.
There are teeth or ridges on the cup of the jack to help prevent the car’s frame from sliding as it’s jacked up.
 Depending on the style and size of the trolley jack you are using, you may need to lift up the handle and press it toward the floor a number of times to jack up the car. Start slow, paying close attention to the frame around the jack point to look for signs of bending or crimping of the metal. Once you have lifted the car a few inches, you should be able to easily determine if the jack point is supporting the weight of the vehicle.It may take a good deal of force to press the handle of the jack toward the ground as it raises the car.
If you see signs that the metal is bending, lower the car and reposition the jack unto the jack point properly.
 As you raise your car higher, you increase the risk associated with it falling off of the jack, as well as the likelihood that the jack itself will fall over or fail. If you are jacking the car up to change a tire, raise it only so the tire is barely off of the ground. If you need to get under the vehicle, ensure your jack can safely raise the vehicle to the height you intend.Trolley jacks have the maximum height and weight they are rated for on the packaging, and often on the body of the jack in the form of a sticker.
Do not jack a car up until the arm of the trolley jack is standing straight up. It should always be slightly slanted.

