 Instead of throwing away the padded envelope, just use it again! You could easily cross off the address, and send the envelope out again, rather than prematurely tossing it into a garbage can.


If you don’t want the old address to be visible, cross it off, and then cover it with a shipping label or piece of adhesive paper on which you write the new address. That way you won’t have to throw it away.Use tape to reseal the envelope.If you have no reason to reuse the padded envelope immediately, store it in a drawer where you keep things like gift bags that you intend to reuse. There will likely come a time when you need to use it.
The good thing about padded envelopes is that you can save them literally for years. It will save you money to reuse the padded envelope, anyway, as they are more expensive than normal envelopes.
 Many communities have sites where people offer items for free to other people in the community. You can find such sites on social media or other websites most commonly.


Especially if you have padded envelopes in bulk, rather than trying to throw them away, offer them for free to anyone who needs them. Non-profits, small businesses, or community organizations, especially, might have a use for them.
You could also offer them up for free to other friends or family via your own social media sites. Neighbors might also have some use for them.
It’s almost always better to repurpose items than to risk clogging landfills with them. Padded envelopes are pretty durable and can usually withstand several uses. Try selling them on online auction sites if you have a lot of them.
Give the envelopes to a local business that you want to support. The envelopes actually cost a lot of money if you use a lot of them, so this could help someone out.
 Because padded envelopes are pretty strong, people have found creative ways to reuse them. Just because they’re envelopes doesn’t mean they have to be used for mail!Some people have even used padded envelopes to protect their knees when working on projects such as in the garden. You will prevent your knees from getting dirty or scuffed if you kneel on the envelopes while working.
Other people use the padded envelopes for storage. Common items stored in padded envelopes include jewelry or Christmas ornaments. Use bubble wrap to protect outside plants from bad weather conditions.
Bring them to sporting events or anywhere that a child might end up sitting on a hard chair. Use the padded envelope as a makeshift chair pad to prevent sore butts.
 Kids love to draw and color on unique surfaces. Let them use the envelopes for play. Keep them away from small children though, who might get hurt if the stuffing is plastic.


If you don't know anyone with children, you can donate the envelopes to a school or local art center.

