 Drinking adequate amounts of clear, sugar-free fluids daily can help you stay properly hydrated throughout the day. When you're dehydrated, many times your body sends hunger-like signals that may trigger you to eat.Extra snacking from this can make weight loss more difficult or slow.


Aim to drink about 64 oz or 2 L of fluids daily.This general rule of thumb is a good place to start. However, you may notice you need slightly more or less depending on your weight and activity level.
Keep a water bottle handy. Having a reusable bottle around can help you keep track of how much you're drinking throughout the day.
 Sleeping at least 7–9 hours a night is recommended to help support weight loss in addition to a healthy lifestyle.Studies have shown that those who get less than 6 hours of sleep per night are at higher risk for being overweight and gaining weight.Go to bed early and make sure to turn off all lights, TVs, cell phones or computers. This may help you sleep more soundly.
 Eating a well-balanced diet doesn't mean you have to be restrictive with your diet. However, it's important to eat foods from all five food groups so that you're consuming a variety of vitamins, minerals and other nutrients essential to your overall health.


Include a source of lean protein at each meal. Protein helps keep you satisfied longer and may help promote weight loss.Aim to have 3–4 oz (a portion about the size of your palm) of any of the following: beef, pork, seafood, dairy products, poultry, eggs, legumes or tofu.
Include fruits and vegetables at all meals. These foods are low-calorie and nutrient dense (meaning they contain a whole host of vitamins, minerals, fiber and antioxidants).Including these at each meal may help you reduce the overall amount of calories you consume without actually dieting. It's recommended to make half your meals or half of your plate a fruit or vegetable.Choose 100% whole grains when possible. These grains are higher in fiber and other nutrients compared to refined grains and are important for your health.Include a serving or two (1/2 cup or 1 oz) most days. Whole grains include: quinoa, 100% whole wheat bread, brown rice, oats or 100% whole grain pasta.
This is where moderation comes into play. You may treat yourself, but make sure that falls into the category of "variety" and not just constant splurging.
 One common reason people give up on diets is because they feel hungry throughout the day. Including healthy snacks can help keep you satisfied throughout the day and help manage your hunger. It can also help you maintain a speedy metabolism throughout the day.Include 1–2 snacks daily if you need it. Most snacks should fall between 100–200 calories. Higher calorie snacks may not promote weight loss.Snack as needed. If you're not feeling hungry or it is close to your planned meal time, it might be wise to pass on your snack.
Healthy snacks to try include: 1/2 cup cottage cheese and fruit, 2 oz of low-sodium beef jerky, 1–2 ounces of cheese, and carrots and hummus.
 Being able to enjoy favorite foods or the occasional treat is important when you're finding a healthy eating pattern to maintain long-term. Even with the occasional sweet treat or indulgent meal, you can still lose weight.


Schedule in a dinner out, a sweet treat, or alcoholic drink into your meal plan. Make sure items like these aren't popping up frequently. Otherwise weight loss may prove to be more difficult.If planning on splurging a little, try to make other changes in your day or week to compensate a little. Maybe you go to the gym or take an extra walk or skip your afternoon snack.
 Set up an appointment to talk to your doctor about your weight loss goals. They may be able to guide you toward a healthy and safe weight and let you know if weight loss is safe for you.


In addition, your doctor may be able to give you tools to help you lose weight. Many doctors use prescription appetite suppressants to induce weight loss in some people. These medications may not be safe or appropriate for everyone, so your doctor will most likely give you a physical prior to prescribing you the medication.Although weight loss medications may work without following a specific diet, you will see the best results when you combine medication with diet and exercise.

