 This should be large enough to put the entire, ramen into without having to break it (but you can also break it if that is your preference). It should also be small enough so that some water will completely cover the ramen noodles, and have a bit of water over it. Some people like to eat ramen wet instead of completely drained, so if that's the case, you can be more generous with the water.






;
, If in doubt, try 2 cups, but if you want more, that'll work, too. You can substitute some other liquid for the water, such as soy sauce, or broth, but water will work as well.
 On most stoves, you should just turn the knob as high as it can go, and wait for the water to boil. If, during the cooking process, the pan starts to bubble over the top, just turn it down. Next time you make ramen, do not turn the stove on as high as it can go.









So long as the water is bubbling, its temperature is at the boiling point and it is circulating. A furious boil adds little and risks a boil-over, so feel free to turn down the heat a bit once boiling commences.
 Use a fork to push the block under the water if it is floating on the top. You can chose to break the block into chunks before adding it, if you prefer shorter, less slurp-able noodles, but it is a personal thing.
 If you want to even out the cooking process and speed it up by keeping uncooked stragglers from the surface, help stir apart the noodles.
 Three minutes is the normal cooking time, it may take longer, though. When the noodles are starting to turn slightly yellow, they are done. At this point, the ramen should be completely broken apart, and, when you put your fork in the water, a few noodles attach themselves to your fork.









The ramen is ready to eat when it is flexible. If it cooks a few minutes longer, it will become softer, fatter, and translucent. You may prefer it this way.
 Note that there is a very large amount of sodium in the small packet- if you have health problems, it would be better to add less, or none at all.
 At this point, you can do one of two things: you can pour the entire pot of ramen, including all of the liquid, into a bowl, and have a soup, or drain the water, and just eat the ramen.








