 Pebble has its own app store, and it’s where you can get the nifty watch app called Pebble Snap. Select the Pebble App on your phone by tapping on the icon that looks like a Pebble watchface with “PEBBLE” written in the middle. This will take you to the main app screen.
 Swipe in from the left edge of the main app screen to access the left panel. Tap the “GET APPS” option at the bottom of the left panel to launch the Pebble App store., Tap the search icon in the upper right corner to summon the search bar. Type “Pebble Snap” on the text field just below the SEARCH header, and wait for the results to appear at the bottom. Tap the Pebble Snap app in the results to get to its description page., Tap the “ADD” button at the upper right corner of the page to add it to your Pebble Locker.

The watch can only hold up to 8 apps, including watch faces. The Locker keeps all the apps that you have added but not yet loaded onto your watch so you can quickly swap between watch apps.
 After the Add animation has finished, a pop-up will appear telling you that you must get the companion app. Tap the “Go get it” button at the lower right corner of the pop-up to go to the Google Play Store page. Tap the “INSTALL” button right below the app name in the Google Play description page to get the companion app. Tap the “ACCEPT” button in the permissions popup that will appear to begin installing the app.

If you’re on iOS, you can get the Pebble Snap app from the Apple App Store. Tapping the ADD button in the Pebble app store will automatically take you to the app download page in the iOS app store just like it would take you to the Google Play store on Android.
 Hit the Back button on your device until you reach the Pebble store once more. Swipe in from the left edge of the screen to summon the left panel. Tap the “MY PEBBLE” option, which should be the first one at the top of the panel., If you have more than eight downloaded apps, the Pebble Snap app will be located at the bottom of the screen under the LOCKER header. If you have less than eight, the app will be listed at the top half of the screen along with the app already loaded on your Pebble. Tap “Pebble Snap” on your LOCKER at the bottom and then tap the LOAD button in the pop-up. Pebble Snap will then be installed onto your Pebble smartwatch.

If you have more than eight apps loaded onto your Pebble, you will need to swap one of them with Pebble Snap. Do this by tapping on the loaded app at the top portion of the screen, and then tapping the UNLOAD button in the pop-up. Select Pebble Snap and and then LOAD to get this app on your smartwatch.
 Hit the Home button on your device to exit the Pebble Locker. Launch the Pebble Snap app either from your home screen or the app drawer. The app icon looks like a Pebble watchface with a camera symbol in the middle., You can pick between front- and rear-facing cameras with Pebble Snap. Do this by pressing the UP button on the Pebble Watch, located at the right side of the watch. This will toggle between the front- and rear-facing camera., Preview mode allows you to use the Pebble Watch screen as a viewfinder. Tap the “Preview” button at the bottom of the Pebble Snap screen on your Android device. You will then notice that the screen on your watch will update to act like a camera viewfinder, though it takes some time for the E-ink display to update each line.

Using the Preview feature can help you take the best shot.
 Clamp your device to a tripod or any other mounting device, and make sure that the viewfinder includes all of the subjects of your photo. Preview mode is great for this, so you know that you need to make adjustments when you are in place (if you are one of the subjects) for the photo., Once you’re happy with the positioning of the camera, you can take a picture using the watch. Do this by pressing the MIDDLE button on the watch briefly. The photos will then be stored in a separate folder in your Gallery titled “PebbleSnap.”

You can also take videos by long-pressing the MIDDLE button. Stop recording by long-pressing the button again.
Control the flash by clicking on the BOTTOM button to cycle between flash on, auto, and off.

