 Patch up cracks and holes leading from the outside in to prevent spiders from finding their way indoors.Use caulk to fill in large gaps of space in closed doors and windows. Also apply caulk around wires, cables, faucets, and electrical components, since all of these must run to the outside.
Replace or fix torn window screens. Spiders can easily find their way in through even the smallest holes.
Cover your vents and chimney with fine mesh insect screens.;
, While outdoor lights will not attract spiders, they will attract other pests that can serve as appetizing food sources for spiders.


On a similar note, block indoor lights from shining through your windows by using opaque blinds or shades.
Consider switching to yellow sodium vapor lights. These are less appealing to insects and less likely to draw in a food source for your spiders., If you have a serious spider problem, consider transplanting shrubs, trees, ivy, and other plants from the perimeter of your house to the opposite side of the yard.


Vegetation attracts spiders because it serves as an ample hiding spot. When spiders need to seek out warmth or new food sources, they crawl from the vegetation toward your home, getting in through cracks.
You should also remove mulch, stones, leaves, or other debris near your home.
 Clean homes give spiders fewer places to hide out in, making them less likely to stay even if they do slip inside.


Do not leave leftover food lying around. Food crumbs will attract other pests like ants, which, in turn, will attract spiders.
Regularly sweep and vacuum your floors. Wipe down your counters and tables, and avoid letting your dirty dishes sit out for more than a few hours.
Pick up as much clutter as possible. Old newspapers and piles of dirty clothes make the ideal hiding place for spider species that thrive in darkness.
Use plastic storage containers. Airtight plastic containers are difficult for spiders to crawl into, but cardboard boxes are fairly easy.
 One of the simplest methods for getting rid of spiders is vacuuming up egg sacs and webs as you run across them.


This method works best when trying to get rid of a few spiders. It may not be very efficient if you have a large spider population living in your home, however.
You can also use a broom to sweep away webs.
Rather than killing spiders, you should transport them outside if possible. Spiders are a species that is very beneficial to humans, and they're rather noble once you understand them.
Web-building spiders that spend most of their time along the ceiling are not likely to fall victim to the glue trap, but these are very effective against ground-dwelling spiders like jumping spiders and house spiders.
Keep the trap flat to prevent it from curling up into itself.
Discard the trap as soon as you collect a few spiders on it.
Note that this is ineffective against spider eggs and webs, so you will likely need to use this method in conjunction with other techniques.



Carefully follow the instructions marked on the label to prevent the accidental poisoning of yourself, a family member, or a pet.
Remember that only 2 species of thousands in North America can harm you in any significant way (The Black Widow and Brown Recluse). The others can bite, but will not do so unless threatened, and their bites are neither poisonous nor very painful.
Spiders are about the best "pest" one could hope for in their house, as they kill tons of other pests that can cause harm to humans or spread disease. If you have a lot of them though, that's a serious indicator of a major pest control breach, as the spiders wouldn't be entering if there wasn't a lot of food to be had.
Pyrethroids are chemicals made, in large part, from pyrethrum plants. These plants are in the chrysanthemum family. Most household insecticides contain pyrethroids, and a few common pyrethroids include bifenthrin, cyfluthrin, permethrin, and tetramethrin.
Total release foggers are not generally effective against spiders.
Understand the limit of residual insecticides. These poisons only work if spiders drag themselves through the chemical after it is sprayed. If a spider manages to avoid the spray, the insecticide will have no effect on it.
 If you have a large spider infestation and measures you take yourself are unable to control the problem, a professional might be able to apply a stronger chemical pesticide.


Be aware that some professional pesticides are so strong that you will need to vacate the premises for several days while the effect dies down.
In general, the repellents or transporting a spider are better options for everyone than squishing the little bugger. If you can handle it, picking up a spider and moving it to your porch with a paper towel or jar will save you from meeting a few bugs.



Chestnuts, walnuts, and the fruit of the Osage orange tree are thought to have the same effect.
Little is known about why this treatment repels spiders, and there is no scientific evidence or explanation backing the solution.
Some speculate that horse chestnuts have some form of noxious chemical that repels spiders based on scent. To this end, consider poking holes in the chestnut or splitting it in half to release the odor.
 Fill a standard spray bottle with water and mix in 15 to 20 drops of peppermint oil. Spray down all the cracks and corners of your house.The idea is that spiders cannot tolerate the smell of peppermint oil and will run away in the opposite direction when they detect it. As a result, it is most effective when applied to possible entrances to the home.
For a more potent effect, you can dab undiluted peppermint oil onto a cotton ball and stuff the cotton ball into cracks or other possible hiding places.
Try eucalyptus oil or tea tree oil if you have a thing against peppermint. They reportedly have the same effect as peppermint oil and can be used in the same way.
 Spread it anywhere and everywhere you expect a spider to be.


This powder is made from naturally-formed fossils of a water creature known as the diatom. It is safe for both people and pets.
When a spider crosses over the diatomaceous earth, its exterior gets cut up, causing bodily fluids to leak out. The spider eventually dries out and dies as a result.
You can also protect your home and prevent spiders from crawling in by spreading diatomaceous earth around the perimeter of your house.
 Mix equal parts white vinegar and water in a spray bottle. Apply it to any area in which spiders gather and spray it directly on any spider you see.


Vinegar contains acetic acid, which is thought to burn and kill spiders upon contact.
You can also place small dishes of vinegar in dark corners to ward away spiders. The odor alone may be enough to repel them.

