 Write each item out in a list to help you visualize the contents of your pack. Think about where you're going, how long you'll be gone, and what you need to maintain a comfortable quality of life while you're on your trip. If you're not absolutely sure that you will need something, consider leaving it behind. Unless you're traveling somewhere especially remote, you'll be able to buy most non-essential or emergency items while you're on your trip.
 Identification, medication, money, food. How will you get around, how will you survive, and what will you need in an emergency?


Think about what, if any, identification you will need: a passport, a driver's license, a work visa, a backcountry permit, a return ticket? Make sure that all documents are current, and that they aren't going to expire while you're on your trip.Think about any medical or dietary requirements that you can't live without. Do you need contact solution? An inhaler? Dietary supplements? Birth control? If there's anything health-related that you won't be able to easily find on your trip, be sure to bring it.
Think about how you'll pay for goods, services, hotels, travel. If you won't have access to a bank, bring plenty of cash. If you're traveling abroad, be sure to change plenty of currency in the airport.
Think about what you'll eat, and how you'll eat it. If you're backpacking into the wilderness, you'll need to carry enough food to survive until you return, and you'll need a way to cook or prepare it. If you're traveling in a populated area, you probably won't go hungry--but make sure that you don't have any allergies to common ingredients of the local cuisine.
 Consider buying travel-sized versions of anything you need; you can find travel toiletries in drugstores and travel-supply stores. Bring dental hygiene goods, as needed: toothbrush, toothpaste, floss, mouthwash, retainer. Bring optical necessities: glasses, contact solution, extra contacts, eye drops. Bring deodorant, sunscreen, lotion, chapstick--what ever you will realistically use.


Be aware that most airlines follow the 3-1-1 rule. The bottles containing the liquids must be 3.4 oz (100 ml) or less, they must all fit within one, 1 quart transparent plastic bag, and the total volume of liquids contained in the bag must not exceed 1 quart.
Keep in mind that if you're traveling to an urban, populated area, you will probably be able to find most toiletries in stores near where you're staying. The most important things to pack are those for which you have a personal prescription: contacts, retainers, medications.
 How many changes of clothes will you need? What sort of weather conditions will you face? Which activities do you need to prepare for?


Consider how long you'll be gone and how many times you'll need to change clothes. Consider whether you'll have the opportunity to wash your clothes; consider whether you're willing to wear any items multiple days in a row.
Make sure to bring appropriate footwear. If you'll be walking a lot, bring sturdy, comfortable shoes or boots. If you're going to be going out in a city, bring lightweight "night out" shoes. If you're going to be somewhere hot, or near the beach, consider wearing sandals. The more functions or situations that any given pair of shoes can meet, the better.
If you're going on a business trip, or to a wedding, and you need to look presentable, be sure to bring a mixture of formal and casual clothes. If you're going to a resort by the sea, be sure to bring a swimsuit to take into the water.
Consider the weather. Run a web search to find the forecast for where you're going, and exercise your best judgment. If it will be raining, bring rain gear. If it will be cold, bring warm clothes. If it will be warm, bring lightweight, breathable clothing. If the weather conditions will be mixed, bring a mix of clothing so that you're prepared for any situation.
 If you'll be spending a lot of time outdoors, bring the equipment that you'll need to safely conduct your adventures. If you'll be working remotely, be sure to bring your laptop or tablet, a charger, and any relevant documents. Only bring what you absolutely need: gear can be heavy and space-intensive.


Consider whether you can rent gear where you're going. Perhaps you already have your own scuba gear, but it's heavy and unwieldy and you're only going to be scuba diving for one day of a week-long trip. Look for scuba rentals near where you want to dive, and search for tour companies that might be able to provide you scuba gear for the day.
Gear can be expensive; shiny gadgets like laptops, tablets, and phones may catch the attention of opportunistic thieves. You don't want to bring your laptop on a trip, only to have it stolen--so carefully consider whether you truly need something before you bring it with you.
The danger of thievery is highly dependent upon where and how you will be traveling. If you're going to be staying in five-star hotels and renting a car to get around, you probably don't need to worry much. If you'll be busing your way between grimy hostels, you may want to leave the laptop at home unless it's absolutely necessary.If you're staying in hostels and other shared rooms, consider bringing a combination lock to secure your gear. Most hostels offer closets and lockers in which you can store personal items.
 Do you want to read a book in your spare time? Listen to music on your iPod? Play games on your PSP during the plane flight? Be judicious with your entertainment, and bring only what you actually need--unread books are just needless weight.


Be honest with yourself. How much are you actually going to read on this trip? How much have you wound up reading on similar trips in the past? You don't want to fill your pack with a stack of books, but only read one of them. Consider bringing a Kindle or Nook, or saving e-books onto another gadget, to bring a lot of reading material without filling up your luggage.
As with other gear: be careful when traveling expensive electronics. Laptops, iPods, tablets, and game consoles can be magnets for opportunistic thieves and pickpockets. If you bring anything that you don't want to be stolen, keep it secure and avoid whipping it out in public.
 When you've finished your list, consider the contents with a critical eye: which items are really essential for your trip, and which items are you bringing "just in case"? Cross off any non-essential items, and leave them behind.Think about past trips, and what you did and didn't need. Perhaps you brought four pairs of shoes last time, but you only wore one of them. Perhaps you brought two books, but just wound up reading the local newspapers.
Keep in mind that you may be able to buy many things at local shops, if you're traveling to a populated area. This applies especially to toiletries and clothes. If you're not absolutely sure that you will use something, consider leaving it behind and planning to buy a local version in the case of an emergency.

