 You can also identify a mockingbird by its call. Mockingbirds both sing and call to one another.


The call of a mockingbird is loud and sharp. When singing, the mockingbird produces a complex series of notes and sounds. It tends to repeat the same songs over and over again.During the breeding season, in spring and summer, males will sing 24 hours a day. If you hear a bird singing for the entirety of a day, you might be hearing a mockingbird., Mockingbirds tend to be territorial. You can identify a mockingbird by paying attention to how it behaves around other birds.


Mockingbirds are easy to spot as they sit out in the open. If a bird is sitting on a tree branch in plain sight, hopping along the road, or in other easy-to-see places like fences or telephone poles, it may be a mockingbird.The mockingbird will be protective of what it sees as its environment. It's not uncommon to see a mockingbird dive and then attack other birds or animals that invade its space. A bird that is aggressive with intruders may very well be a mockingbird if it also matches the physical description., Mockingbirds get their name because they are excellent imitators. A mockingbird will often imitate the noise of other bird's songs. However, you may also hear a mockingbird imitating the sound of a cat, a dog, or other animals in the area. If you hear a grayish brown bird imitating a variety of odd noises, you're likely looking at a mockingbird., Mockingbirds live in specific environments. If you're still unsure if what you're looking at is a mockingbird, examine the bird's environment.


Mockingbirds typically live in the southern half of the United States. They're present year-round in parts of California, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, Louisiana, Tennessee, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, Kentucky, Delaware, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, New York, and in the southern part of Maine. In some nearby states, like Colorado and Utah, you may see mockingbirds in the spring or summer during mating season.Mockingbirds are often present in suburbs or towns. They prefer open country areas where there are some woods and foliage present. If you live in a more urban town or suburb, with little forest, you're less likely to encounter a mockingbird.