 The care label is located on the inside of your raincoat near the collar. It includes information provided by the manufacturer on how to clean your raincoat. Once you’ve read the care label, follow its instructions closely in order to most effectively clean your raincoat., Close all buttons, zippers, and loops on your raincoat, including those on the pockets. If your coat has a removable belt, remove it. Place the raincoat in the washing machine. Add a mild, nontoxic, biodegradable detergent. Set the washing machine to delicate or hand wash and run the cycle with cold water.If you have a top-loading machine, check the machine’s user manual. Waterproof clothing might interfere with the machine’s operation.
If you use a regular laundry detergent to clean your raincoat, rinse it twice to remove detergent residue.You might wish to run your raincoat through multiple spin cycles in order to get rid of excess water., There are a number of products available that are specially designed to clean your raincoat. While specific instructions for use vary with the product you decide to use, you can generally substitute these products for regular laundry detergent. Simply measure the appropriate amount and pour it into the laundry machine along with your raincoat.Popular products include Nikwax Tech Wash, Atsko’s Sport Wash, and ReviveX.
When using a synthetic fabric cleaner, you’ll probably have to wash the raincoat separately from the rest of your laundry.
Check product instructions before using a synthetic fabric cleaner.
 Hang your coat using a hanger, or lay it flat in a well-ventilated area. It might be possible to place your raincoat in a dryer on low or even medium heat, though you’ll have to zip/button it up first.If placing your raincoat in the dryer, throw in a few towels to absorb excess moisture and soften the coat’s impact against the dryer.
If you suspect your dryer’s low or medium setting is still too high for your raincoat, you could toss an old coat or other garment that you don’t care about containing polyester, nylon, or another synthetic fabric into the dryer first to test it. Examine the garment afterwards for flaking or cracks in the material on either the inside or outside.
Do not iron your raincoat. The rainproof coating will melt.

