 Although your pet may not exactly understand the words that you are saying, he can at least pick up on the tone of your words and your body language when you talk to him. For example, if you speak with him in a stern voice, he might pick up on the fact that you are unhappy with his behavior. Talking to him in an authoritative tone when giving him a command will likely signal to him that he should follow your instruction.Talking with your pet can also help soothe him if he is feeling anxious or fearful.
Giving your pet verbal praise when you are training him is also very helpful.
 Your non-verbal communication is just as important as verbal communication. Non-verbal communication is often used in training to teach your pet to do a certain activity. For example, if you are sitting on your horse, you would use your legs and hands to command your horse to turn on the forehand. When you teach your dog to sit, you would actually combine verbal and non-verbal communication (hand signals) to give him the ‘sit’ command.


Getting up and walking away from your cat without saying anything is a way to let him know that you do not approve of his behavior.Be mindful of non-verbal communication that your pet may not like. For instance, your dog may not want you to rub his tummy. If he growls or tries to move away from you, give him some space.
 Verbally or physically punishing your pet is never a good idea. Punishment can make your pet fearful of you and possibly lessen the trust and respect that he has for you. In addition, some species, like cats, do not necessarily make the connection between your punishment and the behavior you are punishing them for.Making the unwanted behavior less desirable and making the correct behavior more desirable often works to dissuade your pet from misbehaving. For example, if your cat is scratching up your furniture, putting double-stick tape on the furniture will make it less desirable for him to scratch on.Sprinkling catnip leaves on the scratching post will make it more desirable for him to scratch on.