 One way to build friendships if you have bipolar depression is to be honest about the way your bipolar effects relationships. Tell them there may be times when you are not mentally able to hang out, so you may cancel plans suddenly. Assure them this has nothing to do with them.For example, you can say, “I have bipolar depression. This means sometimes I will be too depressed to leave the house. It hits suddenly sometimes. Please be understanding if this happens because it has nothing to do with you.”

, Another thing you can do to help build friendships when you have bipolar is to tell them what you need. Communicating that you need them to be understanding and patient is very important. You should also explain to them the ways in which they can help you.Letting your friends know what they can do for you can help them feel like they are being a good friend when you have an episode. It also helps you make sure you get the support you need from your friends.
You can say, “If I cancel plans, please don’t get mad. Instead, text me to ask how I am. Call me within one or two days, because it takes a few days for me to overcome the depression.”

, Make sure that you choose friends who are going to be supportive and understanding. Not everyone will be patient, understand your situation, or think about your needs. Some people will just be negative and encourage negative behaviors in you. Find people who you can count on to be the kind of friends you need.Let go of negative people in your life. You have enough stress dealing with your bipolar depression. Friendships are supposed to be fun and rewarding, so make sure you pursue friends who are like that instead of negative and destructive.
 As you pursue friendships with people, don’t beat yourself up if you make a mistake, cancel plans, or snap on someone. Acknowledge your behavior and think about how you can react in a different or more positive way next time. Most of all, treat yourself kindly when you mess up. It doesn’t make you a bad friend just because you are experiencing symptoms related to your mental illness.Managing bipolar depression is difficult. Working towards making friends and maintaining friendships may take a lot out of you, especially at first. Remember to keep trying to get out and socialize. Most of all, take care of yourself.

