 If you're the one who makes the choices in the relationships: Stop! Let him make decisions too. If you're the one who's making all the decisions, he will eventually get bored and it won't take long before he begins to wonder why he never gets to have a say over what you both do. In his mind, he may even consider you to be a control freak. Back down a little and let him take control of the situation for some of the time too. Let him decide where you'll go, what you'll do, and what to choose, at least half of the time. In this way, he knows he has a part in the relationship and that both of you are partners.;
, Be yourself around him. Don't let others tell you how to act. If some of your bossiness is coming from friends telling you how to treat your boyfriend, it's time to ask what their agendas are and why they think they know so much about your relationship. Thank them for their suggestions but gently remind them that it's your relationship. Don't take their advice so seriously that your boyfriend suffers for it.
 If you want sex but your boyfriend doesn't, then wait. It's not that he's not ready; he wants to take things slowly. If you're bored waiting, then find other ways to be affectionate and be appreciative that he is respectful of you.
 If you get moody on an everyday basis, then it's time to learn how to self manage these moods and minimize them. Calm down, listen to some music, read a book, draw, or do something to take your mind off feeling moody about whatever triggered your bad emotions. If you take out your moodiness on your boyfriend, then you're not treating him fairly––he doesn't deserve to be on the receiving end of constant moodiness. It's perfectly fine to let him know when you feel down but it's quite something else to carry on every time you're with him, expecting him to alleviate your unhappiness or bad feelings. He isn't a stand-in personal therapist.


If you have problems dealing with mood swings, it's a good idea to talk to your doctor or psychologist for advice.
 You and your boyfriend have decided to be together but if you're taking control, it's time to stop. Remind yourself that it's his life, not yours. He's not telling you what to do and who you can hang around with, so why should you?


If you don't like the way he is doing things, the people he hangs with or the way that he is, then ask yourself if he's the right boyfriend for you. If so many things bother you that you can only see yourself happy by changing him, then it's likely that he's not the right guy for you.
 Trust is a huge thing in relationship; without it there isn't a very strong relationship. If you are having trust problems with him, it's important to get to the bottom of what is causing this. Telling him how to behave and what to do won't mend broken trust issues.
 Then have a two day break. This proves you won't get bored with each other. Moreover, you will have a lot to talk about. If you see your boyfriend every day, you will be tempted to start taking control over him, just by dint of being around together too often. If this happens, he'll hate it. Take a few steps backwards and treat him like you would want to be  treated.

