 For an outfit that’s fit for evening events, go with midnight tones. Think black, gray, or darker shades of other colors. Cropped pants in these colors will give you a sophisticated and elegant effect., If you’re headed to a party or glitzy affair, you may be looking for a cropped pant that draws attention. Many cropped pants come in metallic shades and shimmery materials. These unique pants are sure to set you apart from the crowd.Be sure these pants are carefully tailored. Unlike black pants, for example, metallic tones won’t provide a slimming effect. They also won’t hide any spots where the pants don’t fit quite right.
 These timeless and classy materials will automatically dress up your outfit. Both fabrics can be worn in a variety of colors. Satin, in particular, may give off a bit of shine.Black silk cropped pants will work in both business and dressy settings. These slimming pants can be paired with a variety of shoes and tops.
Try satin cropped pants in a fun jewel tone, like emerald, ruby, or purple. These are perfect for a more celebratory affair, such as a wedding or party.
 One of the best parts of wearing cropped pants is that they allow you to have fun with your shirt as well. When you’re putting together a dressier outfit, look for a shirt that matches your pants in fabric quality. You can also pick a shirt that stands out for its flirty cut, color, or embellishments.For example, if you’re wearing satin cropped pants, you don’t want to wear a t-shirt. Instead, go with a nice button-down or a blouse with a sparkly neckline.
 Ditch your sneakers for fancier footwear. Since you’re going out on the town, this is the perfect time to pair your cropped pants with fun shoes that flatter your body and draw the eye. Stick with ankle boots rather than tall boots to ensure that you see a line of skin between the top of your boots and the bottom of your pants.
 Adding a layer on top of your shirt and cropped pants will complete the look. This is crucial for settings where people might scrutinize your clothing, such as work events or weddings.


You can adjust your top layer depending on the event. If you’re headed to a business conference, a simple black or pinstripe blazer is best. For a wedding or fancy get-together, choose a fun jacket in a unique color. You can also go with a shawl or cape for unique options.
 If you’re hoping to set your outfit apart, choose a few unique pieces of jewelry or a fun bag. These pieces can add color and sparkle to your look. For dressier events, they’ll be just what you need to complete your overall appearance.