 To ensure your children are safe at home, make sure you child-proof the space. Use outlet covers and cupboard locks. Put up stair gates to ensure your child is not at risk of falling down the stairs. Keep household cleansers out of reach and small objects off the floor so your child cannot get at them.Try to child-proof your home before your child is born or comes into your home. This way, you will have less to worry about while you are caring for the child.
Ask for assistance with child-proofing your home from a friend or family member who is sighted. This may make the process easier and ensure the home is safe for your child.;
, Use tools for the blind or visually impaired in your home to make doing household chores easier for you. Get tools for the kitchen, such as a sensor you place on cups and bowls to let you know when they are full or hot. Use special knives and cutting tools for the blind or visually impaired to cook and prepare food.You can also use speech software on your computer to make using the computer and the internet easier.
Talk to your primary care doctor about getting household tools to make preparing food and doing other tasks more accessible for you.
 Travel with your child out of the house in a safe and controlled way by maintaining physical contact with them at all times. Have a hand-holding system where you always hold hands with your child when you are out of the house. Or use a hand-holding device, such as a light wrist strap, so your child is always within reach.Teaching your child to hold hands at an early age can make it a long lasting habit. This will make going out in public with your child easier and safer for both of you.
 As a blind or visually impaired parent, you will need to rely on vocal contact with your child to communicate effectively with them. Stress the importance of maintaining vocal contact with your child as much as possible, in addition to physical contact. This means having your child tell you where they are in the house and getting them to respond right away when you call their name.You should also make sure you maintain vocal contact in certain situations, such as in the swimming pool or a busy public place. Teach your child to respond right away to their name and to talk to you about what they are doing or where they are going in a space.
 To maintain a healthy relationship with your child, have a set routine in place. This means waking up at the same time every day, feeding your child at set times, and having a set play time. Have a daily schedule, including any planned outings, in place so you and your child know what to expect each day.Make weekly meal plans to make food preparation easier. Designate one day as grocery shopping day, perhaps at the beginning of the week or on the weekend. This way, you will have all the ingredients you need on hand to prepare meals.
 Build a good relationship with the people who interact with your child on a regular basis, including their teachers. Speak to your child’s teacher to let them know you are a blind or visually impaired parent. Explain that you would appreciate a phone call or in person meeting, rather than written notes home, if there are issues at school.Volunteer at your child’s school so you can get to know the other children and feel part of the school community. Being visible and present at your child’s school will ensure you are in touch with your child’s school life and feel more involved.
 Bond with your child by playing games made for the blind or visually impaired. There are often print or Braille versions of popular board games that you can play together. You can also add Braille markers to games you already own so you can all play together.Read aloud to your child using books in Braille. Share your favorite hobbies and activities with your child so you can connect and bond.
Playing sports can be done easily with a few minor adjustments, such as putting a bell over the basketball hoop to make shooting baskets easier as a blind or visually impaired person.
 Encourage your child to sign up for extra-curricular activities like sports, clubs, and after school groups. If there are no sighted drivers in your household, arrange for your child to carpool with a friend or ask a family member to drive them. Socializing your child by exposing them to new people and new skills will ensure they are well-adjusted.You should also encourage your child to spend time with friends and family, outside of their house. Allow them to walk over to a friend's house in the neighborhood or arrange for them to get a ride to a friend's.
 Parenting when blind or visually impaired can be stressful. Do not feel you have to shoulder the responsibility alone. Reach out to friends and family for support. Ask friends to come over and help you around the house. Speak to family about helping you care for your children. Having a good support network of family and friends will make your life as a parent much easier.For example, you may ask a family member to come over every week to babysit your child so you can study Braille or have some time to yourself.
You may ask friends who are sighted to come over and help you organize your child’s closet by color so you can dress them easily in the morning.
 A support group is a good option if you are struggling with your role as a blind or visually impaired parent. Look for a support group for blind or visually impaired parents in your area. Sign up for an online support group so you can communicate with other parents from the comfort of your home.Ask your primary care doctor for a referral to a support group for parents who are blind or visually impaired.
Consider becoming a member of a national association for blind or visually impaired parents. There are often support groups, online and in person, that you can find out about through the national association.
 Technological resources are a great way to stay informed on the latest technologies for the blind or visually impaired. You can also learn about the experiences of other blind or visually impaired parents through podcasts and audiobooks online. If you have access to a computer or a smartphone, lean on technological resources for help.Using online resources can be a good option if you are trying to learn Braille. There are online classes and tools for Braille that can make learning Braille easier for you.
There are also apps that you can download onto your computer or your phone to help you situate yourself in a space or have signs read to you, such as the AroundMe app or the Braille Now app.

