 If your dog has a tendency to chase cats in your neighborhood, it's best to keep your dog on a leash during walks. If you feel inclined to let your dog off-leash during walks, you should do so only in places where you know there will be no cats around, such as a dog park or a quiet place away from other homes. You should also try to only let your dog off-leash at the park during times when you know there will be no cats around. Remember that cats are most active at dusk and dawn, as they often come out to hunt during the night.Use the "leave it" method on your dog during walks. Even though your dog is on a leash, he may still try to run and pull on the leash whenever he sees a cat. Teaching him to leave it when he sees a cat will help take the stress out of walking your dog in a cat-friendly neighborhood.If your dog pulls hard or barks while on his leash, he may have what's known as leash aggression. Put simply, he perceives that you're anxious about how he'll react to an animal, and he assumes that animal is a threat. To train your dog out of this, practice getting your dog's attention no matter what is happening around you. Reward him when he keeps his eyes on you. Start out in a low-stress environment, such as your home, and gradually work toward keeping your dog focused on you (and on the treat he'll come to expect) no matter what other animals are around on your walk.Another crucial skill to teach your dog if you plan to let him roam off-leash is to come when called. Try teaching your dog to come while you run away from him, as he will almost inevitably chase after you. This will make it easier for him to learn this command early on in his training, as he will associate your praise with his following after you. Reward him with treats and praise whenever he comes on command., If you have a yard at your home and you'd like to let your dog run freely in the yard, be sure that you either erect a fence around your property, or use a a tether and leash to keep your dog from leaving your yard. This will help ensure that your dog does not chase any outdoor cats that live in your neighborhood., If your neighbors have an outdoor cat that tends to get in your yard, the best way to keep your dog from chasing that cat is to keep it out of your yard. You can manually chase the cat away whenever you see it come into your yard, or use motion-activated water sprays along the perimeter of your yard. These devices detect movement and spray the target with water, which can be an excellent deterrent against intruding cats.