 Hiatal hernias occur when the stomach protrudes into and through the diaphragm muscle (and the gap) between the chest and abdomen. In severe cases, this allows food and stomach acid to move up into the esophagus.


Some children are born with hiatal hernias. In fact, this is more common than developing them during childhood.
Most hiatal hernias do not present substantial problems, and may go undiagnosed until discovered because of unrelated problems.
Small hiatal hernias may not merit active treatment.;
, While hiatal hernias have some symptoms that are indicative of other hernias, they also have some that are unique. Thus, it is important to pay attention to all indications of a hiatal hernia.


Hiatal hernias are uniquely associated with gastroesophageal reflux.
Someone suffering from a hiatal hernia may experience heartburn when bending over, lying down, or swallowing.
A child suffering a hiatal hernia may have pain in the chest. In addition, they may burp often.
Some children who suffer hiatal hernias experience no symptoms., Treatment of hiatal hernias varies from the treatment of other childhood hernias. Thus, it is important to diagnose and treat them properly. Treatment often includes:


Medications that reduce stomach acid or strengthen the muscle between the esophagus and stomach.
The recommendation to sit up for an hour after meals.
Surgery, for extreme cases. Surgery may include a laparoscopy of the middle chest. The surgeon will make several tiny puncture holes and reduce the size of the opening that connects the chest and stomach. They may also place stitches to keep the stomach in place., Children require care after surgery to correct hiatal hernias. Aftercare for surgery to correct a hiatal hernia is substantial compared to other similar surgeries. Thus, parents and guardians need to be on guard and closely follow the directions of the child’s physician. Aftercare may include:


Dietary restrictions or a special diet.
A tube inserted into the stomach while the esophagus heals.
Hospital bedrest for up to a week.
Monitoring by the child's physician for several weeks.