 Many women who suffer from migraines find that they are more likely to develop migraine headaches and nausea before or during menstruation. This can also happen during pregnancy or menopause. Scientists think that this may have something to do with fluctuations in the body's estrogen levels. If pre-period migraines are a problem for you, you might need to avoid or change the way you use oral contraceptives with estrogen in them because the drop in estrogen may be worse when taking them, creating worse headaches.


High-estrogen birth control products and hormone replacement therapy may worsen the problem for many women. It may be best to avoid these medications. If you're already taking them and notice an increase in the severity or frequency of migraines, talk to your doctor about discontinuing use.Be aware that the solution may not be as simple as removing oral contraceptives from your routine. Some women find that they help reduce the occurrences of migraines. Others find that migraines are triggered only when they are off of the active pills for a week each month. You can change to a different type of pill to help or you may take the active pills continuously without a break. Talk to your doctor about possible solutions to these problems., If you suffer from frequent or severe migraines, ask your doctor about preventative medications. These medications, also known as prophylactic medications, are available only by prescription. Many have possible serious side effects, so they should only be used under a doctor's supervision and only after discussing all the other preventive possibilities. Because of the number of medications available and the uniqueness of every migraine case, finding the right preventative combination can take a while.Cardiovascular medications, including beta blockers such as propranolol and atenolol, calcium channel blockers such as verapamil, and anti-hypertension medications such as lisinopril and candesartan, can be taken to help with migraines.
Anti-seizure medications such as valproic acid and topiramate can help with migraines. Be aware that valproic acid can cause brain damage if the migraines are due to a urea cycle disorder.
Antidepressants including tricyclic, amitriptyline, and fluoxetine have proven effective in many migraine cases. These medications in their normal doses may have significant unwanted side effects, but newer tricyclics such as nortriptyline used in a low dose to treat migraines have far more limited side effects.
Cannabis is a traditional migraine remedy that has recently sparked renewed scientific interest. It's illegal in many jurisdictions, but is legal or available by prescription in others. Find out the laws in your area and speak to your doctor., Prescription drugs aren't the only remedies that have been shown to help migraines. Certain herbs and minerals also help with migraines. Researchers have found fairly strong correlations between magnesium deficiency and the onset of migraines. Some studies have found that regularly taking magnesium supplements may help migraine sufferers.


Keep in mind that you should always consult with your physician before taking any herbal or nutritional supplements, especially if taken in conjunction with prescription medications. Several herbal supplements have been purported to reduce migraine frequency. Extracts of the feverfew and butterbur plants and kudzu root could possibly help. These supplements should not be taken by women who are pregnant.Fairly high doses (400mg) of vitamin B2, also known as riboflavin, may help prevent migraines. Metabolic and hepatology studies also show that coenzyme or active B-6 assists with liver amino acid metabolism, glucose metabolism, and neurological transmissions. Active B-6 helps keep the chemicals like serotonin in balance in the brain. This helps you avoid a chemical imbalance, which can trigger migraines.