 Select a common experience, usually one where the other person is indebted to you in some way. You can use a memory that you know the other person feels guilt or shame about, though this is riskier.There are a wide variety of choices in a situation like this, but you want to select something vivid and with a great deal of emotion tied to the memory. For example, a time where you saved the other person from a bad stage performance or from drowning in a lake.
If this is a memory the other person feels guilt or shame about, proceed cautiously. For instance, if you use an old memory of when you took the blame for them stealing from a store--there is some incrimination risk. Or if you have documentary evidence of the other person performing shamefully in pursuit of material gain, this could be construed as the crime of blackmail., You will need to ensure the other person adequately remembers the incident you are using to guilt trip them with.Use sight, sound, and smell if possible. Describe the memory's elements, but if you can reproduce them in any way, that is also a help.
Focus on the parts of the memory where you are in the advantageous situation. For example, if you helped the other person dress better to meet their future spouse, point out the moments you actually selected their attire, told them how to put it on, etc.
 This is to emphasize the value of the memory so you get the measured response you want out of the other person.If the past event you use to guilt trip the other person was life altering, then you may get more of a change out of the guilt trip. For example, if you are using the memory of rescuing a friend from a burning house, their response may increase greatly. But if it's only the memory of stopping them from stepping in a puddle of water, then this is not typically going to gain as great a response.
If this is a memory of guilt or shame, such as a crime or other morally questionable behavior, then focus on the value of your keeping the other person's confidence on the matter or sharing in the incident. For example, if the past event was the other person cheating on a partner and you negotiated a settlement--this can be a valuable point to you both from which you can get your desired behavior out of the other person.
 You may want to bring the other person into a situation reminiscent of the memory.This is a variation on the sensory step, but should be done more in conjunction with the value step.
This step involves taking the other person into a location similar to or actual from which the memory occurred. For example, if you are trying to guilt trip the other person by having them remember the time you stood all day in the rain to get them tickets to a concert, you can walk them past the same ticket counter (even when its raining) while you are discussing the incident.
 Once you have your memory selected, and the other person sufficiently recalling it, you can pick the change in behavior you want them to undergo.


With this method, the new response does not have to be at all related to the memory.
This can be a favor you need the other person to do that you both agree is equal in weight to the effort given in the memory you used in the guilt trip. For example, if you used the memory of watching the other person's pets for a week the favor can be the other person buying you tickets to a sporting event of equal value to a professional pet sitter or kennel for the same time period.
Discuss if the other person's response is adequate to make you "even" for the original memory, if you now owe the other person back, or if the other person still has further responses to make.

