 You should file a complaint with the TIGTA if you aware an IRS employee violated the integrity of the Federal tax administration and IRS programs. You should also file a complaint with the TIGTA if you are aware an outside contractor made false claims or committed fraud, or attempted to commit fraud. The person may have tried to commit identity theft by impersonating an IRS employee, or the organization.You should also file a complaint if someone you know has committed a specific offense, such as trying to bribe IRS personnel, assaults and/or threats against IRS employees, attempted fraud involving computer technology or mail that falsely impersonates the IRS and any misconduct by IRS employees.;
, Note that your complaint will be considered confidential if you file it by phone mail, or in person. The TIGTA cannot guarantee confidentiality for complaints filed online.Call (800) 366-4484 to file a complaint by phone.
Mail a written complaint to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration Hotline at P.O. Box 589, Ben Franklin Station, Washington, DC 20044-0589.
Email a complaint to Complaints@tigta.treas.gov, which goes to the TIGTA Hotline Complaints Unit.
Complete and submit the online complaint form here.
 If you are filing a complaint against an IRS employee, you will need their name, grade, position, function as well as their city and state of residence.You will also need to provide detailed information in your complaint about the nature of the complaint and what exactly you witnessed in terms of wrongdoing or false representation.
 Supply your name, phone number and email address in the event the TIGTA needs to contact you for additional information., If you have a tax related problem that still has not been resolved by the IRS for more than 30 days, or are not receiving a response from the IRS by the promised date, you can file a complaint with the TAS.


If you own a small business are unable to meet your financial expenses, such as payroll, you can also contact the TAS via a complaint. As well, if the IRS is preventing you from providing for basic necessities like housing, transportation, or food, you should contact the TAS.
 Call the National Taxpayer Advocate Office at (877) 777-4778 or visit to the IRS web site here to find the nearest office.You can also complete Form 911, Request for Taxpayer Advocate Service Assistance, available here. You can mail or fax the completed form to your local Taxpayer Advocate Office. The advocate can also complete Form 911 for you during your call or in person visit to the Taxpayer Advocate Office.
 The advocate will listen to your description of your tax issue, and try to help you resolve the issue. You will need tell the advocate the name of the person you have been in contact with at the IRS and any paperwork you have filed with the IRS. The advocate will also need information on the type of tax return you completed and the tax years involved in the return(s).The advocate will provide his name, phone number, and badge number. He will give you an impartial and independent review of your issue and a time frame for what will be done and when it will be completed. He can also give you advice on how to prevent any future federal tax issues and provide an update on any progress on your problem in a follow up call or contact.
 You should give the advocate your contact information, including your phone number and the best times to reach you at that number. The advocate will then contact you again with updates on your tax issue.Keep in mind the TAS is independent within the IRS, and the law requires each TAS office to act independent of other IRS offices. The TAS has the discretion not to disclose any of your information to the IRS or to inform the IRS that you have contacted the TAS. However, in the event of assistance or relief provided by the IRS, the TAS will likely have to disclose your information to the IRS.
If you would like another person, such as an attorney or other tax expert, to discuss or receive information about your case, you can mail or fax in a completed Form 2848, Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative, available online here or Form 8821, Tax Information Authorization, available online here. You can also get these forms at your local IRS office, or by calling 1-800-829-3676.

