 Part of feeling good about yourself and your life is having realistic expectations. Your challenges make you who you are just as much as your positive qualities. Everyone has challenges, makes mistakes, and has to deal with disappointment sometimes. Accepting yourself for who you are will help you feel better about yourself and your life., You have no control over most of the physical traits you have inherited, so a great way to start feeling good about you is to release yourself from impossible standards. Try seeing yourself as the unique person you are. Journal about your physical uniqueness and how it makes you you.You could even make a collage of all the celebrities or people you admire who have used their uniqueness to their advantage.
 What you do for a career also may affect how you feel about yourself and your life. Start a journal about what you are passionate about. The more of a balance you have between your responsibilities and things you truly love, the more you will be able to feel good about your life.For example, you may love filmmaking. Make time to hold screenings for your friends or share your work on youtube.
Maybe your passion is motorcycles. If you aren’t able to work full-time repairing motorcycles, make it a hobby and dedicate yourself to indulging that hobby.
 Always do your best in the context of a situation, but remember that your best doesn’t always lead to a perfect result. Something doesn't have to be perfect to be excellent. This is a great way to feel good about yourself. As long as you know you did your best, then you can rest easy.Say you had a presentation to do at work and you woke up with a horrible cold. Maybe the presentation didn’t go as well as you wanted it to because you weren’t feeling well. Instead of feeling negative, ask yourself honestly: under the circumstances—with a stuffy nose and a foggy brain—did you do your best? If the answer is yes, then let it go and release the expectations you had of a completely on point presentation. The presentation could still have been great, especially given the circumstances.
Accepting and letting go is often easier said than done. The most important step in letting go disappointment or frustration is to give yourself an honest account of the situation.You may find yourself worrying that you won't get a promotion due to providing less than 100 percent on the presentation. An honest analysis of the situation, though, would mean accepting that your promotion is tied to your overall performance, not to a single presentation. It would also mean accepting that those in attendance at the presentation knew you didn’t feel well and probably cut you more slack than you’re cutting yourself.
 Keep yourself lighthearted. Instead of fixating on your disappointments, always consider what you’ve learned from them and how you can apply that new knowledge to the future.For example, say you are really attracted to someone. You finally get up the guts to ask the person out, and he or she says no. It’s natural to feel some disappointment, but let go of the expectation that just because you wanted to get that date you would get it. Instead focus on how brave you were for asking someone out and look at it as practice for next time.
Another example would be that you interviewed for a job. You thought the interview went well, but you didn’t get the job. Release your expectations of getting that job, and instead look at it as a way to practice your interviewing skills for your next interview.
Keep a journal on things that didn't work out to your expectations so you can assess why they didn't work out, how you can change things in the future so they work out better. For instance, maybe you blew off a job because of the low pay without realizing that there was actually an opportunity to build skills. Instead of regretting your actions in the past, focus on being more cooperative, sticking it out, and being appreciative of the skills you're learning.
 Having gratitude for everything in your life, including the challenges is an excellent way to keep a flexible, positive attitude. You can make a list of ten things every day for which you are grateful. If you feel yourself getting discouraged, remind yourself to recite ten things you are grateful for immediately. Keep your lists handy, so you have concrete reminders in case you feel yourself getting stuck in negative thinking.