 First, navigate to your privacy settings. Reach the Settings menu from the drop-down menu in the top right-hand corner of the screen, just above the "Log Out" action. Once you're on the Settings page, click "Privacy" on the menu that runs down the left side of the screen; this will take you to the Privacy Settings and Tools page.You should see three categories, each of which includes several filters:



Who can see my stuff? This section allows you to customize who sees your posts, photos, and tags. You can block individual family members from seeing specific types of posts. For instance, you can make it so that your parents can't see the photos you're tagged in.Who can contact me? This is a way to regulate you can send you friend requests and private messages. Your family members may notice if you outright block them from your profile, so this may not be the best option for such a delicate situation.

Who can look me up? This is the highest level of security: you can control who is able to find your profile using your email address and phone number, and you can unlist your Timeline from regular search engine traffic. This option probably isn't terribly useful if your family is already on Facebook.
 Click "Edit" next to "Who can see your future posts?" Select the drop-down menu that reads either "Friends" or "Public", and click "More Options" to open a further menu. Click "Custom" to choose to share or not share your posts with specific people or groups. Type your family members' names under "Don't share with" to block them from seeing your posts.


If you've made a separate family group, you can type in the group name in place of individual family member names. This way, you can add new family members to the group as they add you on Facebook.
 Use the privacy slider in the status box right when you make a new post. The drop-down menu is exactly the same as the one you found on the Custom Privacy screen. This way, you can choose to share or not share each new post with specific groups of people. You might block a very confrontational cousin from seeing a political status update, or you might prevent your parents from seeing photos of last weekend's big party.
 Back in the "Who can see my stuff?" box, click "Use Activity Log". You'll see a list of everything you've ever done on Facebook: likes, comments, tagged photos, etc. Scroll through the log looking for things that you don't want your family to see. Click the drop-down menu from the globe icon, click Custom, and type your family members' names in the box beneath "Don't share this with". They won't be able to see this post.


If the post is older than a few hours, consider that your family member may have already seen it. Be aware of your family's Facebook habits, and try to decide what you need to do for damage control.
Be aware of anyone who might tell your family. Consider blocking anyone who you don't trust to keep your activities to themselves. For instance, if your friend's parents are close with your own parents, you might consider blocking the friend's parents on Facebook to reduce the risk of them passing anything along.
 Add them to the "Family" group and then ask them to poke through your profile. To them, it should appear to be a very boring profile, because they can't see any pictures, status updates, etc. That's what your family will see.