 Place fluoride toothpaste onto an electric or soft-bristled toothbrush. Hold the brush at an angle and brush using short and gentle strokes. Brush the surfaces of your teeth as well as the part where the teeth meet the gums. Brush twice a day for at least two minutes., Cut a piece of floss about 18 inches (46 cm) long. Wind part of the floss around one of your left fingers and part of the floss around one of your right fingers. Leave about 1 inch (3 cm) of floss in between. Place the floss in between your teeth and gently scrape off the plaque. Rub the floss all the way from the gumline to the top of the tooth. Change positions of the floss for each tooth., Place the scraper at the back of your tongue and apply gentle pressure. Pull the scraper forward to the front of your tongue. Repeat as needed. Make sure you don’t place the tongue too far back or you will gag., Use a soft-bristled brush and fluoride toothpaste to remove food particles from your dentures. Use the same techniques as you would when brushing your teeth. Soak your dentures in a denture solution overnight to remove plaque deposits and thoroughly clean your dentures., Rinse out your mouth and brush your teeth before using mouthwash, if possible. Place a small amount of mouthwash in the cap of your mouthwash bottle. Amounts will vary depending on manufacturer instructions. Don’t dilute the mouthwash unless the instructions tell you do so. Rinse the mouthwash back and forth in your mouth for 30 seconds. Spit it out in the sink and do not swallow the mouthwash.
 Check the bristles on your toothbrush to determine how worn they are. Some toothbrushes have a color indicator that tells you when it’s time to replace your toothbrush. Buy a new toothbrush or toothbrush head every 3-4 months. Replace your toothbrush more frequently if you notice your toothbrush is wearing out sooner., Book an appointment with your dentist for a regular cleaning and check up. Talk to your dentist about any issues you have with bad breath and ask for recommendations. Your dentist will determine when your next appointment should be. This could be 3-6 months or longer., Limit the amount of onion and garlic you eat. The smell of onion and garlic stays in your mouth for hours. It also is digested into your bloodstream, which means the smell becomes part of the air you exhale when you breathe., Limit the amount of acidic foods you eat. This includes citrus fruits, coffee, chocolate, soft drinks and spicy foods.Acidic foods can cause acid reflux, which contributes to bad breath. Take an over-the-counter antacid medication and don’t lie down directly after eating if you cannot change your diet., Eat regularly throughout the day. Eat small meals if you are committed to a diet. Eat raw fruits and vegetables to help remove bad-smelling bacteria naturally. Not eating for a long time contributes to bad breath., Drink upwards of eight 8-ounce glasses of water every day. Saliva helps prevent bad breath so it’s important to keep your mouth and body moisturized and healthy., Chew sugar-free gum after your meals if you can’t brush your teeth. Sugar-free gum helps your mouth produce saliva, which helps prevent bad bacteria and bad breath. Gums and mints with sugar may actually make bad breath worse because they contribute to the bacteria in your mouth., Avoid all tobacco products, including cigarettes, pipes, and cigars. Smoking affects the gum tissue and can cause gum disease, which causes bad breath. Reduce the amount you smoke if you are unable to quit. This will lessen your bad breath but will not eliminate it completely., Eat a raw apple, celery, or carrot to mimic the effect of brushing your teeth. These fibrous foods are crisp enough to remove food particles from your teeth. They also encourage your mouth to produce saliva, which helps keep your mouth moist and removes bacteria., Keep a small bag of fresh mint leaves in your bag or purse so you have something to chew on after meals. You can substitute parsley for mint, if you like. Neither will provide long-lasting effects, but they’re great for a quick and natural on-the-go fix., Carry a packet of breath freshening strips as a substitute for regular mouthwash. Place one of these little strips on your tongue and allow it to dissolve. Breath strips come in different flavors and will kill bacteria that causes bad breath.
 Reach for a probiotic mint instead of a normal mint. Probiotics contain live microorganisms that are normally used to help maintain a healthy stomach, but research shows that probiotic mints may also help kill bad-smelling bacteria in your mouth.The mints are small and easy to carry and function as a simple substitute for regular mints.
 Add just 1 or 2 drops of oil of oregano into a liter of water. Take sips of the water throughout the day to help you get sweet, fresh breath. Oil of oregano helps to kill bacteria that causes bad breath and might also help with digestion.