 Making a list of everything that irritated, bugged, or annoyed you about your ex’s personality and/or lifestyle can help you to see why it would not have worked. Start by writing down as many things as you can and then keep adding to the list as you think of other things.


For example, maybe your ex had a really outgoing personality and often got carried away in conversations with other people rather than focusing on you. Or, perhaps your ex was really into country music and you can’t stand that kind of music. List anything and everything that helps you to see how you and your ex were incompatible.
If you want, you can also include in this list anything that your partner cited as a reason for ending the relationship (if he or she broke up with you)., Dreaming a little about your ideal mate can also help you to move on. Try making another list where you write down all of the qualities that you want out of your next boyfriend or girlfriend, or of things that you want out of your next relationship.


For example, you might decide that you would prefer someone who is more introverted, likes to read, and who enjoys the same kind of music as you do. Or you might decide that you want a relationship that is honest, genuine, and loving.
You might even consider what you can do to improve the chances of having this kind of relationship. What could you have done better in your last relationship?For example, if you had a habit of texting your ex constantly, then maybe you can try to give your next girlfriend or boyfriend some more independence.
 Think back on the things that you and your ex used to argue about to give yourself some more perspective about your incompatibility. You can think back to all the little fights you had or even just one big one.


For example, you might think back to a time when you argued for an hour over what to do over the weekend, or when you fought because you caught her flirting with another guy.
You can also reflect on any warning signs that the relationship was ending.For example, did you start to argue more frequently? Did your ex start to talk to you less and less?

, After you have reflected on some of the things that indicate why your relationship did not work out, you may feel like laughing a little at how mismatched you and your ex were.


For example, you could look back on a silly fight that you had over what kind of pizza to order, or just laugh at how different the two of you were in general.

