 A scout is a cheap, light cavalryman that travels quickly and has excellent line of sight. Scouts are created from the Stable building in all Age of Empires versions.;
, Move your scout around the map to see where the enemy colony is and the best way to advance upon them. Left-click the scout then right-click a location in the unexplored area of the landscape where you want to explore.


You can also move your scout by selecting him and then right-clicking a location on the map (displayed on the bottom right corner of the screen in AoE3 and bottom left corner of the screen in AoE2 and earlier versions).
 After sighting your enemies, gather your army in readiness for attack.


Most versions of AoE will automatically arrange military units in the most prudent formation based on the number and type of units you have, but sometimes you have to do it manually.
Make sure melee units, like swordsmen and knights, are in a position to spearhead the attack, while ranged units, like archers and field guns, occupy the rearmost positions in the formation. Shift different units around by selecting them (double left-clicking to select all units of one type) and moving them about (right-clicking where you want units to move) till you have the best formation.
 Most enemy colonies will have castles and watchtowers as a first line of defense against invasions, and you need to first destroy these to improve your chances of winning.


Select the entire army you’ve rallied by dragging a selection box over them using the left mouse button.
March your army to a location close to the enemy colony, and then command your siege units, e.g., field guns (AoE3), mortars (AoE3), and battering rams (AoE2), to destroy the enemies’ towers and castles by selecting the siege units and right-clicking the towers and/or castles.
 The best way to do this is to just move your army to where the enemy soldiers and buildings are, and they will automatically start to attack.


Each unit will attack the enemy unit it is best suited to attacking, e.g., siege units will attack buildings, infantry units will attack enemy infantrymen and buildings, and archers will attack enemy infantry and cavalry.
 While your army is attacking the enemy colony, create and rally a second army for subsequent attacks on the enemy colony in case the first army is unsuccessful.


Repeat this until you eventually eliminate the enemy.

