 You can donate to the Foundation through the national website, or through your state or regional ACLU office. If you want to support activities specific to your part of the country, you may want to go through a state or regional website.Unlike the ACLU generally, the ACLU Foundation is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit within the meaning of the U.S. tax code. Any donation you make to the Foundation is fully tax-deductible.
The Foundation does not engage in any lobbying efforts. Rather, the Foundation is primarily concerned with litigation and public education efforts. For example, an ACLU attorney may defend someone whose civil liberties have been infringed. Your donation helps pay attorney fees and court costs to fight for that person's civil rights and liberties.
Typically, donors make smaller donations to the ACLU, and make larger, tax-deductible donations to the ACLU Foundation. If you have limited funds to contribute, make sure you know where your money is going and whether your donation is tax-deductible.
 The website will have a link you can click that will take you to a page where you can make a tax-deductible donation to the Foundation online. Double-check the page and make sure it indicates that your donation is going to the Foundation, not to the ACLU generally, and will be tax-deductible., Typically you cannot make monthly recurring donations to the ACLU Foundation. Rather, you must make a one-time donation. Although you have options to donate hundreds or thousands of dollars, you also have the option of donating another amount.The minimum donation you can make to the ACLU Foundation is $5.
When donating online, you must use a credit card. The ACLU accepts Visa, MasterCard, and American Express.
 You must provide your first and last name and email address, as well as the appropriate billing address and credit card information to make a donation online.Below the personal and payment information, you have the option of checking a couple of boxes. The first will enable the ACLU to send you updates and information about work the organization is doing to protect civil rights and liberties nationwide. The second box allows the ACLU to exchange your name and address with other charities.
 Look over the information you've provided to make sure everything is correct before you click the button to complete your donation. You will receive a confirmation email that includes basic information about your donation.Make sure you print your confirmation email and save it for your records. You'll need it for your taxes. You may want to keep it along with the other documents you'll need to complete your returns come tax time.

