 Tanning naturally is safer than tanning beds, and it will give you the most natural results.;
, Sleeping is good because it causes the time to pass faster, while reading a book blocks some of the sunlight while on your back. Carefully time a nap, say an hour to an hour and a half, and set an alarm to wake up after that time has passed. Then, turn over to the other side and fall back asleep. You can potentially repeat this process until you have reached the tan you want.


If you are in a public area while using this method, always make sure to be in a safe environment. Ideally, keep someone near you that you know, who can protect you while you're alone and unconscious. Try not to sleep with music playing in ear-buds or headphones, because if anything happens to your belongings or body while asleep, you want to be able to hear it.
 Lie out between the hours of 10 a.m- 2 p.m, as this is the time of day when the sun is the most intense. Consider lying out when the weather is partly cloudy. This can make for a more powerful tan when the sun reflects off the clouds in the sky, intensifying the amount of sun rays your body receives. Try lying out in or around water. Water is another natural intensifier.
 You must always use sunscreen when tanning, no matter where you are. Apply your suntan lotion 30 minutes prior to going out into the sun so that it can soak into your skin. Re-apply lotion in the shade every hour, and don't just touch it up. Do it all properly again. Make sure you stay in the shade for 10 minutes for every hour that you spend in the sun.


If you are using the napping method, use no lower than 20-30 SPF sunscreen for any sleeping time under an hour, and use no lower than 40-50 SPF sunscreen when sleeping for longer than an hour. Re-apply sunscreen between naps. Sun damage is a very real thing, and it happens whether you see it or not.
Also remember to apply sunscreen every time you exit water. Even though some sunscreens claim they are waterproof, they can easily wear off. Try to apply when dry to make sure that the lotion sticks.
Drink a lot of water so you don't dehydrate.
 You can find it near the sunscreen section of many drugstores and grocery stores. Be careful when using tanning oil, because it can work quickly. It's better to get a base tan and build from there, than to get burned by the sun. Don't use a heavy cream, as it will clog pores and be sticky.
 Contrary to popular belief, lying still for long periods of time will actually make you burn faster. Being active and moving allows for the sun to not be concentrated on to one area for long periods of time. The easiest way to get an even tan while staying active is to flip from your stomach to your back and vice versa, every 5-10 minutes.


Try to get an even tan by making sure no part of your body is in the shade so you don't get any funny white marks on you.
Remember to turn over to get your back as well as your front, as it needs just as much color. You will also need to turn on your sides so you can tan the sides of your legs, hips, waist.
Wear strapless bikinis or tops to avoid strap marks. Consider tanning topless.

