 There are options both for local travelers and for those who wish to visit from far away:



Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport is the closest major airport, located approximately 155 miles (248 km) south of the park.

Fairbanks International Airport is another major airport option, located approximately 210 miles (336 km) north of the park.
Several municipal airports offer local service, including Palmer Municipal Airport and Kenai Municipal Airport.
;
, Prices on flights vary from one location to another, and will also fluctuate depending on the time of year. Depending on where your trip originates, you may not have a direct flight to Fairbanks or Anchorage, so consider whether you may be willing to make multiple flight transfers when choosing your destination.
 Be sure to note whether you’re buying a refundable or nonrefundable ticket in case your plans change. Nonrefundable fares will often be lower, but you run the risk of not being able to get any money back if you cannot make the flight.
 The park’s website highlights the costs you’ll incur during your stay:



Single-Visit Passes


$10 per person. This allows an unlimited number of travelers access to the park for seven days. Children 15 and under stay free.



Season Passes

Annual Pass (Denali National Park only): $40 per person

National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Annual Pass: $80 per person. This pass allows unlimited entry to any national park that charges admission. Those affected include the pass-holder and up to three adults over the age of 16. Those 16 and under are admitted free.

Annual Military Pass (all national parks): Free. This pass is intended for all active military personnel and any dependents; proper identification is required.

Access Pass (all national parks): Free. This pass is intended for U.S. citizens or permanent residents with permanent disabilities. Acquiring one by mail costs $10.

Senior Pass (all national parks): $10. This pass provides lifetime access for any U.S. citizens or permanent residents over 62 years of age. Acquiring one by mail costs $10.

Volunteer Pass (all national parks): Free. This pass is provided to those who volunteer for 250 hours at any national park. Hours are tabulated on a cumulative basis.



