 Cottage cheese can be used in place of ricotta for a more health-conscious take on the beloved Italian dish. Whip the cheese by hand and layer it between strips of pasta and zesty tomato sauce. For even more flavor, fold in grated parmesan, a little minced garlic and some fresh parsley or basil.Strain the excess moisture out of the cottage cheese and pulse it in the food processor for a few seconds to make the consistency more like ricotta.Don’t worry about ruining dinner, even if you’re not the biggest fan of cottage cheese—once everything is cooked together, you won’t even be able to taste the difference.
 Stir cottage cheese into sauces or stews as they simmer to bulk them up and make them more filling without the need to add meat. When heated, the soft curds will set up particularly well in dishes with creamy bases, such as vodka sauce or stroganoff.Stir cottage cheese into your leftovers just before you reheat them to keep them from getting too dry.
Reach for a carton of cottage cheese instead of a can of creamed soup when you’re whipping up a savory casserole., The next time you bake a pound cake, cookies or cornbread, mix in a few ounces of cottage cheese once you’ve combined your wet and dry ingredients. The finished product will be rich, flavorful and have a remarkably smooth consistency right out of the oven.Try making dense confections like biscuits and scones with cottage cheese instead of buttermilk.
 Whisk the cottage cheese straight into the batter, whipping or blending it first to eliminate the biggest chunks. The result is a satisfying (but not too heavy), complete breakfast that will leave you feeling energized and get your day off to a healthy start.You can also spoon it straight onto the top, along with maple syrup, banana slices, chocolate chips or your choice of add-ons.
Incorporating cottage cheese into pancake (and waffle) batter is a great way to get a protein-packed breakfast without resorting to cooking with protein powder, which can often interfere with the flavor of a dish.