 If you are experiencing heart palpitations, you should tell your primary physician. Heart palpitations are one side effect of MS treatment with steroids.They can also be caused by stress and anxiety as well as more serious heart conditions such as arrhythmia.Ask your doctor to examine your symptoms:


“I have been experiencing heart palpitations. Should I be worried? Do you think it is related to my MS or something else? What can be done?”

, Find a hospital or a doctor to diagnose and treat your chest pain. Chest pain is one side effect that can come along with MS steroid treatment.However, it can also be a symptom of more serious heart conditions. Since it is hard to diagnose, you should find immediate medical assistance.Take appropriate action to see a doctor:


Ask a family member to take you to the emergency room at your local hospital.
Go to a walk in medical clinic.
Phone the emergency medical number on your telephone.
 Your doctor may prescribe medication to relieve neuropathic pain. They may also prescribe medications for depression such as serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) to help you deal with the emotional symptoms you may have. Gabapentin (Neurontin) has also been proven useful when there is a combination of spasticity and neuropathic pain., If bladder spasticity leads to incontinence, then taking a drug such as tolterodine (Detrol) or oxybutynin (Ditropan) may help.Sildenafil (Viagra) has also been proven useful for treating impotence in those with MS.Discuss your medication options with your doctor., Oftentimes, fatigue can be the result of an illness and its treatment. Fatigue is a common symptom of depression in people with MS.When fatigue is due to depression along with MS, the fatigue may respond to an antidepressant such as SSRI agent. Discuss your medication options with your doctor., Acne is one of the side effects of long term treatment with steroids. You can try using over the counter acne medication with medical ingredients like benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, alpha hydroxyl acids or sulfur. You can find these products at your local pharmacy.If over the counter products do not work, ask your physician to recommend a good dermatologist.
 Cataracts are a common side effect of long term MS treatment with steroids.If you are experiencing cloudy vision or cannot see well at night, you may have cataracts. Contact your doctor to get an eye exam, which will determine whether or not you have cataracts. If you have cataracts, the recommended treatment is surgery., One of the long term side effects of MS treatment with steroids is high blood sugar and diabetes. If you have a dry mouth all the time, urinate frequently, or feel tired all the time, you should tell your doctor. MS treatment can exacerbate diabetes and even induce diabetes.Tell your doctor if you experience any of the following symptoms:Having to pee a lot
Thirsty all the time
Unusual hunger
Weight loss
Ketones in the urine. Purchase a ketone test at your local pharmacy and follow the directions on the label.Feeling tired all the time
Irritability
Frequent infections
Blurred vision
Slow-healing sores

, Osteoporosis makes your bones weak and brittle, which makes it easier to break them. It is one of the long term side effects of MS treatment with steroids.If you experience back pain, loss of height, stooping or frequent bone fractures, you may have osteoporosis. You should make sure you are getting enough calcium and soy protein in your diet and talk to your doctor about treatment options.The most common treatments are bisphosphonates such as Alendronate, Zoledronic acid, Ibandronate, and Risedronate.
Consume foods rich in soy protein and calcium.