 Consider the chemical equation of ammonia, NH3. You can tell from this equation that one nitrogen molecule must bond to three hydrogen molecules to form the compound. This process is started by introducing a ratio of three hydrogen to one nitrogen into a chemical reactor that contains a catalyst., You should first know that the catalyst does not directly react with the reactants. Think of it as a way to speed up the reaction that would happen anyway. In the formation of ammonia, the catalyst is an iron compound that contains potassium hydroxide. You should note that using the catalyst will only speed up the rate of the reaction, and will not increase the overall percentage of ammonia that is formed in the end., Understand that temperature is a double-edged sword in ammonia production. You can lower temperatures to get the best conversion of N and H into NH3. The downside is that by lowering temperatures, you also slow down the reaction. Most ammonia manufacturers use a temperature between 400 - 450 degrees celsius.Le Chatelier’s Principle governs how heat will affect the shift of N and H to NH3.
 You can also alter the conversion of N and H to NH3 with changes in pressure. If you use a higher pressure, you will bring the molecules closer together and promote the reaction that forms ammonia. Creating extremely high pressures is expensive (you have to buy the equipment to generate the pressure and contain it), so a middle ground is often sought to produce ammonia in a cost effective way. Most manufacturers use a moderately high pressure of around 200 atmospheres., Once you have successfully produced ammonia, it will be amongst other gasses (specifically nitrogen gas and hydrogen gas) at a high temperature and pressure. Luckily, you can liquify ammonia more readily than nitrogen or hydrogen. You should cool the gasses to around -30 degrees Fahrenheit to allow the ammonia to precipitate out as a liquid. The remaining gases are recycled through the reaction chamber to make more ammonia.