 The Stryder is unlocked by beating either the Militia or IMC campaign.

Stryder in a nutshell: Moderate shields, fast speed, fastest Titan, lowest health of any Titan.
It's well known that the Stryder has very low armor. The catch is, its speed can easily outmaneuver a chasing Ogre to set up an ambush. You also get three dashes, which is very useful.
 Many people make this mistake, and they get defeated often.
 They can be an okay target, as long as they are damaged. You shouldn't attempt to defeat a full-health Atlas unless you are an experienced Stryder player.

Watch out for the Atlas's Damage Core. Dash away if it activates.
 It has the same shields as you, but its health is massive. Unless you have a lot of skill, only go for weak, four to five shot kill Ogres., Know how to recognize a Rodeo before the indicator pops up, because by then it's too late. Rodeos make a clear clanking sound and unless you're in a battle, it should be fairly easy to hear., Electric smoke is a very good choice with the Stryder. In addition to rodeo prevention, you can dash in to an enemy titan, pop smoke, back off as they try to punch you, and mow them down., To still get them, either back into a wall and look up, or stare straight up and punch as soon as they jump off. You'd be surprised how much range the punch has., Any ordnance will work with the Stryder. It's so fast it literally doesn't matter., Dash core allows unlimited dashes for 10 seconds (15 if you use Core Extender). If you've had a dash core, everyone gets excited when they hear the OS say, "Dash core online!". Don't use it right away, though. Keep an eye out for enemy Titans, and ambush them around a corner. Pop dash core right before they see you, use the smoke, and dance around them while pummeling them with gunfire, ordinance, and the occasional punch., Try this: Quad rocket with extended mags, Elec. Smoke, Cluster Missile (this pairs best with Electric Smoke), Regenerator (faster bodyshield regeneration), Core Extender (or Core Accelerator)., Either attack from behind, or stay far away where it's hard to hit you. Try to stay away from walls (harder to rodeo you), and at least 45 feet (13.7 m) back. It's a long way, but enemies will have a hard time hitting you if you stay mobile., Jerk and zigzag., Your Dash covers more distance than any other Titan. This can be used to jump off a ledge further or escape., Weak, but mobile––use the Stryder's mobility! If you aren't, you aren't using him right.