 Whether the person is a recovering alcoholic or not, if you want them to attend the event, you’ll need to invite them. When you would like to include a recovering alcoholic in an event with alcohol it’s definitely a good idea to talk to them about the event first.This way, you’re inviting them and also giving them a chance to make an informed decision about whether or not they want to or able to attend.


For example, you might say,” I’d like for you to come to an event with me but there will be alcohol there.”
Or, for instance, you could try, “There’s a party I’d like us to attend but they’re going to be drinking. How do you feel about that?”;
, Triggers are events, situations, people, or places that may cause a recovering alcoholic to want to drink again.If you are close to the person, ask them about things that might tempt them to drink. Knowing what their triggers are will help you and them plan for a fun, but safe event for everyone involved.


You may need to ask if they are aware of any triggers they might have. For instance, you might ask, “Do you know of any situations that might make you want to drink?”
For example, the holidays, birthdays, or anniversaries may be hard for some recovering alcoholics.
You can ask, “Is there anything about this event that you think might be a trigger for you to drink again?”

, Although this might not be an easy discussion to have, talking about where they are in their recovery process will help you include them in the event while being sensitive to their needs. Find out if they are at a point in recovery where they can handle being around alcohol.You might ask, “Do you feel that you are at a place in your recovery where you can handle this?”
Or, you might try saying, “There will be alcohol there. How do you feel it might impact your recovery?”
Be aware that some people that are early in the recovery process may feel that they can handle being around alcohol, but aren’t actually ready for that yet.
 If the person is just beginning recovery or has had a recent relapse, consider other ways to include them in the event without them being directly around alcohol.Even though you may not want them to miss out on the event, you also don’t want to risk their sobriety.


For example, if your uncle just started recovery a few weeks ago after years of alcoholism, you may want to reconsider inviting him to an open bar reception. Consider having an intimate, dry get-together for him and a few others before the main reception.
Or, for instance, if you are attending a baseball game and want your friend to come along, consider attending a ‘family day’ game where alcohol won’t be served.

