 If you want to improve your writing, then ask the teacher or a tutor for extra help. Your teacher will appreciate that you took the initiative to ask for help. Being proactive about your grades will work in your favor.
 Take notes on what your teacher is saying so you can reference them later. Pay particular attention to anything the teacher writes on the board or shows on an overhead projector.
 Don’t play games on your phone or check social media. It is rude and will irritate your teacher. Maintaining eye contact and putting down your phone shows your teacher that you are listening.
 Get a planner to keep track of your assignments and due dates across classes. Use your planner also to schedule extracurricular activities around your scheduled homework times.
 Give yourself reasonable deadlines to meet them, and check them off when done. Put these tasks in the order of most important to least important, and work on them in this order. Having them prioritized like this will help you with your homework time management.
 Seek out friends in your English class and set up a study or reading group. If your teacher allows it, share your essays with your classmates ahead of time and ask for comments/feedback from them.
 Almost every high school English class will require you to write essays. The requirements for these assignments will vary by teacher, so you will want to ask your teacher specifically what they are looking for. How many pages do they want your essay to be? Do they want citations at the end? Do you get to pick your topic or will a topic be assigned to you? Which of the three standard types of essays (expository/argumentative, narrative, or descriptive) are you writing?


For an expository or argumentative essay assignment you will be asked to investigate a particular topic and create an argument or take a stance on that topic. Expository essays are generally shorter than argumentative essays and are more common in introductory classes, while argumentative essays are more common in advanced, capstone-type classes. An essay in either of these categories might, for example, ask you to research capital punishment in the United States and explain why you might take a stance either for or against it.For the narrative essay assignment your teacher will be looking for more storytelling. An example prompt for an essay in this category might be to write about your greatest accomplishment or worst fear. These tend to be very personal and anecdotal essays.For the descriptive essay assignment your teacher will expect you to describe an experience, person, object, or place in detail, usually in a five paragraph format. This essay style often allows for more creative flexibility for the writer, depending on your topic. For example, describing a favorite childhood toy will be discussed differently by different students because each student had a different experience.