 Shake the coconut milk, then open the cans and pour them into a medium saucepan. Add your thickener of choice to the coconut milk.


Unlike coconut yogurt prepared without a thickener, you'll need to use the full can of coconut milk. Thoroughly shaking the cans before opening them should help combine any separated cream and water.
If you use agar agar, sprinkle the flakes over the coconut milk without stirring them.
If you use tapioca starch, whisk 1/3 cup (80 ml) of coconut milk with the tapioca until the starch dissolves. Pour this mixture back into the rest of the coconut milk and stir to combine.
 Place the saucepan on the stove over medium heat. Allow the coconut milk to reach a gentle simmer, then reduce the heat to low and cook for an additional 5 to 10 minutes.After the coconut milk begins simmering, you should periodically whisk the mixture to incorporate the thickener into the milk.
Continue heating the coconut milk until the agar agar fully dissolves or the tapioca fully thickens the milk.
 Remove the coconut mixture from the heat and allow it to cool to a temperature between 100 and 115 degrees Fahrenheit (38 and 46 degrees Celsius).Use a food thermometer to test the temperature of the mixture. It's crucial to let it drop adequately low. If you add the probiotics while the temperature remains too hot, the beneficial bacteria will die and the yogurt won't ferment properly.
 Sprinkle the probiotics and sweetener over the surface of the milk, then whisk well to combine.


If you use probiotic capsules, you should open the capsules and only use the powder inside. Alternatively, you could use 4 tsp (20 ml) of probiotic powder, 4 Tbsp (60 ml) store-bought coconut yogurt, or 4 Tbsp (60 ml) fermented coconut water probiotic kefir.
You can swap out the raw sugar for another sweetener, like maple syrup or agave, or omit it altogether if desired.
 Pour the coconut mixture into sterilized glass jars. Seal the jars with tight lids.


The jars must be sterilized before use; otherwise, bad bacteria could get into the mixture and spoil your yogurt. Sterilize the jars by running them through the hottest cycle of your dishwasher or by soaking them in boiling water for several minutes.
 Place the yogurt in an empty oven. Turn the oven light on, but leave the oven itself off. Allow the yogurt to ferment in this warm environment for 12 to 24 hours.


Do not turn the oven on since extremely hot temperatures can kill the probiotics. A closed oven with the light on should maintain temperatures between 105 and 110 degrees Fahrenheit (40 and 43 degrees Celsius), which is ideal for the culturing period.
Allowing the coconut yogurt to sit for 24 hours will produce thicker yogurt, but most should be ready after 8 to 12 hours.
 Transfer the jars of yogurt to the refrigerator and let them chill for approximately 6 hours.


During this time, the yogurt should continue thickening and the fermentation process should cease.
If the yogurt separates, you can stir it to combine the layers. For thicker yogurt, however, strain the liquid and use only the thickened bottom layer.
 The coconut yogurt should be done and ready to eat at this time.


Any leftovers can be stored in an airtight jar or container and kept in the refrigerator for up to two weeks.

