 Since you`re trying to be a teenage vampire, you`ll have to start paying attention to your schoolwork! Vampires are almost always smart and intellectual, so read up on books that you`ll enjoy and learn from! Start with simple books, or maybe How To books on extraordinary topics. Then try to get deeper by reading poetry, vampire novels, mysteries, and maybe even subscribe to a magazine! Just as long as you expand your intellectual side and learn new things, anything is possible!;
, If your teeth are a mess or are yellow, try getting braces or seeing a dentist for more on target details! Vampires have great teeth, so follow the dentist`s instructions for a healthy smile! If you feel brave enough to wear these in school, go out and buy clip on fangs that aren't tacky or glow in the dark. Yet, if you`re going to do this, only do this if your teeth are white and straight! Otherwise, it might look a bit silly!

, You have to look the part! Yet in this day and age, you might feel silly wearing long black coats, dresses, or gloves to school. Instead, find some nice dark clothing (black, dark blue, deep red, deep green, dark purple, etc..) made of lace, satin, silk, or anything that looks like it has a Victorian touch to it.


Then, once you've got a nice sultry piece of clothing, add something with a splash of color to it, like a bright necklace, rings, earrings, or even a belt. Yet don`t go overboard, and remember to buy skirts as well as jeans if you`re a girl. It`s really great to buy dresses for the spring and summer as well, and they don`t have to be in dark colors, but any colors you choose!
Keep it flowery, beautiful and elegant looking, maybe adding sandals, gloves, or a sunhat to it as well! Remember one thing as well- you want to look sweet, light and dark,vampire-like, and classy! Don`t go too light, and don`t go too dark! (Great colors to use: Black, dark purple, dark blue, white, off-white, tan/brown, deep red, gray, gold/silver, and maybe even some pink.)

, Since teenagers have trouble with understanding some aspects of life, it`s best if you start this step out slowly. Make sure you observe a lot, keeping your eyes open and observing everything.


To really play up the part, stare at someone for a really long time until they look at you, and then just smirk sweetly and mysteriously, making sure to look away. When you come into school, always make eye contact with friends, teachers, and even enemies.
You want to look intellectual, but remember to keep the gaze amused- not too creepy, and not too rude. Whenever you talk to someone, always think before you speak. Really listen to what someone is asking or telling you before responding. Add in a special touch of drama by saying nothing for a second or two, then answer them with a smooth voice.
Try not to overreact to anything as well, like per se you see a spider. If spiders and bugs in general freak you out, try to just ignore them and deal with them instead of screaming loudly:"OMG- SPIDER!!!AH!!!" This is not vampire material.
 While you're putting on a façade of being a sweet vampire, it`s still nice to have some friends!


Do extraordinary things with them on time off, like taking a walk in the park, or going out for lunch. Maybe just inviting them over for a cup of tea and a movie. It`s your call- just remember to smile mysteriously and make eye contact a lot, along with keeping them guessing about what you`re thinking as well! You`ll have them wondering who you truly are all right!

, Vampires don`t have pimples or flaws, but being teenagers, we DO. So try getting a facial wash and some good acne products while eating plenty of fruit and veggies! This`ll support a healthy immune system and healthy skin- don`t forget your vitamins!

, Playing a sport and joining a team are easy for teens at school. Vampires aren't usually big and bulky, but even if you are, stay in character, stay healthy, and you`ll be just fine!

, Some things can be goth, while other things girly- you are a sweet vampire, after all.
 Whisper in their ear in a crowded room, smirk and smile pleasantly at them, hug them whenever the moment`s right (but not too much) and always act like something smells good when you`re around them. (which is like their blood!) Remember to not overreact around them, and always stay pleasant and well mannered- they will be hooked!

, If your school ever hosts operas or plays, go to them and observe everything while boosting your culture as well! People,specially adults, will notice how amazingly different you are from everyone else!

