 If you have persistent acne that doesn’t respond to the first method or if you have severe, cystic acne, then you should consider meeting with a dermatologist who can prescribe other medications.
 For many women, certain birth control medications can help regulate acne-causing hormones. Since hormones are the initial cause of acne, regulating these hormones can lead to decreased breakouts., Oral antibiotics can decrease the amount of the p. acnes bacteria on your skin, which can decrease inflammation.Oral or topical antibiotics may be one of the first treatments that a dermatologist recommends for persistent acne.


Antibiotic treatments will usually require daily dosages for four-to-six months. After which point, they will be tapered off., In addition to some topical antibiotics, a dermatologist may want to prescribe other topical medications. These can range from prescription-strength benzoyl peroxide to azelaic acid or tazarotene and other retinoids.Most of these medications are meant to reduce skin lesions and inflammation associated with acne.
Another topical medication called Dapsone gel (Aczone) is especially helpful for hormonal acne in women.
 Isotretinoin is one of the most effective acne treatments available. However, it’s also the medication with some of the most serious potential side effects and risks, and usage is closely monitored.Isotretinoin actually shrinks the size of oil glands, which causes them to produce less oil.Side effects of isotretinoin include increased risk of depression, and it has also been tied to birth defects, so women who are pregnant will not be prescribed the medication. Other side effects may include very dry skin, dry eyes, and increased risk of sunburn.
In addition, women who could become pregnant need to take birth control or abstain from sex about one month before, during, and for one to two months after taking Isotretinoin. They also need to take monthly pregnancy tests during this time.
The medication is typically taken once or twice a day for sixteen-to-twenty weeks with results that are often permanent., If topical and oral medications do not work for you, then you may want to consider other types of treatments for your acne. Ask your dermatologist about your options, which may include:Laser or light treatments, such as photodynamic therapy.
Chemical peels.
Extraction of blackheads and whiteheads.
Microdermabrasion.

