 While it can be appealing to hide from your problems and pretend that they don't exist, it's much better to face them head on if you can. Dealing with your problems, whether it is having a hard conversation or changing a problematic behavior, will serve you much better in the long run than making you problems bigger by ignoring them.


Break your problems up into small steps to make them less overwhelming. Do a little work at a time. Build up your tolerance to the feelings brought up by working on your problems by addressing the problems gradually.
For instance, perhaps you are unemployed and need a job. Don't expect to write your resume, get references, find the perfect job, and get the job all in one week. Instead, focus just on one piece of that at a time, so that each step is a victory.;
, Stress can build up and build up and before you know it you are ready to explode. To stop this from happening, take a little time for yourself every day, no matter what your are doing.This could mean, for example, taking a relaxing bath at the end of your day or simply stopping your work and closing your eyes for a moment to recenter your thoughts.
Do whatever gives you the ability to recharge your energy and ability to focus. This may be as simple as calming down by taking a moment to slow your breathing down.
 Having a bad day? Moving your body will help improve your mood and your outlook. Eat a healthy lunch and make sure you get enough sleep for the next day. Your mood and outlook can be heavily influenced by your physical well being, so make that a priority.Try to get 30 minutes of physical activity five days a week.This will help your overall health and your mental well-being.
Whether you go for a jog, go on a hike, go to the gym, or just walk around your block, a bit of exercise can really improve your outlook.
Exercise improves mood, releases great chemicals in the brain, and can give you a well needed boost of confidence and self-esteem. It also is a healthy way to release pent up energy and tension.
 Do not turn to drugs or alcohol to cope with life's problems. These things may take away the pain for a while but in the end they will cause more problems than they solve.If you are having a hard time coping with life, take the time to identify whether or not you are using escapes, such as drugs and alcohol, as coping mechanisms. If you are, it's important to find other ways to deal with your stress and problems.
 Sometimes we take on stress that we do not need to take on. It is important to let go of stress about things that we cannot control or that is not our own.Letting go of things that we can't control is usually easier said than done. It will take some focus and work on your part just to identify the things you can't do anything about. Try writing down all the things that stress you out or make you anxious. This will allow you to better survey your issues.While it is important to care about others in your life, taking on other people's stress does not actually help you or the other person.

