 In some cases, people with EGID have diarrhea, or bloody stool (hematochezia).You might also experience constipation, or the inability to defecate.This indicates that EGID is affecting your intestinal tract in addition to (or instead of) your esophagus, stomach, or duodenum.Contact your physician if your stool is different from your normal situation, or if your stool characteristics vary widely.
 Reflux is the emergence of gastrointestinal acid from the gut into the throat or mouth. In advanced cases, reflux leads to gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).This includes the added symptom of heartburn, a feeling of pain or burning in the chest just behind the heart.If you have EGID, your reflux will not respond to anti-acid medication, which is the common solution for individuals with reflux.Even if you don’t experience reflux, you might experience some degree of chest or abdominal pain.
 If you regularly feel sick to your stomach after eating, you might have EGID. You might retch or actually throw up., People with EGID often have other allergy-related disorders such as asthma or eczema, often related to food sensitivity.If you know you have these disorders, or if certain substances cause breathing difficulties, a tight chest, or skin rashes, you are more likely to have EGID. EGID can also directly cause a body-wide inflammatory response in some people. If this happens, you might feel pain in your legs, feet, and ankles in addition to your chest and trunk. You might also get headaches, migraines, or flu-like symptoms (including fevers, general aches, and pain)., If you have any of the primary EGID symptoms, see a doctor immediately. You cannot and should not definitively diagnose yourself. Instead, you must consult a doctor who can schedule you for a medical test (endoscopy and/or colonoscopy) and produce conclusive evidence that you have EGID.The doctor will typically examine your digestive tract with a long, flexible tube equipped with a camera. This is called an endoscopy when examining the esophagus, or a colonoscopy when examining the colon. The doctor may biopsy the tissue (remove a small tissue sample) and examine it under the microscope to help with diagnosis.
Before the procedure, you’ll probably have to fast for four to eight hours, and you might have to stop taking certain medications that thin the blood or produce other undesired effects. Your doctor will provide you with more information about how you can prepare.The doctor may also give you a sedative or anesthetic before the procedure.

