 If you're stressing about your vows, it's fine to take opposite-sex vows and adapt them to your needs. You can still modify them to fit the occasion, and you won't work yourself into a tizzy trying to write something beautiful and romantic., For same-sex wedding vows, all you need to do to adapt classic vows is to sub in "wife/woman and wife/woman" or "husband/man and husband/man" for "wife/woman and husband/man."Classic Presbyterian vows are as follows:
"(Name), wilt thou have this woman/man to be thy wife/husband, and wilt thou pledge thy faith to him/her, in all love and honor, in all duty and service, in all faith and tenderness, to live with her/him, and cherish her/him, according to the ordinance of God, in the holy bond of marriage?"
"I, (Name), take you, (Name), to be my wedded wife/husband, and I do promise and covenant, before God and these witnesses, to be your loving and faithful husband/wife, in plenty and want, in joy and in sorrow, in sickness and in health, as long as we both shall live."
As you can see, these vows are already fairly gender-neutral, so you just need to sub in the correct words. Most contemporary religions have gender-neutral vows, so all you really need to do is sub in the appropriate genders and names.
 If you're having a religious ceremony, you probably want to include "God" in your vows, as most classic vows do. However, if you're not having a religious ceremony, but you still want to use classic vows, you may have to adjust the wording.For example, if you want to use the classic Methodist vows, they are as follows:
"Will you have this woman/man to be your wife/husband, to live together in holy marriage? Will you love her/him, comfort her/him, honor, and keep her/him in sickness and in health, and forsaking all others, be faithful to her/him as long as you both shall live?"
"In the name of God, I, (Name), take you, (name), to be my wife/husband, to have and to hold from this day forward, for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, until we are parted by death. This is my solemn vow."
In this case, you may want to take out "holy" or replace "In the name of God" with "As witnessed by the universe."

, Because same-sex marriage is still gaining acceptance, despite being legal, it may be appropriate to include a line about supporting each other through the struggles of being a same-sex couple.


For example, you could use the following Catholic vows, and add a line as you see fit:
"I, (Name), take you, (Name), for my lawful wife/husband, to have and to hold from this day forward, for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and health, until death do us part."
"I, (Name), take you, (Name), to be my husband/wife. I promise to be true to you in good times and in bad, in sickness and in health. I will love and honor you all the days of my life."
Before the last sentence in the second vow, you could add the line, "I promise to stand with you through all the struggles our relationship faces, from internal and external forces."

