 Reliving old memories is unlikely to be enough of a relationship-freshener. You need to create new memories together as well, in order to build a sense of excitement and unpredictability.Do something new as a team, be it skydiving, a cooking class, or a bowling league. If it makes things easier, take turns picking the next new thing you both will try together. Try to stick to things you both can enjoy, however. “Trying new things” can extend to the bedroom as well. Try oils, candles, new positions, role-playing, or whatever else might add some spice to your sexual routine.
 Use good news for either of you — a promotion, a community service award, even saving big money on your car insurance — as a reason to show your appreciation for each other and just have a good time.Never assume that your partner knows how proud or happy you are for him or her. Tell and show him/her. But keep in mind that an achievement for one of you is a victory for the team.
Celebrate strong efforts as well, even if they don’t come to fruition as intended. Nearly finishing a marathon or reaching the final interviews for a dream job can be worthy of a night on the town.
 An encouraging note taped inside your partner’s laptop, or a sexy message left on his/her voicemail can serve as little reminders of your ongoing affection and appreciation. Any little jolt out of the regular routine can help keep things fresh and interesting.While texting back and forth about dinner plans or work woes, a surprise expression of love or appreciation can go a long way.Of course, more old-fashioned moves like sending flowers, getting tickets to the sold-out event, setting up a surprise date, or just cleaning the house while your partner is away can still work as well.
 Having children fundamentally changes you and your relationship with your partner. Even if you treasure every moment with them (or most moments, anyway), the changes they cause and time they consume often exacerbate relationship troubles.Something as simple as getting more sleep can make a difference. This may seem like a pipe dream if you have small children, but being more rested and refreshed puts everyone in a better mood, and makes it easier to see existing positives and to make positive changes.
Take some time to commiserate about your stress from shuttling the kids around or dealing with them fighting over the toys, the TV, etc. Share your good experiences as well, of course. Demonstrate to each other that you’re in this together.
Make time for fun and for romance. Have your in-laws come over for a while, or pay the babysitter to stay a bit longer. Snatch up free time when you can, or schedule it ahead of time (anticipation can serve as foreplay for harried parents!).Don’t feel guilty about dedicating some time just for the two of you, because a strong, healthy, fresh relationship between you will benefit your kids as well.

