 If you need to apply for a visa, you should plan your trip well in advance so you have time to submit your application and have your visa approved before you leave.You will need to provide details about your travel itinerary with your visa application, so the sooner you nail down the dates for your trip, the better.;
, Once you've decided when you plan to travel to Spain, make sure you won't need to renew your passport. If your passport is not valid for at least three months after your scheduled date of departure, you may be refused entry.The U.S. State Department recommends that you make sure your passport remains valid for at least six months after your scheduled date of departure, just to be on the safe side.
 You cannot get a tourist visa for Spain unless you can provide proof that you are booked on a flight entering and leaving Spain. For a Schengen visa, you must arrive and depart within 90 days.If you plan on staying in Spain for longer than 90 days, you still must provide proof that you have already purchased round-trip travel into and out of the country.
Even if you are flying to another country before you fly home, you must have specific information, including flight numbers, for when you are arriving in and departing from Spain.
 To get a tourist visa for Spain, you must provide proof that you will have a place to stay the entire time you are in the country. Typically if you are traveling as a tourist, you would provide your hotel booking reservation.If you're planning to stay with friends or family who live in Spain, they must be a citizen or legal resident of Spain. You will need a letter of invitation from them that was issued by their local police department., If you plan to travel to Spain on a tourist visa, you must provide a copy of your travel and health insurance policy with your application. You must be covered for a minimum of 30,000 euros.The policy must be valid throughout your stay, and for all Schengen countries. Speak to a travel agent if you're not sure where to get appropriate insurance.
The policy must cover 100 percent of all medical care, with no deductibles or co-pays.