 Do not wait to deal with bullying. If you see or hear about someone being bullied, then step in to stop the bullying right away. If you cannot intervene yourself, then find someone who can. Adults who are intervening in bullying may also want to get help from a second adult.You can try standing up for the person and saying something like, “Stop it, Lisa!” Don’t insult the bully or use physical force to stop him or her from bullying the person.
If you are not able to intervene or is intervening does not work, then get help from someone. For example, if you see someone being bullied on the playground, then run and get a teacher or recess monitor and tell him or her what is happening.
Don’t wait until later to tell someone. If you wait, the person may get hurt.
Tell a teacher or counselor about any ongoing bullying that you know about. Some forms of bullying, such as exclusion or subtle remarks, may go unnoticed by teachers.
 It is important to keep the bully away from the person he or she is bullying. Do not force the two parties to be in the same room together or to shake hands and make up. Put them in separate rooms and talk with each one individually.Ask each person what happened.
You can also talk to other kids who witnessed the bullying, but don’t do this in front of the bully or the person who was being bullied.
Take your time sorting out the details of what happened. Do not try to figure everything out on the spot. Talk with both parties, ask witnesses what they saw, and then put all of the pieces together.
 Bullying is a serious problem that can escalate and cause serious damage if it is not stopped. Take any bullying that you hear about very seriously.You might even need to contact the police or emergency services in some situations. You may need to involve the police or seek medical attention for the person if:A weapon is involved.
There are threats involved.
The violence or threats are motivated by hate, such as racism or homophobia.
The bully has done serious physical harm to the person.
Sexual abuse is involved.
Anything illegal has happened, such as extortion, blackmail, or robbery.

