 Go to the websites of airlines that appeal to you and find their “careers” page. Make a list of all the jobs that appeal to you, and figure out whether you meet their requirements before proceeding.


Some cities host flight attendant “open houses” to give potential flight attendants the chance to learn more about the career and meet employers. Do an online search to find out if there’s an open house coming up near you.
 Most airlines will require that you submit an application with your basic information, a resume, and sometimes a cover letter. Make sure your application materials are clear and well-written, and stress your customer service experience.


It may be a matter of days or as long as several weeks before you receive a telephone call or an email from the airlines to whom you have submitted an application.
Most major airlines have only one city in the United States where they conduct interviews, so you may have to travel to your interviews. Know what makes each airline unique, and be prepared to discuss the qualities that make you right for this particular airline during your interview.
 Airlines are quite selective when it comes to hiring flight attendants; the right candidates must have a special mix of cool-headedness, endurance and the ability to provide excellent customer service. Show that you’re personable, responsible, and that you care about people’s safety and comfort. Be personable and don't forget to smile. Know that many airlines conduct the first interview via video submission. Many interviews consist of two parts:


In the first part, your customer service skills will be tested with a written examination.
If you pass, the second part of the interview will test whether you have good leadership skills. You'll be asked how you would handle different scenarios that could occur while working a shift in the air. For example, what would you do in an emergency if the aircraft started to descent? Or how would you handle a drunk passenger?
Use anecdotes to illustrate times when you handled a situation that required acting as a leader while others were anxious and stressed.
 If you’re hired for a position, you’ll have to undergo a medical exam before the airline makes it official. Find out what the exam will entail and make sure you’ll be able to pass it.
 Every airline has a slightly different system for training flight attendants. You may be required to take an online course as well as do field training on a plane. You'll receive training regarding how to handle an emergency landing and evacuate a plane as well as how to answer customers' questions and operate the drinks cart. Depending on the airline, you may also receive instruction on how to make announcements to passengers. You can take steps to prepare for this by learning your airport codes and understanding the 24 hour clock.


The four- to six-week training period is described by many as being difficult, but rewarding. Learn from your mistakes and always maintain a positive demeanor. Remember that every flight attendant started out as a rookie. You have a lot to learn, and a lot to look forward to.
It's essential that you pass the training period in order to move into full-time status as a flight attendant. If you do not pass, your contract will be revoked. You may reapply after six months to a year, depending on the airline policy.

