 No matter what type of grill you use, it should be preheated to as hot a temperature as you can preheat it to.


Heating the grill to high heat will allow you to immediately sear the flesh of the kingklip. This makes it harder for the fish to stick to the grate.
If using a gas or electric grill, turn all of the burners on high and let them heat up for several minutes.
If using a charcoal grill, pour a large, even pile of coals into the grill and light them on fire. When the flames die down and no longer flick above the grill grate, the coals should be ready.;
, When cooking kingklip directly on top of the grill, it is vital that you start with a clean grate to prevent the flesh from sticking.


Ideally, the grill grate should be clean before you start cooking.
If the grate is not clean, however, cover the grill for five minutes while the fire is its hottest. Open the grill and use a flame-resistant grill brush to brush away any residue on the top of the grate., Once the flames die down, dip a clean cloth into vegetable oil or olive oil and evenly wipe the oil over the grate.


Use an oven mitt or glove to protect your hands from the heat as you oil the grate. You could also hold the cloth with tongs as you work with it.
Nonstick cooking spray can be applied, as well, but it is recommended that you apply spray products to the grill grate before you light any fire.
 Place the entire kingklip fillet on a sheet of foil or parchment paper. Use your hands to massage the olive oil into the flesh of the fish.


When direct grilling kingklip, you may have more success if you cook a large fillet instead of cooking individually portioned cuts of fillet.
Melted margarine can be used instead of olive oil, if desired.
 Sprinkle both sides of the fillet with these three seasonings.Try to spread the seasonings evenly across the full length of the fish.
 Set the fillet, skin side down, above the hottest part of the flame.Placing the fillet directly over the hottest part of the flame will cause the heat to quickly sear the flesh, thereby locking in the juices and making it more difficult for the flesh to flake.
 After grilling the kingklip for 1 or 2 minutes, turn the burners down to a medium heat setting.


When using a charcoal grill, carefully slide the fish over to an area of the grill receiving less direct heat.
Kingklip, like most types of fish, can quickly overcook when grilled over high heat. For that reason, it is best to do most of the cooking over medium heat.
 Monitor the bottom of the kingklip fillet. Once it starts to look opaque, flip the fillet onto its other side.


This should usually be done after 10 minutes.
Use a wide spatula with a thin, tapered edge for best results.
Note that this is the only time you should flip the fish throughout the entire cooking process.
 Grill the fish for another 10 minutes before removing it from the grill.


To test for doneness, use a fork to flake off a small section in the middle of the fillet. The flesh in the center should be easy to flake away and should appear mostly opaque with just a hint of translucence.
You could use a thermometer to check for doneness, too. Kingklip is ready to pull off the grill once it reaches an internal temperature of 130 to 135 degrees Fahrenheit (54 to 57 degrees Celsius).
 Allow the kingklip to rest for 5 minutes, then drizzle the surface evenly with lemon juice.


The internal temperature of the fish should continue to climb as it rests. Kingklip is ready to enjoy once it is 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius).
 Use the edge of a spatula or a kitchen knife to divide the kingklip fillet into four to six even portions.


Once divided, the kingklip is ready to serve and enjoy.

