 Protein is the foundation of hair, and you need a lot of it for your hair to grow long, shiny and healthy. That doesn't mean you have to eat loads of meat (although you can) - it just means you need to focus on having protein be at the center of most of your meals.


If you're a meat eater, enjoy, beef, chicken, fish, pork, and other types of meat. Eggs and some types of cheese are also high in protein.
Beans and other legumes, nuts, and leafy vegetables like spinach have protein, too. If you're a vegetarian, you should live on these!

, This "good" fat contributes to healthy, shiny hair and skin. It's found in a number of delicious foods like avocados, nuts, salmon, flaxseed oil, and more. You can also take fish oil supplements for large bursts of omega-3 if you want an extra boost.
 If you're dehydrated, it'll show in your hair. Your hair will become dry, dull, and more prone to breakage. That's means drinking water is an easy and absolutely essential part of growing longer hair. You'll see a difference in no time!


Carry around a water bottle and plan to drink at least 2–3 liters (0.5–0.8 US gal) of water a day.
If you have trouble drinking a lot of plain water, drink herbal tea or flavored water, too.
Avoid caffeine and alcohol, and don't drink too much soda. Choose water instead.
 Certain supplements are said to help promote hair growth and lead to longer hair over time. This isn't exactly a quick fix, but if you start taking supplements you might see improved hair growth over the course of a few weeks or months. Give some of these supplements a try to see if they work for you:


Biotin is a popular hair growth supplement.It's often taken by pregnant women to make sure their growing babies have enough nutrients, but there's no reason you can't take it if you aren't pregnant.
Atlantic cedar oil is a supplement that can be applied directly to the scalp to promote hair growth.Argan oil can be used the same way.
Beta-sitosterol is a plant and seed-based substance that may lead to faster hair growth.