 Naked leather, being extremely absorbent and essentially untouched, is difficult to clean without professional help. Put a drop of water on the surface of the leather item. If the water soaks in, the leather is unfinished and will require professional assistance. If it beads up, the leather is finished and you can begin cleaning.Take unfinished leather (like suede) directly to a dry cleaner for ink stain removal. Unfinished leather is extremely absorbent and the stain will be very difficult to remove even professionally. Try to use home remedies for unfinished leather is likely to cause you more time and hassle than it's worth.;
, If the ink stain is fresh and only on the surface of your leather item, begin cleaning according to the steps below. If the ink stain is older or has soaked deep into the leather, you will likely have to re-dye the leather professionally to remove the stain.
 The manufacturer may recommend a certain conditioner or cleaner to remove ink stains. They may also advise against doing something, possibly on this list, that either won't clean the leather or will actively hurt it.
 Locate a small spot of the leather in an inconspicuous area. Using whatever solution you end up trying, wipe a small amount into the leather and check for signs of damage or discoloration.


What you're doing here isn't checking that the solution is cleaning the leather; what you're checking is that the solution isn't ruining the leather. If the solution doesn't in fact work on your particular leather, you don't want to add insult to injury and make it even worse. That's why spot-cleaning is recommended., Soap-based cleansers, like Ivory, are gentler than solvent-based cleansers, making them better suited for cleaning stains off of leather.


How do you tell apart cleansers that are solvent-based from those that are not? The packaging should clearly say "solvent" or "solvent-based" if that's indeed the case, so be on the lookout.
 Much of the time, when you take your leather item to a professional cleaner to get serviced, this is what they use to remove stains. Although they can be pricey, it's only a nominal cost compared to what you probably paid for authentic leather.
 Saddle soap both cleans and protects leather, most often leather used in saddles — hence its name. Saddle soap is usually a combination of very gentle soaps and emollients such as glycerin and lanolin, which help rehydrate the leather after cleaning.


If you want to treat your leather better and increase its lifespan, apply saddle soap in small quantities to it regularly. The key to healthy leather is proactive treatment, not reactive treatment.
 Much like saddle soap, these products help both clean the leather and hydrate it, helping to stave off cracking. Although ink stains may be too tenacious for some leather, give leather cleaner and conditioners a try to see the difference it makes.


What you use to apply the leather cleaner and conditioner matters. You'll probably want something like a non-scratch, nonabrasive scrubbing pad instead of a terry cloth applicator pad. Terry cloth applicators are fine for conditioning, but they won't get the trick done if you're trying to remove a persistent stain.

