 Towel curls target the muscles in your shin. To do this, you will need to ask a friend or family member for assistance. Sit on the ground with your legs stretched out in front of you. Place a towel over your injured ankle and foot. Have your friend hook the towel around your foot and pull the towel away from your body. This will pull your foot away from your body. At the same time, try to resist the pull by curling your foot towards you.Hold this position for 15 seconds. After the time is up, rest for 30 seconds and then repeat the exercise three more times. Stop doing the exercise if you start to feel pain.
 The towel press exercise targets your calves. It is essentially the opposite of the towel curl. Sit with your legs stretched out in front of you. Wrap a towel across the center of the sole of your foot and take both ends of the towel in each of your hands. Pull the edges of the towel towards you. Resist the pull by pushing your foot against the towel, away from your body.


Hold this position for 15 seconds. After the time is up, rest for 30 seconds and then repeat the exercise three more times. Stop doing the exercise if you start to feel pain.
If you have a yoga or exercise strap, you can use this instead of a towel.
 You can do a calf stretch by placing your injured foot behind the uninjured foot. Stand near a wall so that you can use it for support. Lean forward and push against the wall in such a way that you feel the calf muscle of your injured ankle stretching. You should not feel any pain when doing this exercise—if you do, stop.


Hold this position for 30 seconds and do two sets of 10 to 15 repetitions, 2-3 times a day.
 The lateral step is done by placing a rolled towel on the floor. Stand on the right side of the rolled towel and lift your left leg over the towel. Place it down on the opposite side of the towel. Bring your right leg and the rest of your body to the right side of the rolled towel. Return to the other side of the towel by doing the same steps with the left side of your body.Increase your speed if you can do this without feeling pain. Do two sets of 10 to 15 repetitions, two or three times a day.
 The lateral hop is done by placing a rolled towel on the floor. Stand at the right side of the rolled towel, then hop over it, landing on your left foot. Hop again on the opposite side, this time landing on your right foot.Gradually increase your speed and the height of your hop depending on the pain you feel. Do this two or three times a day with two sets of 10 to 15 hops each.

