 The more you hear English spoken in this accent, the more natural it will feel to reproduce it.The BBC World Service has useful resources for RP English learners.While RP English is no longer the “standard” it once was, listening to recent speeches by the Queen or to BBC news broadcasts may offer useful examples. Try looking for RP English in:


British society dramas such as “Downton Abbey” (the “upstairs” characters).
Speeches by members of the royal family; the Duchess of Cambridge is especially noted for her “cut-glass” accent.
Historical broadcasts (recognize, however, that these may use archaic terms).
 Words such as “bath,” “grass,” and “dance” that are pronounced using a short “a” sound in American English and many other English accents are pronounced using long “ahhs” in RP. “Bath,” then, will rhyme with “father,” and “dance” with “palm” – “a” in each case is pronounced “ahh.”, You’ll produce those long “ahhs” and many other sounds common to RP English by moving your jaw down rather than opening your mouth sideways. Generally speaking, the less lip movement, the better., Enunciation is just as important to accent as pronunciation, and RP English speakers are sticklers for enunciating consonants. Most English speakers omit one or more consonants in many words – “February,” for example, becomes “Feb-u-ar-y.” For an RP English speaker, it’s “Feb-ru-ar-y.” When in doubt, precisely articulate each consonant.Make space around your “r”s. Most English speakers roll words ending in “r” into the next word” – i.e. “Mother and daughter.” RP English speakers fully articulate the “r” so the sound at the beginning of the next word stands alone – “Mother and daughter.”Words ending in “y” are pronounced with an “eh” instead of an “ee.” Many English speakers would pronounce “finally” as “final-ee.” An RP English speaker would say “final-eh,” closing his or her mouth at the end of the word., Watch where RP English speakers’ voices rise and fall. One of the most common signs of a non-native language speaker is a failure to intone words correctly. Learning this skill will significantly improve the quality of your accent., Review phonetic spellings in the dictionary and note where accent marks are placed. Stress these syllables when speaking the word. Much like intonation, this will significantly improve the authenticity of your accent., Hearing yourself speaking will help you determine where your accent needs work – and where you’re doing really well!

, If you want RP English to become natural, expect to spend many hours perfecting your accent. Take advantage of brief openings in your day to get in a few minutes of practice.Consider downloading an app for your phone that will provide you with games, quizzes, and brief practice sessions to utilize on your daily commute or while waiting in line.

