 When a parent is jailed, the child support order generally continues in effect. In some states, such as California, it may temporarily be suspended for 90 days unless the parent can pay.Generally, however, only a judge can change the child support order. An incarcerated parent who wants to reduce or suspend child support payments can usually file a motion with the court asking that their child support be modified.
The jailed parent might complete a form and send it to your state’s child support enforcement agency. The agency will review the information and decide whether to agree to the modification or to oppose it.
If the parent files a motion to have their support payments modified, you should receive a copy., Typically, the other parent will claim they are not able to pay child support because they are in jail and therefore unable to work. The parent will also ask the court to reduce the payments or temporarily suspend them.


You should honestly assess whether you think the parent can continue to make child support payments even while in jail. Talk this over with your case worker.
You should tell your case worker about any assets you think the parent has which could be used to pay for child support while they are in prison.
 Even though a parent may be in jail, he or she can still have assets which could be used to pay for child support. Think about whether the parent has any of the following:income from rental properties
disability, retirement, or other benefits
interest or dividends earned from stocks, bonds, or other investments
money from selling investments
bank accounts, retirement accounts, or other accounts
proceeds from selling property

, Your state’s child support enforcement agency might oppose the other parent’s attempt to modify child support. In this situation, the agency will file documents in court and attend a hearing. However, the agency might decide not to oppose the incarcerated parent’s motion. (Remember, the agency represents the state, not you.) If you disagree with the child support enforcement agency’s decision, then you should seek out an attorney to consult.


Only a qualified lawyer will be able to advise you whether you are likely to succeed in opposing the parent’s motion to modify. Make sure to show the lawyer proof that the jailed parent has assets that could be used to pay the child support.
You can get a referral for a lawyer by contacting your state or local bar association.Call the lawyer and schedule a consultation.
 To oppose the motion to modify, you need to file a response. Your court should have printed, “fill in the blank” forms for you to complete.Ask the court clerk.


On the response, you should be sure to identify the reasons why you think the incarcerated parent can continue to pay child support.
There may be other forms you have to fill out, such as a sheet on which you report your income. The court clerk should give you the forms.
 Make several copies of your completed forms. Take the original and your copies to the court clerk and ask to file the original.The clerk should stamp your copies with the filing date.


You may have to pay a filing fee. If you can’t afford the fee, then ask for a fee waiver form.
 You must give the other parent and the child support enforcement agency notice that you are opposing the motion to modify child support. Ask the court clerk for acceptable methods of service of process.


Whoever makes service will need to complete a “proof of service” or “affidavit of service” form., Show up with copies of all documents filed.Also have ready any documentation showing that the incarcerated parent has assets which could be used to pay child support. As the person opposing the motion, you will speak second.


Listen quietly as the other parent makes his or her argument for modifying child support.
When it is your turn to speak, explain why you think the other parent has sufficient assets to continue to pay child support while in prison. Ask the judge if he or she wants to see your documentation.
 The judge has a couple of options. For example, the judge can deny the jailed parent’s motion and leave the child support payments as is. Alternately, the judge can reduce or suspend the child support payments. If you win at the hearing, you may have to draft a copy of the order. Ask the court clerk if there is a blank order form.


In some courts, the clerk will fill out the order. Be sure to get a copy and read it closely. It will tell you what changes (if any) have been made to the parent’s child support payments. If the changes are temporary, note the date when the order expires.
If you didn’t receive a copy of the order, contact the court clerk.

