 Use your network of friends, family, college acquaintances, and professors to find job opportunities. Networking is a large part of developing a career in business and finance. Get to know the people in the community. Remember to use social networking websites like LinkedIn and Facebook. Check out different profiles for useful information. That way you’ll know if anyone is up to something that interests you.


Attend networking events. Many undergraduate and graduate schools hold networking events for students interested in banking, especially investment banking. Events at top universities often bring in recruiters, so be prepared to put your best foot forward. Get your name and face out there as you chat with people about your interests., Once you’ve met someone who has a career that sparks your interest, get in touch. Have a conversation before you ask for more of their time. Get a sense of how busy their schedule is and how interested they are in speaking to you. If they offer to help you, take the opportunity to say something like, “I’d love to sit down and have a coffee with you sometime. Would that work for you?”


Offer to talk on the phone or exchange emails if you are not well acquainted. Do some research about the bank that they work for and the job that they do. Prepare specific questions about their job so that you obtain the information that you need.
Get details so that you are later prepared to speak knowledgeably should you apply for a job. If you just met the person, you may not want to ask about salary or other personal work-related matters. You should, however, learn about the primary skills used on the job and the daily challenges.
 Go directly to the bank you are interested in working with and ask for an application. First impressions matter. When you approach the bank, be sure to wear presentable clothes and carry yourself professionally. You may not have applied yet, but people may remember you if you should return!

, Browse your bank’s website and find out how to apply for the job you want.
 If you are called in for an interview, be sure to do your best! Wear formal business attire, act professionally, and make eye contact. Use your knowledge from your informational interviews to ask questions and show that you have made an effort to learn about the job. The information you gathered earlier will also prepare you to answer questions about your potential role with the bank.


Follow up with the interviewer. Send a thank you note. Express your gratitude and include a few sentences about your continued interest in the job.

