 The basics follow:


While the soul is red, it is in normal mode and behaves normally. It can move in any direction at a constant speed and can slow down by holding x or shift.
When blue, the soul is in jump mode and affected by gravity. It's resting position is in the center of the horizontal axis at the bottom of the screen. Use the left and right arrows to move in their corresponding directions and the up arrow to jump. The down arrow does nothing.
Whilst green, your soul can not move. It is positioned in the center of the fighting box. There is a circle around the soul in which a spear moves (up, down, left, and right) depending on which arrow key you press. You must move this spear to shield yourself from attacks.
While purple, your soul is trapped on three lines that it can move horizontally across and switch between.
Lastly, When you are in soul mode yellow your soul is upside down. It can also shoot things similar to Flowey's "friendliness pellets", little bullets with a deadly sting. They are used in soul mode yellow to shoot and destroy the attacks coming at you.;
, Listen to Sans when he tells you that Papyrus is not dangerous and a clue on how to survive the blue attack. Check Sans whenever you see him. He will most likely say a stupid/awesome joke depending on your opinion. However, he sometimes actually has some useful advice.


Be warned, San's information is a bit misleading. He basically says that you will be totally okay if you don't move during the attack, and to imagine a blue stop sign. However, what he doesn't mention is that the blue attack changes your soul mode to blue.
 This is basically when he tries to capture you.
 Doing an action or an attempt to spare Papyrus leads him to use his blue attack on you.
 Doing so means that all of the blue bones will not hurt you. However, it also means that your soul mode will turn blue.
 You survived the blue attack.


Know that now your soul is blue, it is affected by gravity. You will not have the use of the down arrow. You will mainly have to jump upwards, but as the fight progresses you will need to jump up and to either the left or the right, therefore using two arrows at once.

