 You do not need a gourmet chef in the family to produce good wedding food. If your have a capable family member or friend, see if you can enlist their help. Prepare a menu that is realistic with the skill, equipment, and budget they have access to.
 Remember plates, cutlery, cups, and napkins when doing it yourself. You will also need serving dishes and heating trays.


Check with your venue to make sure you can bring your own food at all. Some venues require that you use their catering services.
 Not all weddings have full sit-down dinners, and you should not feel obligated to serve a meal to your guests. Serving hors d’oeuvres and drinks is another way to cut down on costs. Or a dessert bar.
 Alcohol is probably the top expense in the food category, and your beverages budget can quickly run over once the wedding starts. Many guests often expect that alcohol will be served at a wedding, however. You will need to serve some kind of beverage at the wedding, but nonalcoholic drinks are much cheaper.


Alternately, supply your own alcohol. Buy it in bulk at a store such as Costco, for example. Check with your venue to make sure you are allowed to bring your own alcohol.
Some benefits of alcohol free weddings: you may be able to access more venues for the reception, and avoid any problems due to over-imbibing.
Do any of your friends or relatives home brew, or are an amateur vintner? Ask him or her if that could be a creative wedding gift to you.
 If you have a friend who is a skilled baker, ask them to bake your wedding cake. It does not need to be a multi-tiered cake; in fact, the fancy wedding cake is usually only eaten by the wedding party. In reality, guests are usually served from a sheet cake in the kitchen. Ask if a friend can bake several large cakes and decorate one cake with a fancy look.
 Grocery store bakeries often have excellent cakes that can be decorated to order. Work with the head baker at the grocery store to get the look you want for your cakes.


Pick up the cakes yourself. Instead of having them delivered to your venue, save some money by picking them up yourself. If it is a multi-tiered cake, make sure your vehicle will be tall enough!

, Sit-down dinners with each guest served a plate, rather than buffet style, is less expensive.This way, you can ensure that guests will not eat more than one portion, thus saving you money overall.
 Plan the rehearsal dinner in the afternoon as a barbecue or picnic or even "pot-luck" with informal food.

