 Your daughter should be able to stay warm or cool, both in the morning and the afternoon.


If the temperature is cool or moderate, dress her in layers. She can wear a sweater in the morning and put it in her backpack in the afternoon.;
, Her favorite shirt is in the laundry – don't panic. What is today's topic? Does she want animals? The color purple? Maybe she wants a red ribbon like her friend Lisa?


Try letting her pick out her outfits. This can foster independence and decision-making.
Don't worry if her outfit doesn't match perfectly. She's a little girl. Basically anything she wears will be adorable.
 Pick out one article of clothing (shirt, skirt, colorful socks) from her closet. Then, set a toy timer and tell her that she has 5 minutes to pick out an outfit that matches the shirt. Teach her about matching colors along the way (white goes with everything, a blue and purple patterned shirt matches a blue skirt) and let her make her own decisions. She may be more enthusiastic to get dressed if she created the outfit.


If you're a stay-at-home parent, you could even let her choose your outfit on some days!

, Ask her if she wants to be your twin today. Choose an outfit that you know looks similar to one of hers, and then show her the similarities.
 Tell her daddy is almost winning, he has his pants on, but she can still beat him, all she needs is to put on her clothes fast.
 If Daddy is ready and she is still in her pajamas, don't despair. Sometimes the mom can succeed.
 If sometimes she just has to have her skeleton shirt, buy several identical skeleton shirts. You can also try buying it in a size up so she can wear a bigger version after she grows a bit.
 If she is being resistant, explain that she can go play with her trucks/watch TV/read picture books with Mommy after she is dressed. If she gets dressed quickly, there will be more time to play. This can motivate her to get moving.


This only works if you start early enough. Give her plenty of time, so that free time can be her reward for moving quickly.

