 If you have been fingerprinted in connection with an arrest, or for federal or military service, the FBI is sent a record of the fingerprints and the information associated with them. Individuals may request this information – or ask for certification that they have no Identity History Summary – for personal review, to challenge the information, to satisfy adoption requirements, or to satisfy requirements to move to a foreign country. Only you can request a copy of your own rap sheet.To submit your request directly to the FBI:Fill out an Applicant Information Form.
Obtain a set of fingerprints on a standard fingerprint form.
Include payment by credit card, money order, or certified check.
Mail all of the above to: FBI CJIS Division – Summary Request, 1000 Custer Hollow Road, Clarksburg, WV 26306.


To submit your request through an FBI-approved Channeler (a private business the FBI contracts to collect and pass on your application information):

Contact an FBI-approved Channeler to schedule an appointment.
You can usually fill out the Applicant Information Form, have your fingerprints taken, and pay at the Channeler facility. Be sure to discuss the exact procedure when you call the Channeler.
 The FBI may have a file on you beyond the Identity History Summary sheet associated with fingerprints. To obtain this file:


Use the U.S. Department of Justice Certificate of Identity Form DOJ-361.
Or write your own letter, sign it, and have it notarized or state “Under penalty of perjury, I hereby declare that I am the person named above and I understand that any falsification of this statement is punishable under the provisions of Title 18, United States Code (U.S.C.), Section 1001 by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by imprisonment of not more than five years, or both; and that requesting or obtaining any record(s) under false pretenses is punishable under the provisions of Title 5, U. S. C., Section 552a(i)(3) as a misdemeanor and by a fine of not more than $5,000.”
Send your request by email to foiparequest@ic.fbi.gov.
By fax to 540-868-4391/4997.
By mail to: Federal Bureau of Investigation, Attn: FOI/PA Request, Record/Information Dissemination Section, 170 Marcel Drive, Winchester, VA 22602-4843

, You can review records in the FBI’s electronic reading room, but if you want records sent to your home, or if you need to request unreleased records, you will need to submit a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request. The records, if available, will be sent to you on CD. To find out additional information about requesting records, email the FBI at foipaquestions@ic.fbi.gov.Use the sample FOIA request letter, or write your own letter, including:

Your complete name and address.
Identifying information to locate what you are looking for, such as the subject’s name, aliases, date and place of birth, social security number, and former addresses.
A full description of any particular incident you are interested in.
If you are requesting information about a living person, you will need evidence of their written consent. Use the U.S. Department of Justice Certificate of Identity Form DOJ-361 and complete the section titled Authorization to Release Information to Another Person.
If you are requesting information about a deceased person, you must provide proof of death, such as an obituary, death certificate, a recognized media source, a date of birth over 100 years ago, or a Social Security Death Index page.
State how much you are willing to pay in duplication fees.


Send your request by email to foiparequest@ic.fbi.gov.
By fax to 540-868-4391/4997.
By mail to: Federal Bureau of Investigation, Attn: FOI/PA Request, Record/Information Dissemination Section, 170 Marcel Drive, Winchester, VA 22602-4843

, For questions regarding cases, personnel changes, policies, or other matters, you can contact the press office by calling 202-324-3000/3691.