 You probably know that chamomile tea is often recommended for upset stomachs and sleeplessness in humans, but it can also help soothe your cat’s irritated skin. If you don’t already have chamomile tea in your pantry, go to the grocery store or a health food store and buy some.Look for a product that does not have additional herbs in it, because these ingredients may not help relieve the itchiness or irritation that results from flea bites.
Both tea bags and looseleaf chamomile tea will work, so pick whichever option you prefer. While tea bags are more convenient, looseleaf tea is often stronger, which will make it more effective at relieving your cat’s itching. The leaves of looseleaf tea can also sometimes be used more than once. Keep in mind that if you go with looseleaf tea, you’ll need brewing equipment such as an infuser or brew basket., There are no set guidelines for the type of equipment you should use to brew the tea or the length of time you should let it steep, but steep the tea long enough to make a strong solution.Don’t be afraid to let the tea steep for 15 to 30 minutes. You won’t be applying the hot tea to your cat, so it’s not a problem if it gets lukewarm.
If you are using smaller size tea bags, you may need to use several to make the tea more potent.
 After you’ve brewed the tea, chill it in the fridge until it is no longer warm.It won't be a problem to let it sit in the fridge overnight.
If you are trying to make the mixture quickly, you can place the brewed tea in the freezer for a couple minutes to cool it down fast.
 After chilling the tea, you can now pour it into a spray bottle, which will make it easy to apply to your cat.Use a new spray bottle or thoroughly clean an existing one so that you know it does not contain any ingredients or substances that might be toxic to your cat.
Since the mouth on many spray bottles is narrow, a small funnel can make this process less messy and ensure as much of the tea as possible actually makes it into the spray bottle.
If you have extra tea that won’t fit in the spray bottle, store it in a container in the fridge so you’ll be able to have the next batch ready when it’s time to reload the bottle.
 Flea bites often cause itchy, red, and raw skin, so thoroughly coat these areas on your cat. The tea will soothe the skin, and you will notice that your cat is no longer licking, scratching, or biting the affected area.Chamomile also acts as a disinfectant, and will kill yeast and bacteria that might irritate your cat’s skin.
There’s no need to rinse the tea off your cat. It will work better if it has time to sit on the skin.
 Since the tea mixture won’t hurt your cat, you can reapply the spray as often as necessary.


If your cat’s ears also seem irritated from flea bites or other skin issues, you can add a splash of distilled white vinegar to the chamomile tea and use this to clean your pet’s ears.

