 You can apply lemon juice to help lighten dark areas of your ringworm scar. Vitamin C is an important nutrient for normal wound healing, so it might help to minimize the appearance of a scar when applied to the skin as well.To apply lemon juice, soak a cotton swab in lemon juice and apply the lemon juice directly to the ringworm scar.
Let the lemon juice dry and then rinse it away with some warm water.
You can apply lemon juice to a ringworm scar once per day.
 You can also massage aloe vera gel into a ringworm scar to help soften the tissue. Aloe vera works well on burn scars, so it might help to improve other types of scars as well.To use aloe vera gel, smooth a small amount over your ringworm scar and leave it on. Do this a few times per day.
 Applying a steeped green tea bag to a scar may also help to minimize scarring and discoloration due to ringworm. Green tea may help with scars due to its antioxidant properties.To use green tea as a treatment for a ringworm scar, steep a bag of green tea in hot water for about three minutes.
Remove the teabag from the water and squeeze some of the excess water from the bag.
Then, apply the tea bag to the ringworm scar and hold it there for about 10 to 15 minutes.
Repeat this process three to four times per day.
 You can also mix St John’s wort oil with castor oil and massage it into a ringworm scar. St John’s wort oil has been shown to promote C-section wound healing, so it may help with other types of scars as well.To use St. John’s wort oil, place two to three drops of the oil in two tablespoons of castor oil and stir the oils together until they are combined.
Then, use your fingers to massage the oil into the ringworm scar.
Repeat this process two to three times daily.
 Honey may also help to reduce the size of scars and discolored areas because honey acts as a natural moisturizer. Manuka honey and Tualang honey are good choices for medicinal use, but you may have to go to a health food store or check online to find these types of honey.To use honey on a ringworm scar, apply a thin layer of honey and then massage it into your skin for about five to 10 minutes.
Leave the honey on the scar for about one hour.
Rinse away the honey with warm water after time is up.
If desired, you can cover the area in a thin gauze pad while you leave the honey on.
 Vitamin D oil has anti-inflammatory properties that seem to improve the appearance of surgical scars.Vitamin D has also been found effective for treating psoriasis, which indicates that it may benefit a more minor skin condition such as a ringworm scar.Talk to your doctor or dermatologist before using vitamin D to see if this treatment is a good option for getting rid of your ringworm scars.
If you decide to use vitamin D as a treatment for your ringworm scars, then break open one 2000 IU vitamin D capsule and mix it with four to five drops of castor oil. Then apply the mixture to your ringworm scar and massage it into your skin.
 Vitamin E is a well-known, popular treatment for scar healing, but some studies have indicated that vitamin E may not be an effective treatment for scars.In some cases, vitamin E has even caused the scar to look worse or resulted in negative skin reactions.To be safe, check with your doctor or dermatologist before using vitamin E for your ringworm scars.
If you decide to use vitamin E oil, try breaking open one 400 IU vitamin E capsule and mix it with four to five drops of castor oil. Then, apply the mixture directly to your scar and massage it into your skin.

