 Shoulder straps should be wide and padded – wide shoulder straps allow for better weight and load distribution. Padded ones provide extra comfort and ease of use for your toddler.


Narrow straps tend to “dig” in the shoulders and cause undue discomfort after carrying the backpack for some time. You will notice thin red marks on your toddler’s shoulder after removing the backpack which may not go away for a while.
Narrow straps may also cause friction against your toddler’s skin when carrying the backpack while walking, which can lead to skin irritation.;
, The portion of the bag that is in contact with your toddler’s back should be padded as well. This ensures that no sharp or pointy objects such as pencils, rulers or craft materials poke on to your child’s back. A padded back also increases comfort when carrying the bag.
 The backpack itself should be lightweight but durable – if money is a factor when choosing the right backpack for your child, there are affordable backpacks that are made of lightweight and durable materials.


It is generally advisable to buy a backpack made with high denier polyester or nylon. Choose a backpack made with 600 denier fabric like the Lands’ End Classmate Backpack (usually priced at $34.00).
These bags are made with 600 denier polyester body and 1,200 denier polyester base. Denier refers to the fineness of the fabric and is directly proportional to the strength of the fabric, i.e. the higher the denier, the stronger the fabric.
 Taller backpacks are better than wider ones because taller backpacks “hug” the natural curve of your child’s back and are generally within your child’s center of gravity.


Center of gravity refers to the imaginary point where the total weight of the body is concentrated.
Since wider backpacks distribute load far away from your child’s back (on the sides), it doesn’t generally fall within your child’s center of gravity thus providing undue strain and stress on the back.
 You can’t let your child carry a backpack that is bigger than they are, therefore it's important to choose the right backpack size for your child.


The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that a child carries no more than 10-15 percent of her body weight in a backpack.This means that if your child weighs 50 pounds, the total weight she should (and can) carry in her backpack should not weigh more than 5 pounds.
Use your regular bathroom weighing scale to give you an idea of how much your child is carrying. From there, adjustments can be made.
 Toddler's are always spilling things, dropping things, and dragging their stuff along the ground, so it's important to choose a backpack that can be cleaned easily.


The backpack should be machine washable, so you should look for hard-wearing synthetic fabrics like nylon and polyester, which are water-resistant materials.
However, if you prefer a more eco-friendly backpack, you can go for one made from natural fibers.
 It is best to choose the backpack in person, so you get a more accurate idea of the size and feel. These things can be difficult to gauge when ordering online.


You can also check to see if all of your child's items fit inside the bag before purchasing, which you cannot do when buying online.
The materials used in the backpack can also be easily checked and inspected when bought in person.
 Even at this young age, your child has already started expressing her own individuality. Therefore, it's a good idea to bring your child with you when shopping for a new backpack, so she can pick one that she loves.


Allowing your child to take part in the decision-making process will give them a sense of importance and responsibility and help them to feel like a "big kid".
There are many bags available these days that mix function with fashion. Many backpacks feature popular cartoon characters or a mix of bright colors. Your child can also personalize he backpack by adding stickers, patches and charms.
 Backpacks should always be carried using the two shoulder straps, even though kids generally like to carry their backpacks using only one strap slung on one shoulder at a time.


Parents and school administrators should actually discourage this practice because it distributes the load unevenly.
Even though carrying back packs this way won’t cause scoliosis (a sideways curve of the spine), it promotes bad posture and causes undue stress to your child’s back.
 Hooking the waist strap around your child's waist helps to distribute the load across your child’s body as it sits the load on the large muscles of the hips and legs, along with the large muscles of the back and shoulders.
 Do not put too many things inside your child’s backpack. Make sure that you are only putting the necessary items, like books and coloring pencils.


If everything your child needs won’t fit inside, consider getting another bag like a lunch box for his snacks in order to avoid over packing your child’s backpack.
Remember to put the heaviest things near your child’s back for the most even weight distribution.
 Have a practice session with your toddler where she carries the bag and walks around the house to see if it’s comfortable.


If she finds it uncomfortable, adjust the shoulder straps or the contents inside the bag to ensure that there are no sharp or pointy objects poking into her back.
Also, make sure that there are no straps dangling from the bag that could cause your toddler to trip; or worse, dangling straps that could get caught in a car or classroom door. You can just cut the straps if they’re too long or sew the dangling straps to shorten them.
 Your child’s backpack must not prevent her from moving comfortably, or cause her to stumble or slip.


Make sure that the backpack can be used for extended periods without causing any discomfort.
Your child should be able to enjoy field trips or walks to school while carrying her backpack.
 Before you pack your child's backpack, it is important to ask yourself a number of questions to ensure that you don't overpack. Ask yourself what the child will be doing that day and what essential items they need. Some necessary items might include:


A small water bottle, that won't spill.
A change of clothes in case the child gets dirty or has an accident.
A healthy snack.
A small case for health-related items like allergy meds, hearing aids, or eye glasses.
 Your child’s backpack must include both her name and your name, in case the bag gets lost. Include your contact number or in case you can’t be reached, include the person to be contacted next.


You may also want to include the name and number of your child's doctor, in case of a medical emergency.
Children's backpacks often come with a small tag where you can write this information. If not, consider writing it in permanent marker on the inside of the backpack.
 Your child is growing up fast. Do not assume that she will be using the backpack for several years as. she will need a bigger, sturdier backpack as she grows., Toddlers are always on the move, which means their backpacks tend to become worn and dirty pretty quickly. To maintain the backpack for as long as possible, be sure to empty the bag often and wash it every two months. Also:


Check to see if there are any holes that needed to be sewn.
Ensure that the wheels are functioning properly. They must still be sturdy and not wobbly.
Ensure that the zippers can still be closed and opened smoothly.
Make sure any buckles can be easily snapped open and shut.
 Use damp cloths to wipe the outside and inside of the backpack between washes. If you see dirt stains, it is best to wipe them off immediately, to prevent staining.

