 Type www.facebook.com in your browser's address bar, and hit ↵ Enter on your keyboard. Facebook will open up to your News Feed.


If you're not automatically logged in to Facebook on your browser, enter your email or phone and your password to sign in.;
, It's the third menu heading from the top on the left-hand side of your News Feed. It lets you quickly access Events, Pages, Groups, Insights, and Friend Lists, among other options.
 You will find this option listed under EXPLORE on the left navigation menu. Your friend lists may include the city you live in, the school you went to or the place you work at, in addition to networks you've joined and lists you've manually created in the past.


If you don't see the Friend Lists option, click the See More... button at the bottom of the EXPLORE menu.
 This option will be next to a red traffic sign icon at the bottom of your Friend Lists menu.
 This button will be in the upper-right corner of your browser page. It will open a drop-down menu.
 This will open a pop-up box to manage who goes on your Restricted list, and who gets out.
 The Edit List option opens up to a list of friends you've already added to your Restricted list. You will see a blue check mark next to friends who are currently on the list. Clicking on a friend will hide the check mark and remove this friend from your list of restricted friends.
 This button will be in the upper-left corner of the Edit Restricted pop-up box. It will open a drop-down menu.
 This will show you a list of all your Facebook friends, including those already on your Restricted list. You will see a blue check mark next to a friend if you've already added them to Restricted.
 A blue check mark will appear next to a friend when you click on their name or picture.


You can also use the search field in the upper-right corner of the Edit Restricted box to find friends.
 This is the blue button in the lower-right corner of the Edit Restricted pop-up box. You can see a list of all restricted friends under On This List, on the right side of your browser window.

