 A popular alternative to beef hamburgers are turkey burgers. Though many people believe turkey burgers contain less fat and calories than beef burgers, this is not always true. Ground turkey can have a higher fat content than a traditional hamburger. When buying ground turkey, make sure that you buy a lean cut. Look for packages that are 90/10 or higher, such as 93/7 or 99.To make turkey burgers delicious and juicy, try adding olive oil to the patty. Add two tablespoons of olive oil for each pound of ground turkey. This also helps give them a brown crust on the outside.Remember, however, that adding olive oil will add (healthy) fat and calories to your burger.
Try chicken burgers for another poultry burger. Just place cooked chicken breast in a food processor with any seasonings or additional ingredients. Then shape into patties., Bison can be a healthy alternative to traditional ground beef in burgers. Bison is a leaner meat than ground beef. In a three and a half ounce serving, bison ranges from two to nine grams of fat and 143 to 190 calories. In three and half ounces of ground bison, there might be 15 grams of fat and 240 calories.Bison has good amounts of protein, iron, zinc, and B12. It also a good source of omega-3 fats.
Bison can be temperamental to cook. It doesn’t take long to cook, and is tough if overcooked. Ground bison should be cooked until the pink just starts to disappear.
 Fish makes a great substitute for beef in burgers. Tuna, salmon, and tilapia all make tasty burgers. Fish burgers generally need additional herbs and spices to give them a tasty flavor. Try soy sauce, ginger, cilantro, scallions, garlic, or olive oil. Fish typically has less calories than beef, and is a great source of omega-3 fats.To make the fish filets into burger patties, cut the filets into small cubes. Combine the cubes with the other ingredients in a bowl, mixing gently with your hands until everything is combined. Press the mixture into patties that are about four inches thick. You can cover the outside with sesame seeds, bread crumbs, or nuts.
Another way to make a fish burger is to place the fish and other ingredients into a food processor until it’s combined., If you redefine your idea of a hamburger, you will have endless choices for the meat. Meatless burgers are a popular and versatile way of making burgers. Not only can you buy healthy veggie and bean burgers, but you can make your own out of just about any hearty vegetable.Try making a veggie burger from chickpeas, black beans, white beans, lentils, quinoa, tofu, beets, or sweet potatoes. To make them into a burger, just mash them together, add in spices, and then form into patties.
You can use whole portobello mushrooms or slices of eggplant in place of meat for heartier burgers.
Most veggie burgers cannot be cooked on the grill. They do well in pans or in a broiler.

