 Most horses have short, fine hair. A long, wavy coat, by contrast, could indicate Cushing’s disease.Additionally, a coat that doesn’t shed regularly in the spring is a good indication that your horse has Cushing’s.Irregularities of the coat is one of the most obvious symptoms that your horse has Cushing’s, and occurs in 85% of all cases.;
, Horses with Cushing’s suffer increased rates of infection. They also tend to heal slowly from wounds.If your horse is frequently diagnosed with parasites like pinworms (which are quite rare in adult horses), you should be suspicious as to why.These symptoms could indicate your horse has Cushing’s disease.
 Infertility during middle age is not uncommon even in otherwise healthy horses, but in a horse younger than 15-20 years old, it might be a sign your horse has Cushing’s disease.Additionally, a mare that produces milk when it is not supposed to - or fails to produce milk when it has a foal – could have Cushing’s., If your horse has Cushing’s disease, fat will build up in certain parts of the body. Noticeable fat deposits on the crest of the neck, the sheath of the penis (the prepuce, or covering beneath the penis), the tail head (the part of the tail closest to the horse’s body), and above the eyes., If your horse’s muscles begin to deteriorate, especially above the topline (the neck, back, and rump), you should consult your vet.Likewise, a horse that sweats in excess may have Cushing’s disease.Finally, look for a change in your horse’s normal stance. Your horse may appear potbellied, with a swollen or puffed-out belly. Alternately, your horse might become swaybacked -- that is, it’s spine might curve inward at an unusual slope.
 There are several tests your vet can perform in order to figure out if your horse has Cushing’s.Most of the tests evaluate the levels of different compounds in the blood.


Before having your horse tested, keep them as calm as possible, and keep your normal routine. Stress can alter the results of tests.One useful diagnostic test is the CBC (complete blood count). Your vet will draw a few vials of blood from your horse and measure the blood sugar levels, since horses with Cushing’s disease often have elevated blood sugar levels.
Another blood analysis test is the dexamethasone suppression test (DST). In this test, the vet will inject dexamethasone, an anti-inflammatory agent that mimics cortisol. The next day, your vet will examine your horse’s cortisol levels with another blood test. An elevated level of cortisol indicates that your horse has Cushing’s.
Your vet might also perform a urinalysis test. In this test, your horse’s urine is examined for exceptionally high levels of glucose (a sugar) and ketones (molecules produced when the body turns fat into energy).

