 You cannot marry Anora and take the throne with her if you support Alistair instead, so,when choosing who to put forth as candidate, make sure that you choose Anora.


This will happen during a dialogue with Anora in Arl Eamon’s estate. Once you have rescued her from Arl Howe, talk to her by right-clicking on her. She will ask that you support her for the throne. Agree by choosing the dialogue option that says you will do so.;
, Make sure to fully explore all of the various dialogue options with Anora when talking to her in Eamon’s estate. There will be an option to tell Anora that you wish to marry her. She will be surprised, but agree that it could be a very advantageous move.


This step is very important. If you miss this step, you will not be able to marry Anora. It sets up the marriage and the proper Landsmeet outcome. From here, it is about choosing the right options so that you don’t break the agreement with Anora.
 During the Landsmeet, it is possible to either have Loghain killed or spare him. It is also possible to exile Alistair. There are a few different combinations that will allow your marriage with Anora to proceed, and a few that you’ll need to avoid.


In order to marry Anora, you must not kill Loghain. If you want Loghain to die, then Alistair will have to be the one who duels Loghain. Alistair will then kill Loghian during the duel, and Alistair’s life will be spared.

However, if Alistair is hardened, he will choose to take the throne. Thus, the only way to marry Anora and have Loghain die, is for an unhardened Alistair to kill Loghain.


Other options that will allow you to marry Anora are to spare Loghain and have Alistair killed, or to spare Loghain and persuade Anora to spare Alistair (although Alistair can be spared, he will be enraged that you’ve spared Loghain and will leave your party).
These are all dialogue options that are capable of being selected during the Landsmeet. They become relevant when you reach the point of choosing who to duel Loghain.

If Alistair duels Loghain, he will kill Loghain during the duel.
If you choose to have your Grey Warden duel Loghain, then you will have the option, upon defeating him, of either executing him (preventing your marriage to Anora) or sparing him (guaranteeing the safety of your marriage to Anora).


Just read the dialogue choices carefully, and make sure that you choose a combination that will not cause your marriage to fall through.
 The Grey Warden and Anora won’t be married until after the game is completed. Therefore, your Grey Warden must survive the end of the game in order to actually marry Anora.


This means that you must either accept Morrigan’s proposition prior to the final battle, or have Alistair fight the Arch demon at the end.
If the Grey Warden dies, Anora will assume the throne by herself.
 If you have done everything right, then the epilogue will note how you and Anora married and rule together.


It’s nice to be king, and remember, the major restriction to marrying Anora is that you are playing as a male human noble. Any other origin will be deemed unsuitable for a political marriage.

