 Vaccination is useful in areas where a known botulism problem exists. Because botulism is relatively rare, blanket vaccination protocols of all horses are not commonly undertaken.


A good example of the effective use of vaccination is in broodmares in Kentucky to provide antibody immunity to their foals.
Vaccination involves 3 initial dose vaccinations, followed by a single annual booster vaccination.;
, Although this is an uncommon source of botulism, it is possible for a wound to become contaminated with clostridia from the soil.


In this case, it's essential to clean out the wound as quickly as possible in order to reduce the contamination and allow the body's immune system to destroy the clostridia.
The technique used to cleaning the wound is called lavage. It is best done immediately, with a hosepipe. To do this: secure the horse in a yard and pass running water over the wound for 5 minutes in order to thoroughly wash away any contamination.
 A foal's immune system matures around 5-6 months of age; before this age, the immune system is immature and not as efficient at fighting off infection.


Very young foals (less than 10 days old) are particularly susceptible to clostridium botulinum overgrowth in the gut. This is because their intestinal flora are not yet developed enough to keep clostridium in check.
This allows the clostridium to reproduce unchecked and start to release botulinum toxin. The botulin toxin interferes with nerve conduction and these foals are known as "shaker foals" because of a generalized trembling and shaking when they are at rest or when they try to walk or move.
 Vaccinating the brood mare results allows a good level of immunity to be passed onto her foal via shared via colostrum and milk.


By the time this maternally derived antibody protection starts to fade (when the foal is 10-12 weeks of age) the foal's immune system is much stronger, and its gut flora well established.
This means that the clostridium cannot grow unchecked in the foal's intestines, as it is challenged by healthy bacteria in the gut.
 Symptoms of botulism usually start around 7-10 days after contamination. The botulinum toxins block the action of the nerves on the muscles. As a result, the first signs of botulism are muscle weakness and poor co-ordination.


In the early stages the horse has muscle tremors. When he walks he takes an unusually short stride, and may stumble and seem weak. The horse's tail hangs limply, and he is unable to raise it in the usual manner when moving his bowels or urinating, causing it to become soiled.
As the illness progresses, the horse cannot control his tongue and it hangs out of his mouth. He is unable to eat or drink because the muscles needed to swallow no longer work.
Finally, the muscle weakness becomes so severe that the horse cannot stand and must lie down. In the end, the horse dies from paralysis of the respiratory muscles.

