 The idea is that if you show her affection, she'll show you affection back. Do this regularly enough, but don't smother her (see Step #2). Try the following ideas for guidance:


When walking in the mall, hold her hand, or hold her hand in the movies.
When you greet her, give her a kiss. If she doesn't know you're there, come up gently behind her and kiss her neck.
Snuggle next to her on the couch, with your arm around her, and your fingers in her hair.
Offer to give her a back, hand or foot massage. Girls love to be pampered.;
, If your girlfriend tells you that you're too clingy, or she's not really the affectionate type, learn to find a balance between what affection you want to show and what she thinks is reasonable.


If she thinks you're too clingy, showing affection to you is the last thing on her mind. She gets annoyed by some of the affection you show, and thinks that some of it is unnecessary.
Learn to back off a little bit. If you can, respect her feelings and back off a little. Don't stop showing affection completely, but slow down with the kisses and hugs, and focus on putting more emotion into the ones you do give her.
 Don't be dishonest or prepare a script of what to say; just say what about her makes you happy, what about her makes you lucky, what about her makes you want to have her by your side.


If she's wearing a pretty dress, say something like: "What a nice dress. It fits you perfectly. Summer, here you come!"
If you notice she's gotten her hair cut recently, react to it: "Did you get a haircut? It makes me notice how pretty you are. Not that I normally forget...."
If she accomplishes something smart/hard/grueling, tell her you respect her: "I'm proud of you. I knew that you were smart/tough/dedicated, but you keep showing me parts of you."
Simple compliments work best. "You have beautiful eyes," or "When you smile, I light up inside" are always winners. When you compliment a girl, remember these tips:

Don't compliment her breasts or butt. Stick with compliments about her eyes, hair, smile, or clothes.
Avoid the cheesy stuff. "You're the sweetest thing I ever tasted, sugar muffin" is cheesy (well, sugary, at least!), but "I'm lucky to have you" is less so.
Deliver your compliments with a smile, in a sweet tone. Act like you mean it. It's often not what you say, but how you say it.
 Make her want to be around you. Be in a good mood, don't complain to her about all the little things that bother you, and be interested in the life around you. If you're a lovable guy, she'll feel like she can never show you enough affection.


Be easy to be around. Surround yourself with happy people, do fun things, and don't worry so much about every little thing! Girls love guys who take things easy.
 Girls are attracted to guys who know how to have fun. This means that you should get in the habit of genuinely having fun around her.


Be silly together. Do impressions of celebrities, or playact scenes you experienced together that day or challenge authority in an intelligent way. Do whatever gets her in a playful mood with you.
Play harmless practical jokes. If she doesn't like jokes, then ease up on her, or play a joke on someone else together.
Tell jokes. Find jokes online, or develop your own list. Even better, make some inside jokes that only you two will understand. The bottom line is that if you make her laugh, she'll want to show you more affection.
 This includes washing your clothes, brushing your teeth, flossing and using mouthwash. (No one wants to share a smelly mouth.) Wear a pleasant scent cologne or after-shave. She'll enjoy having your cheeks next to hers. Many women find certain scents to be annoying, so stop wearing it if she complains.


When you wear a scent, be sure it's not too much; women hate it when guys feel the need to wear a lot of cologne. Guys often put too much on.
Wash your hair regularly and let her play with it. Girls like playing with their boyfriends' hair. Give her an excuse to go through your soft, clean locks.
Make your best effort to look clean and put together. Even if you're going for a grungy look, you can still look put together. Girls can tell when you don't care about your looks.
 When you go to meet her, bring her something one time. It doesn't have to be anything big, it could be a candy bar or a funny card. It's a nice gesture to show that you are interested in her and want to please her.


Try bringing her lunch or dinner out of the blue. If she doesn't expect it, all the better. Figure out what she likes and eat it with her.
Write her a nice letter once in a while. Handwritten is best. It doesn't have to be long or mushy. Tell her you think about her all the time; tell her why she's special to you.
Pick up something she wants. Girls will often drop hints about what they like, like musical artists, clothing items, or accessories. Remember what she likes, and go out and get her something reasonable. She'll be stunned.
 Special dates are great because they are exciting. She doesn't know what's happening, and then you come and sweep her off her feet. If that's not a recipe for hugs and kisses, a recipe doesn't exist!


Plan a movie-date, a dinner-date, or an activity (such as bowling, ice-skating, cooking classes, or a sports game). If she's really interested in something, try to fit that into the date.
Get her friends to help you. Try planning a surprise birthday party with her friends or with her family if you're close to them.
 Do not wait for her to do it first, or wait on principle. Be the kind of person you know she'll respect. Remember, if you wouldn't want her doing it to you, don't do it to her.
 Make her feel as if she is the only girl on earth who means something to you. This will make her comfortable, relaxed, and happy. When she's spoiled, chances are she'll show you how spoiled you make her feel.


Small things, like opening the door, or asking for her opinion, often go overlooked by guys. Be a gentleman.
If you know she's having trouble with something, like a homework problem, a long grocery list, or a CD she can't find, help her out. Show her that you think about her even when you're apart.
Be there for her when she's sick. Bring her warm soup and soda, along with some movies you can watch together.
Never forget the flowers. Every moment is practically an opportunity to get her flowers. Don't go overboard, but get her flowers she loves from time to time. You can even pick flowers for her if you're close to nature. Flowers are a great way to get her to kiss or hug you.

