 You won't know fully what you want to horse to be (if you want a realistic horse, that is) unless you gather references. Some good resources are books, the internet, horse magazines, or just visiting a local horse breeder, stables or even farm.


If you go the book route, some good books include:

Ultimate Horse
The Official Horse Breeds Standards Book
The Encyclopedia of the Horse
The Horse and Pony Encyclopedia
Album of Horses
For Horse-Crazy Girls Only


If you go the internet route, some good resources are:

Dream Horse
Horse article on Wikipedia
Ultimate Horse Site
Horse City

;
,, It can be completely imaginary, or a combination of two or more actually horse breeds. In your imagination, you can have a Miniature Heavy Horse if you like with a combination of the characteristics of a Suffolk Punch and a Falabella, if you like, or something that we would never exist in real life like a pure white Friesian horse.
 There four main horse types; Draft/Heavy horses, Light horses, Warmbloods, and Ponies.
 If you don't know the colors horses can be, check on a website. Or, if you wanted, you could have a unrealistic color of horse, like lilac or metallic gold.
 There are quite a few different markings. The basics of them are listed below.


Facial

None
Star
Snip
Blaze
Stripe
Bald Face


Legs

Partial Pastern
Coronet
Pastern
Sock
Stocking
Ermine mark


Other

Dorsal Stripe
White Eyes (top), Wall Eyes (bottom)
Leg Barring



Hooves

Striped Hooves
Black Hooves



, A mare is a female horse, a stallion is a uncastrated male horse. Gelding is a term used for a castrated male horse, and a colt is a young male horse, and a filly is a young mare.
 Choose if you want to pretend you caught your horse from the wild, saved it from an animal shelter, purchased it from a horse breeding farm or find it on your back yard one day.
 Make it something creative that matches its temperament, appearance or abilities. You can have an imaginary horse named anything you like, from Dave to Daisy.
 You can groom it, muck it out, ride it, and feed it as often as you care to imagine. To groom it, you need to brush it, clean it, and if you want to, shine it's hooves.
 Your imaginary horse can work on a farm pulling ploughs, perform in a circus, be part of the Spanish  Riding School, work with disabled children, pull a carriage, hunt, hack, race or fly! There are no limits.
 Give you horse some details to make its imaginary life richer. Does it love mints, rolling in long grass and running in sand? Maybe your horse hates carrots, having its ears touched and going into the horse box. You can give your imaginary horse similar likes and dislikes to your own personal preferences, or make it different to you.
 This way arch-enemies can't "steal" your horse, or the details of your horse without your permission. Enjoy your imaginary horse!


For example: Hurtle (Hurtling through the trees) is a bay stallion. His breed is unknown. He has four white socks and a star on his forehead. He came from a man who bet his life and lost the bet, so Hurtle is now competing in the Olympics! He loves jumping out of his paddock, mud and food. He hates standing still, baths, and thunder. His best mate is Storm, the Shetland stallion!

, Just like with a real horse, an imaginary can be hard work. Take it slowly and let your imagination soar!

