 Keep in mind that programming can be a demanding and stressful field to work in, as well as a difficult career to break into. It will require a lot of passion on your part, so take stock of just how much you have. Muster up every last drop that you can in order to succeed., Value patience and persistence. Plan on taking a few years to acquire the necessary technical know-how, either on your own or through formal education. Then, when you’re ready to enter the workforce, expect a lot of competition for each opening, which means it might take a while to find work. Then, once hired, anticipate having to do a lot of grunt work before advancing to your desired position., If you go the formal education route, bear in mind that its cost will probably exceed a game programmer’s average yearly salary by a pretty hefty amount. Also keep in mind that the field lacks job security, which means you may have gaps in your employment. Again, this career definitely requires you to be passionate about it, so do it for the love, not a quick buck., Expect most, if not all, aspects of game programming to require strong math skills. If you’re still in school, double down on your math courses. If you’re out of school and need to brush up, definitely do so.Obviously, taking math courses is a great way to strengthen your skills. But perhaps even better for the aspiring game developer are the multitude of math games available for download. Kill two birds with one stone and explore games that you may not have otherwise sampled.
 Before you enter the field professionally, you should spend a lot of time developing programming skills on your own. But don’t grow too accustomed to working solo. Once hired, expect to become one member of a much larger team. Prioritize clear communication and the ability to accept criticism as two essential skillsets., Depending on where you live, this may not be as much of an issue. But if your hometown isn’t already a booming tech haven, be willing to move to where the work is. Also remember that job stability is pretty iffy, which means you may have to relocate again for a new job.