 The main problem with auditioning to sing is people can sometimes be ill-suited to performing to large crowds. Ask yourself these questions and answer them honestly: Can I actually sing? Do I have or can I get the courage to perform in front of people? Do I want to do this? If you answered 'yes' to most of these, then you can pull this off.;
, Tell yourself you can do this. Get encouragement from friends and family, as well as practice singing in front of them.


Have you got stage fright? Remember, you are a good singer. People should like your singing, and if they don't, this isn't about what they think of you. It's about singing. Remember that you are good, but also not everybody will like your singing. Take deep breaths, hum the tune a bit, clear your throat a few times, and walk into your audition with a straight back, your head held high, and a big smile. Introduce yourself politely and clearly, and don't forget to look at your audience and smile. Just imagine you are rehearsing again and forget there is an audience. When your audience has finished, smile, say "Thank you," and walk out of the room with a straight back and your head held high.
When you're talking to the audience, remember these tips:

Dress appropriately. Don't wear anything too glamorous or lazy, but wear well-fitting, sophisticated clothing.
Do not have your arms crossed or hands in front of you. Instead, have them gently clasped behind your back.
When talking, try not to say any "um's", "ah's", or anything like that. It will make you sound nervous and unprofessional.
 What type of a voice do you have? Ask a relative or friend what style of music (opera, hip hop, pop etc.) they think your voice suits. Give them a sample of your singing for them to judge on. Once you have determined your appropriate genre, you need to pick a song. Make a list of your favorite songs in that genre. Next, put a star next to the ones that are well known. Use the starred songs as your starting point, and don't be afraid to experiment. If your computer has a microphone, try recording yourself singing to a karaoke version on a video. Play it back and see which song suits your voice best.
 If this is a favorite song of yours, then you may even know the words already. But it is still a good idea to double-check them. Listen to the original song a few times and then try to write down as much of the lyrics from memory as you can. Check them by listening again and change them if there are any errors. Sing them off the sheet you wrote whilst listening to the song a couple of times, and then try without the sheet. You may have to do this several times, checking each time, before you are comfortable that you have remembered the right words. Now, sing them off the sheet with an instrumental (karaoke) version of the song. Try it without the words again, still on the instrumental. Listen to the instrumental on its own, singing in your head.
 Stay calm, and prepare yourself!

