 To help you avoid using payday lenders, you can try to build up your credit score to access more mainstream and less expensive loans. Start by assessing your current credit score. You can get a free copy of your credit report online through various websites. Check the score for errors, such as having a late payment on your score when you were not actually late on your payment.

If you find an error, call up the credit bureau or reporting agency and set up an appointment to correct the problem.If there is information that is accurate, but doesn’t properly reflect your current situation, you can address this.
For example, if you got into debt when you were unemployed, but are now back in work, you can explain this., When you have credit cards and instalment loans, it is very important that you make your payments on time. This can help to build up your credit score in the future. When you show that you can manage your credit cards responsibility, the credit bureau may consider you less of a risk.

Write sticky notes and place them on your computer, refrigerator, or door, to remind yourself when you need to make your credit payments.
Set reminders for the week before, and the day before your payments are due. You should also set one for the day that they are due.
You may also be able to set up reminders through your bank account that will then send you email or text reminders of your upcoming payment., If you have a hard time remembering to make payments, change your account settings so that your accounts will automatically make the payments for you. Keep in mind that you should still check your accounts and payment dates frequently in order learn how to manage your money wisely.

If you have payments going out which you lose track of, you may become overdrawn and incur charges from your bank.
Set up reminders before automatic payments are due so you can ensure you have enough money in your account to avoid this.
 There are a few prepaid credit and debit cards out there that may allow you to begin building up good credit when you use them. The concept behind a prepaid debit card is that you have already paid for the amount on the card, so you will not miss a payment and get bad credit. You should keep in mind that prepaid cards generally charge fees.

For example, you may be charged 2.5% on everything you purchase with the card
There may be a charge to add more money to the card.