 A New York licensed master plumber must be at least 18 years of age. If you have completed the work experience needed to become a licensed master plumber, then it is likely you will meet this age requirement.
 You must be able to read, understand and write in English to conduct business as a licensed plumber in New York.
 You need to prove that you have met 1 of the following requirements by providing W-2 forms for the years you were employed under a licensed master plumber or with other applicable work:


You have at least 7 years of applicable experience working directly under a master plumber. These years of experience should be within the last 10 years. 2 of those years must be as a licensed journeyman plumber, if you are applying in New York City.
You have worked as a plumbing inspector for the government or a private firm. You can be credited for up to 2.5 years of work experience, as long as the balance of experience adds up to a total of 7 years.
You have received a bachelor's degree in engineering from a college or university registered by the New York State Department of Education. You must also have 5 years of applicable experience in the last 7 years, with 2 years of experience in New York.
You are a licensed architect or engineer. You must have 3 years of plumbing experience in the last 5 years, with 1 year of experience in New York.
You have at least 2 years of plumbing work experience under a licensed master plumber and you have worked in plumbing maintenance or repair for a city agency for at least 5 years.
 You must fill out an application proving you have the above experience. Check on the city's website or call to request the proper application and see when license exams will be given.
 This exam will require a fee of between $200 and $300. It will test your knowledge of the municipal administrative code with multiple choice questions. If you pass this test, you will be allowed to take the practical exam.
 Schedule the exam after passing the written exam. You will be asked to show practical knowledge of plumbing and the administrative code with a proctor.
 The following must be submitted to the city board within 1 year of passing your exams:


Signed, notarized affidavits from the master plumbers who vouch for your required experience. This affidavit must include dates, a description of your duties and jobs you worked on. They must indicate that they directly supervised you during this time. These affidavits should be in a sealed envelope when they are submitted.
A certified record of your Social Security Administration earnings. This will verify your work experience.

