 This pose requires balancing, and if you are unable to balance properly, you might compromise your safety.If you have headaches, low blood pressure, dizziness or lightheadedness, you shouldn’t practice the mountain pose.;
, You can experience a number of benefits from the Mountain Pose, including:Strengthening your legs.
Improving your posture.
Preparing yourself for other standing poses in yoga.
Identifying imbalances in your body, which can cause muscular and postural discrepancies. This means that your body may be overcompensating in one area when another area is weak.
 While it may seem like you’re just standing when you’re in Mountain Pose, your body is actually very active, engaging different parts of your body. Once you engage your body, creating a stable and firm stance, you can then move into other standing poses, such as Warrior I, Five Pointed Star, Standing Forward Fold, and Crescent Moon., Stand tall and have your feet barely touch each other. Relax your shoulders and let your arms hang down by your sides in a relaxed way.


If you are stiff or have trouble balancing, stand with your feet slightly apart.
 This will help loosen your joints. Ensure that your knees are directly over your ankles.
 As you get ready to do this pose, it will be helpful to focus on a particular spot or object. This will help you with your balance. Find a spot a few feet in front of you – either on the wall or on an object – and focus your eyes on that. This visual focus is known in yoga as drishti. The principle is that by visually focusing on a single object or point, you are eliminating distractions. You will then sharpen your mental focus.Choose a spot that is slightly below eye level. This will ensure that your chin is pointed slightly downward as you stand in Mountain Pose.
 Breathe deeply, drawing air into your belly. Feel your diaphragm expand and contract.As you breathe, you may find your mind begins to wander. As it does so, acknowledge each thought and let it go. Bring your attention back to your breath, focusing on the present moment.
 As you adjust your body to get into proper Mountain Pose, you will do so starting from your feet. This will ensure that your body will rest on a solid foundation and your mountain pose will be stronger., , Starting with your feet, press your big toes into each other. Then, lift each of your toes and spread them apart. Set them back down on the mat. Ensure that your toes are firmly planted on the mat.
 After your feet are firmly on the mat, start working your way up your body to adjust your legs.


Start with your outer shins, squeezing them in toward each other.
Lift your kneecaps.
Turn your inner thighs slightly inward, lifting your quadriceps muscles up and back.
 The next step is to ensure that your body’s core is stable and strong. Work on positioning your pelvis and trunk area for maximum stability.


Keep your hips straight and level, maintaining a center line.
Draw in your abdomen slightly.
Tuck in your tailbone slightly. Then curl your pelvic bone up slightly so that your tailbone continues the straight line of your spine. Your goal is to align your hips so that you're not putting any extra pressure on your back or your knees.
 Next, move on to positioning your arms correctly.


Open your chest by dropping your shoulders down. Pull your shoulder blades slightly toward the back of your waist. Don’t squeeze your shoulder blades together; instead, keep them relaxed.
Extend your spine upward by lifting your chest away from the stomach.
Straighten your arms to your sides, with fingers stretched out. Keep your triceps strong.
Rotate your inner arms slightly outward.
 Keep your head straight with your gaze still fixed on a single point. Imagine a string attached to the top of your head, pulling your head upward and releasing your neck from your shoulders.


Soften your facial muscles.
Lengthen the back of your neck and relax your throat.
 Stand in this posture for up to one minute, continuing to gaze at your focal point and breathing deeply.
 If you are a beginner in yoga, you might find that you’re having trouble aligning your body strongly in this pose. It can be useful to use a yoga block. This is a rectangular block that adds some stability to your poses.


Put the block between your thighs just above your knees. Press your legs into the block to feel the muscles actively engage. Rotate your thighs inward, pressing on the block. This will help your body get into proper alignment.The block can also be helpful if you have flat feet or other discomfort in your feet, knees or legs. It can give you more stability and help you rotate your legs into the proper alignment for this pose., To make sure your alignment is straight, it can help to practice this pose next to a wall. Stand with your back against the wall. Make sure your heels are touching the wall as well. Press your shoulders and buttocks into the wall. Your lower back will not touch the wall, since there will be a slight curve to this area. Also make sure to keep your head away from the wall. Remember to elongate your neck and pull your head up away from your shoulders., Your center of gravity shifts when you are pregnant, which can affect your ability to balance. Accordingly, you may need to make some adjustments to your posture. Try starting out the pose by setting your feet a little wider apart until you feel stable., As you become more comfortable in the Mountain Pose, you can start to move different parts of your body to further strengthen your core and your balance. Reach up with both arms, extending them away from your body. Turn your palms inwards to face each other. You’ll feel a stretch along your torso’s sides.
 Try bringing your arms in front of you. Keep your arms even with each other. Interlace your fingers and pull your hands away from your body. You should feel a gentle stretch in your shoulder blades.
 Once you have mastered the Mountain Pose with your eyes fixed on a single focal point, try the pose with your eyes closed.By closing your eyes, your body must work that much harder to maintain balance.


Make sure your feet press strongly and actively into the floor. Spread out your toes widely and press each toe into the ground. This will ensure you have a strong foundation that can more easily adjust to minor balance issues.

