 The sun, sand, and salty sea can leave you feeling dehydrated. Bring plenty of water and/or other beverages to keep you hydrated throughout your visit to the beach. Drinks can usually be purchased by a vendor on or near the beach, but they are usually pretty expensive. Bring your own drinks in a cooler to save time and money.Packing a drink or drinks in a small cooler filled with ice will prevent your drink from becoming sandy and warm.
One gallon of water is recommended.;
, Wearing sunscreen is an important part of going to the beach. A lot of direct exposure to the sun can cause severe sunburn, skin damage, and potentially skin cancer later on in life. Avoid the pain and redness of a sunburn by applying at least SPF 30 before going to the beach.Reapply sunscreen every couple of hours, even if it is waterproof.
 The sun can be harsh at the beach. Bring an umbrella to have some shade when the sun gets too much. If you don’t already have an umbrella, one can be purchased at a shop near the beach, or sometimes rented at the beach. Set up the umbrella in an empty spot and place your chair and/or towel underneath it.Make sure to keep an eye on your belongings when you go in the water.
 Life can get too busy to sit down and enjoy a good book or magazine. The beach is a great opportunity to catch up on reading you’ve been wanting to get to. Grab a magazine before you go to the beach, or choose a fun, relaxing “beach read.” Sit underneath your umbrella and enjoy the environment as well as the story.Avoid bringing an expensive and valuable book. It could get damaged by the sand and water.
 Relax on the sand and listen to some of your favorite music. Choose some songs for a playlist before going to the beach. You can make the playlist on your phone or iPod. Make sure to bring a set of earphones.You can bring a portable speaker if you would rather not wear earphones.
 Take a stroll by the water. Enjoy the sand, sea, and everything else at the beach. There’s a lot more to see at the beach other than water and sand. You can also look at the other beachgoers, the birds, seashells, and tide pools.Make sure you keep track of where you parked or came from. It can be easy to get lost on the beach.
 The water is half the fun of the beach. Take a swim, or walk out as far into the water as you are comfortable with. You can also bring a floatation device, or rent a jet ski if you want to venture farther out into the water.Do not go into the water at a time that has been deemed dangerous. Always watch for signs and listen to the lifeguard.
 The beach can get crowded as the day goes on, so it is better to arrive to arrive early to designate a spot. Check when the beach you are going to opens, but 9 a.m. should be a good time to arrive. Set up your area fully before beginning any activities to make sure that you will have enough space., It can be difficult to carry everything needed for a beach day, like balls, refreshments, towels, sunscreen, and speakers. Bringing a wagon that you can easily roll behind you will make it easier to transport everything, especially if you plan to move throughout the day. Choose a wagon with sturdy wheels that can move easily through the sand.The Wonder Wheeler is a popular brand of carts to bring to the beach.
 Having music that everyone can here is a good idea if you will be going to the beach with a group of friends. Bring a radio or a speaker that can hook up to a smartphone or iPod. If you are bringing a speaker, choose a playlist with your friends that everyone can enjoy.Make sure to keep the music at a reasonable volume if other people are around.
 Bring equipment for games that everyone can take part in. You can bring footballs, Frisbees, bocce balls, volleyballs, or any other equipment for a game that can easily be played on the beach. A few other ideas for games are beach mini golf, relay racing, and sand castle building competitions., Pack refreshments that can be shared amongst everyone. Bring large bottles of water, soda, or juice. For food, make sandwiches ahead of time, or any other food that can be eaten easily and shared. You can also bring large bags of chips and crackers for snacks. Clean up after eating and check to make sure nothing is left behind when leaving the beach.If you’re of legal age you can bring adult beverages like beer or wine, as long as you have checked with the rules of the beach first.
 There are a couple of benefits from choosing a spot close to the lifeguard. First, it is good to have a lifeguard near when you have small children so that they can be reached quickly if something grows wrong. It is also good to be near a lifeguard because it is easier for children to remember where you are when a lifeguard station is nearby.Do not choose a spot directly in front of the lifeguard station. The lifeguard needs a clear path to the water and will ask you to move.
 Invest in a small tent that can be easily set up and taken apart. A tent is better than an umbrella if you will be bringing kids to the beach. It provides more shade, and it is a good place for them to nap if they need it. Make sure you find a spot on the beach that a tent can be set up without invading anyone else’s space.The best type of tent to get is one that folds flat and can be zipped up in a case. They are easier to transport this way.
 A treasure hunt is a good way to keep your kids active and entertained. Bury things like golf balls, large shells, or plastic toys in the sand and have them dig for the “treasures.” Bury the items close enough to your location so that you can keep an eye on them and give them clues.Put a bucket in the center of the “treasure” area and have them put the items they uncover into the bucket.
 Building a sand castle is a classic experience at the beach during childhood. Choose a spot where the castle won’t be washed away, dig a well in the sand, and scoop up some sand. Then, add some water to the sand, squeeze the sand until it is compact, and begin building the castle until it is completed.Use a bucket to create shapes for the castle.
 The beach is a great place to fly a kite because it is usually pretty windy. Flying a kite is a great way to keep kids entertained, and it can serve as a fun challenge. If you don’t already have a kite, one can typically be bought at a souvenir shop near the beach. Make sure to choose a spot with plenty of space and keep an eye on your children as they fly the kite.If you already have a kite, test it out before leaving for the beach to make sure it works.
 The beach is fun, but it also provides a rich learning environment for children. Take a walk around the beach and explore the shells, tide pools, plants, and sea life that has washed up on the beach, like starfish. You can make a list of things you would like your children to identify and make a game out of quizzing them on what the names are of things like crabs and seaweed.Make sure to warn your kids not to pick up anything dangerous, like broken shells with sharp edges.

