 Blood tests are one of the common ways of diagnosing this disease. The blood count changes often occur slowly — polycythemia vera is actually most commonly diagnosed when a patient is receiving blood testing for other reasons. Your doctor may do a complete blood count in order to figure out whether you have an excessive number of red blood cells. They may also do blood tests to figure out whether your hemoglobin or hematocrit counts are high, which is another indicator of polycythemia vera. To figure out which type of polycythemia vera you have, your doctor may also test your levels of erythropoietin hormone.Ask your doctor:“Can you do a blood test to determine whether I have polycythemia vera?”
“What should I do to prepare for the blood test?”

, You should ask your doctor about the results of your blood test, which they may inform you about in person or over the phone. You should be aware of the test results that would indicate a positive diagnosis of polycythemia vera: Increased number of red blood cells
More platelets or white blood cells
Higher hematocrit measurement
Higher hemoglobin levels
Low levels of erythropoietin

, You should ask your doctor whether a bone marrow biopsy or aspiration would be appropriate. Your doctor will take a sample of your bone marrow material. If they do an aspiration, they will take out a liquid part of your bone marrow. Once they finish the tests, ask your doctor whether the tests showed that your marrow is overproducing blood cells. You could ask:“Are the results of my test back?”
“Is my bone marrow producing too many blood cells?”
“Does the biopsy indicate that I have polycythemia vera?”

, Bone marrow or blood test results may also indicate the presence or absence of the gene mutation that is associated with polycythemia vera. You should inquire with your doctor about this gene mutation:“Do the test results indicate the presence of the gene mutation associated with polycythemia vera?”
“Do the test results show the gene mutation JAK2 V617F?”

, Your doctor may try some other tests such as looking at your vitamin B12 level, the oxygen saturation of your blood or a comprehensive metabolic panel test. Alongside your blood tests, these tests can help your doctor determine whether you have the disease., If you were positively diagnosed with polycythemia vera, you should talk to your doctor about treatment options. Unfortunately, the disease cannot be completely cured and will be treated more as a chronic condition, with your doctor monitoring your health for complications. Treatment will focus on decreasing the signs, symptoms and complications associated with the disease. For example, your doctor may prescribe low-dose aspirin, a procedure called phlebotomy, medications like hydroxyurea and therapies to reduce itchy skin.Inquire with your doctor about treatment options:


“How can we tackle this disease?”
“What are the best medications available for treating polycythemia vera?”
“Will I have to undergo the phlebotomy procedure?”

