 Be extra diligent about doing your research before going in for surgery. Since so many medical professionals will be involved, you should take the time to learn exactly who will be performing any aspect of the procedure and what your coverage options are. Remember that even if your hospital is in-network, the medical professionals involved with your surgery might not be.Call the hospital ahead of time. Ask them the name of your surgeon, the anesthesiologist, lab, and any other specialists who might potentially offer consultation. Give them your policy information and ask which medical professionals are in-network. Ask that you only be seen by in-network providers. Then call your insurance provider to verify the information your hospital gave you.
If only out-of-network providers are available, shop around for another hospital. If no other options are available, or if you prefer to see an out-of-network expert, call your insurer to negotiate coverage options. In addition, call the out-of-network provider to see if they will make an exception and accept your insurance.
If you have no success with negotiation, ask the out-of-network provider if they will accept a lower rate since you are paying out of pocket. There’s no harm in trying. Ask them to set up a payment plan beforehand and make sure you understand how much you will owe.
 Some procedures, like an MRI or CT scan, must be approved beforehand or insurance won’t cover them. If your doctor orders any test, consult your insurer before the appointment.Say to them, “My doctor has ordered an MRI at this lab at this location. Does this procedure need pre-authorization? Does my plan cover this test at this location?”

, It might be a lot of work and strange to think about, but do your best to create multiple action plans in case of any emergency. Get in touch with both area hospitals and your insurer to compile a list of in-network cardiologists, general surgeons, orthopedic surgeons, anesthesiologists, and other emergency room personnel.Do your best to know exactly who you would see and who would be covered if you had a heart attack, broke your leg, or any potential emergencies you might suffer, especially if you have any chronic disorders that put you at a higher risk of needing emergency care.
Keep your action plans handy, and keep your spouse, immediate family members, and other emergency contacts informed about your plans. If you are conscious during a medical emergency, do your best to have someone drive you to the hospital that you’ve identified as employing the most in-network professionals. Reserve ambulances for absolute emergencies.
Before paying any bills due to unplanned emergency care, get in touch with patient advocate groups and call the medical professional or hospital to see if they will take your insurance or offer a lower rate.

