 People with schizoid personality disorder tend to prefer solitary work. They often choose mechanical or technical fields, like math or computer programming, which can be performed individually.


They are typically “followers,” and shy away from leadership roles.
Common careers include lab or library work and nighttime jobs, like security.;
, One of the symptoms of schizoid PD is a lack of desire to make or achieve goals. People with this disorder may underperform at school or work. They may be simply going through the mechanics of doing a job or assignment without any clear expectations about the outcome or their own performance.


They are overwhelmingly indifferent to both criticism of their work and praise for a job well done.They rarely exhibit an effort to get promoted or perform better than others.
Most are considered highly functional since they are able to keep a job, but do not excel in their fields of study/work.
 Those with this disorder often construct complex fantasy lives in their minds and spend a great deal of time daydreaming.However, they know the difference between this fantasy life and their real life.


Such daydreaming likely affects work production and contributes to underperforming.
 People with this disorder might spend all of their free time engaged in activities they can do alone, like playing computer games or building models.They may also do things alone that most people do in groups or pairs, like go to the movies or a sports game.


They typically avoid group activities like sports or social/professional clubs.
If they are on a team, they avoid leadership roles and may choose tasks that can be completed or played without assistance.
 People with schizoid PD typically do not express emotions under any circumstances and often don’t seem to have any strong opinions on any topic. They are often described as dull, or superficial.They seem indifferent even in situations where it is inappropriate, such as emergencies or tragedies, or events that most people would be happy about, like the birth of a new family member.
They do not respond to emotional expression by others, and may not even recognize such feelings since they do not experience them personally.
 People with schizoid PD are often described as "odd" or "different" because they do not respond to normal social cues, like emotive statements or loaded political issues, like the majority of people.They have difficulty relating to others in everyday situations and therefore may be extremely reserved.Their personality differences are often expressed as “eccentric” because responses are inconsistent with normal social behavior, but not usually completely unrelated.
 Adults are more likely to be diagnosed with schizoid personality disorder because their symptoms will be well-established. However, a child or teen may be diagnosed if the symptoms have lasted for more than one year.Also, keep in mind that even though schizoid personality disorder can affect men and women, men are more frequently diagnosed with schizoid personality disorder than women.

