 Before you can start organizing your clothes, you are going to have to empty everything out. You can empty the whole closet at once, a shelf at a time or just start pulling clothes out of there. Each method has its pros and cons. If you're going to put all of your clothes onto your bed, make sure that there are no clothes already on it as they could get mixed up. Be messy now and your closet will stay messy. However, keep everything tidy now and your closet is sure to be very tidy later.;
, Firstly, you will need to sort your clothes into piles of what they are. For example, put t-shirts in one pile, jeans in another, jumpers in another, etc. This will help you to see exactly what you have and how many items of clothing you have. Who knows, your favourite t-shirt from three years back might not have been stolen by your best friend after all! This will also help with the next steps and make the tidying process a much funner and quicker one.
 Let's take the t-shirt pile, for example. Now split that pile into three sub-piles. One should be the pile you want to keep. The next pile should have all the clothes you want to hand down or give to a charity. The last pile should have all the clothes that you want to throw away.


The keep pile should have everything that you still want. Make sure that everything in this pile fits you properly and don't keep something just because it looked good when you were seven. If it doesn't fit you, it doesn't belong in this pile. Also, make sure you like everything in this pile. When the rest of your clothes go, this is what you're going to be left with.






The give away pile should have clothes that are too small for you. Since you may be giving these to charity, it's best to keep ripped, torn and stained clothes out of this pile. Even if you're going to hand them down, your little sister may not appreciate a ripped up strip of denim that was once your favourite pair of jeans. Clothes that are in good condition but you don't like can also be put in this pile.






The throw away pile should have clothes that are beyond repair. This includes ripped up clothes, stained clothes, torn clothes and "those DIY projects that went a little wrong" clothes. All of these clothes will be thrown away. For this reason, anything that can be given to charity should be removed right away. This pile is strictly for clothes beyond repair.
 With some wipes and a duster, clean out the interior of your closet. You don't want to put all of your newly organised clothes in a dirty old closet, do you? If there's any dust or spider webs still in there, get rid of them now. It's much easier to dust, clean and polish before the clothes go in for obvious reasons. If you were looking to paint your closet, now's the time to do that. Make your closet spotless.
 Now that you definitely know what you're keeping and what you're throwing/giving away, you can start re-filling your closet. Put one type of clothing on every shelf. If it's summer, you won't be needing those jumpers any time soon. Put them on the top shelf. If it's winter, keep your summer clothes on the top shelf. Jeans and t-shirts should stay somewhere near the middle as they're pretty much worn all year round. Socks and underwear can stay somewhere near the bottom of the closet. If your closet has a hanging rail and no shelves, keep all your jeans together, all your t-shirts together, all your jumpers together etc.

