 Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and hot water. Bacteria and dirt on your hands can cause breakouts or irritation.









Avoid fragranced soaps and perfume if possible. Many fragrances are allergens that can irritate sensitive skin or cause an allergic reaction.;
, Using a ponytail holder, pull back long hair. A headband can hold bangs, wisps, or short hair away from the face. You want the facial skin to be completely exposed for effective treatment.
 Prop a pillow under their head, ensuring that they are comfortable and relaxed.


Consider limiting distractions by switching off the television and cellphones. Play some relaxing music if you choose.
 Apply makeup remover to a cotton ball and remove any makeup from the eyes, lips, face and neck. You may need to use several cotton balls for this step.








As with all steps in the facial, never tug at the skin. Use gentle strokes, particularly around the eye area, where the skin is very thin and delicate.
 The cleanser you use should depend on the skin type (oily, dry, sensitive, normal, acne-prone, aging). Dermatologists recommend using one without alcohol, which can irritate the skin.Put a generous amount on your palm and run your palms over each other to evenly distribute the product for easy application. Start at the chin and work the cleanser into the face with your fingertips using a circular motion.
 If you have the money to invest in a sonic cleansing brush, use it to deep clean. These battery-powered brushes are gentle enough for facial skin, and use sonic technology to exfoliate and remove deeply-lodged impurities.Follow the product's instructions, as these may vary., You can do this with a clean, damp washcloth or a cotton pad.
 Use a clean, dry towel. Never rub the skin when drying, as this can irritate it.
 Put a generous amount of a gentle exfoliator into your palm, and wipe your palms together to distribute the product as you did with the cleanser. Apply the scrub in a circular motion onto the face and neck, but avoiding the eye area (nothing south of the eyebrow or north of the eye socket). Use a very light touch; you do not need to press the product into the skin.









Exfoliators get rid of built-up dead skin cells on the surface of the skin.The purported results are a smoother, fresher appearance thanks to the exposed healthy cells.
If you don't have an exfoliating scrub, you can make your own with a gentle cleanser (it's fine to use the one from Part 1 again) and one teaspoon of granulated sugar mixed in.
 In a blender, mix about six strawberries with 1








The enzymes from the strawberries break up dead skin cells, and the milk soothes the skin.
Do not use the enzyme peel and an exfoliator together, as this could over-exfoliate and damage the skin.
 Put a clean washcloth under very hot water. Place it over the face and let it sit for five minutes.








For rosacea or sensitive skin, you may want to skip this step. Steam can exacerbate these conditions., Use a soft, clean washcloth dampened with room-temperature water or a cotton pad.
 Use a clean towel.
 Cover the face with a light, even layer, avoiding the delicate eye area. There is a broad range of masks available; select the mask based on your friend's particular needs. You can use a store-bought product or make your own at home.









For oily or acne-prone skin: mash 1/2 cup (about 50 g) of blueberries with a fork, then blend with 2 tablespoons of yogurt (with active cultures), 1 tablespoon of rice flour, and 1 tablespoon of witch hazel. Let the mask sit 15 minutes.
For dry skin: mash half a ripe avocado and blend with 1 tablespoon of yogurt (with active cultures), 1/2 teaspoon of honey, and 1/2 teaspoon of oil (olive, coconut or almond). It should sit about 10-15 minutes.To shrink pores, make an egg white mask by mixing one raw egg white with 5 drops of lemon juice and a little dab of mayonnaise. This mask sits for about 20 minutes.
 This should be approximately 15 minutes, but may be more or less, depending on the type of mask.


Add chilled cucumber slices to your friend's eyes to soothe and reduce puffiness.Do let the mask dry, but not to the point that it cracks and crumbles.
 As with the exfoliating step, run a washcloth under hot water and then place it over the face. Let it sit for about five minutes.








As stated above, skip the steam if for skin with rosacea or high sensitivity.
 Dampen a washcloth with room-temperature water and gently remove.
 Use a clean, dry towel. Leave the skin just slightly damp.
 Dampen a cotton pad with a small amount of toner and gently sweep across the skin. Toners restore and repair skin with antioxidant and nourishing ingredients. They remain on the skin after cleansing and before applying moisturizer. There are many toners on the market, as well as homemade alternatives. You'll need to select a toner that works for your friend's skin, but whatever you choose, make sure it is alcohol-free. Alcohol can cause free-radical damage, which may actually diminish the skin's ability to produce healthy collagen.








For oily skin, you can opt for plain witch hazel.
For dry or sensitive skin, try applying almond oil as a toner.For acne-prone skin, make your own toner by mixing 3/4 cup (177 ml) strongly brewed green tea and 1/4 cup (60 ml) raw apple cider vinegar. The green tea is anti-inflammatory and antioxidant, while the vinegar restores the skin's natural pH., Use your friend's normal moisturizer, but take care in how you apply it. Use upward strokes, massaging the skin as you go, working upwards from the base of the neck to the forehead. This encourages circulation, and the moisturizer should lock in the moisture from your treatments.









Dermatologists recommend using a moisturizer with a broad-spectrum sunscreen (SPF 30),which may be particularly advisable if going outside. If not, try giving the skin a break from chemicals by using a moisturizer without SPF.
 Their skin is sensitive after the treatment, so it's a good idea to let it rest without exposure to sunlight, weather, pollutants, etc.
 As mentioned above, the skin is in a sensitive state following a facial. Allow it to enjoy a day without makeup so it can breathe and rejuvenate., In combination with a daily face-care regime, regular facials promote the skin's well-being.

