 The one built in this project is 11 inches wide, 9 inches tall (excluding the top) and 16 inches long (28 x 23 x 41 cm).
 Here, we used 1 X 10 (19 mm × 235 mm) scrap maple lumber which had been stained and lacquered, then thrown in a construction site dumpster. For the size in the illustrations, an eight foot (2.4 m) long board and some odd scraps were used., Two saw horses and a sheet of plywood works fine, but a heavy workbench would be better., There are some rabbetsto cut for joining the corners, and a sharp blade will make this process much easier., Here, the end pieces are cut 8 3/8 inches (21.3 cm), to the short point, with each end cut on a 7 degree angle so the sides of the chest will be slanted. Mark each cut on one piece of lumber, then cut them carefully. Use the first piece as a pattern to cut the second, or measure and mark it exactly, if you prefer., Make sure one end of the board is square, then measure 16 inches (40.6 cm). Make your mark, then scribe a straight line across the board using a framing square. Cut these carefully, as well., You can use the end boards to scribe the cuts as shown in the photo, or measure 3/4 of an inch (1.9 cm) and square this line. Cut 2/3 of the thickness of the lumber deep. Here, we are using a nominal one by board, 3/4 inch (1.9 cm) thick, so we set the saw to cut 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) deep.,, We used a carpenter's grade hot melt wood glue, but these joints may be nailed or screwed, or fastened with conventional wood glue. Make sure all edges are flush and true, and try to keep the corners as square as possible. A jig will help if you are having difficulty aligning and squaring the pieces., Using the dimensions of the chest shown, the bottom will be 14 1/2 inches (36.8 cm) by 7 inches (17.8 cm), but checking the actual assembled size will provide a better fit. Cut the bottom out of a piece of your lumber, the size you have measured, with the saw blade set on a 7 degree bevel on the long sides so it fits the tapered sides of your chest., If it is cut correctly, you may need to tap it into place, since the tapered edges will seat firmly into the bottom., Cut 3/8 inch deep around the top of the box, 3/8 inch from the outside edge. This will form a recess for the lid to set down on, creating a somewhat better seat for the lid to set in, If you are using wide lumber, as in the photos, you can rip it in half to reduce waste. Mark a radius from the edge to form the curved shape of the top of the chest. Here, we used the lid from a five gallon bucket, which provided an ideal curve with little effort., These two pieces should be as closely matched as possible to make fitting the finished lid easier., Here, a vise or clamp is very helpful, since the stock you are cutting is almost impossible to hold safely while you cut. When the two ends are cut and rabbeted, you can temporarily attach them to the chest to make fitting the lid slats more simple. Here, again, hot melt glue makes this quick and simple., Make sure they are at least as long as the length of the chest, but ripping longer boards and then cutting several to length from each rip will save time., If you have attached the lid ends to the top of the chest box, you can simply scribe them in place. Glue these, starting on each side and the center of the top, to keep the assembly square and true. Fit the edges as tightly as possible, but because of the radius of the lid, you can expect a noticeable gap unless you choose to bevel each piece individually. You can leave these strips overhanging each end slightly by cutting them 1/4 inch (.6 cm) long, then after attaching them, the ends can be sanded flush., Clean up the edges, light sand the surfaces, and bevel corners and other features that may produce splinters or leave a sharp edge., These will act as bands, and help secure the lid slats to the box, but for all practical purposes, they are ornamental. Test fit these strips and scribe the ends, then cut them to length. Make sure they are sufficiently thin and limber to bend the radius of your lid without splitting or cracking. Attach them with glue or tacks., If you want to stain or paint the chest, now is the time to do it, before the hardware (hinges, handles, and the hasp) is installed., Since this project was started with stained hardwood, and no matching stain was available, brown spray paint was used to blend the colors of the original stain, giving a pretty good finish., Here, antiqued cabinet hinges and pull handles were used to add to the rustic effect. The hardware can be attached with the Hot Melt glue so it can be test fitted, or you can simply attach it with the screws provided in the set you buy. Be sure to check the operation of hinges before completing installation, since if they are not correctly aligned, they will likely bind or cause the lid to fit crookedly.