 Perhaps the most obvious solution, if not the most cost effective, is simply fencing in your garden to keep dogs out.


Make sure your fence is in line with local property laws. Ask neighbors or go to city hall and check in with officials.
Fences can be an expensive option, but might be worth it if the dogs are not easily deterred. For small dogs, a 16-inch fence border will do. It costs roughly $29 for six feet. However, if you have larger and high energy dogs getting into the garden you might consider caging your garden in a chicken wire fence with a top enclosure.Installation can be tricky, particularly if you've never put up a fence solo before. You could consider hiring help, but that can get costly. How-to articles and videos are available online and you can always seek out the help of neighbors, friends, and family members. If the problem dog belongs to a neighbor, you could politely ask them to chip in some for the cost and help get the fence up.
Keep the gate closed at all time and routinely check for holes and other wear and tear.;
, Aesthetically, many people dislike fencing in their gardens. A plant barrier, meaning planting certain shrubs and flowers around the main garden, may be a more attractive option.


There are a variety of dog-proof plants. That is, plants that are sturdy and tall enough to withstand a dog's attempt to infiltrate the garden. These include peony, verbena, cone flower, black eyed Susans, Russian sage, and Mexican primrose. If you want other options, ask at your local greenhouse.Shrubs are another option for a plant barrier and may provide a more solidified boundary. Laurel, evergreen, huckleberry, and escallonia are good shrub options.While thorny or prickly bushes, such as holly and barberry, might seem like a good idea for deterring dogs be wary. These can cause harm to dogs when they attempt to get into the garden. You do not want to accidentally a neighbor's pet., You can also create a mote-like barrier encompassing the garden using gravel or mulch, textures dogs generally avoid treading on. This will deter the dog from entering your garden to defecate.


There are a variety of mulches available at hardware stores and greenhouses. Select a mulch that will be uncomfortable for a dog to walk over without harming the dog. One made from pine cones or pine needles is a great option.Decorative gravel, preferably with sharp edges, can also be purchased at hardware stores and greenhouses. Dogs will avoid walking on gravel because of the discomfort it causes to their pads. However, the one downside to gravel is that many people find it ugly. If you're unsure of using gravel due to aesthetic preferences, you can try to build a rock garden instead. However, the intended effect might not be as great as dogs can more easily navigated loosely collected rocks and stones., A sprinkler system can be a great way to scare dogs off your property. They will learn to avoid an area where they occasionally get wet.


A motion activated sprinkler is probably your best option. You can find one at a department store or on Amazon. This will be set off when motion is detected, so it will automatically fire cold water when a dog enters your garden.
Dogs will learn to associate your yard with an unexpected dousing of water. Eventually, they will learn to stay away.

