 Centers like Planned Parenthood, or The Women's Center, offer confidential services to teens such as pregnancy tests, ultrasounds, information on teen pregnancy, sex education, and post-abortion support. These centers are judgement free and can help you develop a plan.


You can find your local pregnancy resource center by searching online or looking in the yellow pages.;
, Pregnancy tests that you take at home are very accurate, but it is always best to confirm your pregnancy with a doctor. Schedule an appointment with an OB/GYN to have a test done at the doctor's office. The doctor will also let you know how far along the pregnancy is, and what the possible options are.Pregnancy resource centers can offer you free pregnancy tests that will confirm your pregnancy.
 Telling your parents can be one of the hardest things about finding out you are pregnant. It may be terrifying to not know what their reaction will be when they hear the news. Don't let this fear stop you from telling them. The sooner you let them know, the better. The best way to go about doing this it is to be direct and honest. Here is a way you can start the conversation:


"Mom, Dad, I need to talk to you about something important. I am pregnant and I need help." Once you break the news, answer all of the questions they may have for you with honesty.
 When you tell your parents the news, you will have to experience their fresh reactions of just finding out. If your parents have a negative reaction, remember that it will be okay. They may get angry or emotional at first, but with time, they will get better.


Remember, they will be hearing this news for the first time, in front of you, and they do not get to prepare for how to handle their initial reactions.
 Tell your parents, family members, or your school's counselor for emotional support. It can be very difficult to share this type of information, but it is important to let someone close to you know immediately. No matter what decision you make about the future of your pregnancy, you should allow someone to help you through it.
 Don't feel like you have to handle the responsibilities of your pregnancy alone. It is important to involve the father and his parents. Whether or not you decide to move forward with the pregnancy, you can receive emotional, or financial help from the father., Once you know you're pregnant, you should decide how you want to handle the pregnancy. Sit down and have a mature conversation with the father and other persons who are helping you. Discuss the pros and cons of each method. Ultimately, the decision is up to you, and you should not feel pressured by any one person.If you decide that you cannot raise your child, then you need to seek out a doctor or a counselor who can help you figure out the next steps are, whether that be looking into adoption or abortion.
Abortions need to be performed within a certain time of pregnancy. Your doctor will let you know if abortion is an option for you, if you decide this is what you want. Beware, this can be a traumatic experience. Have someone go with you for emotional support or seek out counseling to help you cope with your decision.
If adoption is an option for you, remember that you must receive permission from the child's father. Ask your doctor for information about adoption agencies who can walk you through the process.
 There are many decisions that need to be made concerning a new baby, and the smart thing to do is listen to someone who has been through it. Consult trusted adults, nurses, and midwives, and listen to what they have to say. Ask them about the different birthing options, financial costs, and what to expect. This will help you decide on what's right for you.

