 Tablets are good, but this article assumes you are using a mouse.;
,



Set the canvas size as you desire, 128x128 is a good size, as this is the usual size for thumbnails.

Import your photo inside the document (drag and drop is just fine) and resize it (with Ctrl pressed to preserve the aspect ratio).

By resizing you will lose a lot of small details, but they won't really be needed.



Zoom in. (Alternatively, we can work with the photo at its default size and resize the vector when ready - do whatever works for you).




Use the Calligraphic Tool (Ctrl+F6). Set the width and color as you like. The color red has been chosen to help with the how-to.

Start drawing freely along the shapes on your photo. Do not worry about small details at this time.

Zoom. When you want to capture small details and need accuracy, zoom in.

Make any adjustments you like. Enlarging the eyes, for example, can make the subject look cuter.
Here you don't want to draw the neck, but it partially covers the hair, so we have to improvise.



Continue until you have covered all the necessary shapes.





Here comes the most repetitive, laborious and probably boring step: the calligraphic tools generated tons of nodes, so we will delete a lot of them to make the shapes simpler and then adjust the shapes.
You can simplify automatically (Ctrl+L) but sometimes the results aren't satisfactory.


So select nodes, delete them and after that, adjust the shape. Depending on what you want to achieve, make it smooth and constant or very rough and irregular.

When one shape is done, proceed to the next.



Take care of the details, do not leave parallel edges: wrinkles are thin at their ends and thick in the middle, hair the same.

Continue until you have simplified and polished all the shapes. It may be a lot of work, but is not high level.



As we are almost ready with the drawing part, move the photo away or even delete it (we may use it in the colorization process, but that is optional).

Select all your shapes and do a Union (Ctrl++). You may want to zoom in and simplify more nodes created after union by imperfect positioning, but is not absolutely necessary.
Now you can select the stroke and make it black, as it should be.




Use the Bézier Tool (Shift+F6) and draw over. Try starting with an eyebrow.

Unset the stroke and use a fill color as you like (if you kept the reference photo, you can use the color picker to sample from it).

Move this color shape under the outline (Page Down) and adjust the nodes if needed (at a zoomed-in level).

If you feel the need, temporarily use a very contrasting fill color to clearly see the nodes needing editing.
When an element is ready go to the next.



Continue until all areas are colored.

If you like it enough, you may consider it done and stop here or continue by polishing it more (it is still a bit plain, but for small sizes this may be good).




Give your image some depth: highlights, shadow, gradients.

If you want and still have it handy, put the photo back on to of your drawing and using Freehand Lines (F6) - or Béziers - mark the highlighted and shadowed areas and make them white and respectively black. Or don't use the photo, just your imagination or aesthetic sense.



Remove the photo and adjust the transparency and blur for those areas, we don't need strong white or strong black.

Take special care of the eyes, they must have a glowing area, otherwise the subject will not look alive.

Add as many highlights and shadows as you like and maybe change the solid colors with slight gradients.
As this graphic is a hackergotchi, be sure to add the 'obligatory' drop shadow.

