 As well as making improvements to your general lifestyle and cutting back on your commitments to secure some time for yourself, you can try some specific relaxation techniques to help you unwind. Meditation is an ancient practice that is aimed at calming your mind and helping you become at peace with yourself. Try just sitting quietly while being aware of your breathing.


As thoughts pop into you head, try to return your mind’s focus to your steady breathing.
Alternatively, focus on an object you have placed in front of you, or you could try to visualise something calming, like a gentle sea.You might find it hard at first but you will improve the more you practice meditation.
 If you find it hard to stick with the meditation you could practice some relaxed deep breathing. Sit in a comfortable chair which supports your head, or lie down flat with your palms up and your legs a little apart. Fill up your lungs without forcing them, breathing in through your nose. Count to five as you breathe in.


Breathe out through your mouth, slowly counting to five again. Repeat this with a regular and controlled rhythm.
Breathe without pausing or holding your breathe, and keep doing this until you feel calm and relaxed.
Try to do this for three to five minutes, two or three times daily., If you have some more time then you can try practicing a deep muscle relaxation session. This will take around twenty minutes and it stretches and relaxes different muscles which releases tension from your body and mind. Once you have a warm and quiet place, sit or lie down and concentrate on steady breathing. Going through each in turn you will release the tension from your face, neck, shoulders, chest, arms, legs, wrists and hands. Repeat each exercise a couple of times before moving on.


Begin by pushing together your eyebrows, as if you were frowning, hold for a few seconds and then release.
Next move onto the neck by gently tilting the head forward, with your chin down towards your chest, holding for a few seconds, before lifting your head back up.
Pull your shoulders up towards your ears, hold there, then relax them.
For your chest, breathe slowly and deeply into your diaphragm then breathe out slowly. Allow your belly to deflate as the air is exhaled.
Then stretch your arms away from your body, reaching forward and holding, before relaxing.
With your legs stretched out, push your toes away from your body, pull them back towards your body, and then relax.
Finally stretch your wrists by pulling your hand up towards you, stretching the fingers and thumbs and holding before relaxing.