;
, You will be prompted for your account information.


If you don’t have an account yet, you can scroll down and click “Sign up to ride” to create one.
 You will be taken to your account profile page, which displays your recent trips, payment information, and other account settings.
 This button is located in the left menu bar and will bring up your trip history. Click a trip to view expanded information.
 From this page you can view a detailed fare breakdown, resend receipts/invoices, rate your driver, and find info on lost items.


Requesting an invoice can only be performed on business accounts.
 Click “Find Lost Item” located at the top of the trip details page and you will be prompted to enter your phone number to contact the driver and negotiate the return of any lost items.


This option is not available for canceled trips.
This page can also be accessed by pressing the “Lost Something?” button in the bottom left corner of the trips page.
Ultimately, you are responsible for any lost items, but Uber can help you contact the driver if they are unresponsive., This button is located at the top of the trip details page and will automatically resend a receipt to the email on file.
 The stars are located at the bottom of the trip details page. Click the start furthest to the right will give the highest rating, and to the left, the lowest.
 This button is in the left menu bar. From this page you can change your profile’s country and language settings using the dropdown menus. You can also add additional emails to forward ride receipts using the “+” button next to the email listing.


All other profile settings must be changed via the mobile app.
 This button is in the left menu bar. You will be taken to a list of your payment methods on file as well as access to promo and gratuity controls.
 You can change the expiration date, CVV or personal/business status using the corresponding fields. Adding and removing credit cards must be performed on the mobile app.
 This button is in the left menu bar. If you have a code for free rides or other offers you can redeem them by entering them into the field and pressing “Apply”.
 Gratuities are only applied to UberTaxi trips. Other Uber services do not require any gratuity.
 This button is in the left menu bar. This page will display a promo code automatically assigned to your account that you can share with friends. New riders will earn themselves and you special offers like free rides.


You can click “Get your invite link” to get a shareable URL for your promo code as well.

