 Satin Angora rabbits love to eat hay, so make sure that your rabbit always has plenty to munch on. Hay provides all of the essential nutrients your rabbit needs to be healthy, so this will serve as her staple food. Chewing hay also helps to wear down your rabbit’s teeth, which are always growing.Give your Satin Angora rabbit lots fresh, high-quality Timothy hay every day.Replenish your Satin Angora rabbit’s hay supply daily and check often to see if it is low.
 You can also give your Satin Angora rabbit some plain pellets each day as an additional source of nutrition. Limit your rabbit’s pellet intake to about ¼ cup to ½ cup of pellets per day.


Some Satin Angora rabbits may need more or less food to be healthy. Check with your veterinarian for a specific recommendation., Dark leafy greens can also serve as a good source of nutrients and a special treat for your rabbit. Offer your Satin Angora rabbit a couple leaves of dark leafy greens every day. Your Satin Angora rabbit may enjoy:cilantro
collard greens
kale
mustard greens
turnip greens

, Satin Angora rabbits like to chew on crunchy things such as veggies, fruits, and seeds. Giving your rabbit a treat now and then will help to keep her healthy and happy. Some good treat choices for your Satin Angora rabbit include:apples
carrots
hulled sunflower seeds

, Satin Angora rabbits need constant access to fresh, clean water. Sipper bottles are ideal because they are less likely to get contaminated with dirt, hay, or feces. Sipper bottles are also less likely to get toppled over when your rabbit hops around in her cage.


Replenish your Satin Angora rabbit’s water at least once per day and check it often.If you decide to use a ceramic bowl, then make sure that it is heavy and wide so that it will be harder for your rabbit to tip over.
 There are some foods that can make your Satin Angora rabbit sick or that may be hard for her to digest, so you will need to avoid these foods. Never give your Satin Angora rabbit:broccoli
brussel sprouts
spinach
corn
unhulled seeds
cabbage
cauliflower

