 Having concrete examples of your work to show prospective employers lends you credibility and supports the impression that you are someone with knowledge and experience.


Keep records of any events you helped to plan. Hold on to photographs, sample invitations and professional references from clients and vendors attesting to your reliability and expertise. Put these in a professional-looking binder or case. If possible, scan them and have them available to send to prospective employers via email.
Prepare a professional resume on which you include your experience and education. Be sure to list volunteer assignments and professional and student organizations you are a part of.
Write an individualized cover letter for each job opening. There is no such thing as a "one-size-fits-all" cover letter. Customize you letter in a way that addresses the specific needs of the organization and how you can meet them.
 Tell everyone you know that you're looking for work and ask them to pass on any leads. You never know who someone else might know or what they might hear about a job opening.


Create a LinkedIn account. This social media site allows you to set up an account where you can post your resume, join industry groups and network with others in your field.
Keep track of classmates. If someone who was in your program lands a job, ask them how they did it and if there are more openings available at their new place of employment.
Have business cards made and keep them with you at all times. Business cards are relatively inexpensive and good to have on hand because you never know where or when you might run in to someone who can help you find a job.
 So much job hunting is done online these days, that it's essential that you visit popular job sites. Also, certain professional organizations or specialty sites list jobs postings in the event management field, which allows you to use to focus your job-hunting efforts.


Monster.com, HotJobs.com and CareerBuilder.com are popular pages to check for jobs; narrow your search by using key terms such as "event planner," "event management," "wedding planner," "event coordinator," or "hospitality."
The Meeting Professionals International website has an online Career Center where you can search for jobs (careers.mpiweb.org). Also check out specialeventsite.com and careers.nace.net (the job site for the National Association of Catering Executives).
 Research the event planning companies in your area and stop by to drop off your resume. Sometimes a personal approach--especially in this very people-oriented field--can make a difference.


Look your best and be professional when you visit. Be sure you know the name of the person in charge so that you can ask for a quick meeting with him or her. If a meeting isn't possible at that time, politely leave your resume and cover letter with the receptionist and plan to followup with a phone call in a few days.
Carry your portfolio with you in case you are successful in getting in to meet with someone who could hire you.
 These may be steps you want to take after spending a few years working in the field, or you may be someone who already knows he or she would prefer to work for themselves.


Research the competition. See what event planning companies already exist in your area and what they specialize in. If you're able to distinguish yourself from the pack in some way, it can be an advantage in getting established and getting clients.
Talk to other freelancers or business owners. There's no need to learn everything the hard way. Tap into the experience of others who can help you avoid some of the pitfalls that can come with working on your own.
 Finding a job in any field is difficult work. Persistence does pay off, so stay positive and keep at it.


Form a support group with friends who are also job hunting. Surrounding yourself with people who are in the same boat as you can lessen your feelings of isolation and disappointment during this process.
Celebrate small victories. An interview, a query, a callback--these are all positive things. Even if they don't lead to a job at the moment, they let you know you're on the right path and there's interest out there in who you are and what you have to offer.

