;
, Open it by pressing the Windows button on your keyboard or by placing your mouse cursor on the upper right-most corner of the screen and then clicking the "Start" button.
 From the "Start" menu, click "Photos" to open the app.
 Click "Pictures Library" on the Photos app to view the pictures saved on your computer. Just click the picture that you want to edit to open it.
 After you’ve chosen a picture, right-click your mouse and then an options bar will appear on the bottom; choose "Edit" from the options so you can start editing your photo.
 Auto-Fix automatically enhances your picture. Click on “Auto-fix” and then you can choose from the thumbnails on the right side of the screen which enhanced picture you want to use.
 This lets you rotate, crop, straighten, retouch, and even remove a red eye on the image. Just click "Basic Fixes" and then choose the option that you want. Finally, click on the part of the photo that you want to be edited.
 This lets you change the brightness, contrast, highlights, and shadows of your image. Click on "Light Adjustments" and then the option that you want and then adjust it to your liking.


Brightness makes the image lighter or darker.
Contrast adjusts the difference between the light and dark parts of the photo.
Highlights adjust the bright areas of the photo.
Shadows adjust the dark areas of the photo.
 Just click on "Color" and then you can adjust the settings.


For Temperature, Tints, and Saturation, adjust the dials to change the settings.
For Color Enhance, drag the pin first to choose the color that you want to enhance and then move the pin to adjust the settings. Drag the pin again if you want to enhance other colors.
Temperature lets you adjust how warm or cool your photos would look like.
Tint adds either a magenta tint or a green tint on your image.
Saturation lets you adjust the intensity of the colors of the image.
Vibrance adjusts how vibrant a color looks.
 Clicking on "Effects" will let you add additional effects to your image like Vignette and Selective Focus. Click "Effects" and then click the option that you like.


Just click "Vignette" and then adjust the dial to your liking if you want to add it on your picture.
To focus on an object in the image that you like, click "Selective Focus" and then adjust the circle that will appear on your image by changing its shape, size, and location, and then adjusting the strength of the blur.
Click on "Apply" when you’re done.
 When you’re finished editing your photo, right-click and then save your changes.

