 If you know the exact code that you need to enter to control your device, this method will let you quickly enter it. You can find the exact codes by looking in the remote's documentation, or by using the database on the RCA support website.


Some devices have multiple possible codes, so you may need to try this a few different times with each code until you find the one that works.
 After a few moments, the light on the remote will turn on. Release the Code Search button.
 For example, if you are programming the DVD, press the DVD button. The light on the remote will blink once and then remain lit.
 Use the numeral pad the enter the code from the list. After entering the code, the light on the remote will turn off.
 Point the remote at the device you want to control. Make sure that the device has been turned on manually. Test functions such as volume, channel, and power. If the device responds to the remote, then no further programming is required. If the device does not respond, then you will need to try another code for the brand.
 You will need to have the device on so that the remote can cycle through all of the available codes. This can take a while longer than direct code entry, but is useful if you can't track down the list of codes.
 After a few moments, the light on the remote will turn on. Release the Code Search button.
 For example, if you are programming the DVD, press the DVD button. The light on the remote will blink once and then remain lit.
 Every time the Power button is pressed, the next code in the entire code list is sent to the device. The indicator light on the remote will blink each time a code is sent. Continue pressing the button until the device turns off. This means that you have found the correct code.


Cycling through the full code list can take a significant amount of time. Depending on the remote, you may have to go through several hundred codes.
If you cycle through the entire list, the indicator light will blink four times and then turn off. You can try another method in this article to program the remote, but chances are the remote will not work with your device, as every possible code has been tried.
 When the device turns off, press and release the Enter button on the remote to save the code. If you don't do this, the code will not be saved and you will have to start the process over.
 Point the remote at the device you want to control. Make sure that the device has been turned on manually. Test functions such as volume, channel, and power. If the device responds to the remote, then no further programming is required.