 Hemorrhoids can be either internal or external. Pain is most often associated with external hemorrhoids. However, you may want to see your doctor for a positive diagnosis.


Internal hemorrhoids develop in the lower rectum, and they are usually painless because the body doesn’t have any pain receptors in the rectum. You may not even know you have an internal hemorrhoid until you notice blood in your stool or the hemorrhoid prolapsing (protruding from the anus).If you have pain associated with your hemorrhoid, then it is likely an external hemorrhoid, which develops under the skin around the anus. If a blood clot forms inside the hemorrhoid, it is called a “thrombosed hemorrhoid,” and the pain is typically described as sudden and severe. Those afflicted might see or feel a lump in the vicinity of the anus. The clot usually dissolves and may leave a skin tag, or excess skin, in the anal area.;
, These baths can provide immediate relief of pain and itching from hemorrhoids. Soak the anal area in warm water for 10 to 20 minutes two to three times per day and following bowel movements. Pharmacies sell small plastic tubs that fit over the toilet seat. Alternatively, you can fill a bathtub to approximately hip level with warm water.Gently pat the anal area dry with a towel or use a hair dryer after each treatment.
 Cold treatment can alleviate swelling and pain associated with hemorrhoids. You can apply a frozen, water-filled condom or ice cubes wrapped in a cloth to the anal area for 5-10 minutes 3-4 times per day.Gently pat the anal area dry with a towel or use a hair dryer after each treatment.
 Your local pharmacy will have a variety of OTC products designed to help with the pain and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids. Some of these products include:You can use pads such as Tucks as compresses on irritated hemorrhoids up to six times per day to relieve pain and itching. These have witch hazel, which is a soothing, natural anti-inflammatory agent.
Preparation H cream is a topical anesthetic, constrictor of blood vessels (vasoconstrictor), and skin protectant useful in the treatment of hemorrhoids. The cream blocks pain signals coming from the nerve endings of the anal area and also shrinks swollen, inflamed tissue.
OTC creams or suppositories containing the steroid hydrocortisone can also be helpful in the treatment of hemorrhoids. Hydrocortisone is a potent anti-inflammatory agent that can help ease the pain and itching of hemorrhoids. Topical steroids such as hydrocortisone should not be used for more than one week as they can lead to atrophy (or thinning) of the skin in the anal area.
Pramoxine, available OTC and by prescription, is another topical anesthetic used to treat hemorrhoids.
 OTC oral pain relievers such as acetaminophen (Tylenol), ibuprofen (Advil), or aspirin can be used to help relieve the discomfort of hemorrhoids.Acetaminophen can be taken 650-1000 mg every 4-6 hours, not to exceed 4 grams (0.14 oz) in a 24-hour period.
Ibuprofen can be taken 800 mg up to 4 times per day.
Aspirin can be taken 325-650 mg every 4 hours as needed, not to exceed 4 grams (0.14 oz) in a 24-hour period.
 Stool softeners can be helpful if you are experiencing constipation from your hemorrhoids. OTC stool softeners such as docusate (Colace) can be used to keep stools soft and reduce constipation and straining. You can take 100-300 mg of docusate daily for up to one week.