 Look for this type of chocolate, which is usually available in blocks, larger chips or bars, at gourmet foods or specialty stores.






;
, Spray inside the mold lightly with cooking spray. Blot the mold gently with a towel or paper towel to remove excess moisture. Make sure your mold is dry and on a level surface. Cut or break the chocolate into uniform chunks so that it will melt evenly.
 (142 g) of chocolate for each bar that you want to make. Place the chocolate in a double boiler on low heat, or melt in a bowl the microwave in 20 second intervals, stirring in between. Stir almost constantly once the chocolate begins to melt. Remove from heat when chocolate is almost fully melted. Continue to stir until completely smooth.
 Leave enough room to pour in the melted chocolate.
 If you pour too much, scrape a knife evenly across the surface to remove excess chocolate. Tap the mold carefully on the working surface a few times to release any air bubbles that will blemish the surface of the bar.
 Place the filled mold in the refrigerator for about 15 minutes or until solid. You can put it in the freezer for about 5 minutes to solidify it faster.
 Flip the mold over and gently press; the chocolate bar should immediately release and seem very firm. Do not force the bar out of the mold, or it may crack. Put it back in the refrigerator or freezer for a few more minutes until set, if needed. Do not touch the bar excessively or you will leave fingerprints on the chocolate.










Cut out a piece of waxed paper double the size of the bar. Fold over the bar, with the waxier side touching the chocolate.
Tear a sheet of plastic wrap that is twice the size of the bar. Wrap around the chocolate gently to cover the entire bar.
Decorate by cutting a piece of craft paper, or another sturdy type of paper, into a sheet that is approximately 3/4 the size of the bar. Fold it over the bar, center it and tape the underside to secure.










Print out customized labels on your computer if you would like to add a specific name or theme.
 Keep in a cool, dark place. Consume within a few weeks, or freeze for up to 6 months.
