 Very simply, determinism is the belief that all events have causes, and that if there are identical causes, the same effects must occur. This is very easy to recognize in the natural world, and much of science is based on deterministic principles. However, it can be difficult to recognize how this applies to human behavior (which most people consider to be separate from the natural world). Further, determinism means that everything is predictable, including the process of making decisions, and that a decision does not occur as a first cause but rather as a result of the predetermined criteria for a specific decision to be made having been met.;
, Logic dictates that if the human being is part of the natural world, human behavior must be deterministic. In order to escape determinism, a supernatural element is required. In Western culture, this generally takes the form of a "soul," "spirit," or "higher self." For the believer in free will, this "magical person" (as determinists may call it) is able to make conscious decisions and choices which take precedence over the natural causes which govern the rest of the universe. Of course creating a higher entity, or soul, is itself beautifully deterministic.
 Generally, when one accepts naturalism (which is the idea that everything is part of a single unified natural world), determinism is a logical consequence. Most determinists reject free will because they have first rejected the supernatural. For the supernaturalist, free will remains a logical idea, but for the naturalist, it is not. Of course, without free will (or "free thought" if you will) there would be no determinism, so determinism can also be seen as a revolutionary ideal, a rebellion against the existing supernatural order, advocating a return to "natural" laws of existence.
 Many philosophers think that if people are naturally caused to behave the way they do (instead of "magically choosing" to do so), we should consider the idea that many punitive (punishment-based) actions may be irrational. For the determinist, punishing people (psychologically, economically or judicially) for actions or circumstances which are entirely caused is logically inconsistent. Accordingly, there is a reduced emphasis on blame and punishment, and an increased desire to discover the hidden causes of human behavior.
 Whilst, some realize that people can not be blamed or held responsible for their actions, none of them deny the effectiveness of a system where certain behaviour is rewarded and other behaviour is punished. For nothing can be more logically consistent with determinism (a concept that states that every effect is followed by some like cause). This view holds that it is possible to manipulate the world around us, including behaviour. So, through punishment/rewards evil and good can be prevented and promoted respectively.
 If you believe that people have souls or spirits which survive death, determinism probably isn't for you. Similarly, if you believe in any form of the supernatural (anything outside or above the natural world), you will probably have a hard time accepting determinism. Remember, if you choose determinism, you must believe that it is because you were caused to do so (either by this article or a variety of other possible determinants). If you choose free will, you must believe that it is entirely your choice, and you could have chosen otherwise.

