 The best way to forge adoption at work is to clearly demonstrate how an initiative will save time and/or money. If you can prove banning emails will increase efficiencies you’ll have a better shot at having your idea approved or accepted.


Conduct scientific research on how emails waste time and reduce efficiencies. Take a two-pronged approach by doing some independent Internet research involving studies surrounding emails and the workplace, but also implement a non scientific internal survey. Include both an employee questionnaire and observation to determine how much time workers spend not only checking and writing email but even removing focus from their work when they hear an income email hit their inbox. Stopping in the middle of work to answer emails can be a distraction. According to Daily Mail reporter, Peter Allen, it takes the average worker approximately 64 seconds to refocus on work after reading emails. If you are stopping to read a message every time you receive an email, you’ll never have a steady stream of focus.
Time how long it takes most workers to compose an email versus other communication methods. Recruit a random sample of workers and time how long it takes them to compose a regular email. Average the times to arrive at a mean number. Then compare email times to other methods (use the same method of tracking and measuring) of communications including text messaging and phone calls to see which method is most efficient.
Measure the amount of time workers spend trying to deal with technology issues surrounding email. If your network crashes or experiences interruptions, workers may spend a considerable amount of time trying to figure out how to get an email sent instead of returning focus back to their job. Create a survey and ask a random sampling of employees how much time they spend dealing with I/T issues surrounding emails and how often.;
, Simply putting a ban on emails won’t gain much acceptance unless you have an alternate, better idea. Before you even approach employees with your idea, be ready to present your alternative plan.


Mass emailing that does not involve every party. Begin with baby steps by first suggesting that all mass emails should be banned. If only a small percentage of emails pertain to individual worker’s jobs, consider adding a huge message board to your break room where notices can be posted instead of having mass emails be sent.
Increase voicemail usage. Expand voicemail capabilities. In some respect, people sent emails that could easily be communicated by phone because they don’t want to deal with a phone conversation. Provide employees with options for calls to go directly to voicemail (with a 10 to 20 second time limit) or another vocal messaging system.
Consider text messages. Unlike email a text needs to be brief and to the point. Do all employees have texting capabilities and to what extent? In some cases, workers may not even own a cell phone or have a phone with limited capabilities so determine if this is something that would work in your organization first.
Designing an Intranet. In the event that mass emails involving either the entire organization or individual department seems to be most disruptive consider creating a company Intranet. Your information technology officer can most likely create a system that allow for individual and group exchange, posting vital information and even interactive training.
Consider using Skype or another form to communicate off site. Email may be the backbone of offsite communication, especially if you have employees who work remotely or in the field. While you may not be able to completely banish email in this case, you can increase the amount of live communication usage such as Skype. In fact employees could even download app and use the software on their smartphone so it could be used no matter where workers travel.
 If you plan to slowly wean employees off of email or find that simply reducing the amount or size of the email is distracting, consider implementing a few rules to get employees in the habit of being brief but direct with communication.


Messages must be short and to the point (possibly include a character limit). Allow for only a few characters in order to force employees to be short and to the point with their messages.
Chatter and small talk should be reduced. Make a rule that asking personal questions or general small talk (such as asking about the weather or office gossip) should be discouraged. Emails should be to the point and direct.
Each message should have a call to action. Instead of explaining your position or thoughts in the email (which could take lines and lines) instead cue the reader into what you want in a few short words and then tell him/her what you want to do such as have a meeting or a phone call at a certain time and day.
 Don’t cut people off cold turkey--the community could revolt. Although email wasn’t around 25 years ago and companies functioned just fine, today’s corporate culture views emails as a fully integrated piece of the machinery.


Make an announcement and ask for feedback and ideas. Give employees a few weeks or even months to marinate in the notion that email may no longer be part of your corporate culture. Keep in mind that many employees rely on email to accomplish a variety of tasks so give them time to get used to the thought before taking any action.
Challenge employees to break the habit through a contest. Make the initiative a challenge and see who can break the email habit quickly. Create a game or a contest that allow employees to tap into their competitive side. They may end up being so focused on winning that over time they’ll develop a new behavior that does not include sending emails.
Stagger your plan over a few months or years. Allow plenty of time for employees to become comfortable with the idea. Perhaps start by just presenting your idea and then a few months later, suggest an abbreviated system for sending emails. As employees change their behavior over time, their dependency on email may wane and they may develop more efficient means to communicate messages.

