 This method works best with lashes that are already thick and full. Avoid wispy or natural style lashes; the contrast between them and the feathers will be too stark.

If the lash strip is long, measure the lashes against your eyelid, then trim them down from the outer corner to fit.
 You can use lots of different types of feathers, including flat, wing feathers, soft and fluffy feathers, thin and wipsy feathers, and peacock feathers. You will need to prepare the feathers differently, however., If you are using thin, wispy feathers, you don't need to do this. Other types of feathers, however, will need to be taken apart so that they'd look more proportionate against the false lashes. Here are the recommended ways to take apart each type of feather:

If you are using a flat, wing feather, peel a strip off of the stem. Next, separate the strips down to thinner sections.
If you are using soft and fluffy feathers, peel off all the soft strands until you get to the stiffer strands at the tip.If you are using a peacock feather, simply pluck a few of the green-blue strands off of the stem; you will be using these for your lashes.
 Even if you are using a thin wispy feather or a peacock feather strand, you still need to cut it down. Place the feather where you want it to go, and see how much you need to cut off. The feather should be no more than twice the length of the longest lash. Once you have figured out the length, trim the feather down starting at the base using a pair of scissors.

If you are using the flat, duck type feathers, you can even trim the tip into a point, curve, or angle.
If you are using a soft, fluffy feather that you "shaved" down, trim the tip down so that it's smaller.If you are using more than one feather, play around with different lengths to create a tapering effect.
 Put the glue along the lash strip as well as just below it., Make sure that the base of each feather bumps up against the lash strip. Avoid placing the feather onto the actual strip, or it will poke your eyelid. You can tell if the glue is tacky when it starts to turn clear.

You can place the feathers with your fingers or with a pair of tweezers.
 This may take up to 2 hours. If you move onto the next step too soon, the feathers will fall off., This will help the feathers blend in better with the lashes. After this, the lashes are ready to use.