 You may seek summary administration if the decedent died over two years ago or the value of the probate estate does not exceed $75,000. To calculate the estate, you may exclude certain “nonprobate” property:


property held in joint tenancy, such as a shared bank account or a house owned by a couple
assets held in a living trust
assets where a beneficiary was designated, e.g., a life insurance policy

, The total value must not exceed $75,000. If it does, then you will need to proceed through regular probate.
 Provided you are either the personal representative or a beneficiary, you may get the “Petition for Summary Administration” from the County Clerk., If you are filing for a summary administration because the estate is valued at less than $75,000, you will need to personally attest that you know of no debts against the estate that have not been paid or do not have provisions in place for being paid.Performing a thorough credit check. To gain access to the deceased’s credit reports, you will need letters of testamentary indicating that you are the estate’s personal representative.However, no personal representative is named in a summary administration.
Nevertheless, if debts exist, you will be liable for them for up to two years.If you are unsure of the deceased’s debts, you may want to forego Summary Administration.
If you are filing because two years have passed since the decedent’s death, then you will not have to worry about debt claims against the estate. Florida has a non-claim provision that bars claims after two years of the decedent’s death., You must fill the form out accurately. You must attest that the there are no debts claimed against the estate.
 If the spouse of the decedent is still living, then he or she must verify and sign the form.
 If any beneficiary refuses to sign, mail him a copy of the petition.


Send it certified mail so you will have proof of receipt.
You may want to avoid summary disposition if you think a beneficiary will object to your plans to dispose of assets. Instead, regular probate may be preferable.
 You should have consulted with beneficiaries about how the assets will be distributed. Come to agreement on timing.


Draft the plan and make sure that all beneficiaries sign it. Asking them to sign the plan will force beneficiaries to fully consider whether or not they agree with the distribution plan.
 Attach all necessary documents: a list of assets and values, any information about debt, the plan for distributing assets, a copy of the will (if applicable), and a certified copy of the death certificate. You or your lawyer must sign the petition.
 Use a formal process server who will provide documentation that the other beneficiaries have been served.


Process servers can be found on the internet and run between $20-100 for each service.
 If the decedent owned a Floridian home and used it as the primary residence, then that home will pass to the heirs under the Florida constitution. However, to make sure that the heirs receive clear title, a separate action must be filed.File at the same time as the Summary Administration. Most judges will issue the Order of Summary Administration and the Order Determining Homestead at the same time, though some will require three months to elapse.