 While you want to appear friendly and warm, certain topics should be avoided if you want to escape conflict at work.


For example, discussions about religion and politics are generally inappropriate at work, and can end up heated. Also avoid overly personal conversations like your health, sexuality, personal relationship problems, or finances, and avoid asking your co-workers about these issues as well.If you feel uncomfortable with nosy or invasive inquiries into your personal life, or if the topic of conversation becomes controversial, do your best to change the subject. If that fails, you can either firmly but politely shut them down or try to leave the discussion diplomatically. Its often enough to firmly say, "I'd really rather not discuss that particular issue at work." If you'd rather not be so forward, try saying, "Oh! I just remembered something I need to finish," and then excuse yourself from the conversation.;
, Socializing excessively during work hours sends a message to your boss that you are not a serious worker, and encourages chatty colleagues to eat up your time.


If a work colleague tries to chat with you while you are busy, suggest you postpone the conversation until lunchtime. Try to be diplomatic so that your work colleague does not feel rejected.
For example, you could say something like, "I totally agree. I am so swamped, but I'd love to talk more at lunch. Do you want to meet up?"

, Gossiping and complaining among your co-workers often leads to some form of hostility between peers and superiors.It is best to remain silent or walk away when you hear your co-workers gossip, but if you can't, try reframing the gossip in a positive light.For instance, if your co-worker says, "Did you hear that Jamie got a raise and Ken didn't?" you might say something like, "Jamie definitely worked hard this year for that raise. She deserves it!"
Remember that co-workers who gossip about one another or about the boss likely also gossip about you when you're not around. Try not to give these type of people personal details about your life that you don't want spread around the office.
 Not only will you learn more about your co-workers, but you will avoid saying the wrong thing.


Staying quiet will also help you avoid the stigma of being the chatty one in the office, or worse, being perceived as a gossip.Bite your tongue in particular if you tend to be quick-witted, sarcastic, or tongue-in-cheek, which can come across as rude to co-workers who don't appreciate your sense of humor.
 If you do your best when completing your own work, your superiors will see your dedication and know that any conflicts in the workplace are not your fault.


Make yourself indispensable by doing an exceptional job at your tasks. This will also keep you busy and help you avoid conflicts with troubling colleagues.
Go out of your way to help your co-workers. If you help your co-workers achieve their goals by relieving their stress, then they will see you as an ally. This does not mean that you do your co-worker's job in addition to your own. But if you see an area where they could use help and you have additional time on your hands, consider offering to lend support.
 Sometimes, the co-worker with whom you have the most friction is your own boss.


Don't allow negative attitudes or heavy demands from your managers upset you. If you want pleasant co-worker relationships, then you will need to realize that people behave a certain way for their own reasons and there is nothing you can do about it. Be the better person by returning negative behavior with polite, respectful responses.
If your boss's negative behavior exceeds acceptable limits-- if he or she harasses, discriminates, or otherwise illegally targets you-- see your company's human resources office for steps you can take to stop the behavior. In a small office with no HR department, your next recourse might be to hire a lawyer.

