 A letter out of the blue can be a nice surprise for a customer. Your can send a letter marking the customer's anniversary with your company, after a certain number of purchases, or just for no reason at all. Random appreciation letters build your brand and are a way to keep your business on the mind of customers.Unusual holidays such as "National Napping Day" or "National Pi Day" are opportunities to have fun with your customers and send a letter.Unexpected letters can be short and simply say something like "We just wanted you to know how much we appreciate you/your business."

, A handwritten letter shows a greater appreciation than an email or typed letter. Most individuals, let alone companies, do not hand write letters anymore. A hand written letter will set you apart from other businesses.If you are unable to write the entire letter, take the time to sign your name at the bottom of the note for a personalized touch.If you are writing the letter on behalf of a position holding member of your company, like the President or CEO, have them sign the letter in place of yourself.
 Make sure you're writing in a style that is truthful, professional and warm. Overdoing praise can seem insincere. You want the letter to express honest gratitude in a professional manner. Your customer will be able to tell if you are being genuine. If you overdo it, you may actually rub your customer the wrong way.You never want your customer to feel as if they are receiving a generic letter that was sent to all of the other customers.Your letter may differ based on your relationship with the customer. The letter to a loyal customer of 5 years may differ from the letter to a new customer.
 Write the letter in the same voice that you speak. If the letter sounds too formal, it can sound cold and business-like. Use contractions instead of writing out words. For example, say "I'd" instead of "I would" or "don't" instead of "do not."Even though you are writing how you would speak, use proper grammar and punctuation.
Read your letter out loud once you are done writing. If it sounds like you are talking to a friend, you are on the right track.
 Use pronouns such as "I," "we," and "you" in your letter and write in an active voice.In active voice, the subject of the sentence performs the action. You would say, "We will send you more information about our customer rewards program," instead of "Information about the customer rewards program will be sent to you."


The combination of personal pronouns and active voice helps the letter sound friendlier.
Your letter will also be easier for customers to read if you use active voice. Writing in passive voice requires you to use more words to get your point across.