 Studies have shown that children find math lessons and games using concrete items more enjoyable than ones which utilize strictly symbolic or abstract methods. They also learn and retain information more effectively when performing these tangible tasks.You can implement this pedagogical principle by using simple, countable objects such as playing cards, beads, string, butcher paper, beans, or measuring cups in the math games you play at home., Using your child’s homework or a supplementary workbook you’ve purchased, ask your child to solve the offered equations using your countable objects. For example, if the problem in the workbook says 10+12, have your child string ten beads onto a piece of yarn or thread, and then add twelve more beads on top it. Afterward, they count the sum total of the beads on the string and check the answer with you.


If you’re using small candies like M&Ms as props in your counting game, you can reward correct responses with a piece of candy.
 Once your child is well-acquainted with using props to demonstrate abstract equations, turn this activity into a competition. For example, challenge the players to complete their counting first. If they do this and identify the correct solution, they earn a point. If they get three points, they get to tie up their string of beads into a necklace or bracelet., Once you’re done playing math games, you can cement the concepts you’ve just practiced by asking about and reviewing these ideas while you’re going about the rest of your day. For example, after playing the bead-counting game, you can sing a song that involves counting skills—for example, Ten in the Bed and Five Little Monkeys—in the car or while getting ready for bed.You can even do this by simply incorporating learned vocabulary into conversations with your children. For example, next time you’re at the park with your child, ask questions which encourage them to use spatial language or counting. Ask, “Where are the ducks swimming? What will they do when they come up to that bridge? How many of them are there? How many of them are swimming, and how many are flying?”

