 The problem with most people is that when drawing they try very difficultly to draw something all at once. The issue with this though is that your mind takes images it sees and memorizes them into the easiest ways possible. This means that despite the fact that you KNOW what a face looks like, it always turns out as a child's drawing.


To combat this you need to perfect drawing shapes. You must be able to draw any and all shapes, in any way, any place, any thickness. You can change the thickness by one pressing harder with your pencil, or by doing multiple strokes. You can build up lines in at least two ways. One way is having the skill to draw straight lines, which is extremely difficult. Second is to draw multiple curved lines light to build up and even straight line. It may not be as crisp but can be more accurate. Both types of lines have their strengths and weaknesses. Once you have learned these things well you can begin drawing.;
, There are multiple steps to drawing, these include. Guidelines, there are multiples forms of guidelines. Then there is line work, a drawing can end with the line work but doesn't have to, and lastly shading.


Guidelines, as said before have multiple forms one which was briefly mentioned before was shapes. The concept of drawing all and any shapes is used in every aspect in drawing. For example to draw a humans head proportionately you must draw an oval shape.
,,, This will give you where the nose belongs. Do the same thing again with the line for the nose and you will get the lips.
 an easy way to do this is the diagonal ruler reading method which is most easy when measuring in either pica or agates. Not inches or Metric (which do still work) Measure from one corner of the head to another, anywhere you want, but try to make it a number that is divisible by 5. So for example you are measuring by pica and you have 40 pica (there are 6 pica in an inch) that would mean that you would count by 8s giving you 5 even sections. when you make these sections go back to that horizontal line you made for the eyes and make either ovals or spheres all the way across. This will allow you to make eyes exactly where you need them.
 The nose is quite simple in geometry. Draw two rectangles from the eyes to near the center of the vertical line down the middle of the head, these shapes should be on angle. Basically to simplify, draw angle rectangles that do not touch the original vertical line.Then draw a rectangle that gets larger at the bottom to show that is coming toward the view this is for the nose, From this you should be able to draw a plane on the bottom that is somewhat like a trapezoid. This will probably be the most difficult part.
 Lips are made of 3 parts. The top lip, and two sections of the bottom lip. The top lip comes into an "M" at the top and at the bottom had skin that overlaps the bottom lip in the middle but doesn't on the outsides. Then for the bottom lip you just draw two spheres and fill them against the top lip as accurately as you can. Remember to look at your subject. Fill in all the details then the best you can for line work, and you should be good.

