 Sticky notes are great for marking pages or passages in a book you are studying. Just stick the note on the relevant page and maybe write a brief note or a few key words that indicate why you have marked this section. As well as the traditional square sticky notes, you can purchase slim and tall ones which work particularly well to mark pages in a book.These slimmer notes will mark the page without covering over much of the actual text.
You can also tear the regular square notes into thinner strips and use these as markers.;
, Sticky notes are a great way for you to make some brief notes on a topic you are studying or working on. Whereas you would make longer more detailed notes in a workbook, sticky notes are great for writing down key words or phrases that you want to learn. You can then stick them up on the wall around where you are working.


You can organise the notes and move them around to help you visualise the information you are trying to learn.
If you are studying for a history exam and want to learn a chronology of events, you can stick the notes in order and separate them by year or month.
Writing up key vocabulary and sticking the notes up around your house, can be good way to practice a foreign language.
 If you have a long list of tasks to complete or things to study, sticky notes can be a useful way to organise your to-do list. You can write down a task on each sticky note, and then shift them up and down in the list according to your priorities and deadlines. Alternatively, you could group together similar or related tasks on one note, in order to better visualise what you have to do.If you have a to-do list of sticky notes on the wall, it will give you some satisfaction to pull down the note of a task when you have completed it.
If you are using the notes for study, sticking them up above your desk is probably the best place.
You could also stick them up somewhere prominent around your house, such as on your computer monitor, or on the fridge.
 Use sticky notes to label your different folders and collections of notes to make it easier to find what you need when you are studying. You can trim down the sticky note so you are just using the slim adhesive-backed section, and write a brief title for the contents of the folder.You could stick the label on the side or spine of the folder to make it easier to find what you are looking for.

