 Every monitor has a native resolution and optimal refresh rate, and the display will look best when the settings match these specifications. This information can be found on the box your monitor came in, in the information that came with it, or online from the manufacturer.;
, This can be found by pressing Windows key + X or going to the start button and finding Control Panel. From here, go to Display > Adjust Resolution, or just search for “resolution.”


Or, from the Control Panel, go to More Settings, or locate Appearance and Personalization > Adjust Screen Resolution.
 Use the slider bar to match the resolution to your monitor’s native resolution. You can also try the recommended settings if you weren’t able to find your monitor’s native resolution. Some common native resolutions are:800 x 600
1024 x 768
1920 x 1200
1680 x 1050

, Go into Advanced Settings > Monitor tab, and then choose the correct refresh rate to match the monitor’s default. Click OK, and the advanced settings box will disappear. Click Apply, then OK.Most LCD monitors have a refresh rate of 60Hz, but 75Hz tends to produce less flicker.For CRT monitors, you generally want to increase the refresh rate as you go with a higher resolution.
 Outdated video and graphics drivers can definitely cause issues with your display. If fixing the refresh rate and resolution didn’t help, update your drivers.


Visit the manufacturer’s website for your computer or monitor and search for video and graphic updates for your particular model., The power settings tell the computer when to turn the display off after a period of inactivity and when to put the monitor to sleep, and they control the brightness based on certain factors. To reset to the original settings, go to Control Panel > All Control Panel Items > Power Options > Change Plan Settings > Restore Default Settings.Select Save Changes.
 This function, which is available on certain computers with Intel processors, is designed to reduce energy consumption by optimizing the picture contrast. Unfortunately, it can sometimes cause issues with the display, and turning it off may fix your problem.


From the Start menu, select Search, and look for “HD Graphics Control Panel.”
Click Power > On Battery, and under Display Power Saving Technology, click disable. Click Apply, then OK, and then restart your computer.