 This is the most important point. If you promote a bad track, or even a bad album, it'll be hard to bounce back. It's better to wait until you're absolutely ready to share your music with the world than to put out some music you'll regret making later. Here are some tips for knowing when you're ready to share your music:If you can, get feedback from respected people in the industry first. Build relationships with producers and ask them if they like a track. Once at least 60% of them think it's worth sharing, take that as a go-ahead because producers will be more critical than your fans. Remember that you have to take the time to build these relationships first.
Check out a music feedback service, which can help you share your music with other listeners and get feedback just a few days later. This is a great resource if you don't have as many connections in the professional world, or if you care more about getting in touch with potential fans than producers. Singrush.com is a platform where artists, bands, and producers can host their music for free and compete with one another, with the top liked song in each genre being showcased weekly.;
, Though promoting your music is the most important thing, you have to realize that you're promoting yourself as well. You should see that you're not just a musician or a band member but that you are a product. This product has to be as appealing as possible, so you have to find a way to make your brand as unique and exciting as you can so that fans are excited about you and your music.Think of yourself as Jessica Simpson or Kim Kardashian. These women understand that they are brands and can put their names on a product, from shoes to lotion, knowing that it will sell big just because of who they are.
 Even the best music can get the worst response if it's in the hands of the wrong fanbase. If you're into Techno music, learn to tell the difference between Deep House, Tech House, and Electro. Understand what type of music you're really creating and who that type of music appeals to most of all. This will help you reach out to fans, book the right venues, and sell your music the right way.

