 When contacting Jeremy Clarkson for an event, make sure to include all the important details. Clarkson and his team get many messages each day about speaking events. Messages that leave out details may be ignored.


Include the date and location of the event. Double-check to make sure these details are accurate.
If you usually pay speakers, include information about pay rates for your company or organization. You should also include information about where Clarkson will stay for the event. For example, maybe your company usually puts speakers up in a specific hotel.
Add some details about your event. Clarkson and his team will want to know a little about your organization and its mission. You should also include a link to your company website so Clarkson can learn more about your organization if he's interested.
 You're more likely to hear back from Clarkson if you have enthusiasm in your messages. If you're trying to book Clarkson for a charity event, enthusiasm about your cause is particularly important. Remember, Clarkson gets many requests each day. You have to sell your company if you want Clarkson to agree to speak.


Include an interesting opening line. For example, if you're booking Clarkson for a charity event, you can start with a fact or a quote relevant to your cause. Something like, "Did you know over 20% of Chicago elementary school students are illiterate?"
Convey why your speaking event is important. What does Clarkson have to gain by coming to your company or organization? Talk about your culture. Is it particularly welcoming? Are your employees a lot of fun?
However, try to keep it brief. Try to condense enthusiasm to a short paragraph. Clarkson and his officials get a lot of requests each day and may not read an e-mail if it's too long.
 Social media is usually not meant for professional contact. If you want to mention to Clarkson that you loved his appearance on a talk show last night, this would be appropriate to post on Twitter. However, if you want to ask Clarkson to appear at your charity event, contact him through a professional organization like Speakers Corner.
 Clarkson is very busy. If you want to book him for an event, it may take awhile to hear back. You should aim to book Clarkson months before the event if you expect him to attend. On social media, it may be unlikely that you hear back. Clarkson may not respond to all Tweets and LinkedIn messages as he simply does not have the time.

