 Treatment of esophageal diverticulum is typically unnecessary. The easiest way to deal with esophageal diverticulum is to eat a blander diet, chew food more thoroughly, and drink lots of water to wash your food down after eating.For instance, avoid spicy seasonings and sauces like chili flakes, paprika, and sriracha. Do not consume hot peppers like jalapeno or habanero.
Most people should drink about eight glasses of water each day. If you have esophageal diverticula, try drinking 12 or more glasses of water per day to help flush out food that might be stuck in your diverticula. Drinking more could prove especially helpful during and after meals.
Try chewing each bite of food around 20 – 25 times to prevent it from getting stuck in the diverticula.
 Diverticula may require removal if they are too large or lead to serious symptoms. There are several types of surgical procedures that might be used to treat your esophageal diverticulum. Your doctor will decide which procedure is best for you.The type of surgery required for your particular diverticula depends on its location and size, as well as your own health.Your surgeon will discuss your options with you.
If you have small diverticula, you might get a cricopharyngeal myotomy. This procedure requires going in through the mouth to remove diverticula.
If you have larger diverticula, your doctor might recommend a diverticulopexy with cricopharyngeal myotomy. In this procedure, the diverticula is turned upside down and then sutured to the esophageal wall.
A third surgery option is the diverticulectomy and cricopharyngeal myotomy. If you get this procedure, the surgeon will remove the entire diverticula.
The fourth and final surgery option is the endoscopic diverticulotomy (Dohlman procedure). In this surgery, the surgeon slices the diverticula down the middle, allowing food to drain out of it., In cases where your diverticula are only a secondary symptom caused by some other medical condition, treat that disease first before dealing with the diverticula. Otherwise, other diverticula may develop. In the case of esophageal diverticulum, you may have an issue with your esophageal sphincter, or you could have GERD.For instance, if you have GERD, you will need to utilize antacids and medications that block or reduce acid production. You can also use over-the-counter medications to deal with chest pain and related symptoms. If necessary, get surgery to strengthen the lower esophageal sphincter. Working in concert with your doctor, you can manage your GERD and only then solve the esophageal diverticula that developed as a secondary symptom.
Your doctor will be able to identify whether your esophageal diverticulum is the product of an underlying condition.

