 Although the upgrade process should not affect any of your personal data, there's always a small chance that something will go wrong. Having a fresh backup of all your important data will help turn a bad situation into a manageable one.



Click here for detailed instructions on backing up your data.;
, These drivers can cause problems when you are upgrading Ubuntu, so you'll want to revert to the open drivers during the upgrade process. You can reinstall the proprietary drivers after upgrading. Enter the following commands in your terminal, depending on the graphics card you have installed.
AMDsudo apt-get purge "fglrx.*"
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo apt-get install --reinstall xserver-xorg-core libgl1-mesa-glx:i386 libgl1-mesa-dri:i386 libgl1-mesa-glx:amd64 libgl1-mesa-dri:amd64
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
sudo reboot






Nvidiasudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.BACKUP
sudo apt-get install nouveau-firmware
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg




, These are software packages created in the Ubuntu community, and a couple of them are known to cause issues when upgrading: "x-swat" and "xorg-edgers". Remove these two PPAs if you have them installed, and then you can reinstall them after upgrading. Open the terminal and enter the following commands in order.





sudo apt-get install ppa-purge
sudo ppa-purge ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo ppa-purge ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa




, Your upgrade process will go smoother if you clean up any package remnants and old installations. Run the following three commands in order to clear out some of the cruft from your package manager.sudo apt-get --purge autoremove
sudo apt-get clean all
sudo apt-get purge $(dpkg -l | awk '/^rc/ { print $2 }')




, Select the "Software Updater" from the list of results.


If you don't have the Software Updater utility, or are upgrading an Ubuntu Server, see Step 6 of this section.
If you don't have a network connection, you can use an Ubuntu ISO burned to a DVD to perform the upgrade process. Select "Upgrade" after inserting the DVD.
 You need to update your software before you can upgrade to a newer version of Ubuntu.


Click "Install Updates" to install any available software updates.
 Note that Ubuntu can only be upgraded to the next released version. For example, if you have an older version of Ubuntu like 10.04 LTS and want to upgrade to 14.04 LTS, you'll have to upgrade to 12.04 LTS first.


If you are upgrading from a significantly older Ubuntu release, you'll likely find it easier to simply install the newest version from scratch.
You can check your current version of Ubuntu by opening the terminal and typing lsb_release -a.
 If you know there's supposed to be a newer version but it's not showing up, check out the Troubleshooting section below., Follow the prompts to install the newer version of Ubuntu. Note that each version of Ubuntu will upgrade slightly differently. You can find detailed notes on each version at help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes.


Your computer will reboot during the upgrade process.
 If you aren't using a graphical version of Ubuntu, or prefer to use the terminal, you can perform the entire upgrade process from the command line. If you are using the desktop version of Ubuntu, you can open the terminal by pressing Ctrl+Alt+T. Enter the following commands to update the software on your computer, install the upgrade manager, and then install the upgrade. Each command will take a while to process, and you may be prompted for input.





sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install update-manager-core
sudo do-release-upgrade




, If you aren't seeing a new version but you know that there is one available, you may need to adjust your Software Updater settings.


Open the Ubuntu Software Center.
Click "Edit" → "Software Sources".
Click the "Updates" tab.
Find the "Release upgrade" section or "Notify me of a new Ubuntu version".
Select "Long term support releases only" or "For long-term support versions".
 Problems with the upgrade process typically stem from running an outdated and unsupported version of Ubuntu. You'll need to either upgrade to each subsequent version until you reach the one you want, or you'll need to perform a fresh install of Ubuntu.

