 Ensuring you are eating a balanced diet at regular intervals throughout the day can help prevent or reduce the pain associated with your period. A well-balanced diet includes whole grains, legumes, vegetables and fruit.Foods that are rich in complex carbohydrates can also be helpful as they help your body produce more serotonin, which in turn helps to regulate your mood and symptoms.
Additional foods to consider are: nuts and seeds, almonds, buckwheat, millet, oats, sesame and sunflower seeds, blackstrap molasses, grapes and red beets.In addition to eating the proper foods, you may want to try eating six smaller meals throughout the day, instead of three larger ones. Spreading out your food intake can help keep your blood sugar levels balanced, which in turn can help alleviate many symptoms associated with your period, including pain and cramps.When cooking, using healthy oils like vegetable or olive oil.;
, Glycemic load is based on the glycemic index. The glycemic index is used to rank foods based on how quickly they work their way through your digestive system and how quickly they get absorbed into your bloodstream. Eating foods with a low glycemic load means they take longer to work their way through your digestive system and do not cause spikes in your blood sugar levels.Examples of food with a low glycemic load include: whole grain bread, apples, grapefruit, oranges, peaches, watermelons, carrots, lentils, peas, and soybeans.
Examples of food with a high glycemic load include: white bagels, cornflakes, baked potatoes, and sweet potatoes.
You can find more information and search where specific foods fall on the glycemic index at this website: http://www.glycemicindex.com/


, Foods that contain large amounts of fat, along with highly processed foods, should be avoided. In addition, it is also helpful to reduce the amount of sodium you consume. Foods that contain all of these items can make the pain associated with your period (and other PMS symptoms) worse.It is also best to eliminate the intake of any foods that contain trans-fats. Trans-fats are normally found in commercially produced foods such as: cookies, crackers, cakes, french fries, onion rings, donuts, and margarine., In the days leading up to your period, you should try to reduce the amount of alcohol you consume. Alcohol has the ability to make the pain associated with your period (and other PMS symptoms) worse., Beverages and foods containing caffeine can worsen cramps and bloating.Caffeine can cause blood vessels to constrict and cramp more than they do in those who avoid caffeine.Cut out coffee and caffeinated tea the week before your period.
 Sometimes the pain associated with a woman’s period, including many of the symptoms associated with PMS, can be made worse by stress, anxiety and overall tension in the body. Implementing techniques to help you relax and relieve stress can help reduce or eliminate your painful symptoms.Relaxation techniques can include: breathing exercises, meditation and yoga. Attending a yoga class via a local yoga studio or recreation centre can also help you learn proper breathing methods and meditation techniques.
Massage is another great way to help reduce tension and increase relaxation. Scheduling a regular massage right before or during your period every month may help you manage the pain.
 There is an acupressure point located on the inside of your leg, approximately three finger widths up from your anklebone, that can create relief for cramps and pain caused by your period.Use your fingers to apply deep pressure to this area for five minutes to help relieve the pain.
Applying pressure and massaging your lower abdomen, where the cramps are most painful, may also help. You might want to try this in combination with a heating pad., The change in hormone levels just before your period can often cause severe headaches and even migraines. One way to help relieve the pain caused by these headaches is to apply a cold cloth or ice pack to your head or neck — wherever the pain is most prominent.If you decide to use an ice pack, or ice cubes, be sure to wrap it in a towel first. Avoid applying ice-cold items directly to your skin, as this can cause irritation or damage.
 Exercise is an important part of a healthy lifestyle, but it can also help relieve cramps and other pain caused by your period. Two types of exercise that are most effective is yoga and aerobic exercises.Try to exercise for 30 minutes a day, at least five days a week., A warm bath (or shower) or a heating pad can help reduce the severity of the cramps caused by your period.The heating pad can be placed on your belly, below your belly button.Be careful not to fall asleep with a heating pad on. If possible, purchase a heating pad that automatically turns itself off after a certain period of time.

