 Pre-emergent herbicides act by forming a chemical layer at the surface of the soil.As crabgrass seeds germinate, they take in the herbicide, which prevents them from sprouting and ultimately kills them.;
, This should coincide with the blooming of the forsythia. Buy an inexpensive soil thermometer if you don't know when to time your herbicide application.


Always apply the herbicide along with a starter fertilizer. Fertilizer helps thicken the turf, which in turn snuffs out crabgrass seeds that weren't killed by the fertilizer. Apply a starter fertilizer along with your herbicide and your getting more bang for your buck.
 As small as the print is, you will find valuable information on time of application and safety precautions. Look for herbicides that use the following active ingredients: dithiopyr, prodiamine or pendimethalin.
 The herbicide that you use to snuff out unwanted crabgrass is the same stuff that will lay waste to the soft, pretty grass you actually want to cultivate. That means you have to seed during one season and use herbicide during another: Seed during the early fall and use herbicide during the spring, making sure to keep a buffer of at least 50 days in between.
 These will kill your grass as well so only use if you have more crabgrass than lawn or thick patches of it.
 Crabgrass spreads quickly. If you let it grow for a whole season, or if you miss a particular area, you could find yourself with an infestation. Whenever you see a bit of crabgrass, simply pluck it out by hand.


Picking crabgrass at a young age is effective at reigning the total population in. Young crabgrass has only two to four stalks and is showing no splayed head.
If plucking, water the area with the crabgrass thoroughly beforehand. This loosens up the soil and increases your chances of pulling out all the root systems when plucking. Alternatively, you can also use a pair of pliers to grab and gently pull up the crabgrass., Mulching after removing the crabgrass by hand gives you a better shot at preventing the crabgrass roots from taking seed and growing willy-nilly all over again. What you're doing is creating another barrier that the crabgrass needs to break through.


Areas left thin and spotty after pulling up the crabgrass can be re-seeded in the mulch by using seeds that match your current type of grass or turf.
 Mature crabgrass has splayed seed heads with dozens, if not hundreds of seeds. Picking this crabgrass creates a divot in your lawn into which as many as 5,000 seeds — coming from a single plant — can fall.


Instead of picking mature crabgrass, spray it or let it die naturally in the fall. Then cover the area with pre-emergent herbicide in the spring to keep the seeds from sprouting.
 Postemergence herbicide takes about 2 weeks to fully work, which is roughly the same amount of time it can take for a seeding crabgrass plant to drop its seeds, nullifying the effect of the herbicide.


Apply postemergence herbicide on a warm day with little or no wind.
For best results, use the herbicide when the soil is damp but the crabgrass itself is dry. Water the area thoroughly in the late morning and wait until afternoon to spray. Apply moderately in two spread-out application to avoid hurting your turf.
Get prepared to spray at least two rounds of herbicide — per instruction, of course — unless the crabgrass is very young.
 Give your lawn a thorough watering about once a week — a big, nice gulp. This gulp, as opposed to frequent sips, will promote a more robust root system as well as one that's more heat tolerant.
 Frequent (semiweekly) mowing cuts down as much as 80% of weed growth across all species.If you don't have the time to mow twice a week, mow once a week and leave the trimmings over the lawn to act as fertilizer. The trimmings will make it harder for crabgrass to sprout.


If there are areas where the crab grass is laying down, use a rake to pull it be before mowing. This helps remove immature seed heads.
 "Quick-up" fertilizers are a temporary solution; they'll get your lawn growing nice and green in the short term, but in the long term they actually deprive your lawn of nutrients, making the entrance for crabgrass easier. Use only about 2 to 4 pounds of nitrogen per 1,000 sq feet of lawn, depending on your lawn., If your soil is suffering from compaction, the too-compact soil is cutting off circulation (air and water) to the root systems of your normal grass. Under these conditions, crabgrass and other forms of weeds thrive. Run an aerator over your lawn every season if you suspect it's too compact, especially if your soil contains high levels of clay.
 Overseed your lawn to promote the right sort of growth. While you only have to overseed patches where crabgrass thrive, it might be helpful to overseed your entire lawn every two or three seasons., Dead crabgrass can have an allelopathic effect, meaning it releases a toxin that stops other nearby plant growth. Completely remove any dead crabgrass plants from your lawn and dispose of them well away from your turf.