


Many maps mark seasonal creeks with dotted blue lines, solid blue lines are more permanent rivers and creeks. Permanent rivers can always dry up as well.
Learn how to read elevation lines on topo maps. Generally, where lines are spread out it is fairly flat, where they are closer together, terrain is steep.
Green patches mark areas where tree growth makes it much harder to find your way without compass navigation experience.;
, Be aware that some sources may be seasonal and may dry up late in summer. During droughts, this is especially problematic. Guidebooks often state whether the water source is reliable year round or not.


Many springs shown on a USGS Topo Map (or GPS maps based on Government maps) may no longer be in existence. Many USGS Topo Maps were originally compiled many decades ago, and in wilderness areas. Map features like springs, or man-made facilities like mines, roads, and other infrastructure, may have long since disappeared. Even if a surface spring turns out to still be flowing, it may be heavily choked with vegetation, or located in an inaccessible place like a steep cliff, keeping the water inaccessible. With this in mind, it is very risky to take a long hike to an unknown spring shown on a map, if you are already low on water.
 Ideally, you should carry more than that, or plan to refill at the water sources you've already identified along your planned route.


In moderate temperatures of 75-85 degrees Fahrenheit, backpackers would likely need 6-8 liters per day, but not necessarily all of it on their backs as they hike. Probably 2-3 liters during the day would be a good number to start with, depending on the person, mileage, temperature, weather, and other factors.It's important to not just drink plain water or hyponatremia (low sodium) can result--it can be life-threatening. Eating salty snacks, energy bars or using hydration mix with electrolytes will help prevent this.
 You can take water purifier tablets or a micro-strainer tube for multi-day walks that have fairly obvious and many water sources. Using a Sawyer, Katadyn, UV light filter, or Aquamira tablets, you can drink pretty much any water you can find. Mechanical filters eliminate all particulates above a certain size, whereas UV filters and tablets do not; they just kill the nasty bacteria in the water making it safe to drink.


Note that some hikers (not all) find that chemical tablets leave a residual taste that some find unappealing.
Keep in mind the dirtier the water, the longer your mechanical filter will take to filter the water. Mechanical filters can also get clogged. For especially cloudy water it's best to repeat the purification method a second time, e.g. refilter, retreat with tablets or drops or repeat the procedure with the UV light purifier.
It's safest to bring a backup method of purification in case the primary method fails. Filters can break, tablets can get wet and batteries that power a device can fail.
If you have a stove with you, you can always boil water at a full rolling boil for a minimum of one minute. Increase boiling time to three minutes at altitudes above 6,562 feet (2,000 meters).This is a very effective method of purification.
, When you're starting your hike and you're at a water source and when you're filling your water bottles, drink as much as you can, then fill your bottle for the next part of the trip. Sometimes you can get a whole liter in just while taking a break! It's easier to carry it in your stomach and you'll get re-hydrated quickly.
 Water is, as is everything else in the universe, affected by gravity. So, the only logical conclusion is that water would be downhill. Find valleys where there are streams and lakes. Generally, the smaller the water source is, the cleaner the water is. If you can find where the water comes out of the ground, it's probably safe enough to drink without a filter or tablets. Of course, if dehydration is a threat, you have to weigh the cleanliness of the water with the risks of dehydration.
 These types of trees are often near water.
 Sometimes dry creek beds have had flash flooding and are moist beneath the surface. It is rare that this will yield much if any result though. If you are that desperate in the desert, you're probably better off using your energy to get found and rescued.
 It could well mean the difference between life and death.

