 When you have decided you want to be a scene kid, gradually get there. It may take a long time to get to your standards. If you do it all in one day, you may be labelled as a poser.;
, A common scene kid is normally bold, and likes attention. Maybe you could twist it by being quieter and sweeter. A normal scene kid is bubbly, you have to be bubbly as well, but you could also twist it by being very serious at times. Try not to act sad as you could get called an emo kid, and you do not want that. Take a couple of weeks or more to get to this stage.
 A common scene kid will listen to anything. Pop-Punk, Hardcore, Rock, even at-Country.
 Don't skip to hair first, as if you are a prep, this will look very odd. Most scene kids wear any bright color and black. You could base yours on one colour EG: Hot pink or neon green. Get as many items as you can of this colour, and also get some accessories that are a different colour to stand out. Most kids wear studded belts; black, really dark blue, gray or brightly colored skinny jeans are good too. Don't forget color isn't everything. Check out what other scene kids wear. Some scene kids wear fashionable pink wigs and stylish outfits, some wear vintage, and others just wear whatever they want.
 Start off with very soft layers, then sharper layers, then get choppier layers etc. Also, fringe bangs are very popular amongst scene kids. Get these gradually, so as not to be labeled a poser. Only get these if you have the right head shape, though. Very important - You must dye it. If you have problems with your hair such as alopecia , then try not to tease so much and use heat protectant before you straighten your hair. The normal colours are platinum blonde and brown/ black/ neon. Try going for a completely different colour like a shade of red with black etc. Make sure most of the colours of your clothes won't affect your hair colour. Try to see if it will work first. Also, go for highlights in neon colours, or a colour opposite of your hair colour base. Make it stand out!

, The most important part of being a scene kid is being an original and not a follower. To be a Scene kid is to be a leader. Remember no matter what that you are you and that you have to like who you are.

