 You might think you simply cannot be around your ex and maintain your composure. In this case, fake it til you make it. Act as if you are someone who can remain calm. Build your confidence in the moment by telling yourself you can do it and do it well.For example, say to yourself, “I am calm around my ex and don’t feel nervous.”
Think about how you would respond if you were over your ex or not upset at them. For example, how would your future self in five years treat them?;
, If seeing your ex fills you with panic or fear, switch your attention to your breathing. Focusing on your breath can help you calm both your mind and your body. At first, just observe your breath without wanting to change it. Then, slowly lengthen it. Count up to five on the inhale, then exhale for five seconds. Do this for several breathing cycles until you begin to feel calm.While many people count their breaths, you don’t have to.
Take your breaths from your belly. It can help to put your hand on your belly to ensure that your breaths come from there and not your chest.
 Engaging your senses can help you feel calm and grounded. If you start to feel stressed, tune into one sense at a time. Tuning into your senses allows you to access calming strategies no matter where you’re at or what you’re experiencing.For sight, look at a calming scene or cherished photo. You can also smell a scented candle, pet your dog, or listen to calm music.
 Recognize that you don’t need to react right away. Take the space between an event and your response and approach it in a controlled manner. For example, instead of saying something mean or running away, take a pause and ask yourself, “How would a mature adult respond?”Think about the person you’d like to be (or the person you look up to). How would they respond in this situation? Consider that response before you react.
If you’ve had a bad run-in with your ex, think about what could improve the next run-in. Notice what triggered you and made you feel on edge and work on curbing that reaction.with similar feelings when near your ex.
 Your first step to being calm is noticing when you don’t feel calm. Tune into your body for cues such as breathing faster, sweating, shaking, increased heart rate, or the flight-or-fight response. When you feel these things, they mean that you’re stressed or on guard. Recognize when you don’t feel calm so that you can more quickly place yourself in a calm state.Notice other situations which make you feel stressed and find ways to calm yourself. This should make it easier to deal.
 If seeing your ex triggers strong emotions, don’t give into that intensity or wallow in it. Find something that can distract you. Look away, talk to a friend, read a magazine, do literally anything to take your mind and your emotions off of your ex. If you see them, walk in a different direction, stop at a vending machine, or do something else that can distract you.If you’re not intensely triggered when you see your ex, you might try reflecting on the situation, such as telling yourself why it’s not as bad as you think it might be. You can also talk yourself through it by saying, “It’s okay if I see them, I don’t have to get worked up over this.”
Don't turn to drugs or alcohol. This would only relieve the pain temporarily, and you need something positive that actually improves how you deal with your feelings in the long run.
 If you end up speaking to your ex, don’t be aggressive or hostile in your words. Aim to be gentle and firm. There may be hurt feelings on both sides, so don’t be afraid to acknowledge the sting of seeing one another or interacting. Aim to say words that are if nothing else, kind and neutral.For example, say, “Hello, Alex. I wasn’t expecting to see you here. I hope you have a nice time.”
As the old saying goes, “If you don’t have anything nice to say, don’t say anything at all.”

, If your ex is purposefully trying to get your attention by calling you names or spreading rumors, do your best to stay out of it. They might be trying to provoke you or show the power they have over you still. As hard as it is to ignore these hostile and angry behaviors, do your best to ignore them or act as if they don’t bother you.Don’t perpetuate childish behavior, either! If you’re not in a place to act maturely around your ex yet you need to communicate, opt for a message or email instead of in-person contact or a phone call., If you know you’ll run into your ex somewhere (say, a restaurant or a concert), have someone with you to act as a buffer. You might invite a friend to come with you or stand next to you if you see your ex. This can help you feel protected or at least not alone. After all, there’s strength in numbers.


If you suspect you might see your ex somewhere, have a friend go with you. If nothing else, they can distract you from seeing your ex or help you stay calm.
 If you’ve moved on and found a new partner, don’t rub it in your ex’s face. At best, they might think you’re a jerk, and at worst, they might feel very hurt and upset. Think about how you would feel if they did that to you. It’s generally not a nice move and doesn’t feel good.Your new partner may feel used if you try to flaunt them in front of an ex. This can cause problems on many levels!

, Avoid making contact with your ex, especially at first. Try to stay clear of them as much as possible so that you don’t feel nervous or uneasy in their presence. For example, if you know they go to the library every Tuesday night, don’t stop there for a few weeks if it’s likely you’ll run into one another.


There may be some situations when you can predict seeing your ex and others when you cannot. Do your best to predict their presence and steer clear if necessary.
 Don’t put all of your aggression onto your ex, especially if you run into them. If you want to go right up to your ex and give them a piece of your mind, take a moment and talk yourself out of it. Have a supportive friend to talk to instead so that you can work through your emotions on your own time and not pull your ex into it.


Even if your ex was awful, there’s so much you can do once you’ve broken up. If you do want to share your thoughts, consider writing a letter instead.
 You might feel stressed when you see your ex now, but it won’t likely stay that way forever. With time, you may be able to see them without feeling overwhelmed or upset. Give it time and realize that the intensity of your feelings will likely go away.This is true of feeling calm around your ex, too. If you don’t feel calm at first, keep trying your coping strategies.

