 Even when it isn’t really necessary, a short trip to the store can do a lot to alleviate boredom. Studies show that time spent walking is more exciting than time spent waiting around for something. It helps if you can accomplish something productive along the way, but if not, it is still better than sitting around at home., Try “gamifying” chores and other work. Give yourself points for each task you accomplish and reward yourself with a night out or new toy when you earn enough points. See how quickly you can clean the kitchen. Keep track of your times and see if you can beat your best!, It has become easier than ever before to share your thoughts with the world. Spend your empty time practicing your writing and working out your thoughts. If people listen, you can begin selling advertisements for a bit of extra money or get your name out there as an expert on some topic.If you have strong opinions about politics, food, or culture, try writing about those things. Otherwise, try writing stories, or just expressing your feelings.
Similarly there are some websites that will compensate you for writing short articles.
 A number of survey websites allow you to make some money—usually not much—by telling them what you think. Some examples include SurveyMonkey, SurveySpot, My Survey, LIghtspeed Consumer Panel, Pinecone Research, Opinion OutPost, MyPoints, Springboard America, and Toluna. This is one way to spend your time and make a bit of cash on the side., Computer programs have bugs. To get out all the glitches and mistakes, programmers need people willing to play around with them. Websites like User Testing, WatusersDo, Enroll, and YouEye will compensate you for playing around with their programs. It isn’t a living, but it is one of the easiest ways to make money while wasting some time., Meditation might not seem like the most exciting activity, but it does increase concentration, which can help push away the sense of agitation that often comes with boredom. Try meditating about 20 minutes daily to increase your focus and clarity of mind.To meditate, close your eyes and clear your mind. Take one thing to focus on, perhaps an image in your head, a word, or a phrase. Think about that and whenever you mind begins to stray bring it back to the object of your attention.

