 If you need to, get several. A dictionary to translate between your first language and English is best, in addition to a dictionary in English only.


Get a pocket-sized version for when you're on the go and that pesky word you keep forgetting comes up.
 Though it may be tempting to speak with your other friends who are learning too, you'll see the quickest results if you converse mainly with native speakers.



Hire a tutor or private teacher. Make sure they're native and have the accent you want. Choose someone with teaching experience--just because you can speak a language does not mean you can teach it.

If a teacher isn't up your alley, get a penpal!



, There are literally hundreds upon hundreds of sites you can use to your benefit. Anything to make grammar more exciting is welcome--there are games and videos galore.


Such resources can be found at Simple English Wikipedia, the British Council, and English Club, among many others.
YouTube doesn't have to be about funny animals and popular music. Tap into its educational resources as well.
 Though your goal is to speak English, you have to be able to understand it, too! Even when you're alone and not stuck in a grammar exercise you can keep your mind primed.


Start with children's books and TV shows. The language is simpler and will go slower. Eventually, move to channels catered to your interests. If you enjoy cooking, graduate to the Food Network and see what you can pick up on. Try not to turn on the captions!

If you have a DVR, record the shows. That way you can go back and work through the dialogue and conversations at your own pace.
Listen to English music! Ballads go quite slowly and the refrains can be rather repetitive. Your vocabulary will naturally expand, too.
 If you find yourself thinking something simple in you native tongue, what would its equivalent be in English? Make a habit of this for maintenance and memory.



Think out loud if helps. Explain to your roommates or family what you're trying to do; maybe they'll want to catch on, too! Eventually, simple phrases will become par for the course.

