 There are a ton of welcoming lines in Czech, but these are the two easiest ones to use. The other seven or so options are for specific cases, but these two will work almost anywhere.


Vítej -- "Vee-tai"
Vítejte -- "Vee-tai-ta", Simple and easy, it is the sort of thing that sounds just like an English "welcome." However, turn the W to a V and add the word "men" to the end.


"Vel-koh-men."

, Almost exactly like the English version, but with a little harder final syllable. It sounds a bit like "comb."


Wel-comb.
 Simple and easy, it literally means "Good to see you." When saying the final "U" sound, try to pucker your lips a bit. To learn how, say an "EEEE" sound, then move your lips into a U shape. This "e-ooo" is the French U.


"Bee-ehn-ven-oo.
 Like the Danish (the are related languages), this is similar to the English version. However, you again want to sound out the W more like a V.
 Another language with multiple, difficult versions, these two will get you started in any circumstance. Note that, while there is an "sh" sound, you want to keep it subtle, almost burying it in the rest of the word.


Καλώς Ορίσατε -- "Kah-losh o-rees-a-teh"
Καλώς Όρισες -- "Kah-losh o-reese-is"

,, Similar to the French version, but easier to pronounce. If you're speaking to a woman, replace the final "O" with an "A."


"Ben-ven-oo-to."

, Again, replace the "O" with an "A" if speaking to a female. Note that these are two separate words.


Beem Veen-doh

, Almost identical to the French and Portugese, as they come from similar linguistic roots (Latin).


"Bee-ehn-ven-ee-doh."

,, Put it in the box with Dutch, German, and the others. Keep it simple and replace the W with a V, and add the "men" to the normal English "welcome!"


"Vel-koh-men."

, This is the closest "living" relative of English. It makes speaking super easy -- so just match it close to the normal "Welcome," but use a longer O sound at the end (like in the word "comb."


"Wel-comb"

, Another tricky one -- but you have this! Kale is just like vegetable, but with an "A" sound at the end. The rest sounds just like it looks.


"Kal-eh hah Mah-roo-ha-bah"

