 One of the most damaging elements of social pressure on women is the insistence that women look a certain way. According to some surveys, 91% of women are unhappy with how their bodies look.That’s hardly surprising, given that the media we’re exposed to every day, in magazines, movies, TV, and advertisements, is saturated with a very narrow range of “acceptable” appearances. These “ideal” appearances are usually white, tall, large-breasted, and significantly beneath a healthy body weight range.Obviously, most women don’t look like this. Learning to love your body just how it is will help you present yourself with confidence.


The media bombardment is not limited to the United States or “Western” countries. For example, as Western media have begun to shape beauty ideals in Japan, the incidence of eating disorders has also risen.Put signs on all the mirrors with positive statements, such as “I’m beautiful inside and out.”
Spend some time looking at yourself in the mirror. Don’t focus on the things you don’t like. Challenge yourself to find at least 5 things you think are beautiful about your body. Then, the next day, challenge yourself to find 5 more.
Because transgender women's gender identities do not match the sex of the their bodies as determined at birth, they may find themselves in unique situations regarding their bodies.Bringing your body into alignment with your gender identity is not a mutilation or failure to love yourself. It is a way to express your sense of yourself, which is part of being a strong woman.
 What you wear really can affect how you feel about yourself. For example, one study showed that people who were asked to wear lab coats while performing a simple scientific task were more attentive and more confident than those who didn’t wear lab coats.Find clothes that make you feel good about yourself and express something about you.


Ignore the labels. For many women, the size on the clothing label is inversely related to our self-esteem: the higher the number, the worse we may feel about ourselves. Not only is the number on the tag just a number, it’s also completely arbitrary.One store’s 4 is another store’s 12.Don’t let these random numbers determine your worth!
Understand that many workplaces require more conservative dressing for women. It isn’t fair, but it’s unfortunately true that women who wear clothes that seem too alluring, such as lower-cut blouses or short skirts or flashy jewelry, may not be taken seriously in the workplace. See if you can navigate a balance between what will get you respect and what will express yourself.
 Women’s sexuality is commonly a taboo topic, and women’s self-pleasuring even more so. Masturbation is often surrounded by myths, misinformation, and guilt.However, research has shown that regular masturbation has a variety of health benefits for women. Getting in touch with your body can help you feel stronger, healthier, and happier.There is no one “right” or “wrong” way to masturbate. Explore your body and learn what makes you feel good. If you use sex toys or implements, make sure to read the directions and keep them clean and safe.It may seem awkward at first, but having a look at your genitals can help you figure out what your body looks like and where you can focus your attentions.Masturbating releases endorphins, which are natural mood-elevators and help relieve feelings of stress and anxiety. This happens even if you don’t reach orgasm.Masturbation can help ease difficulties associated with menopause and post menopause, such as vaginal narrowing or dryness.Masturbation can help you sleep better. As you near sexual climax, your body releases dopamine, a “feel-good” hormone. After orgasm, your body releases endorphins and oxytocin, which may help you relax into a good night’s sleep.An added benefit of masturbation is that it will help you learn what gives you pleasure and what doesn’t. You can share that information with your partner(s) to help them understand what turns you on. Women who masturbate are more likely to experience a happy sex life with a partner. They also report enjoying sex more than women who don’t masturbate.Helpful books on female masturbation and orgasm include Dr. Vivienne Cass’s The Elusive Orgasm: A Woman’s Guide to Why She Can’t and How She Can Orgasm and Dr. Sadie Allison’s Tickle Your Fancy: A Woman’s Guide to Sexual Self-Pleasure.
 Experimenting with different types of erotica and pornography can help you figure out what arouses you.Reading erotica with your partner can also be a fulfilling experience.What you like and don’t like is up to you. Don’t feel as though you have to conform anyone’s standards except your own.
 Each woman’s body is unique, and what arouses you is also unique. Unfortunately, there is a world of misinformation out there. There’s also a tendency to speak about women’s sexuality as something shameful or dirty. It isn’t. These myths and misinformation are harmful to your health and happiness. Embracing your sexual health will help you feel stronger and more fulfilled.For example, an extremely common myth is that men think about sex more often than women do. You’ve probably heard the “Men think about sex every 2 seconds” myth before. However, studies have shown that most adult men and women think about sex with about the same frequency.Another common myth is that women don’t enjoy casual sex. This is also untrue. Studies have shown that under certain circumstances, women are just as likely to be interested in casual sex as men are. However, there are two mitigating factors: safety and social perception. Women are more likely to be concerned about their physical safety when accepting a casual sexual encounter. (With good reason: statistics show that 1 in 5 women report experiencing rape during their lives.)Because society has a strong tendency to characterize women who have casual sex as “immoral” or otherwise negative, women are also more likely to consider whether their behavior will be stigmatized before accepting casual sex.A third common myth is that women don’t want or need to masturbate. However, more than half of women aged 18-49 report masturbating at least once in the previous 90 days. Women between the ages of 18-24 are actually slightly more likely to masturbate than men the same age., Women are often not taught to speak up for ourselves. However, sharing your desires and needs with your partner can be an excellent bonding experience.Agree on a good time to talk. Just before bedtime, during chores time, or while Game of Thrones is on isn’t a good time to have an open discussion about your sex life. Choose a time when both of you can focus on each other without distraction.Use open, honest terms. Don’t feel embarrassed to use appropriate language to express what you like. Your partner may not understand euphemisms. Be as specific as possible.Try to avoid sounding blaming or judging when you express your needs. If your partner feels blamed, s/he will likely tune out of the discussion, or feel guilty or hurt. For example, it’s unproductive to say something like: “You’re not giving me what I need.” Instead, you can talk about your own feelings and experience: “I’ve felt rushed lately during sex. I would enjoy it more if we slowed down and took our time.”Invite your partner to share his/her feelings and experience. Remember, sex is a mutual experience. Make sure you’re also acknowledging your partner’s needs and experiences.
 Just like with other areas of confidence in your life, sexual confidence comes from knowing and accepting your desires and needs. This knowledge and acceptance will help you be open to sharing your desires and needs with partners, if you want them. But remember: your sexuality is yours to do with as you decide. No one has the right to pressure or guilt you into (or out of) sex.The sexual response cycle for females is generally more complex than for males. Rather than a linear model of desire, arousal, and orgasm, women may cycle through these phases in different orders, or may not experience one or more of the phases.Women may be more interested in sex as a way to express their emotions than men.Women may also feel satisfied with sex even if it does not result in orgasm.Learn what works for you, and realize that there is no “normal” except what your own body does for you.
Dr. Lonnie Barbach’s For Yourself: The Fulfillment of Female Sexuality is a good overall guide to embracing your sexuality.

