 Wear clothes that are the newest trends, but also add your own style to the mix. This shows that you're trendy, but you're also original and interesting. A unique but classy fashion sense will show off your vibrant personality and attract people to you. Mix and match clothes to make cool combinations, and don't forget to accessorize.For example, you can wear trendy skinny jeans and top it off with a graphic tee that displays a picture of your favorite movie or music group.;
, Make sure you are clean and fresh, and avoid looking like you just rolled out of bed. If you're a girl or you just like makeup, try that new makeup you've always admired. Don't be afraid to try new things!

, It's always fun to play with your hair, and maybe you've recently seen a new hairstyle but were too afraid to try it out. Now's your chance! A new hairstyle can be a great conversation starter, and it's the perfect way to grab people's attention.
 Wear a piece of jewelry that tells a story, like a necklace with your favorite animal or a bracelet that holds a picture of your pet. A bold piece of jewelry will make you stand out, and maybe you'll even catch the eye of that cute guy or girl you like.Don't wear too much statement jewelry at one time as you could end up looking like you're trying too hard. One piece at a time will suffice.
 If you are shy and quiet by nature, that's okay! Try to reach out of your comfort zone and people will notice. Join in on a conversation with some popular people, but don't force yourself to be someone that you're not. Talk to everyone, don't leave people out, and you will surely be noticed., It's not that easy for some, but confidence will help with becoming popular. Keep eye contact during conversation, stand up tall, always keep your head up and smile.Faking confidence on the outside can help you become more confident on the inside.Get out there and have fun!

, You might be inclined to hide away, but try not to. Show people that you like them and you're interested in getting to know them better. Be nice, and compliment them on their style or an accomplishment they've recently achieved. Always build people up, and never be a bully!If someone you admire is wearing a cool outfit, tell them you like it and ask them where they got their clothes from. It's an easy conversation starter.
 If you hang out with some unpopular kids, don't ditch them! Hang out with everyone. Be nice to people and make new friends. People will appreciate this and if they don't, they're not worth your time.
 Talking about your assignments for a class you share is a great ice breaker. Whether you're picking a study date so you guys can study together or complaining about how hard you think the next test is going to be, it's an easy way to start a conversation with a classmate you haven't talked to before. Ask them questions about their favorite artist, hobbies, or food, and try to get to know them.


You can say something like, “This test is going to be hard. Do you want to help each other study?” Invite them over to your house for the study date.
Once you're hanging out and studying together, turn on some music and ask them what they would like to listen to. Offer them snacks, and try to get to know them better. Keep the conversation flowing throughout your study time.
 Who doesn’t love a good story? If something someone said reminds you of a related story, tell them the story! It's a great way to catch people's attention and keep them interested.For example, if someone happens to mention their dog, tell them a funny story about your dog that their story reminded you of. Amusing stories have the power to grab people's attention and make you appear super interesting.
 Make sure the club features an activity you enjoy or are interested in learning more about. This is an easy way to meet new people with similar interests. Some types of clubs you could join include yearbook, newspaper, art club, and various sports clubs.
 Don't hide in the corner. After all, you're at a social event to mingle, not to go unnoticed. Talk to everyone there so you can easily transition into starting a conversation with the popular people. Go with a friend if you're scared to go alone., Put together a birthday party or get-together, but don't leave people out. Invite the popular people along with your other friends, and don't leave anyone hanging at the party. Make sure you have awesome music, tasty food, and maybe even a theme to make it interesting.Everyone will remember you for that impressive party you threw.


Make sure you keep it PG, which means no alcohol, drugs or sex! The party will be fun without all of those things.

