 Religious texts such as the Bible, the Torah, the Quar'an, the Tao Te Ching, the Bhagavad Gita, or the Upanishads can give you a new perspective on life or open your eyes to other people's beliefs or thoughts. Though you do not need to subscribe to any of the teachings laid out in religious texts, you can better understand the context of your questions and struggles by understanding how spiritual questions have been posed throughout history. Reading sacred texts can also point you in new directions, allowing you to ask questions you didn't have the words for before.


You may want to accompany your studies with educational courses. Universities, community colleges, and continuing education centers offer courses in the history of religious practices and texts.
If you do read scholarly texts alongside sacred texts, be aware that there is a difference between theology and "religious studies." Religious studies can be thought of as studying religion from its outside, while theology is often written by practitioners of that religion., Certain public figures can act as a resource or guide for your spiritual journey. An obvious one is the leader of a local church or clergy; they often will meet with individuals and help them make decisions. Before you meet with such a leader, it may be helpful to attend a few services or events in order to understand the attitudes that underlie the congregation's beliefs.


Other civic institutions may have a chaplain on staff who are skilled guides when it comes to certain topics, such as grief or loss.
Such institutions include hospitals or army outposts, but you may need to be a regular user of their services to consult with their chaplain.
 There are many popular writers and speakers who communicate spiritual or religious ideas in ways that make sense for everyday life. Helpful books can be found in the "spiritual," "religion," or "new age" section of bookstores or libraries. Seminars and reading groups may be held by colleges or community centers in your area. Public radio and online podcasts are often good sources of programming that present research, critique, and discussion of spiritual ideas.


Avoid figures that actively request financial support, promise reliable answers, or who seem to be selling something. Oftentimes, they are not counting your spiritual journey as a priority.
If you can afford it, traveling to retreats, camps, and spiritual meetups can be a healthy way to expand your horizons and meet new people.
 Though the stereotypical image of the spiritual journeyer portrays a monk praying alone, spiritual journeys can be enriched by the inclusion of others. Talk to friends or family members about your questions or the ideas you are trying to refine. Attend local meet-ups or study groups that focus on your topic at hand. Whether you are trying to improve a skill, such as mindfulness or meditation, or trying to become more culturally literate, learning from others can make the process more fulfilling.


Not only is this a way to find mentors, this is also may lead you to mentoring others, which can enrich your journey.

