 If you have self-confidence, then you will have poise; the two dovetail. Accepting yourself increases your self-esteem and can help you develop confidence and poise.Make a list of your strengths and things you want to improve, including personality characteristics and appearance. Go down the list and verbally accept each part of yourself. Say, “I accept that I am talkative. I accept that I sometimes have a temper.”
In general, you can use a self-affirmation such as saying to yourself, “I accept everything about myself. I accept who I am, what I look like, my past, present, and future.”;
, How you think about yourself affects your actions and your ability to be poised.To develop self-confidence, learn to believe in yourself. This means believing that you are a positive person who has interesting things to share. This also means doing things that make you feel confident about yourself.


Visualization is a helpful way to believe in yourself. Close your eyes and imagine yourself as complete confident and poised. Where are you? What does it feel like? What you are thinking about? What are you doing?Think positive thoughts about yourself. If you find yourself worrying or thinking negatively, re-frame the situation.You could practice by purposefully thinking, "I can do this. I can accomplish anything I put my mind to. I believe in myself."
Try power poses. Our body language can actually shape how we feel about ourselves.Power poses generally involve making your body bigger (taking up more space) instead of smaller (which indicates a lack of confidence). Try spreading your legs slightly apart and putting your hands on your hips. You can find more power poses online.
 Paying attention to the positive aspects of yourself can heighten your ability to have confidence and poise in social situations, which can increase the likelihood that you are accepted by others.Make a list of your accomplishments. Did you get an A on a paper? Are you great at swimming and you once won a medal?
Think about how you can use your strengths to increase your poise.
 Whatever the situation you are in, the way you think about it can influence the outcome (for better or worse).Those who believe that something negative will happen may actually influence that outcome to occur. For example, if you are worried that you will say something silly or wrong in a meeting, this thought can increase your nervousness, which may cause you to stumble over your words. Thus, you create the outcome that you are fearful of.


Instead of thinking about what might happen or the worst case scenario, focus instead on what you actually want to happen. Instead of thinking, "Oh no, I hope I don't stumble over my words," consciously think positive thoughts such as, "I want to speak clearly and effectively. I will focus on being poised and feeling confident. I can do this." These positive thoughts are much more likely to reduce negative feelings and increase the likelihood of a positive outcome.
 Supportive relationships can help to empower you and increase your overall self-confidence. Through others, we can develop a sense of connection, belonging, and acceptance.


If you are feeling low or not confident in yourself, talk to a friend or family member about it. Chances are, they will help you identify the good things about you and turn your mood and thoughts around. This can be very validating and can increase your self-confidence if you know that others support and believe in you.
Take a look at your relationships and ask yourself if those who you spend time with are supportive of you. Our social connections should bring us positivity and lift us up in times of stress. If people are putting you down or making you feel worse about yourself, these connection are not likely to help you become more confident. Consider distancing yourself from damaging relationships and focus on connecting with supportive individuals.

