 A portable web browser is installed on a USB drive. This drive can then be inserted into any computer, and the browser can be run from the drive, without having to install it on the computer you are using. A portable browser is handy because you can change the proxy connection settings, which are usually disabled on school or work computers.


The most popular portable browser is Firefox. you will need to download the portable version from PortableApps.com., Insert a USB drive with at least 100 MB of free space into your computer. Run the Firefox portable installation file that you downloaded, and set the installation location to the USB drive you inserted. Installation should only take a few moments.
 In order to use the portable browser to bypass a block on a website, you will need a proxy server to connect to. Much like the web-based proxy in the previous section, a proxy server retrieves the blocked site for you and then transfers the data to your portable browser. Instead of doing this through a website interface, you will be changing the address that your browser connects to, affecting your entire browsing session.


There are hundreds of lists online of proxy servers that you can connect to. You will need to look these up on a computer that doesn't block these sites.
Copy down the hostname or IP address of the proxy, along with the port.
If you create your own proxy at home, you can use your portable browser to connect to it. This is the most secure option, but also the most time-intensive. See the next section for details on creating your own proxy at home.
 Launch the portable Firefox and click the Menu (☰) button. Select "Options", and then click the Network tab.


Click Settings... in the Connection section of the Network tab.
Select "Manual proxy configuration"
Enter the proxy hostname or IP address into the "HTTP Proxy" field.
Enter the port into the "Port" field.
Click OK to save your settings.
 Next time you are using a computer that blocks the website you want to access, pop your portable browser into the USB drive of the computer and start up portable Firefox. You should then be able to connect to the blocked website.


If you are using a proxy obtained from a list on the internet, it will likely go offline soon. Free proxies online never last, and your portable browser will need to be updated often.
It is highly recommended that you don't use any proxy you find online for any websites that you need to log into, as you never know who might be seeing the information between you and the proxy. If you need to connect to a secure site, see the "Creating Your Own Proxy at Home" section below.

