 You don’t want to damage your already tender skin any further. If you must expose yourself to the sun, wear sunscreen with a Sun Protection Factor (SPF) of 30 or more and cover your skin. UV rays can still pass through clothes to a certain degree.Continue to wear sunscreen after teh blisters have healed.
Don’t be fooled by cloudy or cold weather. UV rays are still strong during cloudy weather, and snow can reflect 80% of the sun’s rays. If the sun is up, the UV is there.;
, Do not pop your blisters. They may pop on their own, but you want to protect your blisters as much as possible in order to prevent infection and damage to the lower, more delicate layers of skin. If the blister pops on its own, cover it in gauze to prevent infection. If you think your skin may already be infected, go to a dermatologist immediately. Some signs that your skin may be infected include redness, swelling, pain, and heat.Similarly, do not peel the skin. Scaling may occur on the sunburned area, but do not peel it. Remember, this area is very sensitive and susceptible to infection and further damage. Leave it alone.
 Aloe vera can be an effective natural cure for minor burns such as the blistered sunburn. Aloe vera gel are the best choice since they will cool the burn. Aloe is believed to decrease pain, rehydrate the affected skin, and aid in the healing process. Indeed, research has shown that aloe vera helps to heal burns faster (9 days faster) than without any use of aloe vera.The best products are the most natural products without any additional additives. Aloe vera gel with no preservatives can be purchased at most drugstores. If you have aloe vera plant on hand, you can apply the aloe vera inside the plant directly by breaking a leaf in half. Allow the gel to be absorbed by the skin. Repeat the process as often as possible.
Try using aloe ice cubes. They can help soothe the pain as well as treat the skin.
Aloe vera should never be applied to an open wound.
 Emollients like moisturizers are safe to apply on your blisters. They can make peeling and flaking less noticeable and help sooth the skin. Avoid using thicker moisturizers or petroleum jelly, as they will not let your skin “breathe” or release heat.Good options include soy-based moisturizers. Look for organic and natural ingredients on the label. Soy is a plant that has natural moisturizing capabilities, which helps your damaged skin maintain moisture and heal.Again, do not apply anything to open wounds or blistered that have popped.
You can place a gauze bandage over the blisters until they heal if you wish.
 Ask your doctor if he will prescribe you a 1% silver sulfadiazine, which is a strong bacteria-killing chemical that is used to treat second- and third-degree burns. Generally, this cream is applied topically twice a day. Do not stop using it until your doctor tells you to stop.This cream can have severe side effects, though they are rare. Side effects can include pain, itching, or burning of the treated skin. The skin and mucous membranes (like the gums) can also become blur or gray in color. Ask your doctor about potential side effects, and stop use immediately and call your doctor if they arise., This is because anesthetic products applied to the skin can cause infection.


In particular, avoid lotions or creams that contain benzocaine or lidocaine. While once commonly used in the past, these products can cause irritation and allergic reactions.Avoid using petroleum jelly (also known by the brand Vaseline). Petroleum can clog pores and trap heat within the skin, preventing proper healing of your skin., Sunburns draw fluid to the surface of the skin and away from other parts of the body. Make an effort to drink plenty of water (at least eight glasses (8 oz each) a day). You could also drink fruit juices or sports drinks. Be sure to watch for signs of dehydration, including dry mouth, thirst, decreased urination, headache, and lightheadedness., Burns such as a blistered sunburn can be treated and healed faster with the help of good nutrition, especially with an increased intake of protein-rich foods. The additional protein serves as building blocks for healing tissue, and are needed to heal the skin and inflammation and minimize the scarring.


Protein rich foods such as chicken, turkey, fish, dairy products, and eggs are excellent sources of protein.
The ideal daily protein intake is 0.8-1.5 grams of protein per pound of body weight.

