 Luke 16:8 says that the children of the this world are wiser in their business affairs than the Children of light. This means that too many Christians are "ignorant of God's promises" and want to assume that spiritual holiness will make you money. The Holiness of Jesus Christ in salvation will get you to heaven (Hebrews 12:14), but you receive blessings by having the right attitudes (Matthew 5:3).;
, said Jesus. 'Everything is possible for him who believes.'(Mark 9:23), also "Perseverance must finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything." (James 1:4).
, 30“For all these things the nations of the world eagerly seek; but your Father knows that you need these things. 31“But seek His kingdom, and these things will be added to you. 32“Do not be afraid, little flock, for your Father has chosen gladly to give you the kingdom." (Luke 12: 29-32).
, Deuteronomy 8:18 says that God had given you power to get wealth. Everyone has talents and abilities that when developed will make them a success. Invest in yourself and get a college degree because a Government survey done in 2003 shows that the average pay in America is over $28 per hour for a college graduate.


Don't leave college, if you could finish college (Proverbs 24:27). Isaiah, Luke and Paul were well educated.
Have you heard people say on TV, "The Economy is not your source, Your Job is not your source, Your Boss is not your source, Your education is not your source, mail all your money to me and God will take care of you." That is just plain foolish. Proverbs 13:15 says that good understanding gives favor. Proverbs 13:15 does not say that a man shall be rewarded for his generosity.
Jesus did introduce faith giving in Luke 6:38, but after you give, notice that God will bless you according to your ability (Deuteronomy 8:18), so you must be open to God's leading on how YOU will be a specialist and prosper.
 34 For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also." (Luke 12:33 - 34). And "35 Be dressed in readiness, and keep your lamps lit. 36 Be like men who are waiting for their master when he returns from the wedding feast, so that they may immediately open the door to him when he comes and knocks. 37 Blessed are those slaves (of Christ) whom the master will find on the alert when he comes; truly I say to you, that he (the Master) will gird himself to serve, and have them recline at the table, and will come up and wait on them. 38 Whether he comes in the second watch, or even in the third, and finds them so, blessed are those slaves (as servants of God). 39 But be sure of this, that if the head of the house had known at what hour the 'thief' was coming, he would not have allowed his house to be broken into. 40 You too, be ready; for the Son of Man is coming at an hour that you do not expect.", Proverbs 13:15, "Good understanding gives favor." You can become a specialist, if you stick with the same well chosen skilled-career for many years. Abraham was a cow farmer, Isaac planted seed, Joseph was a sheep farmer and Joseph was an economist in Egypt. Each person has different talents and if you develop your talents you will prosper. Even Jesus had to grow in wisdom (Luke 2:52).
 "Call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not" (Jeremiah 33:3). According to II Corinthians 1:20, all the promises of God belong to you in Jesus.


In the New Testament, Romans 8:16 God will witness to your heart and Romans 8:17 it will lead you into prosperity.
Galatians 3:14 the Blessing of Abraham is yours.
James 1:5 shows that God wants to give you wisdom and God wants to give it to you in abundance.
 Proverbs 12:8 says that a man shall be rewarded according to his wisdom (not on effort). Notice that it does not say, according to his "hard work."

, James 1:5 says, "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that gives to all men generously and willingly and it shall be given." When you graduate from the University, pray for several days and get a witness inside that you can get a job at good pay in your field (computer related for example); apply and get started in your job.
 "Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, 'shall men give into your bosom'. For with the same measurement that ye measure with all it shall be measured to you again." Jesus introduced this concept in Luke 6:38.
 47 And that slave (God's servant) who knew his master’s will and did not get ready or act in accord with his will, will receive many lashes, 48 but the one who did not know it, and committed deeds worthy of a flogging, will receive but few."
"From everyone who has been given much, much will be required; and to whom they entrusted much, of him they will ask all the more."