 Smoking tobacco has been linked to increased migraine symptoms. In nonsmokers, even exposure to second-hand smoke can trigger a migraine.If you're currently a smoker, you should consider quitting. Whether you smoke or not, try to avoid being around tobacco smoke as much as possible.
 Some studies suggest that exercise can be nearly as effective as medication at controlling and preventing migraines.Having a consistent exercise routine may help reduce your symptoms and prevent future occurrences. However, caution must be taken when exercising if you live with migraines, as strenuous exercise has also been known to induce migraines in some individuals.Avoid exercising in hot or humid weather.
Try to avoid exercising at high altitudes, if at all possible.
Make sure you stretch and warm up before engaging in strenuous exercise.
Make sure you stay hydrated before, during, and after exercise. Drink more water than usual if the weather is warm.
 Skipping meals can frequently cause migraine symptoms in many individuals. Your body can interpret a lack of food (even temporarily) as a type of stress, which can trigger a migraine.Make sure you eat three meals each day, and carry around healthy snacks (such as fresh fruit, vegetables, and nuts) in case you get hungry throughout the day.
 Certain foods and drinks have been proven to have an effect on how often or severe your migraines are. If you're a frequent migraine sufferer, you may have to reduce your consumption of certain foods/drinks, or avoid them altogether.Alcohol has been shown to increase migraines, particularly beer and red wine.
Aged cheese, chocolate, nuts, nut butter, dairy products, meat products containing nitrates, pickled foods, monosodium glutamate (MSG), and certain fruits like avocados, bananas, and citrus have all been shown to increase the symptoms of migraines.
Try keeping a journal of the foods and beverages you consume and your subsequent migraine frequency.
 One common cause of migraines that can be easily prevented is inadequate sleep. How much sleep you need will depend on factors like your age and your activity level, though everyone's body works differently.Talk to your doctor if you're worried about the quality or quantity of sleep you get each night.


Adults over the age of 18 generally need seven to nine hours of sleep each night, though some may need more.Teenagers typically need 8 to 10 hours of sleep each night. Some may need additional sleep.
School-age children usually need between 9 and 11 hours of sleep each night, though some may need up to 12 hours of sleep.

