 While the basics of speaker technology have not really changed since 1924,audio technicians have been perfecting the design, electronics, and sound of speakers ever since. That said, all speakers contain a few basic components:



Driver: Transforms an electrical signal into sound. Drivers come in many shapes and sizes, but all share the same function -- they make noise. Many speakers have multiple drivers to handle many frequencies. For example, "woofers" are large drivers that work well for low-frequency sounds like bass, while "tweeters" handle high frequencies.

Crossovers: These small relays take complex electrical signals and break them up into smaller parts to send to different drivers, isolating bass, treble, and mid-range frequencies.

Cabinet: This is the shell of a speaker where the electronics are housed. In order to eliminate noisy "resonance" or to get greater volume they are produced in a variety of shapes, sizes, and materials., While you can certainly buy all of the parts separately, it is incredibly difficult to build good speakers without years of studying the principles of sound and electricity. However, the budding DIY speaker enthusiast has another option -- buying pre-designed speaker kits with drivers, crossovers, and cabinets included. When searching for a good speaker kit, you should consider:


Is the cabinet is included? Many speaker kits only contain blueprints for the cabinet -- you will have to buy, cut, and fasten the wood together yourself.
Is the crossover pre-connected? Depending on your comfort level with electronics, you may want to purchase a kit where the crossover is already assembled, or you can attach and solder the pieces yourself.
How high-quality to you want your sound? Most audio professionals consult the Loudspeaker Design Cookbook or LDSB, for advice on choosing drivers and crossovers, and you can expect to pay more for better quality components.
How powerful, or loud, do your speakers need to be. In general, this is determined by the size of you drivers., You will need a soldering iron, hot glue, and a pattern to make sure your crossover works correctly. All speaker kits come with a chart illustrating how to attach everything, and sample patterns can be found with a quick internet search if you are working from scratch. This prevents your speakers from shorting or burning out.Make sure you completely understand how to read wiring diagrams before continuing.
Once your parts are attached, secure them to a small board with a hot glue gun or zip ties.
Finish by attaching your crossover cables to the drivers with speaker wire.
 If your cabinet is not provided for you, you will need to buy the wood and cut it to fit your drivers. Most speakers are rectangular, but talented carpenters can play with other shapes, from polygons to spheres, to get better sound. While all cabinets are different, there are a few guiding principles to their design:


Use material that is at least 1.5" thick.Always measure your wood so that it fits together perfectly -- any sound that leaks out of the speakers will greatly diminish their quality. Fit the speakers together before adhering them.
Wood glue is the preferred adhesive, but you can also use a drill and screws or biscuit clips as well.
The paint or stain you chose for your cabinet will not affect the sound, but decorate your cabinet before installing components to protect your electronics.Be sure you are comfortable with carpentry equipment before building original speaker cabinets.
 If you followed your blueprints correctly the drivers should fit snugly into the holes you cut on the front of the cabinet. Adhere the crossover board to the cabinet so that the cables to the driver are not stretched or stressed.


The drivers are usually screwed into a plastic molding on the outside of the cabinet.
Use wood glue or adhesive to securely fasten the crossover to the cabinet.
 This specially designed fabric is meant to dampen sound inside the speaker so that you don't hear weird vibrations or echos. While not necessary, it can help the sound considerably.

