 The old saying “opposites attract” appears to be true, but only for short-term flings. Research shows that couples who share similar traits, such as economic background, religion, and closeness in age tend to enjoy happier and more stable marriages.Obviously, you and your significant other don’t have to be identical twins to work, but looking for key commonalities is important.


Specifically, it’s especially vital that you and your partner have similar values and principles about life. For example, does your partner share your religious and political beliefs? If being family-oriented and charitable are important to you, does your partner feel similarly?
While you don’t have to have the exact same values, it’s probably important to figure out whether you have values that clash. For example, you may value integrity most of all and your partner values loyalty. This may become complicated if your partner’s emphasis on being loyal to someone of questionable character causes you to jeopardize your integrity.;
,

Just as you would want to develop a long-term relationship with someone who has similar beliefs and values, you also want to be with someone who is going in the same direction that you are in life. What do you and your partner want out of life individually? Do your separate goals conflict?

Evaluate whether you and your partner are on the same page with your goals. Your individual and relationship goals should be mostly in alignment with one another’s. For instance, it can cause trouble down the line if one person wants kids, but the other does not.
Sit down with your partner and share your dreams and goals.Encourage your partner to do the same. Having a candid conversation about what each of you want can prevent future conflict and disappointment.
 Think over how many times your partner involves you in their life. Have you met their parents? Do you personally know their friends? Do you and your partner have similar interests or share a hobby? If you are in a relationship but you are basically living separate lives, this could be a red flag that the relationship isn’t going anywhere., Are you mostly happy when you are together? When two people are together, they should be enjoying the time together as much as possible. If quarreling takes up most of the time, or you are just counting the seconds until your partner leaves, you may need to evaluate whether you even want this relationship.


A healthy relationship should consist of two people who are genuinely interested in one another. This involves laughing together and being excited about spending time with one another.