 To stop your compulsive hoarding, you must understand the beliefs that keep you stuck. For many hoarders, beliefs fall into three categories: sentimental, instrumental, and intrinsic.Sentimental beliefs reflect a particular person or part of your life. Instrumental beliefs pertain to the practicality of the item and its future use. Intrinsic beliefs relate to the item's beauty or aesthetic value—in other words, you like looking at it.
When you recognize these beliefs guiding your behavior, try to challenge them. For instance, you might buy too many cleaning supplies because you catch them on sale. You might say, “Even though these items were on sale, I can only use one container at a time. Therefore, I do not need three extra bottles of cleaner.”

, Exposure to your fears is the only way to overcome them. However, it can be overwhelming to deal with your greatest fears first. Instead, climb the fear ladder by addressing the easiest fears first. Then, slowly climb up to more difficult fears.To climb the fear ladder, make a list of everything you need to get rid of. Rank the items on a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 representing easier items. Get rid of the easier items first.
For example, you may be able to get rid of surplus items easier than you can items that hold sentimental value.
 You may be tempted to multi-task while clearing out, or avoid the reality of what you’re doing by preoccupying yourself with other activities. Doing this won’t help you to fully engage with the process of clearing out. As a result, you won’t really have addressed your irrational beliefs and overcome fear.Only focus on one task at a time. Minimize distractions like telephones, TVs, and music players.
 As you slowly move throughout your home, keep track of the progress you’ve made and whether your fears are decreasing with time. Doing this can help you gain more confidence to deal with the remainder of your home.”Before and after” photos are a great way to show your progress as you clear out each space.
You might relapse at some point. Know that a setback doesn’t have to define you. If it happens, quickly develop a plan to get back on track.

