 Put your goals and your reasons for working towards them on paper. A biology student might find it easy to become tired and discouraged in her studies. Remembering why she is in school – because she wants to develop life-saving drugs or be a teacher like the one who first inspired her – is a powerful motivator. Tape your goals to the wall of your office, to your computer, or to your bedroom or bathroom mirror. Keep them in a place where you’ll be frequently reminded of them. This will keep focused and stay on track., Having a large and specific goal can motivate you more than a series of smaller goals. At the same time, however, your central ambition might sometimes seem far away or like an impossibly huge task. Don’t let yourself be overwhelmed. This sort of thinking is known to kill motivation and lead people to abandon projects. Move the goalposts when you feel this way. If you are writing a novel, for example, put the big picture to the side for a while and work on the current chapter or on revising 20 pages per day. Focusing on small, concrete tasks will move you ahead incrementally and help you finish what you have started.
 Chronic procrastinators sometimes need more concrete incentives. Set performance standards and reward yourself. The deals can be small or large. Treat yourself to a short break once you have finished some work. Did you ace your year-end exams? That calls for a bigger reward: take a weekend off to celebrate with your friends. Try to use inducements that will motivate you to follow through.
 Stop and think: what is absolute best that can happen if you go through with your plans? What is the absolute worst? If you are really committed to a goal, remind yourself of how much you potentially stand to gain by following through or how much you potentially stand to lose by failing. Weight the two. What can you expect from applying for jobs in your dream field of architecture? What is the worst that can happen if it doesn’t pan out? Most times the worst-case scenario boils down to fear – fear of failure, fear of rejection, or fear of regret – while the upside promises very tangible benefits.