 If your old photograph has dirt, sand, or residue on it, you may be able to clean the image by hand. Wear rubber gloves, and gently remove the dirt with a soft brush or soft-bristled toothbrush. If there is a large amount of dirt, the photograph can be gently rinsed under lukewarm running water. Use your finger to softly wipe away dirt, but take care not scratch the photo. Let the photograph dry in a dark place where it will not be disturbed. You can clip the image on a wire with a clothespin to dry, or you can place the image face-up on a newspaper or towel.If the photo turns red, yellow, or white while cleaning, this could be an indication that professional care is needed. The image may be too badly damaged to fix at home.
 If you find a stack of photographs that have stuck together, do not pull them apart. Instead, soak them in distilled water. Photographs are coated with gelatin. When they are placed in water, the gelatin softens and the photographs can be separated more easily.Purchase a bottle of distilled water from your local grocery store or pharmacy. Keep the water at room temperature, and pour it into a container that is large enough to submerge your photos. Place them with the image facing upward and let them soak in the water for 20 to 30 minutes. Use your fingers to gently slide the photographs apart, or use a rubber spatula to separate the images. Let them dry on a towel image-side up. Place a book or magazine along the edges so they do not curl as they dry., Before trying to remove the glass, be sure you make a copy of the image. You can remove the glass by heating up the image. Hold a hair dryer 4 to 5 inches away from the back of a print. After a few minutes, try to lift up one of the corners of the image, and slowly peel back the image., You can secure a tear or fix a torn photograph by using an acid-free tape. Regular tape with an acidic adhesive can damage the photograph over time. Look for an archival tape or tape with an acrylic adhesive at an office supply or stationary store to repair and protect your photographs. Cut small pieces of tape and secure the tear on the back of the photograph., A torn photograph can also be repaired by using a strip of acid-free paper that is secured with acid-free glue. These can be purchased at an arts and crafts store or an office supply shop. Apply a small amount of the glue to the strip of paper, and press the strip over the tear on the back of the photograph. Remove any excessive glue with a cotton swab. Let the image dry face down on a towel, and place a weight, like a small book, on top of the image to prevent the edges from curling., If you have an old photograph that was rolled up or if the edges are curling, you can release the curls by placing the photo in a homemade humidification chamber. This chamber will reintroduce water into the dry, brittle photograph which will allow the curled edges to relax and release.


Fill a plastic storage bin with a couple of inches of room temperature water. Place a wire rack in the container, making sure that the top is not submerged. Place the photo on top of the rack, and close the chamber with the lid. Let it sit for several hours. Check on the photograph periodically and wipe away any beads of water on the photo. After a few hours, if the curls have relaxed, remove the photograph and let it dry face-up on a towel. Cover the image with blotting paper or parchment paper, and weigh the photograph down with a book as it dries.
 If the photograph is heavily damaged, very old, or extremely delicate, consider having the photo professionally restored. Professionals can not only restore photographs that have been ripped, stained, or damaged by water or sunlight, but they can also digitally enhance the photo’s overall quality and color. Many services are available online. A professional will assess your photo and offer you a quote depending on the damage and the amount of work required.Most professional services will work from a digital copy of the photograph, leaving the original untouched and safe. The restored photo and the original image will be returned to you.

