 and you should draw or look online for a base. Make sure that it has the shape you want your character to have. You have to think of the following:


Are they hairy, furry (animal fur), or do they have long hair or short hair? Do they have a beard or stubble (in the case of a man)?
Are they thin, average, curvy, chubby, fat, or somewhere in between the above? Short, tall, or somewhere in between?
Are they male, female, intersex, trans, or other?;
, We are starting with the clothes so the base doesn't need a face or details yet. When you have the base you will start by choosing if you want your character to have a shirt and pants or maybe a dress. Draw the shape roughly and make a few copies. You can do this by scanning it in and printing it or put a paper over the first design and draw over the edges. Now you can start drawing the designs in the clothes. After you draw all the designs, it is recommended to scan in the drawing as a backup.
 Choose what colors you want to use. If you scanned them, in you can print them out and have more of every design so you can experiment with the colors. Try out every color combination you want and also show all of them to family and friends, to hear what they think. You can also post it online on a forum and hear what they think of it there, or post it in social media. Choose the design everyone likes best. When choosing, remember that you will make the final product so you have the decision which one it will be. If everyone says that design 4 is best but you mostly like 1, you should remember them both.
 Draw the face in different ways. Go past steps 2, 3 and 4. Keep the clothe designs in mind. Now put the two together. If it doesn't fit, try to change the clothes or the face. Show everything that comes out of this to your family and friends. Again ask what they like best. You can also ask it online again. Go with what you all like best. If less then 40% of the questioned liked the design you liked most, it is probably best to go for (one of) the other design(s).
 Draw different bases, draw the detail in, color them, show them to family and friends and most important make them work with each other. If you have part of the objects with dark blue, black and gray and give it sharp corners, you don't want a bright red with green round object in there.
 If this looks good, congratulations, you have your first character concept art! If it doesn't look good, try to make it look good with each other. After you have done this, you can go back to step 1 for the next character, or you can move on to drawing your comic, recreating the drawings in 3D for your game, look for actors/actress who look like it for your movie, or whatever else you want to do with it. If you want to use it in a comic, it is smart to make more concept arts from different sides, but with the looks of the final drawing. If you want to use it in a game, you could scan the drawing and recreate it in 3D by importing it in the background of your 3D modeling software and coloring it in in 3D. If you want to use it for a movie, you should think of what materials you could use to make the costume (and objects) and look for an actor/actress who looks somewhat like your drawing.

