 The tank and other materials (gravel and decorations) that will be placed in the tank need to be cleaned with warm tap water. Do not use soap or detergent to clean the tank and other materials. The residue left by soap or detergent is toxic to fish., One gallon of water weighs 10 pounds, and the average tank size is 30 gallons. Therefore, the object that you'll place your tank on needs to be very sturdy. Place your tank on a sturdy wooden cabinet or table, as the tank might fall down, which would kill the fish and make a mess on your carpet.If you do not have a sturdy cabinet or table, use a cabinet or stand that is designed for holding fish tanks, especially big ones.
Make sure to place your tank in a cool area, away from heat and out of direct sunlight to avoid overheating the tank, because overheating might boil the water, and this will burn the fish to death.
 Before placing the gravel, also known as substrate, into the tank, clean it first. Run tap water through the gravel about five times until the water runs clear. Place the gravel on the bottom of the tank until it is about two to three inches high. Spread the gravel evenly in the tank., If you bought an aquarium wallpaper or backdrop, attach it to the back of your tank first. Then, begin arranging your decorations as you like. Put the larger decorations near the back of the tank and smaller ones near the front of the tank., Most filters require assemblage before placing them into the tank. Assemble your filter according to the manual provided by the manufacturer. For most filters, you just need to assemble a few parts. Do not turn the filter on until the tank is filled with water.For gravel filters, you will need to place the filter underneath the gravel. Make sure it is stable under the gravel. Attach the pump airlines and power head to the appropriate lift tubes before turning the filter on.
For an internal and external filter, mount it onto one of the tank’s walls, preferably onto the wall that is closest to an outlet. These filters have an external power cable that connects to the main power for filtration to begin. Make sure the power cable will not come into contact with the tank’s water.
 Begin filling the tank with cold water. Slowly add the water to the tank with a pitcher or a hose so as not to disrupt or displace the gravel. Most tanks have a water line indicating where you should fill it to. Once the tank is filled, add the water conditioner or de-chlorinator and stress coat to the water per the instruction manual.The water conditioner and stress coat make tap water safe for your fish to live in.
Place a bowl on the gravel when filling the tank with water to prevent the gravel from moving and dispersing.
 Once everything is set up, turn on the filter. Let the filter run for at least a week before placing your fish in the water. Letting your tank run or cycle allows beneficial bacteria to build up. These bacteria help keep the tank’s water stable for the fish to live in.The longer you let the tank filter the safer the water will be for the fish.
Add the sturdiest and strongest fish first, like the starter fish, before adding in more fish.

