 Anger management coaching requires the use of a number of different counseling techniques that are modified for the client. You can also come from a background in social work, nursing or teaching with an emphasis in counseling.;
, Before becoming a coach or consultant, you will need to spend approximately 5 years applying the counseling techniques you have been taught. Many anger management professionals gain experience in correctional facilities, probation offices, youth homes, family therapy agencies, schools and substance abuse programs.


Anger management coaches who have work experience and are a little bit older may find it easier to earn the respect of older anger management clients. The amount of experience required will be different for every person depending upon the jobs they have held.
 You can apply for a number of levels of membership, including a student membership for $45 and an agency membership for $750. Being a member will give you access to newsletters, training courses, anger management materials and a member directory.
 These courses include both a lecture portion and, later, a supervised practice portion. You can choose from live training courses that are held in a 2 or 3 day session, or you can choose a distance learning package and arrange supervisor sessions via phone.


Currently, many NAMA-approved certification courses cost approximately $400 to $500. This does not include the costs of travel to attend a certification course.
 These can be done with your supervisor on the phone and they are normally arranged through your initial training course. You will be required to pay a separate supervisor fee to 1 of the authorized supervisors on the NAMA website.
 Download the form at namass.org/NAMAcertificationapplicationSpecialist-I.pdf, fill it out and send it in with applicable documents and $100 application fee. You will be asked questions based on your education, licensing, experience and anger management training.
 Most states require candidates to take a test and undergo some supervision before approving a license to practice as a counselor or coach. Apply for liability insurance if it is required for licensees under state law.
 These certification programs are structured in a similar way to the specialist I training. However, they will allow you to work with groups and provide therapy or counseling.


In order to qualify for an advanced anger management qualification (specialist II), you will be required to complete 40 hours of work as an anger management specialist I. You can do this by volunteering or working for a governmental or private agency that works with anger management clients. You may look for work with high-risk individuals, adolescents or families.
You must work as an advanced anger management specialist II for a period of time before seeking training as an anger management supervisor (specialist III).
 Depending upon the flexibility you want in your work, you can advertise a freelance practice, create your own office or work as a specialist in an office that focuses on emotional intelligence.

