 The phono-cartridge is a single piece of a much larger stereo system, and the budget allocated to the cartridge should reflect the total cost of the whole system. Entry-level audiophile cartridges retail around 30 U.S. dollars, with incredibly high-end models reaching over $3000. A good budget might start with allocating about 10 percent of your total expenditure towards the cartridge.;
, Your turntable's tonearm will fall into 1 of 4 categories, and you must buy a cartridge that is compatible with the mount type.


The half-inch or "standard" mount is by far the most common. This type of mount has a large, flat "headshell" under which the cartridge sits. The cartridge is secured by 2 screws located 1/2 inch (12 mm) apart.
The "P" mount is common is some low-end turntables. The rear end of the cartridge plugs into the tonearm and is secured with a single screw.
A convertible mount, while uncommon, can be adapted to fit either half-inch or "P" mount cartridges.
Integrated mounts use proprietary cartridges that cannot be swapped out for other models. This type of mount is occasionally found on DJ turntables.
 All modern phono-cartridges are magnetic - they consist of a magnet and a small metal coil that move in relation to each other to produce an electrical signal.


The most common design is called a moving magnet cartridge - the magnet is allowed to move while the coil is fixed. This type of cartridge is available from low-end models to very high-end ones.
Moving coil cartridges (where the magnet is fixed and the coil moves) are preferred by some audio enthusiasts, purportedly for their superior sound. These cartridges are typically only available in very high-end, expensive models. To use a moving coil cartridge, your amplifier must have a separate input labeled "MC" or you must purchase a separate step-up transformer (or circuit) made specifically for this purpose.
 The stylus is the needle that actually touches the vinyl record. All modern styli are made from diamond, but they come in several different shapes and sizes. Inexpensive styli are often made in a spherical shape, which offers comparatively low sound quality - the exception being DJ cartridges where the spherical shape is necessary for "back-cuing" and "scratching." Elliptical styli offer greater area of contact (with the walls of the record groove) and they therefore require less "tracking force" - (the amount of weight being placed on the stylus) - to retrieve the recorded information, resulting in less record wear and higher fidelity. There are also elliptical styli available for audiophile DJs, but scratching is not recommended with these. "Biradial", "micro line" or "linear contact" styli are more difficult to manufacture than ellipticals or sphericals and will be more expensive, but will require even less tracking force while producing even higher fidelity results.

