 Invitations are very important when planning the party. Don't feel like buying any? That's okay! Make some! It will be a joy for you and your daughter. Make sure you add the RSVP information, time, date, location, and of course, the theme!;
, What games will be played?


A good relay race game is called "Fashion Run". There are two teams, and each team gets shirts, pants, glasses, hats, jewels, and shoes in a suitcase. The first person puts on everything and runs to the other side of the room and says, "Happy Birthday, !" and runs back and takes off everything. When she reaches her team, the next girl goes and does the same. The first team to finish is the winner.
Another game is "Fashion Hunt". Divide the guests into teams. Give each team a stack of fashion magazines and a list of fashion items to find in the magazines (Gucci bag, yellow flip flops, etc.). The first team to find all the items on the list is the winning team.
Another activity you can do is designing! You and the other guests at the party can give out paper and have the guests design an article of clothing. The best design wins and can get a prize!
Fashion runway! You can either ask guests to bring something that may seem "in style" or "trending" at the moment and make some sort of runway for them to display their finds. The runway could be in a hallway, or put a carpet or rug as if to make a runway.
 At a bake store, you can find cookie cutters shaped like shoes, purses, bows, etc. Use them to make fashion-shaped pizza, sandwiches and/or cookies. Remember that little girls can be picky or may have food allergies, so it's important that you have several options. At most kid birthday parties, you'll find juice boxes, mozzarella sticks, veggie/fruit/cheese platters, and some grown-up foods for the adults.
 If you choose to make your own, you could use a shoe-shaped cake pan or plastic Barbie high heels to decorate. Be creative! Add jewels, pink crystal sprinkles, etc.
 Another good idea would be if you made shirts for them with some sort of logo and gave it as a goody bag gift. Or you could make actual shirts at the party. The process is actually really simple. You can get some t-shirt transfers (Avery is a good brand) which can be ironed onto shirts. You design some sort of logo or find an image and print it onto the transfer, but be sure to flip the image so that it's reversed! Then iron on the image onto the shirt. It's a creative idea and lets the guests go home with a memory from the party.
,