 That is, be sure to talk to the person every time you see them, even if she only has time for a "Hello!" If you have more time, ask how she's doing, and be sure to show genuine interest in how she responds. Try to remember little details about her that you can slip into the next conversation.


For example, if she says, "Just okay," dig a little deeper. You could say, "Just okay? That doesn't sound too great. Want to tell me about it?"
If she mentions her dog is sick in one conversation, ask her about the dog the next time you see her. Just a simple, "Is your dog doing better?" is all you need.
 If you can, find the person on Facebook. You don't want to seem like you're stalking her, but if you've seen her more more than a couple of times and had genuine conversations with her, most women will be receptive to a friend request.


Once she accepts, try to make the occasional casual comment on her wall. Keep it light and borderline flirty. For instance, if she updates her profile picture, you could say, "Cute picture!"

, Create a nickname that is for her and only her. Don't use it much when other people are around. You don't want other people to start using it. It should be one only you use. Creating a private nickname helps create a sense of intimacy between the two of you. Just make sure it isn't a name she hates.This approach will probably work better with a woman you know pretty well. Giving someone you've met twice a nickname may come off as creepy.
 You don't want to do something too elaborate, as that may turn her off. However, bringing her a small gift just because or because it's her birthday can send the message that you think of her as someone special, not just another woman.

For example, bring her a small bouquet of flowers on her birthday, or grab her a coffee when you're getting yours.
In the same vein, once she tells you her birthday, remember it, and always acknowledge it.
 Laughter is one of the great social connectors, and if you share a running joke that's just between the two of you, it can create a sense of intimacy and togetherness. Try playing off of something you both see all the time or a mistake you made to poke fun at yourself.For example, maybe you slipped up one time and asked her if she wanted her coffee purple instead of black. Now, every time you bring her coffee, you could say, "I've got your purple coffee right here."

, Everyone likes having support for the things they do, so if she mentions something she's doing soon, show your support for it. Giving attention to what she likes will help show her that you care about her and what she does.For example, say she mentions that she enjoys poetry and often reads at an open mic. Tell her you'd like to come hear her sometime, and then show up. That shows that you have a genuine interest in what she does because you've backed up your talk with an action.
Let her borrow something she's mentioned. If she's brought up something she'd like to read or watch, let her borrow it. Don't even say you'll do it. Just show up with it sometime when you know you'll see her. She'll appreciate your thoughtfulness, and she'll likely notice you're giving her special attention. You could say, "You mentioned this book the other day, so I thought you might like to borrow it."
Offer her an "extra" ticket. If you want to ask her on a date without really asking her, you can offer her an "extra" ticket that you specifically bought for her to a fun event, like an art gallery gala. Inviting her to an event shows you enjoy her company., When you're trying to make a decision, ask for her opinion on it. Doing so will help her see that you value her and what she thinks, and then when you follow her it advice, it will make her feel good about herself and being around you.For example, say you want to paint your bedroom. Ask her what she thinks a good color would be.
If you commit to that color, show her a picture later or invite her over to see your remodel.

