 This is the button between the controller's analog sticks; pressing it opens the PlayStation menu.
 This will open your Settings.

Use the left analog stick to scroll and the X button to select.
 This is near the "System Software Update" option., You'll find this close to the top of the Network menu., Your options include the following:

"Use Wi-Fi" - select this if your console is connected to the internet via wireless. If you're on a wifi network, you'll have to select the network you want to set up at this point.
"Use a Local Area Network (LAN) Cable" - select this if your console is connected to your modem via an Ethernet cable.
 This will allow you to manually change your DNS or MTU settings., This will take care of the more complicated procedures for you., This will bypass another manual setup option. You are now ready to change your DNS settings!, This option comes directly after the "Do Not Specify" one; it will allow you to edit your DNS IP addresses., In this case, you'll need to enter both a primary and a secondary IP address for your target DNS location. Popular DNS alternatives include the following options:Google - 8.8.8.8 ("Primary" field); 8.8.4.4 ("Secondary" field).
OpenDNS - 208.67.222.222 ("Primary" field); 208.67.220.220 ("Secondary" field).
Double-check your typing's accuracy before continuing.
 From here, you'll need to change your PS4's max transmission unit (MTU) settings., This step comes directly after selecting "Next" post-DNS setup; the Manual option begins the MTU setup process., You can enter a new MTU value here., "1473" is the official value proposed by PlayStation.

You can also input "1450" if "1473" fails.
 This will take you to the diagnostic test., If the test is successful, you've successfully changed your MTU settings!, This will take you back to the home screen., After altering the DNS and MTU settings, you should see an increase in your PS4's download speed!, The problem may be with your internet service, not the console itself; for example, if you aren't approved for download speeds above 10 megabytes per second, your downloads will routinely take a long time to complete.

Upgrading your plan or switching to a better Internet Service Provider may fix this problem.
 Cheap modems tend to distribute limited amounts of bandwidth; just because you're paying for a certain amount of megabytes per second for your download speed doesn't mean you're getting it. If your modem supports less bandwidth than your internet service allows, consider upgrading to a better modem., If you're trying to download something on the same network as another device--be it computer, phone, or console--your download speed will slow down as a result.

To solve this problem, try downloading when there's no one else in the house and no extra devices on your network.
 While the PS4 has a competent wireless internet suite, plugging your console directly into your modem will always increase your internet connection speed. You'll need an Ethernet cable to do so.

One end of your Ethernet cable should plug into the square port in the back of your PS4 while the other plugs into a similar port marked "Internet" on your modem. Ethernet cable ends are interchangeable.
 You'll be prompted to install this firmware automatically when you connect your PS4 to the internet.

As a general rule, you should always update your console as soon as possible to prevent issues such as slow download speeds.
 This is the download equivalent of turning off your computer and then rebooting it. If your download is taking a long time to initiate or proceed, pausing and then resuming it may increase the download speed.