 Pushing back your cuticles is safer than cutting them and it will also enhance the appearance of your nail beds. You can use a cuticle pusher to push back your cuticles.








Apply some cuticle cream or oil to your cuticles to help soften them. Then, rub in the cream and begin to push back the cuticles one by one.
Use a gentle pushing motion to move your cuticles back.
 After you have taken care of your cuticles, you can begin to work on your nails. Use a straight edged trimmer to clip your toenails.








Trimming straight across will help to prevent ingrown toenails. It is also important to avoid trimming your toenails too much. Try to keep them even with the skin at the tips of your toes, not below it.If your toenails are not very long, then you can skip this and just file them to even them out.
 After you have trimmed your toenails, use a nail file to even out the edges and shape them. You can soften any sharp edges on your toenails by filing them into rounded or oval shapes.








However, do not round out your toenails too much. Try to keep the edges of your toenails above the level of the skin to prevent ingrown toenails.File your toenails using swift movements in one direction, not back and forth. It is also important to hold the file flat against the nail, not at an angle. Filing at an angle can weaken your nails., After you have filed your nails, you can use a buffer to even out the tops. This will enhance the natural beauty of your toenails and it will also help to even out the surface of your nails. Having an even surface will help to make it easier to apply nail polish evenly.








Use swift strokes along the tops of your nails to buff them.
Make sure that you do not buff your nails too often or you may weaken them. Buff your nails no more than once per week., After you finish buffing your nails, wipe away any excess dust with a towel. Then, apply a clear topcoat. Applying a clear topcoat will help to protect your nails from yellowing due to darker color nail polishes.








Follow up your clear topcoat with the nail polish color of your choice.

