 This can happen in the first dental appointment prior to your surgery when you will have to complete a medical form about your past medical issues and your current situation. Once your dentist has thorough knowledge of your medical and dental history, they will be better able to prescribe necessary medications.Tell your dentist any medications that you’re currently taking, including over-the-counter medicine. Some medicines may interfere with others or have contraindications.;
, If you’ll be given general anesthesia during surgery, you’ll be in no condition to drive yourself home following the procedure. Talk to a friend or a family member, and ask if they’ll be willing to drive you to and from the dentist’s office.Alternately, if you’re comfortable driving yourself to the surgery and have a friend or family member in the area, ask if they’re willing to pick you up and drive you home in your own car.
If you’ll only be receiving a local anesthetic (numbing just the area of the tooth extraction), you should be able to drive yourself home.
Check with your dentist or oral surgeon beforehand, to find out what type of anesthesia you’ll be receiving.
 Although tooth extraction is not an invasive surgery, your dentist will still likely ask you to fast for at least the night before the surgery, especially if you are having a general anesthesia procedure. Local anesthesia does not require a fast.They will give you the precise number of hours that you should fast for.


If you’re diabetic, let your oral surgeon know ahead of time. You’ll likely be allowed to eat breakfast, in order to maintain blood-sugar levels.Local anesthetic contains adrenaline, which can elevate sugar levels leading to dizziness or nausea. That is why it is best to eat before. Your dentist may also opt for a non-adrenaline anesthetic
Although you won’t be eating the night before surgery, make sure to stay hydrated. Drink plenty of water—this will also fill your stomach and decrease your hunger.
 In preparation for your tooth extraction, your dentist or oral surgeon may prescribe you certain medications.Take these as directed, especially if you’ve been given a painkiller or a medication to alter the coagulation or thickness of your blood.


Check with your dentist ahead of time to make sure that medication you’re already taking will not react with any new prescriptions.
 After surgery, you’ll still be disoriented and potentially in pain. Before leaving for the surgery, figure out where you plan to spend time once you’ve returned. If you’d like to spend the rest of the day on the couch, lay out everything you’ll need (tissues, DVDs, books or magazines, etc.) ahead of time.
 It will take roughly 48 hours for the swelling to die down, and you may be in pain or discomfort for the first couple days. Take time off from work, and avoid strenuous activity or any effort required. Spend as much time as possible in bed or on the couch, but do not rest your head on the pillow on the extraction side as this can increase local heat.Since the anesthetic will affect your motor skills and ability to reason well, do not make plans to sign any legal documents during the day of your surgery.Also avoid driving, drinking alcohol, or operating machinery for the rest of the day.
 Should any complications from the surgery arise, it’s best to not be alone after your surgery. You may need assistance moving about your house or apartment, and a family member will be able to keep you safe.Ask them to keep an eye on you for the rest of the day, and preferably to be available during the night as well.


If you live alone, see if a friend or out-of-town family member can visit you and keep you company after surgery.
 After the tooth extraction, your mouth will be in no condition to eat hard or crunchy foods. Plan your diet ahead of time, and focus on eating very soft foods, such as soup and yogurt, mashed vegetables such as broccoli or potatoes or even puddings, for the first two days after surgery.It will take six to eight weeks for your mouth to fully recover enough to be able to eat hard, crunchy foods, such as carrots or pretzels.
 This will ensure that you’re prepared, on time, and will give you time to fill out any insurance-related paper work.


Wear comfortable clothing, as you may be in the surgery chair for a couple of hours.
Make sure you are well-hydrated before the procedure, especially if it is a more complicated one.
Bring a book or something to occupy your time while you wait.
Ask your dentist any questions that arise.
 It should be painless, and the dentist will usually talk you through what they are doing. The dentist or oral surgeon will first administer a local anesthetic to numb your gum and the root of the tooth. Then he or she will make an incision in your gum tissue, remove any blocking access to the tooth’s root, and finally remove the tooth itself, before cleaning up any bone fragments and stitching your gum back together.If your tooth extraction calls for more invasive surgery, your oral surgeon may give you a general anesthesia either by mask using protoxide or by vein where an anesthesiologist will be assisting the vital signs during the procedure. This means that you will be completely unconscious during the procedure. , Your dentist may give you gauze to take home with you, especially if your socket continues to bleed after the tooth has been extracted. If your socket continues to bleed, pack the gauze firmly into the hole and add pressure by closing your jaw. Change out the gauze as frequently as your dentist or oral surgeon suggests.Take any prescribed medications as directed.
Avoid spitting or gargling liquids shortly after the surgery, as these motions can dislodge the clot from your extraction site and encourage excessive bleeding.