 Thin, blade-like runners will increase speed on icy surfaces. Sleds that slide along one large base without runners are better for deep snow, since they distribute the rider's weight more evenly and reduce sinking.Sleds with wide runners are somewhere in between. Most casual sledders just use one sled for all terrain, but if you're buying your first sled, pick one that will work on the hills you expect to be trying.


Sleds with metal runners or sliding surfaces tend to be faster than wooden or plastic sleds, since they create less friction. Metal sleds are usually more expensive, though.
Sleds with runners and steering mechanisms are the safest type of sled for children.This may not hold true for high speed sledding.;
, Most people don't think of sledding as a dangerous sport, but serious or fatal sledding injuries do occur regularly. Wearing a helmet is an excellent idea for children, as well as for adults who are sledding down steep, tall, icy, or obstacle-laden slopes.



Thick winter clothing usually gives enough protection for the rest of the body.
 Find a hill completely covered by snow or ice, since dry patches can stop your sled.Never sled on a hill covered in obstacles, or one that ends in a parking lot, a street, or a body of water. If there are other people around, choose a side of the hill where you won't run into them.
 Stay seated while the sled is moving, and face forward at all times. Do not face backwards, lie down face-first, or try to spin the sled, as this can make a crash much riskier.Some sleds are designed for the rider to lie face-first, but these should only be used in specially prepared lanes at winter resorts, or by experienced sledders., You can steer by leaning in the direction you want to turn, or by putting your foot out into the snow on that side. To slow down or stop, put both feet out into the snow. Larger sleds and sleds with runners often have ropes you can pull to turn the sled, or more rarely a steering wheel or other unusual mechanism. If you need to turn very suddenly or at high speed, use multiple steering techniques (for instance, lean and put out a boot at the same time).


Tube-shaped and disc-shaped sleds can be very difficult to steer, and should only be used on wide, open areas with no obstacles – or preferably in special lanes in "tubing parks" and other winter recreation areas.
 If you lose control and the sled is going too fast for you to stop, cover your face and head with your arms, then roll out the side of the sled.