 Everyone has felt grief due to the loss of a loved one before, so you are able to understand what your spouse is going through. However, your spouse may deal with the grieving process differently than you did or in ways you don’t understand. That’s okay and perfectly normal.Avoid using phrases like, “I know what this feels like.”
Don’t get too worried or freaked out if your spouse goes through the grieving process in a different and unfamiliar way than you. There is not one right way to grieve.
If your spouse is a different gender, then remember that people of different genders may react to grief and loss in extremely different ways. If your spouse is the same gender, you still may find that your spouse approaches it differently.Some people may be vocal and outwardly emotional, others may keep it inside. Help your spouse no matter how he or she approaches the grieving process.
 There are five common stages of grief that people go through. Not everyone goes through these stages in the same order, and they may not spend long on each stage or may skip it entirely. Every grieving process is slightly different, but the general guidelines for the five stages are:Denial and isolation
Anger
Bargaining
Depression
Acceptance

, You can suggest that your spouse go to a grief support group or offer to join him or her at a support group. Grief support groups can help your spouse get through really tough times by connecting with others going through similar situations. You and your spouse may learn some grief management techniques during your meetings.Don’t force your spouse to go to grief counseling. Not everyone needs it or is open to going. If your spouse isn’t open to the idea, leave it.
You should only urge your spouse to get help if he or she is exhibiting the signs of serious depression or has suicidal thoughts. If your spouse is suicidal, you should contact a suicide hotline for help.
 The grieving process entails many different emotions. Your spouse will not only feel angry, guilty, scared, or upset, but he or she may be depressed, confused, disconnected, or overly anxious. This should start to dissipate as the person goes through the grieving process. However, a person who has experience grief may end up with a serious grief management disorder, like complicated grief, or clinical depression. If you think your spouse has complicated grief or clinical depression, encourage him or her to get help. The signs of clinical depression include:Difficulty getting through daily tasks
Obsession with death or excessive talk of death and suicide, especially an obsession with the loved one's death
Substance abuse
Lack of enjoyment of life or ability to think of positive times with the dead loved one
Strong feelings of anger, guilt, or bitterness
Withdrawing from everyone and life in general or feelings of numbness
Hopelessness
Obsessive focus on reminders of the loved one or obsessive avoidance of reminders of the loved one
Inability to trust others

