 The people you spend the most time with are a reflection of you. As the old saying goes, "birds of a feather flock together". Examine your social circle to see if the individuals you are around on a daily or weekly basis represent you well. These people should have characteristics and traits that you admire, traits that someday may rub off on you. Resist the urge to surround yourself with people who may be fun or exciting in the moment, but pull you away from reaching your potential.Hans F. Hansen said, "People inspire you or they drain you. Choose them wisely." Exercise this in your life by assessing those closest to you. Think about how you feel with these people. Do they lift you up and motivate you? Do they encourage you to have healthy, positive habits?
If you have people around you that are draining or bringing you down, you could be sacrificing reaching your potential by keeping them in your life. Decide if you need to cut off contact with people who are not representative of the life you want to lead.
 Discover your unique abilities and talents, and be sure to make use of them every day. By doing this, you hone your abilities and make them even better. When you work to your strengths, you give the world the very best of you. Plus, you boost your self-confidence and feel more accomplished.This is not to say it is unimportant to analyze your weaknesses - it is very important to know what areas you could use work. However, knowing and playing to your strengths enables you to realize your dreams and self-actualize. Think about it: you were given these gifts for a reason. Use them!

, While you are on the journey of self-actualization, remember to take time off to be good to yourself. Pushing yourself further and further can be a good thing, but everyone requires breaks and self-care to jump back in the saddle at 100%. When you are feeling stressed or overwhelmed, turn to a few self-care practices that let you clear your mind and relieve negative energy so that it does not affect the work you are doing on yourself.Self-care consists of any activities you can engage in that promote mental, physical, or emotional well-being. This will look different for different people. It may include taking a bubble bath, writing in a journal, exercising, meditating, praying or virtually any activity you find relaxing.
Test out a few activities to see what works best for you and call on them when you're feeling stressed. A daily or weekly ritual might be a great idea to implement to fend off stress before it becomes too much.
 Maintain a good relationship with yourself. Sometimes, we can get so caught up in life that we neglect ourselves. Regularly get in touch with your inner self and run a diagnostic. Is there something that you need? Do you need a break? Spend time with yourself and frequently reassess where you're headed and if you like where you're going. We are all works in progress, so don't fret when you have to change your plans or regroup. Be a champion for yourself!