 Satire exposes and critiques corruption and wrongdoing. It is a great tool when done right and can encompasses irony, humor, and exaggeration to spotlight what you find wrong. Examples of satire are The Daily Show and The Colbert Report.Ridicule the shortcomings of governmental motivations, corporate motivation, or everyday individual motivation to bring about positive change. Use this powerful tool when you’re creating a poster representative of a strong social value.;
, Exaggerate characteristics through visuals or smart world play. Highlight idiosyncrasies that your audience will understand. Spoofs and caricatures are common in movies and literature.Parody is different from satire because it directly mimics something. Choose appropriate images for your poster that produce this humorous effect. For example, if you want to create a parody poster of a motivational speaker who is slightly overweight, you exaggerate his size, keeping the outfit the same.
 Use your words and images so that their meaning is different from the original meaning. Create a poster that appears to be different than the reality. There are two types of irony: verbal and situational.Verbal irony is when you say something you don’t mean. When choosing the text of the poster, verbal irony can be an effective tool. For example, below an image of someone crying in his cubicle, caption, “I love my job”.
Situational irony is when someone reacts to someone else’s misfortune, but the same misfortune is about to happen to him and he doesn’t know it yet.
Ironic expressions and situations are common in everyday life and this tool can easily be employed by juxtaposing the image of your poster with your caption or title.
 A loss of motivation can be something a person struggles with their entire life or it can be something that is jarring.


Factors that can cause an immediate loss of motivation can include physical illness, depression, alcohol, pot, drugs, or loss of friends or family. Factors that people struggle with can be complex and rooted in a number of psychological factors.
 Depression is common to many people and people who suffer from depression often report being sad, hopeless, and having no energy. Utilize imagery and captions that evoke the same emotions.


Depression is a serious mental illness so be careful if these negative emotions cause you to create these posters. Seek out professional help if this is not a fun activity.
 Alcohol and certain type of drugs provide a sense of misery and listlessness. The more these substances are a part of someone’s life, the more likely they will lack a sense of motivation.Posters that parody anti-drinking or drug posters are easy to make. For example, you can use the iconic title “Say No to Drugs” with an image of famous celebrities. The caption can read what drug they were arrested for and how much their last movie made.
 For example, your poster can highlight how drinking is the only thing that helps with depression, but in reality, it only makes things worse., It is human nature to compare yourself to others. Create a poster that highlights that instinct by creating unfair comparisons. For example, create a chart of what Bill Gates has done this year and a picture of someone drinking beer on a couch with the caption, “I’m right on track”.


Many people have sibling rivalries or have to live up to their parents’ lofty expectations. It’s natural for a parent to want their children to do better than they did. This pressure can be examined with the message of your poster.
 You can watch the video if you want, but it isn't necessary. The speaker is more amusing than he looks, so go ahead and watch it.
 Search for an image online and download onto your computer into a location that you will remember. If you have already downloaded an image onto your computer, hit “upload image” and browse your computer to find the right location of the image file and pick just the right one.


Use image editing software to create custom images that suit your message.
Depending on your intention, remember that many images have a copyright. You should not use an image without the permission or consent of the original image creator unless your poster is only for personal use. Use an image search engine to locate the usage rights of an image.
Follow the prompts to zoom in or out or change the orientation of your chosen image.
 Your title can be provocative or funny but don’t make it too long. You can utilize comedic devices like irony or exaggeration to drive home your message. Follow the prompts to choose the type of font and color from drop down menus located beneath the title area.


Make sure your font type and color allows your audience to read the title. Some images may overpower your text.
 The caption of your poster can be more detailed than your title. It can be a thought provoking statement or comedic phrase. When juxtaposed against your image correctly, it can create both a funny and powerful statement. Hit the “update text” button when you are satisfied.


Watch out for grammar, spelling, and punctuation, unless that is part of your message.
Choose the type of font and color for your text by following the prompts of the two drop down menus located beneath the caption area.
 Ensure that the message is clear and that there are no unintentional mistakes.
 Hit the “Share or Download Parody” when you’re done.The site will also print the poster for you for a tiny sum of money, but printing is optional.

