 Get clothes that are your style and cute, but that people will also compliment you on. Everybody wants to be friends with that girl who's oh-so-chic, and very pretty.


For tops, go to stores like Kohl's, Urban Outfitters, Macy's, Aeropostale, and Hollister. They have really cute styles, especially Kohl's! Get a few polo shirts in different colors (only by U.S. Polo Assn., or Ralph Lauren. Be wary that polos are form-fitting). Also get colorful and designed camis and tank tops. Vests and decorative jackets are totally in right now, and you can put these cute tanks underneath of them. Get a white crop jacket if you can find one, as well as a denim jacket. Try getting a denim vest you can ear with a cami for that cute look. Get a thick belt and a thin belt, both in black or brown, to accessorize the waist. Wispy floral tank tops and sheer tank tops are really cute and popular. Never get childish graphic tees that have cartoons and lame jokes.
For jeans, go to Aeropostale and Kohl's! Your jeans should consist only of jeggings, leggings, and skinny jeans. A pair or two of denim bootcut jeans are okay for wearing rain boots and Uggs. If you can afford them, a pair of Miss Me's or Applebottoms would be nice to have. Colorful shorts are really in for summer! Try pastel and fluorescent colors, which are super adorable. If you can get a pair, get some white skinny jeans, which are really nice.
With shoes, for summer, get lots of flats, Toms, and Sperry Topsiders. American Eagle makes really cute flats. You can also wear some Vans, and get accessorized flip-flops or sandals for the beach or pool. Keep your feet clean as well, so you don't walk around with dirt all over them. Paint your toenails a neutral color with a top coat in summer, so you have them primped for the pools and beaches. In fall and winter, get Vans, Converse, and other sneakers. Try some waterproof Uggs for casual wear and rain boots. Always wear flats, Toms, and Sperrys with heel-toe socks only.
Get jackets and hoodies at Aeropostale or Target. Burlington Coat Factory has really cute and affordable winter coats. You can get crop jackets at Justice.;
, Wash your face twice a day with a face wash meant for your skin type. If you have acne, get Clearasil. If it's really bad, try proactiv. If you have pimples that pop up in different places, get x-out.


If you have sensitive skin and can't find suitable face wash, look up how to make oatmeal face cleanser. It works like a charm!

, Shave if necessary, and use nice-smelling shampoo, conditioner, and body wash. When you get out of the shower, press your hair dry and wrap it in a towel while you wash your face/brush your teeth/whatever. Let it air dry, then brush it. If you shower before bed, don't brush it and put it into a low bun or ponytail.


For good scents and working shampoos and conditioners, try Herbal Essences and Garnier Fructis. For nice lotions and body wash, definitely go to Bath and Body Works!
Always wait a minute before rinsing out conditioner. It works wonders for your hair!

, Its looks can tell your personality, group, and social status for the entire year. If you get a backpack with colorful mustaches, you'll be seen as a follower or a nerd. If you get a cute denim tote, you'll be seen as a cool kid. So get a design that announces your personality and social status! If you have lockers and don't carry much, try a tote. If you have lockers and carry a lot, get a rucksack. No matter what you carry, if you don't have lockers, you will need a backpack, hands down!

, The looks can also tell your personality. Fully customize your binders, notebooks, pencil boxes, etc. Your stuff should have your style written all over it.A plain, average composition book says you're plain or weird, but a silver one with jewels screams popularity. Try getting a cute colored binder with plastic slips for the covers, and put pictures of your friends and your favorite song lyrics in the front and back slips. If your school doesn't allow you to put anything in the slips, get a wooden binder with a cute design. Get adorable notebooks, a colored ruler, and mechanical pencils (if they're allowed).


If you have a locker and your school tells you to get one binder, there's no harm in getting two! Get two binders, and spread your classes out among them. It reduces space and weight, and you have more to customize!

, Layer it or have the split ends cut off. Doing the a week or two before school ensures that your hair will grow out a little and look naturally healthy.

