 Being a good host is about making people feel comfortable from the minute they walk in the door. This means you need to do some preparation before your guest arrives. Clean the house, have a clear space for guest to put their bags/shoes/coat/umbrella. If you're planning on playing games or watching something, make sure that the supplies are easily accessible.Anything that could embarrass you may also make your guest uncomfortable: dirt, potentially-offensive books/magazines/movies, or having to root around in the closet or kitchen for something.
Know your guests' allergies beforehand so you can be prepared. Consider allergies to food, drinks, animals, and cleaning products., When your guest arrives, lay down the basic house rules right away. This doesn't mean that you need to give them a lecture: it means being kind but clear about the expectations for the space in which they've found themselves.


If you like guests to remove their shoes, don't let them walk around for a bit and then comment on it. Pointedly take off your shoes and ask if they would like you to put theirs away too. They will get the hint.
If you have furniture that you don't want your guests to touch or rooms that you don't want them to enter, be clear from the beginning to avoid awkwardness later on.
Point out the bathroom right away. This way, no one will need to ask where it is in the middle of another conversation.
 Don't pressure the guest to clean up with you, but don't deny them if they really want to help. Many people would rather contribute than be waited on. Having something to do takes the mind off of any lingering discomfort.


Give your guests little things to do, like emptying the table or putting the dessert on the table.
If they offer to clean the dishes, you may find it most polite to decline and offer them a drink. Sit them at the bar in the kitchen and let them talk to you while you clean dishes. If they are determined, then leave the dishes, sit at the table and talk; ignore the fact that there are dishes to be washed.
 No one likes to stand in the middle of a room, clutching their bag, wondering where to go. Put away whatever they are holding (if they want you to) and motion for them to take a seat. Offer to get them something to drink. Once they are settled in, it might even be nice to leave the room (maybe under the guise of getting that drink) so that they have a chance to take a break and look around.


If you are constantly with someone, they won't get the chance to absorb the environment, and they might be distracted while you are with them later. This does not mean leave them for a long time – a minute or two tops should do it.
People like having things to do with their hands. So having a drink or munchies can help. Don't offer your guest food and not eat yourself, they will feel rude and gluttonous. Take some snacks too.
 Inviting someone over and then asking them what to do is rude. They won't know what you can and can't do at your home, and they likely don't feel comfortable taking charge of someone else's territory. Even if you aren't sure if the guest will enjoy playing Scrabble, anything is preferable to sitting and staring awkwardly in opposite directions., One of your biggest jobs as the host is to keep everything going smoothly. You will need to set a positive tone, and act as moderator if anything goes awry. Be prepared to smooth tensions: always be ready to change the subject or talk to anyone who's causing trouble. Your social "job" as the host is to make sure that your home is a safe and welcoming space for all who enter – no matter who is causing the problems.


Consider coming up with conversation topics beforehand. Think about what you've been wanting to ask each person – about a new job, or a baby, or a big trip. Plan ahead so that you don't have to think about it much in the moment.

