 Bows are randomly dropped by enemy monsters or found inside treasure boxes all throughout the game. You can even get one during the early stages of the game. You can use any type of bows since Giant Scorpions can be harmed by any weapon material.


If you’re character specializes in magic spells as its primary offense, just skip finding a bow and just have whatever type of attack spell your character currently has.;
, These monsters are commonly found loitering around swamp areas and forests, especially on the southern part of the map. Giant Scorpions can also sometimes be found inside dungeons, but not as commonly as in the outside world.
 Once you see a Giant Scorpion, quickly look for a safe spot far away from the monster that you can stand on and attack from. Go to a place where there are no objects that could block your attack.
 Fire your bow or cast your attack spell on the Giant Scorpion by pressing the corresponding attack button on your controller. It would take around at least three arrows or spells to kill a Giant Scorpion, but if your character already has a high level, you can probably take it out with just a single attack.


Killing a Giant Scorpion with a spell or long-ranged weapon is the best option since you’re safe from getting poisoned when the monster attacks you.
 Giant Scorpions can be damaged using weapons made from any materials. You can get swords and axes randomly from monsters or by opening treasure boxes all throughout the game. If your character specializes in close combat, you can use the melee weapon it already has.
 These beasts usually live inside swamps and forests areas near the southern part of the map. Dungeons and caves also house Giant Scorpions, but not as predominantly as in the outside world.
 Once you find a Giant Scorpion, slowly walk up behind its back without getting spotted. This way, you can increase the chance of dealing a strike on the monster without resistance from it.
 Once you’re near the Giant Scorpion, swiftly slash it with your sword or axe. Repeat slashing as many times as needed to kill it, and as quickly as possible. Don’t give the monster the chance to fight back. Giant Scorpion attacks have the chance of poisoning its target, which could seriously damage your main character.