 It is quite a selective job, finding the perfect tank mates for guppies that'll neither bother guppies nor eat them. You have to make sure that the fish you get for them aren't too big-you would not want to put in, for example, angelfish, because these can quite easily eat guppies as well as nip guppies' beautiful, long, flowing fins.


This is another concept you have to consider when selecting tank mates for guppies. Guppies have very long, flowing fins that resemble the fins of the beautiful bettas, and lots of fish like to nip these fins. If they aren't eating guppies, they're nipping the fins of guppies. You have to be very careful.;
,


Because guppies are live bearers, when they give birth, they give birth to actual miniature guppies instead of eggs. There are other species of live bearers which can also live with guppies because of their similarities in water quality and ways of breeding. One of these species is the "platy" fish, which is absolutely beautiful and extremely vibrantly colored. They are fun, hardy, cute, colorful, bright, and easy to breed, fitting the description of guppies perfectly. Swordtails are another type of live bearer fish that are also great for living with guppies. Both guppies and platys are inexpensive. However, beware: Not all live bearers are suitable tank mates for guppies! You don't want to put large mollies with guppies, for example.
Honey gouramis, as strange as it may sound, are quite compatible with guppies. They are larger in size but they don't eat guppies or nip their fins. They like peace and space and are quiet, shy, and bashful fish. They avoid fighting, aggressiveness, and breed occasionally. They are a bit more expensive than guppies and platys, but guppies and platys are dirt cheap, so you're not going to find anything at the same price of guppies and platys or cheaper. Most fish are going to be more expensive than guppies, but not by much.
Neon and cardinal tetras are also great tank mates for guppies. However, they have quite a few drawbacks: they are sensitive, do not live in newly set up aquariums, require lots of special attention, and occasionally breed. These fish are not suggested for the beginner.
 You don't necessarily have to have fish living with guppies. You can add invertebrates such as Ghost Shrimp. Ghost Shrimp are great with living for guppies-they're a natural cleanup crew and they're nice, quiet, shy, and peaceful! A hardy addition to any aquarium, these are definitely recommended.
 Guppies are top and middle dwellers-they tend to swim around the top and middle of the aquarium. It would create a wonderful, natural balance in your aquarium if you added some bottom dwellers as well. I would suggest throwing in some corydoras catfish-they're peaceful as well and just slink around the bottom without bothering any other fish.
 They aren't exactly peaceful, but the two species tend to totally ignore each other, which is what really matters-if the two species ignore each other, that's just fine. Occasionally, they will mess around with each other, but not in an aggressive way. This is typical, friendly behavior.
 There are lots of different compatible tank mates with guppies, as you can see, so you can pick the one that appeals the most to you. Do a bit of research on all of the species you are considering before adding any.

