 Planning a pregnancy in advance can be one of the most effective ways to ensure a healthy pregnancy for diabetics, because it allows you and your diabetes management team the time to adjust and prepare for necessary changes in diet and treatments to keep you and your baby healthy.;
,


Gestational diabetes can often be controlled with simple diet and exercise changes and monitoring, and rarely requires insulin or treatment with other medications. Type 1 diabetics may need additional insulin during pregnancy, particularly during the last trimester. Type 2 diabetics taking oral medications or pills may need to switch to insulin to avoid the transfer of the medication to the baby.
Pregnant women with any kind of diabetes should work with a physician or dietitian to build balanced, varied, healthy meal plans that can aid in the management of blood glucose levels to avoid high and low ranges.
For most diabetic women, moderate exercise is also helpful in managing glucose levels, particularly after meals. If you have other health conditions such as high blood pressure, blood vessel or nerve damage, or problems with your eyes, kidneys, or heart, consult a physician or diabetic health professional before beginning or maintaining an exercise regimen during pregnancy. In general, diabetic women should not begin strenuous exercise programs during pregnancy.
 Maintain blood glucose levels as close to normal as possible, especially during the first trimester. You may also need to increase the number of times you check your blood sugar to get a good feel for your levels when fasting, before and after meals, snacks, or drinks, and prior to sleep (for some women, an additional check during the night may be necessary).


The closer your blood glucose levels are to normal, the better your chances for a normal pregnancy and healthy baby. Take notes when you record blood glucose levels that include foods, exercise, and insulin use, and discuss these records with your doctor. Consult a professional if you believe changes are necessary.
It will take some time to figure out how pregnancy will affect your individual needs for dietary changes, blood sugar checks, and insulin.
 Frequent visits can help identify possible problems or upcoming changes that may be necessary. The regular care of a physician or diabetes management team can help prevent complications during pregnancy and delivery. Your doctor may also check how well your diabetes is being managed by performing an A1C test or blood or urine ketone tests. If you are experiencing considerable stress or illness, your doctor can also refer you to the appropriate specialists.

