 Continue with your usual routine for meals throughout the day. If you have been coordinating with a doctor or nutritionist about meal planning, review your meal schedule and plan each day around the holidays. Remind yourself of your recovery goals.Have a clear picture of what your day is going to look like food-wise. If there is a family gathering or holiday party coming up, consider changing the timing of when you eat, but don't deprive yourself.
Know your trigger foods. If you think you may have more difficulty around friends and family during the holidays, talk with them about your dietary plan. Most people wish to be accommodating.
Review a journal or meal plan routinely to help keep you accountable towards your recovery goals.
Try not to focus on restricting yourself because this can start a cycle of guilt and bingeing. Instead, focus on adding in healthy foods like fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.;
, While you may feel the desire to restrict your food intake before heading off to holiday feast, think twice about this. You are more likely to feel hungry when you have an empty stomach. And thus you're more tempted to overindulge when presented with lots of enticing food.Eat your regular meals such as breakfast or lunch, rather than skipping one or both of them before a holiday dinner.
Have a small snack that helps to reduce your cravings or hunger before heading out for a holiday party. Choose protein-rich, healthy snacks such as a bag of almonds, low fat cheese, or yogurt. Choosing fruit and veggie slices can also be a healthy way to snack.
 When you are mindful in your eating, you slow down and savor your food. This allows you to really appreciate and think about each food that enters your body. This can be particularly helpful for those with disordered eating and around the holidays when overindulgence is more common.Consider practicing mindful eating exercises at home, so that you can feel more in the rhythm of practicing this when at parties or social dinners.
One example of this exercise is to slowly eat an orange. Once you have peeled the orange, break up the orange into slices. Remove yourself from other distractions such as people, electronic devices, and other things that cause you to lose focus. Put one orange slice at a time in your mouth. With each slice, close your eyes, focus on the taste and texture of the orange. Through this slow process of eating, you can feel more connected to your food.
 While you may feel the desire to restrict yourself from sweet treats and holiday goodies completely, understand that this deprivation may make you more likely to binge. Consider allowing yourself to eat a few foods that are presented at holiday parties and large gatherings. Talk with your doctor or nutritionist about how to have a few treats while still staying on track.
While certain trigger foods may not be the best option, have some goodies that can still provide you with some satisfaction.
Forgive yourself right away if you eat something you feel you should not have eaten. Try to relax and focus on enjoying the holidays.
 Even the smallest success is a cause for celebration. For example, if you successfully get through a holiday meal without bingeing, then be proud of yourself and celebrate this success. Take a moment to give yourself a hug or a pat on the back.


Be sure to avoid measuring your success by a number on the scale or a clothing size. Remember that you are much more than a number, so try not to focus on these things.

