 Stimulant medication appears to be very effective at treating ADHD symptoms; however, some non-stimulant medications are also used to treat ADHD. Sometimes, non-stimulant medication will be used after stimulant medications have been ineffective.Many people choose generic methylphenidate stimulants as they are effective and cost efficient.
Stimulants are the first line treatment for adolescents and children over six with ADHD.
Stimulant medications include Methylphenidate (Ritalin, Concerta, Metadate, Daytrana, generic), Dexmethylphenidate (Focalin, generic), Amphetamine-Dextroamphetamine (Adderall, generic), Dextroamphetamine (Dexedrine, Dextrostat, generic), and Lisdexamfetamine (Vyvanse).Some non-stimulants include Strattera, atypical antidepressants, and certain blood pressure medications.Non-stimulants may be more appropriate for a patient that has a history of illicit drug abuse, due to stimulants being potentially habit forming.;
, Some medications may need to be taken every day. Others can be taken only on school days. Taking a treatment break can be beneficial and is often recommended.Prior to obtaining medication, talk with your prescriber about how frequently to use medication and if breaks are okay.


If you are (or your child is) a student, ask about medication during school breaks such as winter and summer breaks.
 Most medications used to treat ADHD are taken as a pill; however, different methods are available, such as liquid form and a daily patch. The medication Daytrana patch is worn on the hip that delivers methylphenidate for nine hours. Quillivant XR is a methylphenidate in liquid form. It’s approved for people ages six and over who have difficulty swallowing pills.A major deciding factor in long- or short-acting medication is the time of day that the ADHD symptoms most often occur.


Discuss your options with your provider and determine which method is best for you or your child.
 Stimulant medications can be short-acting or long-acting. Short-acting medications peak within two to three hours and are taken multiple times per day. Long-acting stimulants last eight to 12 hours and are taken once each day.For children, some short-acting medications may need to be taken at school.
Talk with your prescriber to decide which option will work best for you.
 It often takes some trial and error to find an effective medication that suits your needs. You may need to try several different medications and dosages to find the right fit for you. Be honest and communicate openly with your provider. If one medication is not effective, don’t be afraid to try a different one., As with most prescription medications, stimulants carry the risk of side effects. Sometimes the side effects may lessen over time, or they may persist with medication use. Side effects may occur in certain doses or in some medications and not others. For this reason, it’s often recommended to start on a low dose and increase the dosage if necessary.Note any changes you experience while you take the medication, including physical sensations and mood states. Some common side effects include:Loss of appetite
Difficulties sleeping
Headache
Feeling restless or jittery
Irritability
Tics/jerky movements

, While side effects are unpleasant, look out for dangerous symptoms related to medication use. These symptoms include chest pain, shortness of breath, fainting, seeing or hearing things that are not real, and paranoia. In boys, priapism (prolonged erections) can occur. These are serious symptoms that need to be addressed immediately.If these symptoms occur, contact your prescriber immediately.
 Take your medications regularly or as needed, whichever your prescriber recommends for you. Many medications to treat ADHD can be used recreationally. It’s important that you use your medication only to treat ADHD. Stimulant medications can become addictive and cause withdrawal symptoms.


Do not share your medication with others and do not use it as a party drug.Do not double dose. Use only as directed.
 If children may have access to medication, take extra precautions to keep children and medications safe. Keep medications secured in a locked cabinet at home to prevent any misuse or abuse.If your child takes medication, give single doses each day and make sure the medication has been swallowed.


If your child takes medication at school, drop off the medications yourself. Do not send the medications to school with your child.
 The only people who can prescribe ADHD medications are psychiatrists and some trained general practitioners who are well-versed with psychological medications. Make sure you talk about any concerns you have about medications with a prescriber. Prior to your appointment, some questions to consider include:What treatments do you recommend?
What steps can I take at home and at school to improve behavior and functioning?
How effective is medication at treating ADHD?
How long will medication treatment last?
When can medication stop?

, There are certain risks associated with taking ADHD medication. If you have a heart problem, let your provider know right away. Stimulants should not be used in people who have heart problems such as high blood pressure, heart failure, or congenital heart disease. Tell your provider if you have bipolar disorder, as medication can cause mixed or manic episodes. Let your provider know if you have a psychotic disorder, as medication can bring on worse behavior or thought disturbance. Medication can also increase aggressiveness and hostility.Always clearly communicate your medical and psychological history with your provider. This can include personal and family medical and mental health history.
Talk to your provider about any vitamins, herbs, and supplements you take. Note any allergies or adverse effects you’ve encountered with other medications.Even in patients with no history of cardiovascular disease, conditions such as hypertension and sudden cardiac death can occur when taking stimulant ADHD medications.
 Each individual responds differently to medication. Each course of treatment should be tailored to the individual and monitored closely by the prescriber. Once you start medication, keep in close contact with your provider. Make regular appointments to discuss medication effectiveness, dosage, and side effects. You may need to adjust your dosage or change medications if one does not work out well.


Without careful monitoring, medication can become unsafe and less effective.Stimulant medications are generally started at the lowest dose than can produce an effect and increased gradually if needed.
 Along with medication, behavioral approaches can be hugely effective in treating ADHD. Don’t rely on medication alone for improvement in symptoms. Instead, work with a therapist who will help you and/or your child to build skills. The goals of therapy may differ based on needs: therapy may include learning emotional regulation skills, managing stress and anger, and controlling impulses. Others may help teach time management skills, organizational skills, and working with a schedule. Many problems associated with ADHD can be solved through strategically changing habits and creating new ones.A combination of medication and behavioral intervention is recommended for children over six years old and adolescents with ADHD.
Children younger than age six who are diagnosed with ADHD usually undergo a trial of behavioral therapy to see if it is effective alone before considering pharmacotherapy.
Therapy can also help ease stressors and difficulties associated with ADHD.

