 This is the lowest amount of education needed to become a productivity consultant. Choosing a business-related degree will allow you to launch yourself into the business world after graduation.;
, If possible, join a management track where you will learn how managers trained. Following a steady rise in a company environment is a great way to prove that you have found success in the business world.
 It will be hard to start consulting until you have a proven track record in personal and management productivity. Keep track of all your successes throughout the years.
 You can compare the methods that are being taught today. Try to ensure your methods are unique to your consulting business.
 This can add to your expertise. You can specialize in productivity and focus your electives and thesis on this topic.
 While you are still working, you can develop a way to improve company productivity and try it out. Write down your theories for use later on.


Create workshops or seminars that can be tailored to companies and individuals. You can define your services by how well and quickly you can train a group of people in your productivity strategies.
 You can choose to be an industry-specific consultant, such as a programmer productivity consultant or a management productivity consultant. Research any competition in the area, so that you can choose an area that is un-tapped or under-tapped.
 There are a number of ways that you can do this, but implementing more than 1 of the following ideas will help you establish yourself more quickly.


Write a book or an eBook. Write down your theories in prose and sell them to business people or organizations. It is easier than ever to self-publish with companies like Amazon CreateSpace. You can choose to include worksheets, so that people can attempt to address their own problems, or simply tell problem-solving stories that give people your theories. Selling your book can also give you some income to start your business.
Start a productivity blog. You can become an expert and gain clients by giving a small amount of your productivity consulting information away for free. Establish relationships with other business bloggers, so that you are their resident productivity expert. You name will instantly seek more recognition.
Start a website. Your business requires a well-designed website. You should include a list of your rates and services, as well as company reviews of your services.
Apply for certifications or professional memberships. Associations like the International Association of Business Organizing, can improve your networking with companies and make you look more professional. Also, consider local and state business organizations.
Speak at business conferences. Sign up to give sessions at management training seminars or company conferences. You may not be paid to give the seminar, but you will get exposure and practice.
 Refine your productivity plans to fit the people who you can help and those who have the money to purchase your advice.
 Productivity consultants do not usually get a full list of clients right when they start, so you may not want to quit your job right away. When business begins to pick up, you may want to begin full-time, so you can spend part of your day contacting potential clients.
 You may need a license to be a business consultant in your state, so check with your Secretary of State office. You will also need to file a "Doing Business As" certificate if you are naming your company something other than your full name.

