 Most blisters will heal on their own without being drained, so you might want to just leave it alone. Your body will reabsorb the fluid in the blister as it heals. If the blister is infected or extremely painful, then it may need to be drained.

Do not drain your blister if you have HIV/AIDS, cancer, or heart disease.
 Before you touch your blister, it's important to have clean hands. This will help reduce the chances of your blister becoming infected.Wet your hands with clean, running water.
Lather soap between your hands by rubbing them together.
Scrub your hands for a minimum of 20 seconds. Be sure to apply soap under your fingernails, between your fingers, and on the fronts and backs of both hands.
Rinse your hands free of all soap and dirt/debris under clean, running water.
Dry your hands with a clean paper towel, and use the towel to turn off the faucet to avoid touching any unclean surfaces.
If you do not have access to clean, running tap water, you can use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer to disinfect your hands. However, this will not be effective in removing dirt and grit from your hands.
Apply enough hand sanitizer to cover both hands, then rub it over every surface of your hands and fingers. Let it air dry when you're finished., Even though you've washed your hands, it's a good idea to disinfect the blister itself. This is to prevent any outside bacteria from being introduced into the blister once you puncture the surface.Apply iodine to a clean cotton swab or a clean piece of paper towel.
Swab the blister, including the area immediately surrounding the blister, until it is completely covered.
Let the iodine air dry.
 Now that your hands are clean and the blister has been swabbed with iodine, you'll need to sterilize the needle. It's very important that the needle be clean, sharp, and sterilized, because a dirty, rusty, or dull needle can cause injury or infection if you lance the blister with it.


You can buy a sterile lancing needle from most drug stores, or sterilize a clean, sharp needle at home.
There are numerous ways to sterilize a needle. Some people hold the needle over a flame, while others pour boiling water over the needle.The safest way to sterilize a needle is to simply pour some rubbing alcohol onto a clean cotton swab, wipe the needle down, and let it air dry., Using the now-sterilized needle, carefully puncture the blister near its edge (where it meets the rest of your finger or hand). Be careful not to stab the muscle or the deeper skin layers underneath your blister; you merely want to penetrate the outer layer of skin on the blister itself.Larger blisters may require multiple punctures. Be sure to insert the needle close to the edge of the blister for each incision.
 Getting the serum (fluid) out of your blister is the most important part of the process. You may need to gently massage some of the fluid out if it does not drain well on its own. Be gentle and do not rush through it. Take the time to ensure you get all the serum out of your blister.


Leave the overlying skin from the blister in place. Removing it will cause a large, open sore that could easily become infected.
 Your skin may be stressed from the injury and subsequent punctures. Applying a thin layer of ointment, such as Vaseline or Neosporin, to the blister can help your skin return to its normal, elastic state. An antibacterial ointment has the added benefit of cleaning the wound while it's covered.Don't apply too much ointment. The wound will need to be able to breathe, and excess ointment may reduce the flow of oxygen to your skin.
Cover the blister with sterile, non-stick gauze, and use medical tape to keep it fixed in place.
Be sure that you do not accidentally apply tape to the blister itself, as this may cause significant pain when you remove it.
Change the dressings every day, and keep the area clean. Use more ointment as needed.

