 Listening well is an important part of being perceived as an adult. Work on your listening skills to help your parents see you as a mature person.When you are listening to someone speak, maintain good eye contact, nod your head to show that you are hearing what the other person is saying, and use neutral statements to express interest, such as “I see,” “go on,” and “yes.”;
, Frequent complaining and a negative attitude may make you appear less mature to your parents. To prove that you are mature, do your best to maintain a positive tone at all times. When telling your parents about your day, focus on the good things that happened and minimize the bad. Also ask them how their day has been, and if their day turns out to have been not so good, show sympathy.Avoid whining or making critical remarks as much as possible. These behaviors are seen as a mark of immaturity.
 Do your best to avoid getting into an argument with your parents. Although you may still have an occasional disagreement with your parents, do not instigate an argument if possible. Instead, do your best to be agreeable and compromise with your parents if something seems unfair to you.For example, if your parents have requested that you be home by 9pm, do not complain or accuse them of being unfair. Try saying something like, “I don’t mind being home by this time most nights, but I was hoping to stay out a little later tonight. Would 10pm be alright?”

, If you do not understand the reasons behind something that your parents have asked you to do, then ask for clarification. Asking questions is a good way to improve communication and avoid unnecessary conflicts. Make sure that you phrase your question in a way that expresses what you need from them.For example, if you have a 9pm curfew, and you think it is unfair, try asking something like, “I know that you care about my safety, but I am still a little confused about why I have to be home by 9 tonight. Can you help me to understand why you want me home by then?”

, It is possible that you parents are not aware that they are treating you like a child, so you may need to just bring it up. Try talking to them about how they treat you and ask them if it would be possible for them to stop doing certain things.For example, you might say something like, “I appreciate how much you both try to help me, but I feel like I am old enough to take care of these things myself. Would you mind giving me a little more freedom to handle things on my own?”

