 All Hindu festivals are planned according to the lunar calendar as only the lunar calendar can decide the changes that occur at different times each year. Thus the date keeps varying each year.;
, There are many different events linked to it. The farming communities of North, Eastern and central India link Holi to the harvest of the winter crop, even though now the green revolution has allowed a harvest anytime of the year but the day still holds this value for the farmers. Overall, Holi signifies the official onset of summer and is mainly celebrated for the downfall of Holika, who was a demon who was killed by Lord Vishnu who burned her to save his devotee Praladh from her. Though she had the boon to not die in fire, the Lord still overcome her boon to save his devotee. This is the main reason.
 In the majority of the country, colors are prepared and then along with water, people engage themselves to a war, a war of water and colors. But the processes are different in different areas. The southern regions do not enroll themselves into much of the fun play while there are week long celebrations in the central part while the north celebrates with great valour.
 As it is always done, the process of prayer is done in each house . In this process, the idols are wrapped in a flower garland and then a small lamp is lit. This lamp is revolved around the idols at about a distance of 2 feet (0.6 m) from the idol. Then all the food items are brought in front of the god(s) in small quantities, just like it is served to any other family member. At this moment, everybody closes their eyes and bows their heads with their hands folded. They wait for about 10- 20 seconds in this posture before opening their eyes. Then everybody prays and the food is mixed with the offering, known as 'prasad' which everybody must get, thus it is mixed. After this it depends whether you eat food or celebrate.
 Greetings and wishes are distributed amongst all and then the next house is visited. After visiting all in the locality, all the members in the locality team up and then throw colors and splash water at each other.
 The day is then celebrated till night by the families. The amount of celebrations vary and the prayers are more intense in the south.
 People have a great dependence and value for this festival.
 There is no harm and no need to feel awkward in offering the prayers even if you are not a Hindu.
 Avoid too many sweets if you are not accustomed to heavy eating.
