 Studies have shown that eating the right types of fat, like monounsaturated fats, can help reduce belly or visceral fat by up to 20% over low-fat diets.Monounsaturated fats are a type of fatty acid that has been linked to decreased risk of heart disease, improved management of diabetes, and improved function of your blood vessels.Although monounsaturated fats are considered healthy, they are still very calorie dense. Do not add these in addition an to an unhealthy diet or in addition to unhealthy sources of fat. These should replace those unhealthy sources of fat like trans or saturated fats.
Monounsaturated fats are found in a variety of foods including: olive oil, olives, nuts, seeds, nut butters, avocado and canola oil.
Ideas to try include: replacing butter or lard with olive oil, grapeseed oil or avocado oil.;
, Lean sources of protein will help you stay satisfied longer throughout the day and help fuel your weight loss.Make sure that you eat a source of lean protein at each meal. Measure out a 3-4 oz (21-28 grams) serving to stay within your calorie limit.Replace all fatty proteins like high-fat cheese, red meat and sausage with leaner cuts of protein like: chicken, turkey, fish, beans/lentils, eggs, low-fat dairy and nuts.
 Make sure at least half of your plate is filled with produce. These low calorie foods are high in nutrients and can help you lose weight and reduce belly fat.The best way to lose belly fat is through calorie reduction. When you make half your plate a fruit or vegetable, the low calorie nature of these foods helps lower the overall calorie content of your meals.
Measure out 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of leafy greens or 1/2 cup of fruit. Include 1-2 servings at each meal., When you're trying to reduce belly fat and get rid of dangerous visceral fat, you'll need to choose 100% whole grain foods when you're eating a bread, rice or pasta.100% whole grains are significantly higher in fiber, protein, vitamins and minerals compared to more refined grains. They are a much more nutritious choice.Refined grains are those that are overly processed and their vital nutrients are removed. Items like white bread, white rice, plain pasta or crackers should be limited.
Include a serving or two of 100% whole grains daily. Measure out 1 oz or 1/2 cup (125 ml or 25-30 grams) of items like: quinoa, brown rice, whole wheat pasta, whole wheat bread or millet., Help keep your body feeling more satisfied and hydrated by drinking adequate amounts of water and other clear fluids each day.


It's typically recommended to drink at least 8 glasses of water daily. However, even amounts up to 13 glasses per day have been recommended.Water is essential for hydrating your body. It's plays a vital role in regulating your body temperature and blood pressure.In addition, adequate hydration helps manage your appetite. Plus, drinking a glass of water immediately prior to a meal can help you reduce your overall intake and support your weight loss.

