 Diets full of high levels of carbohydrates can negatively influence your mood, which can be problematic if you are bipolar. Eating a lot of carbs leads to mood crashes due to an imbalance of insulin levels. Try to limit your carb intake.Avoid simple carbohydrates, such as white bread, white pasta, and packaged baked goods.
When you eat carbs, choose healthy complex carbohydrates, such as whole grains like quinoa and oats and whole wheat pasta.
 Sugar is another food that can cause mood swings and emotional imbalances. When you eat sugary foods, you experience a sugar high, which can trigger negative symptoms like anxiety or excitability. That high is followed by a drop, causing mood swings, lethargy, and depression symptoms.Eat sugar in moderation. You can enjoy desserts or sweet things occasionally, but not multiple times each day.
Reduce your sugar intake by switching out some of your daily foods. Drink water instead of sugary sodas and fruit juices. Dilute fruit juices with water to have the same taste with less sugar.
Avoid packaged sweets and sugary junk foods, like cakes, candy, ice cream, breads, and sugary cereals.
Limit the amount of artificial sweeteners you consume. Some people with bipolar have found that artificial sweeteners are trigger foods for mood swings., Caffeine may also negatively affect your mood. Caffeine can disrupt your sleep or cause insomnia, which can upset your mood balance and lead to a mood swing. Caffeine also contributes to depression symptoms by making you feel even worse.If you want to drink caffeine, try limiting yourself to one or two cups of coffee in the morning. You may also want to switch from beverages with a higher caffeine content, like certain types of coffee, to lower caffeine drinks, like green tea.
Talk to your doctor about the proper amount of caffeine you can safely consume.
 Alcohol is a depressant and affects your mood significantly. Consuming alcohol when you are bipolar may trigger depression symptoms and a depressed mood swing. Alcohol may also interfere with sleep or your medications. Try to limit or eliminate your consumption of alcohol.Having a few drinks when you go out with friends may cause an emotional imbalance for you.
If you know that alcohol triggers mood swings for you, refrain from drinking.
 There are some foods that have been found to upset the moods and emotions of people with bipolar disorder. Everyone is affected by food triggers differently, but being aware of common food triggers can help you start determining if those foods are a problem for you, too. Common triggers include:White flour
Processed foods
Sugary foods or foods with sugar alcohols
Artificial sweeteners
Lactose
Processed fat-free foods
Food containing dyes or chemicals

