 Often people with mental disorders show signs that they are beginning to have a relapse or episode.They may have subtle changes in behavior and attitude that increase or intensify. Recognizing these signs early on will help you determine if something is wrong and help you get your loved one the help they need as soon as possible.


If you know what their mental illness, research signs and symptoms on a website like NIMH https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/index.shtml or SAMHSA http://www.samhsa.gov/disorders/mental.
If you don’t know exactly what their mental disorder is, look for any significant changes in behavior or attitude such as irritability, withdrawing, being overly energetic, changes in eating, or changes in sleeping. If you notice a rapid decline or the person seems to be in crisis, then you can call the SAMHSA Treatment Referral Helpline at 1 877 SAMHSA7 (1 877 726 4727) or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1 800 273 TALK (8255).
 During the holidays or any other change in routine, it may be easy for people taking medication to manage their mental illness to lapse in taking them as prescribed.Take a few minutes to find out what medications they’re taking, how often, and how much. This way you can remind them to take their medication and plan for any changes you’ll need to make to accommodate their medication schedule.


For example, if your cousin takes his anxiety medication in the evening because it makes him drowsy, you may not want to plan for a late night movie with him.
If possible, write down the medication information in case of an emergency. You can shred it after they leave, but this will be much easier than trying to locate and gather prescription bottles.
 Your loved one probably has a support team in place to help them manage their mental illness. However, they may not have access to this team if they’re away from home during the holidays. Do what you can to ensure that there are different people and forms of support for your loved one while they are visiting.


Talk to your loved one about ways to contact their regular mental health provider. You could say, “How do you contact your therapist for help outside of the office?”
Ask if their provider can recommend a temporary provider in your area. For example, you might say, “Ask Dr. Patrisik if there’s a therapist you can see in this area while you are visiting with me.”
Ask someone close to you and your loved one to help you support the person during their visit. For example, you might ask your sister, “Could you help me support mom with her dementia during her visit?”
Look into support groups in your area for your loved one. Consider online resources like online support groups and forums, also.
 In the event that your loved one has a mental illness relapse or episode while visiting you, it will be useful to have a plan in place to get them help as quickly as possible. Knowing what to look for, who to contact, and what to do will make the situation a lot less stressful for everyone involved.Talk with your loved one about who you will contact in case they have a mental health emergency. For instance, you might say, “We’ll call your therapist and then the local mental health organization.”
Keep needed information such as insurance cards, prescription information, and other treatment information in a place that is easy for you to access.
Do not wait for a special event to help someone develop a crisis plan. Sit down with them and identify a plan he/she feels comfortable with. If they are not comfortable with the plan, they may not use it. Have them write out the plan or help them to do so and make copies. The person should keep one copy with them at all times, such as in their wallet/purse or back pocket, one at home that is easily located (i.e., on fridge), and one with you and several other close family/friends.
 Although the holidays can be challenging for people with mental disorders, the time after the holidays can be equally challenging.Some people may feel distressed as life returns to normal after the excitement of the holidays. Check-in with your loved ones with mental illness after the holidays to make sure that they are coping okay.


For example, you might call a week or so after the holiday season has ended to see how they are doing and if they need any support.
Or, for instance, you might plan to spend some time with them during this time to help ease the transition.

