 The term meditation describes the general practice of working with your mental life to reduce stress there. Although the term itself is general there are specific forms of meditation that you can engage in. Examine the following overview to get you started in finding a form of meditation that feels right for you:You can create a safe and wonderful space in your mind and explore it, imagining it with all your senses.
Repeating a phrase or word can help keep your focus on the phrase instead of bothersome or distracting thoughts.
Try simply watching your thoughts and feelings, allowing them to pass by without judgment or attachment.
 The first step in meditating will be to manage your environment, making it calm and distraction free. The focus during meditation will be on your inner mental life and outside distractions can cause you to lose that focus. Make your space stress free and get your body relaxed and comfortable before you start to meditate.You might find that laying down or comfortably sitting are good postures for meditation.
Make sure your clothes are lose fitting and comfortable.
Turn your phone off before getting started.
 Mindfulness meditation allows the stream of noise that your mind produces to pass by you, allowing you to relax and simply observe. You will need to quiet your mind and focus, relaxing into the meditation and allowing any distracting thoughts or stress to pass you by without attachment to them.Sit down and close your eyes.
Take note of your mental activity. Chances are you will be talking or thinking to yourself.
Calmly watch your inner thoughts, images, or feelings that your mind produces.
Your goal is to simply observe these thoughts without attaching or engaging with them.
If you find yourself engaging with your thoughts, gently return your focus and resume passively watching them.
You will find that over time you mental chatter will fade and grow quiet, affording you a calm and relaxed mind.
 Your imagination has a great amount of power over how you feel mentally. The human mind doesn't make distinctions between your imagined experiences and reality. Take advantage of this fact and create a wonderful and relaxing experience using your imagination.Get comfortable and close your eyes.
Think of a place that you find calming and safe, somewhere that you love being.
Try to see this space in great detail. Think of what the colors look like here or what items or people appear as. Try to see this calming space as clearly as you can.
Imagine the sounds of this space. What noises can you hear? Take your time and really imagine that you can hear the sounds of your visualized space.
Ask yourself what smells are in your calm and relaxing space. Inhale and imagine the scents as your breathe them in.
Pay attention to how your space feels. Ask yourself what the temperature is, what some items feel like to touch, or what a breeze might feel like.
Take your time and enjoy the space you have created, exploring and relaxing there for as long as you like.
 After you have finished meditating you will want to slowly refocus your attention on the “outside” world again. Notice any feelings of inner calm or peace as you engage once again with the world, knowing that you can find these relaxed feelings again when you start to feel stress in the future.

