 This will assure that you unlock the Ghillie Suit, which is an essential tool to your sniping arsenal. While playing the single player, practice your sniping. Ideal missions to practice your sniping are: Wake Of The Fallen or Retribution Equip yourself with whatever long range rifles you can, and pick your enemies off like sitting ducks. Beware though, your enemies online aren't as oblivious to your presence as the AI is... until you get good.;
, Do you want to crawl around the map stealthily and patiently with your silenced rifle, waiting for the perfect shot? Or do you want to hang top with the most deadliest sniper rifles in the game and pick your targets off with one bullet at a time? Once you have found a style that best suits you, proceed to step 3.
 The rifles in SOCOM 3 are the M87ELR (SEALS) the M82A1A (TERRORIST) The SR-25(SEALS: Can be silenced) The SASR (TERRORIST: Can be silenced) the M40A1 and the L96AW. The M87 and M82's are the loudest guns in the game. They have a bright muzzle flash and are heavy, but they are the most powerful, having no range limit and killing in 1 shot. The SR and the SASR kill in 2 shots, have unlimited range without suppressor, but with suppressor they are limited. These are the longest ranged silenced weapons in the game. Lastly, the M4OA1 and the L96AW. These are 2 shot rifles, can not be suppressed, but are very accurate. The M4OA1 is arguably the most accurate rifle in the game.
 Log online and join a Suppression game. A few good maps to start sniping on are Harvester, Crucible, Storm Front, Devils Road, and Killing Fields. Go to the armory and equip your ghillie/rifle.Equip a high scopeadd a Bi-pod if your going to be firing from a prone position. In your pistol slot add a Model 18, this is because if anyone gets close to you you can take them out quickly.Add some Ammo and whatever you want in the last slot and get into the action. Once in-game, if you are going for the stealth approach, try to find a few spots that are relatively secluded but have a decent view of moderately to heavily traveled areas. When you see a target, if he has buddies with him, engage them from back to front. This means that if the guy in the back drops, the guy up front won't notice unless he turns around, making him a sitting duck for you. Once you have milked that spot for all its worth, sneakily move to your next one.
 Join a clan, preferably a tactical one. Go to www.TopSocomSites.com and look for great clans, or visit www.Snipers.ws and register there. Their leader is a nice guy named ZiNg. While practicing, constantly seek out new spots from which to snipe, memorize all the maps, learn to use different rifles and scopes, and you will eventually become a well rounded SOCOM Sniper, and a VERY valuable asset to any clan.
 If you miss a shot and a guy gets away, for the sake of all things good tell your team. That guy could make or break the victory for your side. Let them know where he went.

