 This game is great for friends or people who are meeting for the first time.


If you are playing with a group of people who have never met, you will need to conduct an icebreaker before you start the game.;
, Make sure to get a blindfold for each person. Blindfolds can be purchased at a party supply store or made from bandanas or other fabrics.Unless you are skilled working with fabric, purchasing blindfolds is recommended to ensure that the blindfolds work properly.
 When blindfolded, it is easy to stumble or even fall. Safety should be the number one priority when using blindfolds.You may need to clear furniture away to create an empty space.


Make sure that no furniture is sharp or protruding from the edge of the room.
Blindfold activities should take place on grass, carpet, or other soft surfaces.
 This person will not wear a blindfold and will be responsible for watching everyone during the game.


A parent, older sibling, or relative is a good person to assign as a supervisor. You can also be the supervisor.
 If people are talking or distracted, make sure to get everyone to pay attention to you.


While blindfolded, no one should move quicker than a slow walking pace.
When touching other people during the game, everyone should touch gently from the neck and above.
 Have each person test their blindfold to ensure they cannot see anything through it.


Do a test run. Give everyone a chance to walk around a little bit with the blindfold on to get a feel for what it will be like during the game.
 Tell everyone to find a spot in the room where they cannot touch anyone else. Have them sit down.
 If you are playing with a group of people who don't know each other well, an icebreaker is a great way for everyone to meet.If your group is shy, you can start by introducing yourself first. Ask each person to share:


Their name.
Their favorite hobby.
One interesting fact about themselves.
You may not need to conduct an icebreaker if everyone is already good friends.
 Instruct half of the people to put on their blindfolds. The blindfolded group will be the "guessers" first.
 Instruct the blindfolded group to stand up and begin walking slowly until they find a non-blindfolded partner.


Each person who is not blindfolded should stand in the path of a blindfolded player.
You may need to help everyone find a partner.
Remind the blindfolded group to reach gently and slowly in the space in front of them and avoid swinging their arms around.
 Remind everyone that this game is to be played in silence. Say, "Once you have found a partner, please explore the features of that partner with your hands. Remember always to be appropriate with the way you touch one another.", Instruct everyone that the guessing will begin. Ask each blindfolded player to tell you who his or her partner is.


If everyone has just met, ask the blindfolded people to describe their partner if they don't remember their partner's name.
 Watch their reactions as they discover who their partner is.


Each person who succeeds in guessing their partner's identity, or is able to describe what they look like, wins.
 Have the other group put on their blindfolds and play the game again.


Keep switching roles and play as many times as you like.

