 The Shotgun or Hand Cannon are the two best weapons for attacking a Handyman, as they deal a fantastic amount of damage. When aiming these weapons at the heart of a Handyman, you can take out chunks of his health quickly, as seen by his health bar above his head. Upgrading these weapons will further increase the damage, and make these battles easier.;
, Murder of Crows is the third vigor you acquire. You won’t face a Handyman before you equip this vigor. The benefit of using this vigor is how it slows the Handyman down. He will attempt to swat at the crows for a few seconds, giving you the time to either get away or get a few shots off at him. Once this wears off however, the handyman can lunge towards you and continue attacking!


You can keep hitting the Handyman with Murder of Crows, but you will eventually run out of Salts. Salts can be found around the map if you begin to run low.
 Sky-rails can be a fantastic way to get away from the Handyman quick; however, if you stay on for too long he will electrify the rail. This will harm you and cause you to fall off the rail. If this happens to you, get off the rail as fast as possible! This is not saying you shouldn’t use the sky-rails at all when facing a Handyman, though. Just use it briefly and jump off to a location away from the Handyman.
 Shooting at any body part of the Handyman other than the heart will result in you using a ton of ammo. The handyman’s weakness is his heart. It can be found in the center of his chest but can be tough to shoot due to his large arms getting in the way of your shot.


Using the Murder of Crows will make the Handyman swat the crows well away from his heart. This gives you a clear shot to pump in a few shotgun slugs. This will cause devastating damage to the Handyman and quickly deplete his health.
 You can’t face the Handyman head-on. His large metal body is far stronger than yourself. Your advantage is using sky-rails to quickly jump around the map and the vigor you possess. If you give the Handyman time to get close to you, he can potentially deal a ton of damage and even kill you.

