 To prevent damage to your tech gear, you should invest in a protective case. Getting a protective case that is made for your gear and that fits properly will help to ensure it does not get damaged when you are traveling. You may invest in a protective bag for your digital camera and a protective case for your laptop or cellphone.You can shop for protective cases for your cellphone, your laptop, and your digital camera online or in person. When going in person, try out the cases and make sure they fit properly. #*Confirm the cases are sturdy by putting your gear in them and holding them in your hand. You can also try packing the protective cases in your backpack to make sure they fit and are secure.
You should invest in protective cases that are weather resistant and water resistant, as you never know when you'll be caught in bad weather while backpacking.;
, You should also pack your backpack before you start off on your trip to make sure there are designated pockets for all of your gear. Having designated spaces for your gear in your bag can help prevent them from getting damaged or stolen when you are traveling.For example, you may have a small, secure pocket at the front of your backpack for your cellphone as well as a pouch in your bag for your digital camera. You may also have a flat, thin section in your backpack for your laptop.
If you do not have enough pockets or pouches for your tech gear in your backpack, you may considering investing in a different backpack or repacking so there is enough space for all of your gear.
 Be smart and aware of your surroundings when you use technology while backpacking. Avoid taking out your gear in crowded, public spaces such as a busy train station or a packed outdoor square, as these can be spots where your gear could get damaged or stolen. Only use your gear when you absolutely need to, preferably in the privacy of your hostel room or a quiet cafe. This can ensure it does not get misplaced.If you do take your gear out in public, such as your digital camera, make sure it is attached to your body in some way. Keep the camera on a strap around your neck or on a small strap around your wrist. Always keep the gear in its protective case when you are not using it but still carrying it around with you while traveling.
You may also opt to leave most of your tech gear in locker in your hostel or in the locked room you are staying in for the night. This can make it easier for you to walk around in a new space without worrying about your gear and ensure it does not get lost or stolen when you are out.
 You should take steps to make sure the data on your tech gear is secure, as you want to avoid someone else accessing it without your knowledge or approval. The first step to securing your data is protecting all your tech gear with passwords that only you know. Having passwords can help keep your data away from others who get ahold of your gear and ensure it is locked when you are not using it.For example, you may protect your cellphone with a four digit password that only you know. You may also set your cellphone to lock automatically if the password is attempted three times and fails. This can prevent someone from gaining access to data on your phone.
 Though you may end up using public wi-fi when you are backpacking to use gear like a laptop or a cellphone, you should try to limit how much you use it on a regular basis. Public wi-fi, though handy, is also often not very secure. Using public wi-fi can expose your data to others who are also accessing the network. Many public wi-fi spots are also not regularly tested for viruses, leaving your gear exposed to any viruses or network issues that have not been caught.Try downloading Virtual Private Network (VPN) software, which gives you access to a secure server and will encrypt any information you access online using that server. You can find free or cheap VPN software online.
To avoid using public wi-fi, you may invest in a data plan with your cellphone provider before you travel. This will allow you to use your cellular data to access the internet on your phone, which can be useful if you are dealing with sensitive material online, such as banking information or personal emails.
 Get in the habit of backing up your data once a day so you have it in the event your gear gets lost or stolen. You may carry a small, portable external hard drive that you plug into your computer or your camera to back up your data. Or you may use an online service, such as Apple Cloud or Google Drive, to back up your data easily without an external hard drive.Make sure you backup your data often, as you do not want to lose any valuable data if your laptop or your camera ends up getting stolen before you back it up. You may set your computer to remind you to do a back up after several days so you never forget to do this.
 If you do end up losing your tech gear, you should report it stolen or missing to your service providers. This will ensure they can cut off your service right away so your tech gear can not be used by someone else. This is important if you lose your cellphone, for example, and do not want someone to access your data.You should also report your items stolen to the appropriate authorities. You may file a police report with the local authorities in the area and put a flier up about losing your items in the hostel you are staying at. This could increase your chances of getting your items back.
 You can also try using an App like Find My iPhone or Find My iMac if you lose your gear. These Apps help you track your gear by pinpointing their location on a map. You could then go to this location to try to retrieve your gear.There are also other tracking Apps you can download to make it easier to find your devices. Check with the manufacturer of your devices to find out if there are specific tracking Apps you can use.
 If you lose your tech gear while backpacking, and want to ensure you are prepared if it happens again, you may invest in travel insurance for your gear. This is especially important if you are carrying around gear that is expensive, such as a state of the art digital camera or a top quality laptop.You may contact your insurance company to find out their rates for insuring personal items like tech gear. Having travel insurance can help you recover more easily from the loss of your gear.

