 You can also cue your horse’s head downward by applying pressure to his face, nose, or head with a halter. You can also use a traditional halter and lead to help him learn the head down command.Another option is to also use a wand or dressage whip to help him learn the head down command. You will not be using the halter, lead, or wand harshly. Instead, you will be using light pressure and stroking to teach your horse how to put his head down.
 Start on the ground, standing on the left side of your horse. You will be doing this training on the ground, standing slightly in front of your horse.Slide the snap on the lead through the lower side ring and cross it over the noseband. Then, loop it out the opposite side ring, moving away from your horse. Finish by clipping the lead to the top side ring so the knob of the snap faces outward.
Another option is to run the snap through the bottom left side ring and then clip the snap to the top ring on the same side. This may depend on the preference of your horse, as some horses respond more positively to the lead over their nose and some prefer the lead attached to the side of the halter.
 Your horse may respond by pulling away or throwing his head up. This is a natural response. Avoid pulling down on the halter or jerking at the halter. Simply wait and follow the motion of your horse’s head, while keeping the constant pressure on his halter. Eventually, your horse will lower his head to see what your response will be.


Once he lowers his head, immediately release his halter. This will be seen as a reward by him and he will start to learn this cue. Your horse may lower his head for a moment and then lift it up again. This is natural and fine at first. The more you practice this move, the longer he will lower his head.
 If your horse is not responding to pressure on his halter alone, you may try using the wand. Start by squatting in front and slightly to the side of your horse’s head. Take the wand in one hand and stroke down his neck, chest, and legs. As you do this, apply pressure to his halter.He should lower his head as he relaxes due to the stroking with the wand. Once he does this, release the pressure on his halter and slowly stand up. You want your horse to keep his head down as you rise up. If he does not do this, encourage him to stay down by pressing lightly on his halter.
If your horse loses his balance while he lowers his head, reposition him and start again. Repeat these actions until your horse responds to light pressure on his halter by lowering his head.
 Continue to practice this command on the ground. Over time, and with enough practice, your horse should also respond to this command when you are in the saddle.To practice this command in the saddle, reach forward with one hand when you are riding him and gently press his harness until he lowers his head.

