 The first step to prevent kidney stones is to drink lots of water. For most people, the recommended amount is six to eight 8-ounce glasses of water every day. If you are at risk of kidney stones or have a history of kidney stones, then you will need to drink more water per day. Talk to your doctor for a specific recommendation on how much water you should be drinking every day.Try adding a bit of lemon juice to your water. Adding lemon juice to water may significantly reduce your risk of kidney stones.;
, A diet that is high in sodium increases your risk of developing kidney stones, so it is crucial to limit your sodium intake. Check labels to find the sodium content in foods and keep track of how many milligrams of sodium to consume each day. Try to keep your intake below 2,300 milligrams per day., Getting more fiber has been shown to reduce the incidence of kidney stones when combined with a diet that is low in animal protein.High fiber foods that do not contain any animal protein include:


wheat bran
brown rice
whole grains
beans
legumes
fruits
vegetables

, Getting enough calcium is essential to reduce your risk of kidney stones.Consuming foods that contain calcium and magnesium can help your body to absorb the calcium. Foods that have a high calcium to magnesium ration include:


barley
bran
corn
buckwheat
rye
soy
brown rice
avocado
bananas
cashews
coconut
sesame seed
lima beans
potatoes

, There are certain food that are high in oxalates and these foods can increase your risk of oxalate kidney stones. To reduce your risk, limit or eliminate the following foods from your diet:black tea
cocoa
coffee
spinach
beet greens
rhubarb
parsley
cranberries
nuts

, Foods that contain purines put you at higher risk of developing uric acid stones, so it is best to avoid these foods. Foods that contain purines include:all meats, especially organ meats, fish, seafood, and poultry
yeast-containing foods

, Some foods may make you more likely to develop cysteine stones, so it is best to limit or avoid these if you are at risk of developing cysteine stones. These foods include:soy
wheat
dairy products (except whole milk)
fish
meat
lima and garbanzo beans
all nuts except coconuts, hazelnuts, and sunflower seeds

