 You will want to use a pressed powder to use as eyeliner, which is powder that is tightly compressed and does not move around inside its container.


An example of pressed powder is virtually any eyeshadow on the market; they are generally sold as pressed powders to prevent mess and spills.
Most of the time, if you want to use pressed powder to apply as eyeliner, you will be using an eyeshadow.
Using pressed powder as eyeliner is generally the easiest method because it requires the least amount of precision and has a smudged, not-too-defined effect.
 The type of brush that you use will affect how the makeup looks on the client’s eyes.


A small brush with tight bristles will create a very defined, precise effect. The smaller and tighter the brush and bristles, the more defined the look.
A larger brush with loose bristles will create a loose, smudged effect that is not very precise.
 You will want to make sure that your brush is clean and doesn’t have remnants of old makeup on it. Spray isopropyl alcohol on the brush. It should dry in a few minutes or less.


You can clean your brushes by using a makeup cleaning spray from Sephora, which dries relatively quickly, depending on the size of the brush. Smaller brushes will dry faster than large brushes.Isopropyl alcohol spray is available at drug stores, beauty supply stores, and can be ordered off websites such as Amazon.com.
 You can disinfect your powder by scraping off the top layer of powder with a dry tissue or by spraying isopropyl alcohol onto it.


You may have to wait fifteen minutes or so for the powder to dry if you use alcohol spray on it, so do this only if you have enough time.
 Ask the client to close their eyes. Place your thumb on the client’s cheekbone and your pointer finger above the eyebrow. Gently stretch the skin so that it is not wrinkled or creased on the eyelid. Gently tap the powder onto the desired area of the eye.


Powder does not last for very long on the brush, so you will have to re-dip your brush into the powder several times to get an even application.
Dampening the brush with water will yield a more precise application.
Repeat the application of the powder onto the eyelid until you achieve the desired result. A heavier application will result in a darker, more dramatic look.

