 If you are comfortable doing so, talk with trusted friends and family members about how you are feeling. You can also seek out help from a counselor, therapist, or other independent health professional. If you can't afford it, search online for advice about free services or budgeting (try googling free therapy + your city name). There will always be something available to help a person in distress.Another option is to talk with other people who self-harm; they may provide a unique sense of social support that helps calm you down.You can reach out to various hotlines such as the National Suicide Prevention Hotline (1-800-273-TALK) or the Self Injury Foundation (1-800-334-HELP) or the National Hopeline Network (1-800-SUICIDE) – 24-hour crisis hotlines available for people who are considering self-harm or suicide.
 Find a hobby, activity or pursuit that lets you shine. Keep involved in it regularly. This may help you to feel better about yourself and distract you from thoughts of self-harm.To find a hobby you like, try out several until something you like sticks. You can try this website for ideas: http://discoverahobby.com/

You can also ask friends or family what their hobbies are; sometimes it is funner to do a hobby if others you know do it as well.
 You might become calmer merely by smiling, even if you don't feel like it. This is called the facial feedback hypothesis; it suggests that the relationship between emotions and the face is bi-directional: that although we typically smile when we feel happy, smiling might actually cause us to feel happier or otherwise help us to be less distressed., Rather than thinking about what is distressing you, try cooling off by watching a movie, reading a book, or hanging out with friends. If you do take in media, do your best to avoid anything that makes self harm look acceptable or cool.
 Although this is no substitute for treatment from a mental health professional, you can still try this technique and the others on your own as a way to calm your thoughts of self-injury. In this technique, try to identify a distorted thought, then challenge it.


For example, let's say you think that life is hopeless because you have no friends. Challenge this by doing the following: think hard about whether it is in fact true that you have no friends. Think about whether you have ever had any friends in the past. If you have, maybe you can get more in the future. Think about steps you might take to get new friends.For example, you could try new hobbies out on http://www.meetup.com.
 This technique, which involves posing questions to challenge the accuracy of one's thoughts, can help you figure out the usefulness and validity of the thoughts that are causing you to think about hurting yourself.


For example, you if you feeling that you are going to hurt yourself in order to feel something, because you feel numb, you might ask yourself the following: "what would be an alternative way to feel something other than pain (what about trying something safer and more pleasurable")?

, This involves replacing your self-injury behavior with aversive but ultimately not harmful experiences. This will allow you to 'self-injure' without your behaviors actually being injurious.


For example, you might eat a hot chili, hold an ice cube in your hand, or take a cold shower instead of engaging in more harmful behaviors.,"This is a technique that is part of Dialectical Behavior Therapy, which has been successfully used to treat people with Borderline Personality Disorder.People with BPD frequently experience suicidal thoughts and impulses, and may also use self-harming behaviors.Opposite Action involves several steps:Use mindfulness to notice what you are feeling. Identify the action urge, such as the specific way you want to self-harm. Try to locate what prompted this feeling. For example, perhaps a friend has ended your relationship, and you are experiencing self-harming thoughts because you feel like no one will ever be there for you.
Do not judge your emotion as "bad" or try to suppress it. It's the urge that is the problem, not the emotion. Emotions just exist.
Consider whether your emotional impulse is helpful or not helpful. Would harming yourself help you address your deeper feelings of fear that no one will be there for you? No.
Do the opposite of the emotional impulse. If your impulse is to self-harm, do something that is the opposite. For example, you might try to write yourself a kind letter, or practice a loving-kindness meditation.
 Sometimes it can help to be around others who are dealing with the same issues. There are a couple ways to search for a support group to join:


Check out this website to see if there is a support group meeting that takes place near you: http://www.selfinjury.com/admissions/locations/

Try searching the internet with the terms "self-injury (or self-harm) support group + your city's name or zipcode".

