 Every great rap song should have a unique and catchy beat to set it apart from all the average songs that clog the radio. www.hytmanbeats.com is a good site to find beats.


Purchasing beat making software and equipment can be costly, and learning how to make your own beats is often just as big an undertaking as learning how to rap. If you can do it, however, making your own beats is definitely worth it as it gives you fuller creative control over your songs and a deeper understanding of the music.
If you don't want to make your own beats, you can hire or partner with a producer. Make sure this person is talented and listen to some of their other work before you buy anything.
If you are just starting off and can't afford your own beats yet, consider getting instrumental versions of popular rap songs and rap over these. Just make sure you are following fair use rules for copyrighted material. And of course, you can't rap over other artists' songs forever.
 You can do this best at a professional recording studio, but with a little work you can also set up a recording studio in your home.


Do several takes for every part of your song—you aren't Eminem just yet! Don't worry if you mess up; you can always use another take for that part.
 Get your recordings mastered and put your raps over your best beats. Work on your songs until they sound great, adjusting the beat and the vocals until they match seamlessly.


Give your song a name. Consider using a recognizable word or phrase from the hook.
 Many people think of mixtapes as collections of songs by various artists that you burn together for your boyfriend or girlfriend. But to aspiring rappers a mixtape is a much like an album, just usually less refined and often distributed informally or for free. Once you have a number of songs you like, combine the best 7-15 of them into a mixtape.


Think about the order of the songs on your mixtape. Even if the songs aren't necessarily related, try to craft a sort of narrative or emotional arc with the songs.
Create some album art. This can be anything, from a photo of yourself to just text on a plain background to abstract art. If you aren't visually artistic, get an artist to help you.
Burn some CD copies to distribute or release your mixtape online.
If you don't have enough songs for a mixtape but still want to start getting your music out there, consider just releasing a single instead. Make sure it's a great one, and give your single cover art just like an album would have.

