 If you're going to make one, be sure to decorate your den for it before advertising it! If you're going to join a roleplay, will it be a random roleplay or will you ask your friends to help make one? Or will you just join the public roleplay that is usually going on in Sarepia Forest in the more crowded servers (such as Draa and Aldan)? Make sure to avoid roleplayers who say "nm, nn," etc. This means "No miss" or "No nothing" which means they are trying to make it so that you take their attacks no matter what. This is called powerplaying and it's not good roleplaying! Just block or ignore anyone who does this to you, but only if they are constantly saying it or getting on your nerves as well as bullying you. If it gets to the point where they're harassing you or won't stop being mean, then report them. Don't make a big deal about it, just silently block and report them if they are causing you a lot of trouble. Animal Jam is a kids' game and it's not meant for people who are mean and rude. Do not go overboard with the violence, either; if your roleplay has any blood in it. Animal Jam is a kids' game; most can handle something like a Jammer getting bitten, but don't overdo it. Aldan (crowded server) has the most powerplayers most of the time, but not all roleplayers on Aldan are like this.
 Does everyone have to be a traditional unicorn? Is it accepting of all types of unicorns? Do you all have to be llamas and deer, or can anyone join? Is blood allowed even in minor amounts? Does the roleplay take place in Jamaa, or a made up dimension? Can Jamaa's lore (Mira, Zios, Shamans, etc.) affect the roleplay? Are only Buddies allowed in the roleplay, or is your den unlocked?

, And if your unicorn has a herd, do you roleplay it, or is it made up of other Jammers? Is your unicorn the leader or another rank? Does your herd have ranks? If your herd is going to be made up of other Jammers, advertise your unicorn roleplay in Jamaa Township (usually the most crowded place in Jamaa) in a crowded server (like Draa or Aldan).

