 Even when someone has said something really sarcastic or cruel just smile happily and walk on! Be nice to everyone at school and always have a positive attitude, people will be nice to you if you are nice to them! Act bubbly, flirty, and outgoing! Be a party in a package.;
, In the movies, cheerleaders are mean/popular girls who are out to kill, but you don't have to be one! Be nice and don't make fun of anyone. Everyone is just as good as you! Cheerleaders and sports players are usually popular, and you may be too.
 Wear bright colors, like yellow, green, blue, pink, white, and orange. Wear dark-wash shorts 3 days a week and skinny jeans 2 days a week. Paint your nails in school colors with crackle on top. Wear your hair up in a bun with a bow, a ponytail with a bow, or a braid with a bow.
 Put on concealer, blush, lip gloss, mascara, eyeshadow, etc. Make sure it looks natural, yet gorgeous. For an extra blast, add glitter.
 Look back at step 2, don't be mean but you do have to have a little bit of attitude and swagger. Be super nice and friendly, but have a tough side. You can show off a little, but don't try to be better than everyone else.
 Have high self-esteem. Cheerleaders are confident and are not scared to show who they really are. Stand up to people and practice not being shy. Life's what you make it!

, Eat healthily and don't stuff yourself with carbohydrates and sugar, but do not starve yourself to be super-thin! If you're not your healthiest -- whether that be too big or too skinny -- you won't be able to be as active as you need to be! Eat a well rounded diet of fruits, veggies, and protein.
 If you need to have an exercise routine make one. Be sure to include cheerleading drills. Try to be an awesome cheerleader, so practice high jumping, stretching, tumbling, and dancing. Practice jazz and hip hop.
 You can teach yourself cartwheels and round-offs, but if you want to learn harder tricks, start taking tumbling lessons. Learn cheerleading jumps and stunts. Be able to do splits.
 Find out who the local/school team is. Don't care about what other people think about your decision, just follow your heart and go for it!!

