 At some point, you will have to make contact with your ex. It might be easier to start with an email or text, especially if you have been out of contact for a while. Unlike the phone, both of these methods give you time to plan your response.Your first tries should be brief. Send a simple message, e.g., “I was out to eat last night at (Name of your favorite restaurant) and thought of you...” or “I saw the movie X last night and remembered how much you liked it!”
If you get a positive reply, wait a while before renewing contact. Be confident. Do not expect anything, and don’t pester your ex with messages. This will just seem needy and desperate.
Don’t ask to meet. The aim here is just to clear the air. A meeting, if it happens, will come later.
 After re-establishing contact, you will at some point have to take a risk and ask your ex to meet. You might try framing this as “catching up” rather than as a date. For example, ask whether he’d like to get coffee sometime, maybe next week, to catch up with each other. That will make the situation less stressful.


Be prepared for a refusal. Try not to get angry or beg if he turns you down. Accept the refusal gracefully and wish him well. Ending the conversation on good terms will leave the door open for future contact., You’re finally catching up with you ex over coffee. You’ve told him about all the things that you’ve done since the breakup – how you took an art class and have been singing in a choir. You’re showing your confidence and independence. Now is the time, but only if he seems open to it, to bring up your relationship and what went wrong.


Pick your spot. Try to read his body language. If he becomes defensive or makes it clear that he doesn’t want to talk about the past, accept it and change topics.
Tell him how you feel. Say that you’ve missed him and regret how the relationship ended. Be honest, be sincere, and say that you miss him.
Maintain eye contact. Don’t look evasive or distracted.
Acknowledge your mistakes and apologize. Be specific and sincere. An effective apology takes complete responsibility – no “buts” or excuses., Your heart-to-heart talk may get the answer you’ve longed to hear. In that case, move forward slowly. Try a casual date. Be communicative and remember what issues caused the relationship to fail the first time. Be wary of falling back into old bad habits.


Accept a refusal gracefully and try to move on with life. Don’t grovel or beg. At the very least, you will have closure and know that you tried as best you could to salvage the relationship.

