 Get out a pad and pencil, or use your computer to open a new document and start brainstorming ideas. Writing this speech is going to be a process and brainstorming is an important part of that process. Additionally, it is helpful to verbally brainstorm with your family and friends about what to write. However, once you start the writing process, it is a much more effective to brainstorm through writing. Once you have ideas from talking to your friends or family or thinking about what you want to say start writing down experiences that match those ideas.
For example, if you were driving toward the theme that David Foster Wallace used of learning how to think instead of what to think. You might have brainstorm about a time that you decided to learn how to knit to make all of your friends and family gifts for Christmas instead of buying them gifts. Talk about how much your grandmother loved the scarf you made her and how that ended up bonding you two together. When you think back to why you care so much about making gifts instead of buying them you realize that you want to question the pressure that is put on you to spend a lot of money to buy everyone Christmas presents. That is your theme.
 Think about what you want your message to your audience to be, and write it down in one sentence. If you know what your message is, you will be able to write a more effective speech. Starting from your main idea and developing a speech from there will save you a lot of time and rewriting.


For example, I want to talk about how giving your time to volunteer work will end up making you a happier and healthier person.
Write out your most important life experiences and lessons learned, and decide what a main take away from those stories/lessons could be. For example, after working at the soup kitchen every weekend during my senior year, I learned life lessons from people I never expected to learn from. Homeless people who I saw freely give others some of their prized possessions ended up teaching me how to give freely.
Some examples of common themes in graduation speeches are: believing in/liking yourself, taking risks/putting yourself out there, failing is necessary for success, giving back helps you as an individual, being persistent pays off, being okay with not being perfect, overcoming adversity, good friendships save, and there are different paths to take through life/there is no one right answer. Giving thanks and congratulations is another style of graduation speech you can choose to write. In these graduation speeches individuals talk about all that they have come through as a class to get to graduation. They also might take more time to talk about and thank the individuals who helped them along the way.
These speeches tend to be less focused on giving advice and the individual giving the speech and more focused on the group as a whole. Listed here is a wikiHow article on writing a graduation thank you speech. , If you are having a hard time getting started, research good graduation speeches and start taking notes on the way they show their main ideas. Do not become intimidated by these great speeches, instead let them inspire you to write about something you really care about.


See if you can pick out a few main themes in the graduation speech, usually it will not be very difficult to find because it will be repeated several times. Writing those down will help you see how they craft their speech around those ideas.
For example, you could take note that David Foster Wallace uses a simple metaphor to get across his main idea. He uses the metaphor of a fish being aware that he is in water as compared to a person who realizes that he is in a society that influences us to think and act. This metaphor shows us how important it is to be aware of the obvious realities of being in society that others might miss. It also how shows us how isolating it can be to be aware. #*Likewise, think about using a similar convention, for example, a short joke or a metaphor that illustrates your main point.
 Below are a few common graduation speech structures that have have been used with success many times. Consider using any of the following speech structures that have been used successfully by many others. In the first speech structure, you highlight a few, typically one to four, main take-aways, or themes. You show address those ideas through personal anecdotes or nonfiction stories to impart some wisdom to the graduating class. The people who choose this structure generally feel that they have simple, yet important wisdom that might help the graduates succeed in life. For example, Steve Jobs used this structure and told just three stories about his life. The first story he told was about how he “connected the dots” in his life. In the second structure, make a list of five to ten tips that you have acquired that you give as advice to the graduating class. If you had trouble honing in on one to three themes or take-aways, this might be a good option for you. You can highlight important things that are both big and small in this kind of speech. For example, an admiral gave a speech about the ten essential life tips he learned from the Navy that including tips to both make your bed, and never, ever give up. In the third, you tell a condensed version of your life story. Go for this option if you feel like you have a very powerful personal story that illustrates some important ideas about how to be successful or how to overcome adversity. You don’t have to start with the beginning of your life, instead talk about the important things that have made you who you are. For example, music producer Jimmy Iovine used this structure and started his speech by talking about a rebuke John Landau gave him. Jon said, ¨this is not about you¨, and that advise gave Jimmy the courage to keep working when his ego was fed up. In the last speech structure, you develop one main idea as an argument and use observations from life, your personal history, etc., to support this main idea. This option is good if you are really passionate about conveying one central idea to your audience that you are entirely convinced needs to be be heard by everyone. This is perhaps the most difficult speech to write because it is much like writing an argument; your ideas need to be logical and well organized. For example, David Foster Wallace follows this structure. He makes a claim that the real value of education isn’t learning what to think but gaining the freedom to choose how to think. He stays with this theme and develops his ideas like an argument. , This means that the way you write or tell stories matches your style. Showing your personality will help your audience relate to you and will help you feel more like yourself while giving the speech.


You can use humor to convey your personality. For example, Sumner Redstone, giving a speech to DeVry University, starts his speech with some self-deprecating humor that points out that people won't enjoy sitting through his speech. Redstone says that he is glad to go first in the program, and he quotes Mark Twain who recommends swallowing a frog at the start of the day to get the worst thing out of the way. Here Redstone makes himself the toad to make his audience laugh.
 Believing in what you are saying is essential to giving a good speech, don’t be afraid of writing a simple speech so long as you believe what you are saying. For example, Joan Didonato wrote her speech about ¨four little observations¨, and her first observation was as simple as ¨commit to the journey¨. Being passionate about what you are talking about will show in your delivery, as long as you practice. Speeches involve much more than the words you say, and oftentimes much more can be said through the emotions you convey when you deliver your speech. Think about all of the ways you can put emotion into a simple phrase like ¨I would die for you." A lot of meaning balances on the way you say those words.
Practice putting emotion into your speech to give it meaning. Rehearse what you will say in front of a mirror several times to see how you look, and don't be afraid to use gestures.
 This is a graduation ceremony, and everyone will be excited to be graduating. Depending on the tone of your speech, you can use this excitement to your advantage by throwing in references that the audience will cheer for.


Because everyone has gone through a lot to get to this point, you may want to take a minute to genuinely congratulate them on their accomplishments.
 Cliches may be true but they are also probably uninteresting to your audience. There are many graduation speech cliches: the future is yours, today is your day, discussing unemployment rates, and talking about how much the world has changed because of globalization and technology.


You should avoid these cliches because they have been overused, and the people in your audience will most likely not be inspired by these topics. Do not confuse universal themes for cliches. Some of the best, most powerful speeches have very simple messages. For example, giving back helps you grow as an individual. Even though this theme that has been explored before and will be explored again, the theme still rings true and bears repeating.

