 It's different than what you're probably used to, but definitely worth it. One misconception is that reusable products are unclean and gross. They actually have a lot of health benefits, like less risk of infections and Toxic Shock Syndrome. It's fairly easy to clean them. And if you're comfortable with your period, reusing shouldn't feel disgusting. Just give it a go, and you might be surprised.;
, There are plenty of good choices such as:


Organic cotton pads, pantiliners, and tampons: These produce a little less waste but cost more than regular disposables. They do not contain harmful chemicals and have not been bleached like mainstream brands.

Reusable pads and pantiliners: These are often made out of cotton or flannel, and are very soft and comfortable. You can also choose softer, more luxurious fabrics such as minky if you want maximum comfort. Most have wings that snap together securely under panties. They need to be washed in the washing machine after use, but they won't stain your clothes, surprisingly. You can also wash them separately from the regular laundry if desired. If taken care of, they can last for about ten years. The cost of reusable products seems high up front, but they will save you a ton on money in the long run. Want to save money? Know how to sew? Make your own pads. There are a lot of helpful patterns on the web. The best part is that you can make the pad that is perfect for you.
Padded panties: Similar to cloth pads, there are underwear made with extra cloth, so that they can be worn, washed, and reused all in one piece.

Menstrual cups: These can also be reused for ten or more years, if taken care of. Most are made of medical grade silicone, and collect blood flow instead of reusing. They can be worn for up to 12 hours without emptying on your lighter days, with no risk of TSS. Between cycles they can be cleaned quickly and easily with rubbing alcohol, sterilizing tablets, or boiling water. This is a great choice if you prefer internal menstrual products, because they hold more than tampons, and leak less often. Some people prefer them so they don't feel wet and "icky" on their period. Since they're internal and very comfortable if you get a cup that fits your body well, you may even forget you're menstruating!
Sea sponge tampons: These are natural sponges that are worn internally like a tampon. They can be washed and reused as well. They come in different sizes, much like disposable tampons, and can be trimmed as needed.
 For organic tampons and pads, look for brands like Seventh Generation and Natracare at an organic foods store, or you might be able to find them at supermarkets. Organic food stores in the US may carry the Lunette, DivaCup, or Keeper menstrual cups, but for other brands, you will have to search for online vendors. Some teens or first-time cup users prefer the MeLuna cup, as it is highly customizable, and details can be chosen specifically to fit your needs. Sea sponge tampons, padded panties, and cloth pads are primarily sold online.

