 Learning new things, especially games, will keep you mentally fit as you test out and adapt problem solving and information retention skills. Learning new information is also a great way to stave off memory decline and conditions associated with memory loss.Learn card and board games that require strategy, like gin rummy or Settlers of Catan.
Learning new games is a great way to remain social by inviting friends or strangers to play and learn alongside you.
 Playing puzzles and crosswords are simple and easy ways to keep your mind frequently occupied. The more often you are mentally stimulated, the better the effects.Play crosswords daily in the back of the local paper or purchase a crossword book at a local convenient store.
 Reading will keep your mind and imagination active as you age. Whether you are rereading favorites, getting into the classics, or finding new interests, reading offers endless opportunity.


Reading topical books, like travelogues or “how to” books, are great ways to gain information on a potential new hobby or activity.
Take this as an opportunity to read the books you’ve always been told you have to!

, Take time to try out new forms and experiments in creativity. Engaging in creative activities draws out many great benefits that are not otherwise present in daily routines.


Take a painting class.
Try learning a new musical instrument.
If you already have a creative hobby that you routinely practice, try learning new skills and methods, like oil paints instead of watercolors, or new quilting patterns.
 Participating in real world activities, or activities that engage problem solving skills associated with real world scenarios, help keep your mental faculties tied to everyday life and interpersonal relationships.Volunteering at a local senior center is a great way to stay tied to real world scenarios.
Give advice to younger adults or family members.
 The longer you live the more negativity there is to draw your attention. Instead of focusing on losses and failures take time to reflect on accomplishments and meaningful memories.Try and look for the “silver lining” when thinking of regrets or failures.

