 There are several different types of intellectual property. The type of intellectual property that has been stolen will determine what rights you have and how you will need to go about proving theft. The most common types of intellectual property are:



Copyrighted material. Original material fixed in a tangible medium of expression is eligible for copyright protection.Examples of work eligible for copyright protection includes poems, photographs, paintings, software, and music.

Trademarks. A trademark is a word, symbol, phrase, and/or design that identifies and distinguishes the source of goods of one party from those of another. A service mark is a trademark that identifies the source of services instead of goods.Trade secrets. A trade secret is any valuable business information that is not generally known, which is kept confidential to preserve its economic value.An example is Kentucky Fried Chicken's secret recipe.;
, You have different property rights depending on the intellectual property stolen. You will want to see if the alleged thief has infringed any of these rights. If so, then you can bring a lawsuit.



Copyright: You have several rights, which are yours alone. These include the right to:reproduce the copyrighted work
display the copyrighted work publicly
prepare “derivative works” based on the copyrighted work
distribute copies of the copyrighted work to the public by sale or permission to display



Trademark: A trademark holder can stop others from using the same or a similar trademark, unless the other party is already actively using the mark legitimately.Trade secrets: The owner of a trade secret can prevent others from copying, using, or benefitting from the trade secret without permission. The owner can also prevent disclosure where the other party has signed a nondisclosure agreement. Other parties cannot steal the trade secret or use it when they know that the information was protected.This is called “misappropriation” of the trade secret.
 Intellectual property is protected by either federal or state law, or both. The laws will explain what you must prove to establish infringement, as well as what compensation is available as damages. You should read through the laws and keep them handy in case you have questions.



Copyright law. The federal copyright laws can be found here.

Trademark laws. There are both federal and state trademark laws. The federal trademark rules and statutes are available at the USPTO website, here. For your state laws, you should search the web for “trademark” and your state.

Trade secret laws. There are also both federal and state trade secret laws. Virtually every state has adopted the “Uniform Trade Secret Act.” Search for your state and “UTSA” or “Uniform Trade Secret Act.” Furthermore, the federal government has adopted the Economic Espionage Act of 1996., In order to prove theft, you will need to establish that the defendant had access to the work. If the intellectual property is online, then virtually anyone with an internet connection could access it.


By contrast, if you have a trade secret, then you should have limited access to the trade secret to certain people in your business. Accordingly, you should look to see who in the organization handled the trade secret.
 You will want to document each time someone uses your trademark or copyrighted work. Also, you should document any use of your trade secret.


Take screen captures if the infringement occurs online. Make sure to take one capture for each day that it appears online.
If someone has printed off your work from the internet and is using it offline (to sell, for example), then you should get a copy of what the person is selling or distributing. For example, if you are a photographer and someone else is selling your copyrighted photos at a flea market, then you could buy a photo from the infringer and keep it as proof.
Always document the dates on which you notice the unauthorized use.
If someone has stolen a trade secret and is using it, then keep a sample of the product and note the days on which it has been sold. Be mindful, however, that it is not illegal to “reverse engineer” the secret. For example, if you use a special sauce in your restaurant, someone can buy a jar of the sauce from you and, through experimentation, figure out your recipe. If they do this, they can then use the recipe themselves.
 If the defendant is infringing your work by posting it on a website, you can find out who owns the website. This directory will tell you who has registered that domain, and provide you with their address, phone number, email address, and IP address., Before you decide to bring a lawsuit, you should consider whether this exception applies. “Fair use” is a copyright exception that allows “limited and reasonable uses of the copyrighted work” so long as the use does not infringe on the owner’s rights. To assess “fair use,” you will need to consider four different factors:The purpose and character of the use. This analysis considers whether the use was for a commercial purpose (such as a sale) or for non-profit educational use (such as a photocopy to distribute in class). A non-commercial use does not automatically qualify as “fair use”; it is merely one factor. It also considers whether the work is a parody or satire, which is also protected as fair use.
The nature of the copyrighted work. You have more leeway to copy from factual works (such as journalism) than you do from a “creative” or fictive work of the imagination.
The amount and substantiality of the portion used. For example, a court might not consider using one sentence from a 5,000 word blog post is infringement, whereas using an entire photograph would be. Also, if you copy the “heart” of the work, then that fact could work against a finding of “fair use.”
The effect of the use on the potential market for the copyrighted work. If the use would deprive the copyright holder of income, then it is more likely that “fair use” will not apply.
 The extent of your financial harm will influence how vigorously you will pursue the theft. If you use your intellectual property in connection with a profitable business, intellectual property infringement likely costs you a significant amount of money. By contrast, intellectual property for personal uses probably does not have the same financial impact.


If you run a business, pay attention to your monthly sales during the time period that you noticed the unauthorized use of your intellectual property.
You can also sue for lost sales. Even if your business hasn’t taken a big hit, you could still sue on the theory that the thief’s sales would have been yours.
 You should try to contact every thief or infringer of your work and send a Cease and Desist letter. If the defendant continues to use your intellectual property even after being sent the letter, then you will have additional evidence that the infringement is probably intentional.


A sample Cease and Desist letter is available at the National Press Photographers Association website. You can revise it to fit your situation.
 You can call the police to report theft of intellectual property. What qualifies as criminal “theft” (as opposed to infringement) will depend on the intellectual property that has been stolen.


When a trade secret is misappropriated for economic or commercial purposes, then it is a federal crime.Copyright infringement may sometimes rise to the level of a criminal offense, especially where the extent of the infringement is so extreme that it amounts to a permanent deprivation of the copyright holder’s rights., The only way to truly protect yourself is to bring a lawsuit for theft or infringement. Because this kind of litigation is so complicated, you will need to hire an experienced intellectual property lawyer.To find an intellectual property attorney, you should visit your state’s bar association, which should run a referral program. To find your state’s bar association, visit this website.
 A successful suit for theft or infringement will differ depending on the intellectual property and the law that you are suing under. However, you will generally need to prove the following in order to establish theft or infringement:


In a copyright infringement suit, you must prove that the defendant had access to your work and that the defendant’s work is “substantially similar” to yours. Proving access is generally easy if the work is widely distributed or mass marketed, for example through the web.Substantial similarity can be more difficult to prove. The similarity must be such that it can only be explained by copying, as opposed to independent creation, coincidence, or the existence of a prior common source.In a trademark suit, you must prove that the unauthorized use of the trademark will likely cause confusion, deception, or mistake as to the source of the goods. You will need to show that you own a valid mark, have priority over the defendant’s use, and that the defendant’s use of the mark is “likely to cause confusion” in the consumer’s mind.

Likelihood of confusion is a fact-specific inquiry. It looks at how similar the marks are, whether the parties’ goods and services are related, and whether there is any evidence of actual confusion, among other factors.In a trade secrets case, you must prove unlawful appropriation. To simplify greatly, this means you must prove that the defendant acquired the trade secret by improper means or that the defendant published a trade secret when he know the person who gave him the information obtained it through improper means., You have copyright and trademark rights regardless of whether or not you have registered them. Copyright rights spring up the moment you affix the work in a tangible medium.Also, you can establish trademark rights through use in commerce.However, you will have stronger rights if you register your intellectual property. Also, registration may be a prerequisite to bringing a lawsuit.


For example, to sue for copyright infringement, you must first register the copyright.Your attorney can help you register your intellectual property with the appropriate agency. For more information, you can see wikiHow’s How to File a Trademark and How to Apply for a Copyright.
 Your attorney will initiate a lawsuit by filing a complaint in either federal or state court. The complaint will name the defendant, allege facts surrounding the theft or infringement, and request relief.


A sample complaint for trademark infringement can be found online at the Wall Street Journal website.
 After you file a lawsuit, you can engage in “discovery.” Discovery is a process where you can request information from the other party. As part of discovery, you can request any document related to the dispute which is in the defendant’s possession or control. This is called a “Request for Production.”You can also ask the other party to answer questions, which you propound in writing or orally. Written questions will be served as Interrogatories or Requests for Admission. Oral questions will be asked in a deposition.You should strategize with your lawyer about what kinds of documents will help you prove theft or infringement. For example, you might ask for all drafts that the defendant used in the creation of his final product. This material might make reference to your intellectual property. If so, that document can help prove access to your work.
The defendant is also able to request discovery from you. You must be sure to comply with any “litigation hold” and preserve all documents requested.If you negligently (or deliberately) destroy evidence, the court could sanction you.
 To help you prove theft or infringement, you should depose the defendant. During a deposition, your attorney will ask the defendant questions under oath. A court reporter will record the answers.


The deposition is a good time to gather evidence of theft. Your attorney can ask very pointed questions about how long the defendant has been using the questionable material, where he or she has distributed it, and whether the defendant ever had access to your work.
You can begin to build a case against the defendant in the deposition. When the defendant testifies in court, you may be able to impeach him or her with statements made in a deposition.
 In a typical lawsuit, the defendant frequently brings a motion for summary judgment after discovery has ended. In a motion for summary judgment, the defendant will argue that there are no genuine disputes of material fact and that judgment is warranted as a matter of law.Your lawyer will probably defend against the motion by arguing that there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, e.g., whether the defendant had access to your intellectual property.
 The defendant may reach out to you at any time for settlement. The likelihood of settlement will increase if the defendant files a motion for summary judgment and loses. You should seriously consider all settlement offers, since settlement would help reduce the costs of your litigation.


Plaintiffs are often pleased with the results of settlement negotiations. The other party is frequently more flexible than you may imagine.Before settlement negotiations, you should talk with your attorney about how much your lawsuit is worth. Be prepared for the defendant to offer to settle the case for a low amount. You do not have to accept this initial offer but can counter it.
Your attorney has an ethical duty to notify you of any settlement offer. Ask him or her to keep you in the loop if any offer to settle is extended. Ultimately, the decision whether to settle is yours.
 You will select a jury in a process called “voir dire.” During this process, your lawyer will ask potential jurors questions about whether they can be fair and impartial.Depending on the jurors’ answers, your lawyer may be able to challenge certain jurors as biased. If the judge agrees, then the potential juror will not be seated.
Your lawyer will also have a limited number of “peremptory” challenges, which can be used without having to give a reason for excluding the juror.Jurors may be biased against you for a variety of reasons. If you work for a large company, jurors may know the company and dislike it. If your intellectual property consisted of writing or art, the jurors may be biased against your ideas or your type of depictions.
 As the person bringing the lawsuit, you will go first. Your lawyer will open the trial by delivering an opening statement. The purpose of the opening statement is to offer a sneak peek of the evidence you will present to support your case and to lay out a roadmap of how the evidence will be presented.


The opening statement should not be long: no more than 15 minutes or so.The opening statement is a good time to tip off jurors to “bad facts.”A bad fact is anything that weakens your case and bolsters the defendant’s. For example, you may not have been as diligent as you should have been to protect a trade secret. If you hired other employees without including a nondisclosure agreement in their contract, then you can expect that information to come out at trial. To take the sting out of this revelation, your lawyer may mention it in the opening statement.
 As the plaintiff, you will call the first witnesses and ask them questions. You will also use the witnesses to get documents or records introduced into evidence.


To prove theft or infringement, your lawyer will want to establish that you are the creator of the intellectual property. You should be prepared to be called as a witness in order to testify about the creation of your work.
Your lawyer will also establish the events that led to your discovery that the defendant was infringing on your work.
 Your attorney will have the opportunity to cross-examine the defense witnesses, just as the defense was able to cross-examine you. Your attorney’s strategy will depend on the witness.


For example, your attorney will try to get the defendant to admit that he or she had access to your work. Your lawyer might also try to get other witnesses to admit that they saw the defendant with your intellectual property.
 The closing argument is your lawyer’s chance to explain how the evidence presented should command a result in your favor. Your lawyer will link the evidence to the legal standards that must be proved.


An effective closing argument will use visuals and other graphics.You should expect your attorney to show the jury documents or exhibits that were used during the trial.
 In a jury trial, the jury will retire for deliberations after the judge reads to them the jury instructions. In federal court, jury verdicts must still be unanimous (unless you and the defendant agreed otherwise).They do not have to be unanimous in many state courts.


If you are unhappy with the verdict, you should talk with your attorney about possibly taking an appeal or asking for a new trial. You should balance the expected cost of the appeal against the economic harms caused by the theft or infringement.

