 If you live in a rural area, you can get pine pitch straight off of trees. You can see pine pitch oozing out of the bark of pine trees, as pitch is used to heal wounds and keep bark strong.Use your hands on a small container to harvest pitch. Gently peel off pitch that's oozing out of a tree and place it in your container. Keep gathering pitch until you have about a third of a jar's worth.
As trees need pitch for their own care, do not take too much from any one tree. Harvest a small amount of pitch from various trees until you have enough to make salve.;
, In some cases, you may end up with bits of pine pitch that are in hard chunks. Separate these chunks from the more liquid-like pine pitch and then break down the chunks by hand.Break the hard chunks into small pieces. The smaller the pieces, the quicker the chunks will break down when you're making your salve.
 Once your pitch is gathered and prepared, take a mason jar. Take a jar that is large enough to make the amount of salve you want. Fill it about a third of the way full with pitch.Make sure to use a jar you do not intend to use again. Pine pitch is very sticky and you cannot reuse the jar after using it to make salve.
 You can use any type of organic plant oil that you want. You can, for example, use olive oil, coconut oil, grapeseed oil, or any other organic plant out. Fill the jar the rest of the way with organic plant oil.You should aim for a ratio of roughly one part pitch and two parts plant oil.
 Take a large pot and place a piece of cheese cloth or an old cloth on the bottom of the pan. Set your jar on top of this. Fill your pot with about 2 to 3 inches of water, making sure not to cover the jar., Place the water on the stove. Allow the water to warm up over low heat. Do not allow the water to boil. You just want the water to get warm., Keep the water temperature warm by leaving your pot on the heat. Allow the pot to sit for three to four hours. On occasion, remove the jar from the water and shake it to mix it., After the first three to four hours have passed, remove the pot from the heat. Cover the pot and jar with a cloth and allow it to sit covered for an addition one to three hours., Again, warm the jar in water over low heat. Allow it to sit for three to four hours, shaking the jar on occasion. After repeating the process, remove the pot from the heat. Cover your jar and pot and allow it to sit overnight.Place your pot and jar out of reach of children and pets. You do not want it disturbed overnight.
 Every day for three days, repeat the same process. Warm your water over low heat and allow the jar to sit in it. Shake it on occasion to mix the ingredients. Set it off the heat, covered, for one to three hours. Repeat the warning process once and let the jar and pot sit covered overnight., After three days have passed, the solid parts of the pine pitch will settle on the bottom of the jar. At this point, you can add beeswax to the mixture. Just pour it on top of the mixture and then heat everything up together.You should add one to two ounces of beeswax for every eight ounces of oil you used.
Melt the beeswax into the oil by placing the jar in warm water again. Once melted, you can remove your salve from the heat and store it in tins and jars in a cool, dry part of your home.
 Making pine salve is a very messy process. Before you begin, you should cover your work surface. Lay down paper towels, plastic sheets, and other protective covering to keep the mess in check., Pitch will get suck to skin and clothing when you gather it and as you're making your salve. Make sure to remove it carefully when this issue arises.Butter, lip balm, and sunscreen can remove pitch from your skin.
Pitch can be removed from your skin with any type of rubbing alcohol.
 Your hands will gets sticky as you handle pine pitch. Pause and wash your hands on occasion while working. If your hands get too sticky, it will be very difficult to navigate your kitchen so wash your hands as you go along.