 Make a list of the various tasks that you would like help with. Estimate how much time you believe it will take to complete each task. Remember that your children will probably perform their work duties much slower than you would, and it will take more time for your child to accomplish the task than if it was you doing it.
 Although children do generally have more free time than adults, most of them have other responsibilities that will reduce the amount of time available for them to do chores. These can include day care, school, clubs, sports, art, and musical commitments among many others. You will need to take into account both the daily and weekly schedules that will tax your child's time and energy and be sure not to overload them, and you may have to periodically adjust them for busier times of the year like midterms and finals.


Remember that children should still have some free time to engage in independent reading, play, and even rest outside of sleeping.
 Many parents are unprepared for the amount of time that it takes to teach a child to independently perform chores. Until your child is 10 years old, they will most likely be unable or unwilling to do many daily chores we take for granted without prompting.Even if you are very busy with work and while at home, you will still have to make the time to teach and supervise.


Don't make the mistake of thinking that because you have frequently performed a chore in front of your child they will know how to do it. Take the time to demonstrate, step-by-step, how any given task is performed before inviting them to do it with you, and follow that up with stepping back to let them do it on their own while you watch and correct mistakes and praise successes., Once you have figured out both the amount of time for a child to perform the task and how much time you will have to commit to training/supervising, it's time to remove any tasks that exceed the amount of time available for a child to perform those tasks. If you know that painting the deck of your house will take many hours to complete, then asking your child to perform it on a school night when you don't have the time to supervise will likely not lead to satisfactory results for anyone.
 Big tasks can be time consuming, feel vague, and even overwhelming. Especially when working with children who may not know what you mean by "clean your room," you should try to be as clear as possible and break down the large task into multiple smaller ones. Turn "clean your bedroom" into "make your bed," "pick up your toys," "put your clothes in the dirty hamper," "take the dirty clothes to the laundry room," and so on and so forth.By turning a large task into a smaller one, you may be able to get a larger task accomplished after all, especially by giving your child multiple days to complete the mini-steps.
 If you have multiple children, you will want them to be responsible for their own personal chores, but it is possible to divide the various household chores for common areas like the kitchen, living room, and yards amongst them, even if some of them are younger and can't help as much.


It's also advisable to make a point of taking a few chores for yourself and making sure that the children know that these are your chores. Children will be more likely to perform chores if they see you leading by example, but they might also take for granted the work you do if it's not apparent.
Remember to make this a group effort: a good way to make your child more receptive to chores is to make them feel like they are contributing to something greater than themselves and functioning as a part of the group.Try to perform your tasks so that you're all working together in the same area and collaborating, such as them picking up their toys while you vacuum and the other parent dusts furniture.
 Young children should not be working anywhere near sharp objects, from great heights, or using chemicals that they could possibly end up ingesting (remember, very small kids like to stick things in their mouths and aren't always great about washing their hands).


Children under 14 shouldn't be operating heavy or potentially dangerous equipment like tractors or riding lawn mowers without adult supervision.Similarly, young teenagers and tweens should not babysit younger children without an adult present in the house: imagine what could happen if there was an emergency and the baby needed to go to the hospital but there was no one to take them.
Depending on the country you live in, it may be considered illegal to leave a child 12 years or younger without adult supervision; similarly, if you employ a child under 18 years old to babysit and something bad happens, you might be considered liable in the event of a crisis.Remember, children tend to be clumsier than adults and the leading cause of deaths for children ages 1-18 is unintentional injury., This is the point at which you will be informing your children of the tasks that you expect them to be able to handle. However, instead of seeming authoritarian about the situation, invite them to have input at this stage and explain why it's important they help. Make it into a conversation that they feel they have some choices in and that there is value to the work being done.


Try saying something like, "Evan, your father/mother and I are busy working every day. So we feel like we could use more help around the house. From now on, we want you to help us by feeding Snowball, picking up your toys, and helping me fold the laundry. On the weekends when you have more time, we want you to also help water the flowers. We're going to show you how to do it and help you."
If your child protests or says they don't want to do something, respond with something like the following: "Okay. We thought that you would like to water the flowers, but if you don't want to do that, okay. What would you like to do instead?"
After presenting them with the idea of having a choice, be sure to follow that up with specific alternatives. "You can either help with dusting the furniture downstairs or doing the laundry. Which would you prefer?"

