 If you already exercise, change the time you exercise or the type of exercise you do. A fitness class, like boot camp, can renew your motivation and boost your metabolism.


Exercise has been shown to increase energy and reduce anxiety, and can also provide catharsis for anger or sadness (not to mention improving the quality of your sleep and helping your body to fight off illness).Consider a group exercise class if you've never tried one before. Many people find that being a part of a group helps increase motivation to show up and do your best. Alternately, consider weight lifting or boxing as a way to relieve anxiety by literally that energy out on exercising.
 Replace driving with walking whenever possible. Each time you exercise, you can release more endorphins that will make you feel happier.


Scientists think nature can help you solve problems and improve your mood. Walking in a wooded area or on a trail may do more to get you out of a funk than walking in a city., Alcohol is a depressant and will leave you feeling sad or unmotivated in its wake, and many drugs have the same effect. Try going dry for a few weeks to see if this is the root of the funk.If you need help or tips to stop drinking, this wikiHow article may be helpful. Similarly, if you need help with a drug addiction, this wikiHow article may be for you. If you do suspect you have a problem with drug or alcohol addiction, see your doctor right away. She will be able to help you safely quit.
 Change your schedule so that you work out in the morning or go for a walk before work.


Too much sleep can backfire by causing you to be more fatigued than you were before. Most adults need about 7-9 hours of sleep per night.The right amount of sleep should leave you feeling rested when you wake, not groggy or desperate for more.
Use the extra time wisely to do things that get you out of your rut-- not to watch TV or spend time on Facebook.
 Better yet, plan a day when you can do this with a good friend.


Taking care of yourself and nurturing your body can help to alleviate feelings of stress. Deep tissue massages are especially good for this purpose,but anything that makes you feel good about yourself will help.
If you can't afford to see a professional for a treatment, take a hot bath with epsom salts and a few drops of your favorite essential oil like lavender or orange oil for aromatherapy. The salts sooth sore muscles and help ease tension out of your body., Fast food and junk food can affect your health and your mood over time. Make half of each meal with fruits and vegetables, and then fill in the rest with whole grains and lean proteins.


Several studies have found that junk food affects a child’s concentration, mood and performance in school. The same is likely true for adults, who can suffer from a funk at work or in general because of high calorie foods with low nutritional content.Try nuts, berries, broccoli, pumpkin seeds, sage, oily fish like salmon, and whole grains to boost your brainpower, or consider taking an Omega 3 supplement.