 Friendship is a two-way street, and your relationship can only improve if all parties are invested. Verify that both you and your friend actually want to continue the friendship.


You might take some time after the initial conversation to contemplate how it went and whether they explained or apologized. Weigh the pros and cons of your relationship. Is it mostly good? Or do you often feel betrayed or neglected by this friend?
You may even ask your friend, “Your behavior makes me think you aren’t as committed to our relationship as I am. Do you want to fix things?”If it becomes clear that one of you is not committed to the friendship, then you will need to make some changes. You may need to spend less time together, or no longer share certain things with that friend.
 If you determine you both want to improve your friendship, it’s time to go back to the drawing board and figure out how to make reparations. Your friend’s behavior likely violated your personal boundaries, which is why you felt betrayed or neglected. The two of you need to go over your boundaries again to be sure they are clear.


Sit down with your friend with a few sheets of paper. You both should write out how you want to be treated in the friendship and how you don’t want to be treated. Then, share this information with one another.
Ask questions to make sure you understand each other’s boundaries. You should also verbalize mutual agreement that you will respect and uphold these boundaries. Also, discuss consequences if boundaries are violated again., It takes time for a relationship to heal after a boundary violation; however, it is possible to rebuild trust in your friend with simple actions to restore credibility.


Confide in your friend with minor disclosures to verify that they won’t spread your secrets anymore.
Make small commitments to hang out so that your friend doesn’t constantly break promises.
If your friend shows effort, you might gradually increase your trust in them over time., One of the best parts of a friendship is spending time together doing things you enjoy. Feelings of betrayal or neglect may arise when a friend starts spending more time with others than they spend with you. Overcome this by making a standing date with each other to hang out one-on-one.For example, you might watch a certain TV show together on the same evening each week.
Notice if your friend follows through with the changes you discussed. If they don't, then you may need to take a step back from the friendship.

