 Attach the yarn to the hook using a slip knot, then work a foundation of chain stitches long enough to wrap around your finger.

The exact number of chains will vary depending on the size of your finger, but you'll typically need between 12 and 14. Check the length of the chain against your finger before continuing.
 Join the last chain together with the first using a slip stitch.

This will create the base for the ring band. Make sure that the ring fits around your finger before continuing to the next step. Ideally, it should be somewhat snug since the yarn will gradually stretch and loosen.
 Chain one, then work one single crochet into each stitch across the round. Slip stitch the last single crochet to the top of the first.

Repeat this pattern twice more, creating three rounds made of single crochet.
 Cut the yarn, leaving 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of excess. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten it off.

Weave the ends beneath the stitches to hide them.
This step only completes the band of the ring. You still need to create and attach the crochet bow.
 Attach new yarn to the crochet hook using a slip knot, then work 18 chain stitches from the loop.

Join the last and first chains together with a slip stitch, forming a round.
This foundation round marks the start of the bow decoration.
 Chain one, then work one single crochet into each stitch across the round. Slip stitch the last stitch to the top of the first.

Repeat this pattern two more times to create a total of three single crochet rounds.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail 14 inches (35 cm) long. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten it off.

Weave in the excess yarn at the start of the piece but do not weave in this ending tail.
 Fold the bow piece in half and center it over the band piece. Pull the tail through the band and tightly wrap it around the center of the bow piece, cinching in the middle as you do.

Continue wrapping the bow piece until the bow form is clear and the two separate pieces seem securely joined. You should have roughly 3 inches (8 cm) of yarn left.
Weave the extra tail into the stitches of the ring to hide it.
This step completes the project. The ring is now ready to wear.

