 Changing your thoughts in order to change your feelings and behaviors is a key component of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), which is a common type of therapy for treating stealing and kleptomania.Monitor your automatic thoughts, and you can change your stealing behaviors.Think about the thoughts that arise when you are considering stealing something. For example you may think, “I really want that,” or, “I will get away with it.” Think about who it benefits. Does it only benefit you when you steal? Or your family, friends, or someone else? And in what way does it benefit you or others? If you feel that some of your compulsion to steal is about validating your position or feeling secure within your group of friends or family by "buying" their affection or rewarding their attention with items, then you'll need to start seeing these drives for the insecurity within you that they represent.
 Once you’ve identified your thinking patterns you can begin thinking of alternative thoughts. This includes paying attention to your negative thoughts that reinforce your stealing behaviors, and actively changing your thought process in the moment.


For example, if you find yourself thinking, “I really want that ring, so I’ll steal it,” instead think, “I want that ring, but it is wrong to steal so I will focus on saving my money instead.”

, When you feel stronger about what is compelling you to steal and what you intend to do about it, spend some time reflecting over what you have been doing and where this is headed in all likelihood. Time for reflection is important because it's likely that you feel as if your life lacks purpose, or perhaps you feel as if you have no control over aspects of your life.


For some people, stealing is a form of passive rebellion against situations that make them feel powerless. Reflecting on these bigger picture concerns will help you to start developing your own goals for your life and will help you to set boundaries on poor behaviors that don't help you reach your goals.
 If you don't feel strong about standing up for yourself or you feel ignored, picked on or let down all the time, it is easy to use stealing as a form of "revenge" on people whom you perceive have hurt or ignored you. Or, you might be using stealing as a way to sedate your feelings in general. Unfortunately, by not asserting yourself and by not seeing your own self-worth but choosing stealing instead, you risk your future and you let the actions of others lead you into hurting yourself even more. Remind yourself that the only person you hurt for real is you – you might truly upset the people who love you but you're not punishing them; you're punishing yourself.


Read How to stand up for yourself, How to be assertive and How to communicate in an assertive manner for more details.

