 Just like in real life, Minecraft has different kinds of trees growing, and it’s important to know what kind of tree you want to plant, especially if you’re hoping to get a particular kind of resource. All trees in Minecraft fall under one of the six basic tree species; acacia, birch, dark oak, jungle, oak, and spruce. Below are pointers about what to expect from each kind of tree:


Acacia trees are the most visually unique kind of tree. They grow in a spiraling pattern, and their wood is more orange than other wood blocks.
Birch trees grow quickly and are easy to harvest.
Dark oak trees grow amazingly fast, and their leaves have the chance to spawn apples. Their trunks also grow in a 2x2 pattern, so if you want to harvest lots of wood blocks, this is an ideal tree to plant.
Jungle trees are the largest kind of tree in Minecraft and are sometimes also referred to as the “jungle giants.” Though planting a jungle tree would be a great way to harvest wood blocks, cutting down jungle trees can be a bit more difficult and potentially dangerous due to how tall they grow.
Oak trees are the easiest to find and the easiest to grow. The wood harvested from oak trees is the same color as the wood found in naturally generated structures. Like dark oak trees, oak leaf blocks have the chance to spawn apples when destroyed.
Spruce trees grow very tall, which like the jungle tree could give you a lot of wood blocks to harvest, but also adds some danger due to the height.;
, Before you can plant a tree, you’ll need a sapling, which can be harvested from already existing trees. Different kinds of trees grow in different places, so you need to know where to look:


Acacia trees naturally spawn only in the Savanna biome.
Birch tress can spawn various places, but are most commonly found in the birch forest biome and are easy to spot because of the white color of their trunks.
Dark oak trees generate only in the Roofed Forest biome.
Jungle trees are found only in the jungle biome.
Oak trees can be found in many biomes, including Extreme Hills, Forest, Swampland, and Jungle Edge.
Spruce trees are easiest to find in the Taiga biome but can also spawn naturally in Cold Taiga, Mega Taiga, and Extreme Hills.
 Unlike many crops in Minecraft, trees don’t grow from seeds, but rather from saplings. You can harvest saplings from already existing trees, such as the one you’ve just located. Saplings harvested from a tree will grow the same sort of tree as the one they were harvested from. To harvest a sapling, the easiest way would be to cut down the tree.


Cutting down a tree can be made easier with the use of an axe, but you can also do it with your bare hands.
Stand next to the tree and left-click on the woods blocks one at a time, holding down the left mouse button until the wood block drops. When all of the wood blocks have been harvested, the leaf-textured blocks will begin to vanish. Each one has a chance to drop a sapling.
Pick the saplings up by walking over them.
If you don’t want to cut down the tree, you can just harvest the leaf blocks by left clicking on them.
Not all leaf blocks will drop saplings, so it might take you a couple minutes to harvest one.
 Now that you have the saplings to plant, you need to know where you want your trees growing. Trees are normally planted by the player’s base, spawn point, or house to make them convenient, but they can be planted almost anywhere.


The block that the sapling is placed on must be dirt, podzul, or grass.
The sapling will need to have access to light, meaning it will need to be outside or have an alternate light source if grown inside. The two most commonly used alternate light sources are torches and glowstones.
Trees will not grow through other blocks, so make sure you don’t have anything blocking the way of the sapling in the blocks directly above it.
 Now that you’ve made sure your growing location is ideal, you can plant your sapling by selecting it from your item bar and then right-clicking on the block where you intend to plant it.

