 Remember that you can also ask questions during an interview. In particular, ask about who is successful at the company, and how you can gain access to the information that will allow you to be successful. Also ask them to describe their corporate culture for you.At the interview, you might ask: Can you give an example of an especially successful employee at your company?
You might also ask: What kind of corporate culture do you try to create here? What kinds of social supports do you offer employees? For instance, do you offer daycare?

, If you are mostly motivated by opportunities to move up in the organization, you should find out what kinds of rewards are offered for entrepreneurial employees. If you are motivated by a job with security, you should find out what the job offers in terms of long term benefits.At the interview, you might ask: What kind of pension plan is offered with this position? What benefits are offered?
You might also ask: What rewards do you offer for people who go above and beyond the weekly quota? What opportunities exist for professional development within the company?

, Observe how people relate to one another and how they express themselves or not at the workplace.Specifically, look to see if people are smiling at one another, listening to one another and respecting one another.


Think about whether you see people being friendly to one another in the waiting room.
Observe the demeanor of people you meet during the interview process. Reflect on whether you would see yourself as being happy in this environment.
Even the layout of the furniture can give you an indication of the work culture. For example, if you see a lot of common areas with chairs and sofas for employees to gather, then the company likely values collaboration among its employees. However, if you see mostly cubicles, then the company likely values individual effort and does not encourage collaboration.
 Think about how you were treated throughout the interview process and whether that treatment indicates that the company is a good fit for you.You might ask yourself: Did the employer show respect for my time by starting the interview on time and notifying me of any changes or delays to the interview schedule?
You might ask yourself: Did the employer show genuine interest in my responses and my experience?
You might consider: Did the employer seem genuinely interested in my career goals and aspirations or were they just asking rote questions?

, Some companies use job placement agencies to get the majority of their employees and this may indicate that the company has a high turnover rate. If the turnover rate is high, then the company may not be a pleasant place to work.

Even if the company does its own hiring, you may want to ask about the typical length of time that people stay with the company.

