 The National Sleep Foundation recommends seven to nine hours of sleep per night for optimal health and performance. Most people fall short of this due to a hectic schedule or an inability to fall asleep. During sleep, memories and information are being processed and organized in your brain, so it’s essential you get enough of it to achieve clarity., Try light aerobic exercise, such as brisk walking, swimming or casual cycling to increase the circulation of oxygen and glucose. Exercise helps your body work better, and that includes your brain. If you’re feeling mentally stuck, a walk outside will often help free your mind to work in a different direction., Keeping your body working well is essential to mental clarity. If you’re feeling physically good, your mind is free to work. Consume well-balanced, low-sugar and portion-controlled meals every four to five hours throughout the day.
 Scientists have begun researching food and its relationship to cognitive functions, and have some suggestions for your diet. Keep in mind that most of these are also just naturally healthy foods that are good to eat in general.Chocolate
Vegetables including cauliflower, chili peppers, sweet potatoes, beet juice
Cantaloupe
Sunflower seeds
Rice bran, fortified breakfast cereals
Yogurt

, When it comes to your brain, not all food is created equal. Your brain requires special nutrition for optimal performance.Include polyunsaturated and omega-3 fats in your diet. Avoid saturated, trans and hydrogenated fats as these may actually have a negative impact on mental clarity.
Take vitamins and minerals, such as Vitamin C, Vitamin E, B vitamins (especially B12), magnesium and zinc. These play an integral role in energy production, cell protection and the overall health of your organs. They are involved with the nervous and immune systems.
Make sure to get certain amino acids, such as taurine and tyrosine, which play an important role in neuro transmission. They can be quickly depleted in times of stress, fatigue, sleep deprivation, exhaustion or with a sub-optimal diet.
Try plant and herbal extracts, such as bacopa monnieri, rhodiola rosea, ginkgo biloba and huperzia serrata. These rejuvenate the nervous system and protect against neurodegeneration. They’ll help you to feel more alert by optimizing neurotransmission.
 Even though at times alcohol may feel like it helps you focus, in the end alcohol makes your brain fuzzy. Alcohol in excess also interferes with the proper functioning of your body, making it difficult for your mind to achieve clarity.
 For most of us, stress is the main reason we cannot focus as we want to. Think about stressors in your life and whether you can do anything about them.


Do not seek out situations you know will be stressful.
Avoid people who create stress in your life.
Try to slow down. Think about carpooling or taking public transportation if you feel like you spend your life driving.
Don’t overextend yourself. Know your limits and don’t volunteer for too much at work or in your personal life.

