 It is at: www.moshimonsters.com and in the center of the screen you will see the sign "Play Now".;
, Look for a screen with six monsters standing around. You can roll over them with your mouse to see their names to hear how they sound. The types of monsters are as follows:


A Katsuma is a mixture of a cat and rabbit. They are the most active pets, but they tend to get sick often. As long as you feed them and play with them, they will be happy.
A Diavlo is the most mischievous pet, however, they do tend to get a bit fiery. It's OK to leave them for a day or two, because these are the strongest pets in terms of health.
A Furi is the most grumpy pet, but they can be very happy if treated right. If you leave them alone, though, they will get angry. Their health will go down after a while, so take care of them.
A Zommer is a zombie. They are the easiest pet to take care of, but their happiness will go down in a while. Feed them a lot, though, because they tend to get very hungry.
A Poppet is the most playful and loyal pet. They also might be the cutest pet, as some people say. They are nearly always happy and love it when you tickle them.
A Luvli is the last and most fashionable pet. They tend to be spoiled and want their own way sometimes, but overall, they're cute pets to have, as long as you let them take control every once in a while.
 In this picture, you can see a Katsuma being colored. These colors will be with your monster forever, unless you pay for a membership. You can go to places like Colorama (recolor you monster) and get free rox from rox trees.


Make sure to click the 'Next' button after you enter everything in. Otherwise, everything will be lost!

, You should have an email from Moshi Monsters with an activation link. Click the link to confirm your email.
 Log in.
 Check whether you've got a secret code.
 Do this by pressing on the "Puzzles" button in your house. This allows you to play the games. You will make Rox easily.
 Go to the place where you'd like. If you want to buy things, go to Main Street or Sludge Street, or Oh la lane.
 Jazz out your home, keep your monster healthy and happy. In time, you may become an A-list Monstar!


When you buy Moshling seeds, plant them in your Moshling Garden on the map. If you got the combination right, you will get Moshlings. Moshlings are little pets for your monster.
 If you're going to be popular, you need to have friends. Just go out on Main or Sludge street, and ask people to be your friend. To do this, click on their monster and click 'Add Friend'.

Go to the street and click on someone. Then, click on their friends tree in their room and click on the sign that says "Add Me." The more friends you have, the higher the tree will grow.
 You are going to need visits/rates to be a high Monster.

The best way to get people to visit you is to visit them first.
 A good way to become popular is to be nice to your friends. Don't use inappropriate language, and be nice to everyone.
 Members can have more friends than non-members, and more friends means more popularity.