 For a child, the symptoms may include:


Fatigue and sleeping more
Irritability
Giving away beloved toys
Unexplained aches and pains
Growing bored and withdrawn
Staying in their room for long periods, especially to avoid family interaction
Loss of interest in things they used to like.;
, Hopelessness and helplessness can come across as negative self-talk. For example, "I can't do anything right".
 Depression can cause people to feel unloved and unwanted (regardless of evidence otherwise). Your child may question how much you care about them or whether are available to spend time with them.
 Young children may not understand emotions very well, and would complain of physical problems rather than the emotional ones that caused it. Physical pains that can't be explained by another illness may be signs of depression.


Headaches
Stomachaches
Feeling tired
Other aches and pains

, It can be helpful to keep a journal of your child's symptoms, and write notes on their behavior. You can show this journal to professionals when you are seeking help for your child.
 Learn how to support your child and continue to support them. Pay close attention to any hints your child may drop about wanting to talk; do what you can to make them feel better without dismissing their feelings.
 Listen to how they describe the situation, help them identify their emotions, and treat the problem as valid. A broken crayon may not mean much to you, but to a young child it can be a terrible disappointment. Seek to understand how they're feeling, and respect those feelings.


"You seem upset. You have a big frown on your face and you're looking down. Would you like to talk to me about it?"
"So, you're feeling upset today because you can't find your stuffed kitty?"
"Well, I can see why you would feel frustrated about that. Let's figure out a way to deal with this problem."

, Depression can cause irrational thoughts about being unloved and unwanted, and you can combat that by proving them wrong. Spend plenty of time with your child, hug them, and tell them you love them.
 Depression isn't fun, and it's natural to feel frustrated and worried sometimes. Remember that your child isn't depressed on purpose. Their emotional pain is genuine, and they need you.
 Scolding, yelling, and "tough love" do not help depression, because depression is not a choice. Treat your child like they are doing the best they can in a difficult situation.


Keep in mind that depression can lower children's self esteem, so they may feel very bad about themselves.
 Depression is different for every one, but regardless of how it manifests, keep showing your care and support for your child. Make sure that your child always knows he or she can trust you, both now, and in other times of distress.
 There is no shame in this; parents aren't born with an internal guide for getting it right. Get advice from your doctor, a teacher, a counselor or a family member who has been through this before.


It may be worth setting up several appointments with a psychologist for yourself. A psychologist has handled depressed people before, and can give you good advice.
 Other illnesses such as diabetes, anemia, mononucleosis or a simple infection can mimic symptoms of depression. It is also really helpful to have the support of your doctor in managing childhood depression; once again, there is no guidebook on how to help a child and your doctor will be able to give you great advice.


Talk to your doctor about what is going on. They can rule out other illnesses and then give you referrals or prescribe short term medication.
 If medication is advised and agreed upon, make sure that the medication is properly given and never forgotten. In terms of talking and counseling, make sure that all the therapist appointments are kept.
 Keep across your child's progress or lack of progress so that you are better equipped to help. At any time you feel incapable of helping, realize that you are a loving parent first and provide love, and that there are plenty of people able to help you should you need it.

