 Bulldogs are one of the breeds most likely to develop health problems. This is part because of the shape of their faces. More specifically, flat-faced dogs such as bulldogs are especially prone to brachycephalic airway syndrome. In lay terms, these dogs’ narrow upper airways make it difficult for them to breathe normally, and they are likely to develop potentially serious breathing complications.Other types of brachycephalic dogs include Boston Terriers, other types of bulldogs, Boxers, and Pugs.
Stop frequently on jogs and walks with a brachycephalic dog, and make sure you bring plenty of water and choose routes with lots of shaded spots to rest.
One sign of potential breathing issues is loud snoring. If your dog breathes especially loudly at night, let your veterinarian know.
 Pugs are another flat-faced breed that are likely to develop breathing conditions. Aside from narrow airways, they also have small nostrils and large palates, making even normal breathing challenging. They are also especially prone to heatstroke.Avoid strenuous exercise with your Pug as well, as it may further complicate their ability to breathe. These same rules apply to French Bulldogs, who also have the disadvantage of narrow tracheae.
Note that Pugs are also likely to suffer from eye and skin conditions, and that French Bulldogs are likely to suffer from orthopedic problems. In fact, the health complications associated with small, commonly inbred brachycephalic dogs such as these have led many veterinarians to recommend against owning these breeds.
 Some dog breeds, such a German Short-haired Pointers, are especially prone to bloat. Bloat is not only uncomfortable, it is also especially dangerous for dogs, as it can restrict blood flow to vital organs.Feed dogs that eat quickly, including pointers, small meals. Further, make sure to never feed your dog within the 30 minutes preceding or following strenuous exercise.
Note that German Short-hairs are generally quite healthy, but can also be susceptible to heart issues, skin disorders, and eye problems.

