 If Benadryl leaves you wired, make sure to take your last dose for the evening a few hours before bedtime. Ideally, you would simply use a medication that didn't stimulate you, but sometimes there are not good alternatives available. The best you can do is hope that your response has calmed by bedtime.
 When you lie down, your blood doesn't have to fight against gravity to get to your nose and inflame the veins and tissues there; this is why it might seem like you have to sit up in bed every few minutes to clear up your nose when you’re congested. Prop yourself up with pillows when you’re trying to get to sleep, and let gravity keep nasal inflammation at bay.
 A stuffy nose that impedes breathing is a common reason for being unable to sleep while you’re sick. Use a localized nasal spray right before bed, and reuse as necessary throughout the night to keep your nasal passages clear.


Decongestant nasal sprays reduce swelling in the sinuses and nasal tissues. They’re available both over-the-counter and by prescription, but should not be used over a prolonged period of time — three days at the most.Salt-water nasal sprays don’t have compounds that reduce swelling, but are still effective for loosening mucus and making it easier to clear nasal passages through blowing your nose. These can be used as often as necessary.
Nasal strips are a good alternative to sprays if you find that the sprays keep you awake.
 Sometimes, an illness makes you feel so bad that you lose your appetite for both food and drinks, but keeping your body hydrated is necessary for a speedy recovery. More important to sleep, though, is that a hot drink right before bedtime can soothe a sore throat, inhibit coughing, and clear up congestive mucus that would otherwise make it hard to breathe. Avoid caffeinated drinks, like coffee or caffeinated tea, before bed. Find decaffeinated versions of your favorite hot drink.
You can find teas that specifically help your body fight off colds at the grocery store, like teas with added Vitamin C or Echinacea.

