 There are so many animals in rescue that need loving homes that you must have a good reason for making more.;
, Gerbils are difficult to introduce to each other, but should not be kept alone. If the gerbils have known each other since they were pups, this isn't necessary.
 Never advertise for free and be wary, some people see gerbils as a cheap meal for a snake.
 Rodent breeders rarely make any money from breeding and you'll need to cover vet costs.
 Buying two gerbils from the same pet store might give you two from the same parent and could be supporting rodent farms. Breeding from the same parent (called interbreeding) is harmful. The pups would have cotton both genes for any defects the parents might have had. They would also have less immunity against any diseases they were prone to get. It is best to locate a good gerbil breeder who knows the history of their pups, as well as genetic background. Some breeders will cull so make sure their ethics match your own. You will need a network of ethical breeders to rely on so you can swap gerbils to keep your lines clean.
 Gerbils with a history of having fits or respiratory illness should never be bred from. Gerbils born with obviously severely crooked tails may have a congenital condition and should also not be bred from. Your breeding pair should be of good size. They should also have friendly personalities. Gerbils seem to inherit behaviors like pup neglect, it is worth knowing how your gerbils' mother coped with her pups. It is useful to know their genetics, enabling you to predict what color pups you will get.
 You do want the pups to get used to people and sounds, though. Place the tank so that your gerbils have some privacy from other tanks and animals., Remember that gerbils can mate within minutes of giving birth so you must be prepared for two litters. Its very stressful for a gerbil to raise a litter on her own so you should leave Dad in.
 The tank should contain only a water bottle and bedding (about 3 inches of Care fresh and unscented toilet paper - no material or fibers or "fluff" that is usually sold in pet stores). You might want to toss in a half toilet paper roll for the parents to gnaw up every day., This can be in the form of egg biscuit, cat biscuits, scrambled egg, dried or fresh meal-worms, whole nuts (crack the shells but leave the gerbils to remove them) or various other sources.
 This can stress Mom out and potentially cause her to eat her young. Leave Dad in to help raise the litter. If you must separate Mom from Dad, consider leaving an older daughter from a previous litter to help out.
 You can use the nipple method from 8 days but this is not 100% reliable.
 All pups your gerbils produce are your responsibility. If you can't care for them don't produce them. Three plus litters in a row puts stress on your mother gerbil, so remove the father before the birth of litter 3 (or even litter 2) so you do not exhaust your gerbil, but make sure an older daughter helps with the litter.
 Don't sell more than two, as this could be risky.

