 A staple of gym style is a simple ponytail. It keeps the hair out of your face during a vigorous workout. Simply pull all your hair back and secure it using a hair tie. You can have your ponytail rest near the nape of your neck for a low ponytail or have it near the top of your head for a high ponytail., A side bun is a quick style that keeps your hair out of your face while allowing you to have a cute hairdo. Part your hair on the left and gather your hair under your right ear. Twist your hair together until it's in a tight bun. When you're done twisting your hair, use a hair tie or clips to secure your bun.








You can also do the bun on the left side if you prefer.
 A low bun is a cute, simple look that keeps your hair out of your face. To start, brush out your hair and part it on the side. Use your fingers to gather all your hair together in back, near the nape of your neck. Twist your hair a few times until you have a tight swirl of hair. Loop your swirled hair together into a bun shape. Secure your bun with hair clips or a hair tie.








This works well with natural hairstyles, like braids.One advantage of the low bun is that it's flattering on most facial types.
 For workouts that don't require a lot of movement, such as yoga or Pilates, it may not be necessary to have all your hair tied back. In this case, you can simply put on a sweat band the way you would put on a headband. Push your hair back behind your ears using the band, but let it hang loose from there. This keeps your hair out of your face without you having to secure it completely.
 A bandana is cute accessory that easily keeps your hair out of your face at the gym. It has the advantage of covering more surface than a headband, so it's better at keeping bangs and flyaway hair out of your face. Bandanas can be tied around your hair in cute knots or bows.








For natural hair, you can try using a large bandana to wrap your hair up completely. This can help protect your hairstyle from damage during a workout., Bobby pins can be used to clip down any loose hairs that do not hold up in a ponytail. However, you can also use them as accessories. For example, place a row of bobby pins together near the nape of your neck after tying your hair into a ponytail. This is a great statement piece that both helps you accessorize and secures loose hair.








If you prefer a little more color or decoration, barrettes can be used in a similar fashion.

