 A common reaction to stigma is often isolation. Unfortunately, withdrawing from friends and family only worsens your mental health symptoms. Plus, you defeat the purpose of trying to overcome stigma by staying to yourself. So, get out there and spend time with positive people.It can help to start by reaching out to just one person--your partner, a coworker, a friend, or a relative. Call them up a few times each week. If you feel like going out, meet them at a park or for coffee.
If you have trouble getting out of the house due to anxiety or depression, work with a professional therapist or a support group to help you overcome this issue. You might locate a therapist in your area who can conduct telemental health sessions via telephone or videoconferencing., People with mental illness may be stereotyped and discriminated against in their personal lives and in the public media. You can learn how to best cope with this stigma by getting the treatment you need and sharing your concerns with your mental health provider.Ask your therapist, “I feel like friends and relatives treat me differently now that they know I have PTSD. What can I do to cope with this stigma and change their attitudes?”
Beyond seeking advice from your therapist about how to deal with stigma, this professional also functions as a primary source of support for you. Don’t hesitate to openly share your fears with them.
You can also look into resources from the National Alliance on Mental Illness and the American Psychological Society., Having a strong social support group helps you build resilience to effectively handle stigma. There’s no better source of support than men and women who are enduring the same struggles. Sign up for a local or online support group related to your condition. Then, seek advice and encouragement from members.You can also try connecting with people in your area who share your interests, such as by checking for local groups on Meetup.com.
 Although it’s hard, it can help to open up to those who are closest to you. Your loved ones may play into stigma because you are not vocal about your thoughts, feelings, and experiences.

When you shed light on what’s happening, you are more likely to educate them on the effects of stigma and build allies in the process.

