 Run this by the entire crew and cast in the morning, laying down exactly which pages you'll be shooting. This should also be known in advance, but it is a good way to get everyone on the same page. If this is the very first day of shooting, review roles and responsibilities with each crew member. A communicative crew is an effective one, so set a good example first thing.


You should only expect to shoot, at most, 5-6 pages a day in a full production.
Some meetings are more crucial than others -- you'll likely want to talk to your Director of Photography every morning about mood, lighting, and shots, as well as talking to the main actors about their lines.
Have a backup plan -- if a shot goes too long, which other shots do you cut from the days schedule? If you have extra time, what scenes can you shoot in addition to the schedule?

, Blocking is where the actors go, how they move, and when they do it. While you should be mindful of lights, cameras, and sound, these can be adjusted to fit the scene once you know where the actors will be and where they deliver their lines. Still, keep the blocking as simple as possible. Cameras only capture a small sliver of the set, and convoluted choreography makes everyone else's jobs much, much harder.


If it helps, use tape to mark where the actors need to end up after each scene.
You don't need the main actors for all the blocking preparation. If you can use crew members to experiment with blocking in advance you can simply direct the actors to their spots when they arrive on set.
 If you're doing your own cinematography, the best advice is to consider each shot like a moving photograph. If you line it up like a compelling still image, you will have a compelling final shot. Don't attempt moving shots without equipment like steady-cams and a dolly unless you want an intentionally shaky shot (a la Blair Witch Project). For beginners, there are only three shots you need to master, and they will work for just about every scene:



Master: This is a big, wide angle shot that captures all, or nearly all, of the action in the scene without having to move.

Two-Shot: One camera goes over each actor's shoulder in a conversation, allowing you to jump from one perspective to the other. If there 3 or more people in the scene, try to fit at least two people in each shot. These two cameras should cover all of the dialogue.

Establishing Shots: These are usually the first shots in the scene, used to place the audience in the scene (like following a character through the door of a tavern). In some cases, your master can double as an establishing shot.
 While there are some people who like to set up both cameras and lights at the same time, you'll usually have to readjust the lights once you know your definitive camera angles. Lighting a movie set is an art form in itself, one that takes years to master, but beginning or independent filmmakers can generally play with two styles of lighting:



Realistic: You'll want a lot of diffusers, bouncing light off of walls and the ceiling. You're aiming for even lighting across the scene. A good way to check this is to put the shot temporarily in black and white. You should have nice, deep blacks and a wide range of grays, with only a little bright white for contrast. Try using "practicals" -- which are in-set lights like lamps or ceiling fans, to help.

Artistic or Dramatic: Use big lights, colored lights, and sharp contrasts to make striking, almost unrealistic compositions, like those in Sin City, or even "Her." While dramatic lighting is always fun to play with, make sure there is a purpose for it if you're straying from realism.
 Though good audio is arguably more important than good video for a professional shoot, it still needs to go last so it doesn't intrude on the set. Like all jobs on set, film audio is a difficult and nuanced job, but that doesn't mean beginners can't do a good job. Depending on your equipment, you'll have different jobs:



Boom Pole: This is a powerful mic on a long metal pole. Usually, it is held above the camera line with the mic pointing down at the actor's faces. It picks up incredible audio, but it needs to be moved to angle at whatever actor is speaking.

Lavaliere Mics: These are stuck on the actor discreetly, like those small mics seen in documentaries. There are many that can be taped to an actor's chest, under the shirt, as well.

Shotgun Mics: The cheapest and easiest mics to use, these are simply placed on the camera while shooting. They are almost always better than the camera's attached microphone.
 The following dialogue is used, in some form, on almost all movie sets. You can adapt it to suit your own needs and shoot, but you should always run through these checks, no matter how you say it.


"This is picture, quiet on set!"
"Roll sound!" This is the cue to start microphones. The audio person yells, "rolling!" when ready.
"Roll Picture!" This is the cue to start cameras. When each camera person (or the DP) is ready, they yell "Speed!"
"This is Awesome Wiki Movie, Scene 1, Take 2." Slap the clapboard or just clap when done.
Give 3-5 seconds of silence, which makes editing the film much, much easier.
"ACTION!", These are the small shots that are easy to forget but make up much more of movies than you might think. For example, when a character checks their watch, you might cut to a close up of their wrist showing the time. You can also try some extreme or fun camera angles for specific lines or moments, or set up a few artistic shots for intros and outros of scenes.


Think about what shots are essential to tell your story -- for example, a shot of a test your protagonist just said they failed, a ticking clock, etc.
 In a perfect world you won't have to reshoot anything and at the end of the day you'll have usable, perfect footage for every scene. But in the crazy world of filmmaking, the day is rarely so simple. Whether or not to reshoot is often a judgment call depending on your time, budget, and actors. You have to weigh how much you need the shot against what it will cost to go shoot it again.


The sooner you watch the day's footage, the sooner you can correct mistakes if you need.