 A purée, a blended vegetable paste, is the most common form of thick soup. Most often, a thick soup is defined by its thickening agent (I.E: cream) as much as its dominant ingredients. If this is your first time making a thick soup, you may want to stick with making a simple purée; if you're feeling more daring, a cream-based soup can be one of the most delicious things you can make from home.


Although the possible choice of ingredients is just as varied as with the clear soup, keep in mind that the base of a thick soup won't complement every ingredient. If you're unsure where or how to start with planning your soup, try looking up a few good specific recipes online. Cream of mushroom soup is a well-loved standard, for instance!

, In the vast majority of cases, you'll achieve the base of your thick soup by puréeing vegetables. Boil the vegetables you want to make your base with. Then, using a food processor or immersion blender, purée your chosen base vegetables until they make a fine paste. Adding this paste to simmering water and stir until the purée is fully mixed.


Although the ratio will vary depending on the desired thickness of your soup, using 1 pound of vegetables per 4 cups of water is a good place to start. You can make a meat base by finely chopping or puréeing cooked meat, like chicken. This will yield a much different direction for the soup, and you may find a meat base carries flavour more easily than its vegetarian counterpart.
As an alternative measure, you can go without puréeing anything, instead relying on the thickening agent (which you'll add later!) for the soup's texture. A homemade or store-bought meat or veggie stock works in this occasion, although certain ingredients (like mushrooms) make for wonderful cream soups without being puréed., As with the clear soup, you'll want to give extra time to the larger ingredients you'll be adding to the soup, for the sake of letting everything cook evenly. You'll find aromatics like onions and garlic are particularly useful when it comes to making a thick or cream-based soup.
 This is the decisive part of making a thick soup. How you decide to thicken the soup will have just as much of an impact as the central ingredients you've decided to put in it. There are several ways to do this:


With a roux. A roux is an equal mixture of flour and fat (like butter) that may be used to thicken your soup. Mix both into a saucepan on medium heat and stir until the melted butter has enveloped the flour. Adding this to your soup is the best option if you want a thick soup, but don't want it cream-based. Butter may also be replaced with cooking oil or grease.
With starch, like grated raw potato. Use a grater to grate shreds of potato directly into the simmering soup. 5-10 minutes should be enough to produce the consistency you're looking for.
With cream or milk. Cream is the essential element in cream-based soups. To make sure the milk doesn't curdle, warm it up in the microwave beforehand. Add your milk or cream to A 1/2 cup of cream should suffice for a quart of soup; up to a full cup of milk will sate a similar effect. If you decide to make a cream-based soup, do not add the cream until just prior to the soup being consumed.
With egg yolk. 1 egg yolk per cup of soup should be enough. Beat the egg yolk until it's a mixture. Don't add the egg directly to the liquid; instead, add some of the soup to help warm up the beaten egg mixture before joining it in with the pot. This will ensure the egg yolk mixes properly with the soup.
With flour. Although vegetable soups may not stand up to flour, you'll find adding a couple tablespoons of flour will thicken a rich meat soup effectively. , Stir the soup regularly, to make sure the flavours disperse evenly. You may also find it helpful to periodically taste test the soup. If the taste isn't to your liking, adding salt and pepper helps in a dash to improve a soup's flavour. Other seasonings (like parsley and peppercorn) go a long way towards improving a dish.
 A garnish may include anything that livens up, or decorates your soup. This is the step that can elevate your homemade soup to restaurant status! A garnish may even be added simply for visual flair. As with the other ingredients in a homemade soup, you are completely free to experiment with whatever you think would give your homegrown recipe some added personality. Here are some examples:


A slice of bread or tortilla is a fun and practical addition; the bread will absorb the flavour of your soup and give you something more solid to munch on.
A thin meat like prosciutto is a light, but effective way of adding excitement to your soup.
Lightly grating cheese like parmesan on a cream-based soup is sure to add flavour to your soup. Moreover, it will give your dish a distinctive visual flair.
Even if your soup already consists largely of vegetables, adding fresh vegetables on top of it can add a new angle of taste and texture to the soup.
 While clean soups have a simple charm to them, a well-made thick or cream-based soup can taste like a fine restaurant creation, even if it's made from home. If you're planning on a cream-based soup, it's a good idea to add the cream and stirring moments before eating it. Thick soups don't generally keep as well as their lighter counterparts, particularly those with cream thickeners. For a long-lasting dish, it's actually recommended you don't add thickener to stored portions, instead adding a cream once it's been defrosted.