 When your worries are clogging up your mind, throw them out into the open. Chances are, people will give you great advice, and you can feel less worried. Scary dreams and ideas will disappear once you share them out loud with someone you completely trust. You may also find that there are other people who share the same worries as you - together, you all can get through your fear and support each other.;
, Do not convince yourself that you're being targeted at the very moment; otherwise, you're simply making it harder for yourself and allowing your fear to take over you. Know that you are safe in your home.
 Don't trust everything you read on the Internet! However, while the stories may be false, having scary emails forwarded to you can possibly shrink your confidence. To avoid having that happen, change your mail settings so that those messages are automatically deleted - you'll never have to see them in your inbox, and you won't have to worry about manually deleting them.
 However, it doesn't necessarily mean that you can never go to that place again. Instead, overcome your fear by asking someone you trust to help accompany you to those areas where you don't want to be alone (ex: the mall). This will give you a sense of security, and you'll eventually feel confident enough to go out by yourself. Also, get to know clerks and employees in shops that you normally go to. That way, seeing their familiar face will be like a breath of fresh air when you go to those places alone.


Familiarize yourself with the locations of any public phones in the area. Also, get into the habit of bringing extra change with you whenever you go out alone. That way, you'll be able to call the police if trouble strikes, but remember that the chances of you being abducted are extremely low.
 This way, someone will be able to call for help if you're abducted and aren't home by the time you said you would be. Also, letting someone know about your plans will help police and investigators find you even faster than if you mysteriously "disappeared" without a single soul knowing where you went off to.


Bring a cell phone with you so that you can stay in touch with the person who knows where you're going.

If you're kidnapped, you could try to call the person's number or the police.
 This will eliminate the possibility of someone hurting you, and it'll make it harder for you to be kidnapped than if you went to quiet areas with almost no one around. Because there are people around, kidnappers don't necessarily want to take the chances of being caught in the middle of abducting you, and they also don't want your screams to alert the people around you. Kidnappers normally prefer to stick to safer, more vulnerable targets. Therefore, if you're not vulnerable and you're not safe for kidnappers to abduct without getting in trouble, you won't have to worry about being kidnapped!

, If you have limited minutes on your cell phone, be sure that you refill those minutes once in a while to ensure that you'll be able to text or call someone if you're in trouble. Also, grab an easily portable object that can possibly be used as a weapon to fend off kidnappers (ex: pepper spray or heavy book). However, make sure that the object you're planning to bring along is legal to avoid getting in trouble with the police.


Examples of an illegal weapon you don't want to have in your possession are guns and knives.
You could also bring a loud whistle along with you so that you can blow it for help when someone tries to attack or kidnap you. However, it's recommended that you scream instead, for some people might believe it's just a little kid playing around with a loud whistle.
 Do not convince yourself that the situation isn't what it appears to be and that you're just imagining it. Although you might be afraid of embarrassing yourself and being scared over nothing, ignore that feeling if it's obvious that you're being stalked and provide for your own safety first before tending to your self pride. It's always wise to handle the situation and eliminate the possibility of being kidnapped while you have the chance before the kidnapping actually takes place.

