 Again, although Koreans typically have dark brown eyes, there is no need to change your eye color. In fact, many Kpop artists occasionally wear colored contacts to change their eye color to look blue or light brown. Colored contacts won't affect how you see, and you generally won't need a prescription to get them.
 This is a recent trend in South Korea and throughout Asia.Wearing these contacts will help you fit into Korean beauty standards, which emphasize large, puppy-dog eyes.


Contacts can be expensive and, if you have never used them before, dangerous to put on, so make sure you're serious about contacts before you buy them. Learn how to use them before trying to put them on yourself.
 Despite common belief, there is no stereotypical "Asian eye"--however, because double eyelids are generally seen as more desirable than monolids, it's become more and more popular to try to get double eyelids. In fact, it's one of the most popular cosmetic surgeries in South Korea. However, you can still achieve the look without surgery. There are many special glues or tapes available to create it.


As with all products, be careful when using tapes or glues for extended periods of time. They can damage your eyes and face if used continually, causing sagging eyelids or eye inflammation.
It isn't necessary to change your monolids if you have them, though, because many celebrities and many more average people choose to be happy with the way they look naturally. Some examples of monolid celebrities include: soloists Baek Ah Yeon and Boa, and Minah from Girl's Day.
 Highlight under your eyebrows with a highlighting makeup pen to make your eyes look big and innocent. Finish the look with your favorite eyeshadow and eyeliner to make you look Korean.
 Extend your eyeliner upwards away from your eye to create a dramatic, catlike look. Fill it in with smoky eyeshadow to complete the effect.
 This recent style emphasizes youth and vitality rather than the dramatic sensuality of the cat eye. Achieve this look by extending your eyeliner downwards from the outside corner of your eye to form a triangle. Fill it in with eyeliner or a dark eyeshadow for a more subtle look.
 Achieve this look with eyeliner or dark eyeshadow carefully applied about half a centimeter below the bottom of your eye.

