 A diet that is high in sodium can lead to hypertension and an increased risk of stroke, heart attack and brain aneurysm. Although Japanese people have a high-sodium diet, they do not consume processed foods, which tend to be extremely high in sodium. Because Japanese people eat fewer processed foods, they ingest less salt this way and can enjoy it in other forms.U.S. health officials recommend that you should avoid eating more than 2,300 milligrams of salt a day.In Nagano Japan, residents have considerably cut back on their use of salt, resulting in a decrease of heart-related illness and longer life expectancies., One noticeable feature of the Japanese diet is the limited amount of red meat eaten. Traditionally, Japanese people have eaten very small amounts of red meat, which tends to be associated with colorectal cancer.As Japanese people have adopted a more Western style diet, including eating large quantities of red meat, they have noticed an increase in colorectal cancer., Japanese people traditionally eat or drink very few dairy products (milk, cheese, yogurt).Japanese health officials recommend that people consume less than two servings of dairy a day.A serving of dairy is roughly 1/2 cup of milk, 3/4 ounces (21 gm) of natural cheese or one ounces (28 gm) of processed cheese.
The introduction of a Western style diet, and the consumption of larger amounts of dairy, have led to an increase in cardiovascular disease in Japan.Be very careful that you do not miss out on necessary nutrients like calcium when cutting out dairy. Japanese people traditionally get calcium from eating small fish with bones (not something typically done in a Western diet). They also get calcium from soy products and vegetables.You may want to take up these practices or talk to your doctor about taking a calcium supplement to ensure you meet your daily needs.
 Japanese cuisine tends to avoid the use of processed sugar. Japanese desserts tend to emphasize fruits and sweet flavors are created using pounded rice (mochi), sweet bean paste, mashed sweet potatoes and chestnuts. Limiting sugar intake can prevent the development of diabetes later in life.Japanese health officials advise generally limiting sweet and sugary foods.