 The best time of year to do drastic pruning depends on whether the hydrangea blooms on old wood or new wood.If your hydrangea is producing flowers on stems that grew the previous season or seasons, this is a sign the hydrangeas are blooming on old wood.
If your hydrangea is producing flowers on branches that grew during the current season, this is a sign they are blooming on new wood.;
, Old wood will be stiffer and thicker than new stems, which generally remain quite flexible until late summer. In August, they will begin to form flower buds for the following blooming season.


Mophead, Lacecap and Big Leaf hydrangeas (Hydrangea macrophylla) as well as Oakleaf hydrangeas (Hydrangea quercifolia) bloom on old wood.
If your hydrangea blooms in blue, pink or purple, it is H. macrophylla. If it has leaves that are shaped like an oak leaf and its blooms are white, it is H. quercifolia.
 PeeGee or panicle hydrangeas (Hydrangea paniculata) bloom on new wood.They have cone-shaped panicles of flowers that start out white but change to pink and then rust throughout the season.


Panicle is the technical term for a cluster of flowers that is produced at the ends of the plant’s branches.
Smooth hydrangeas or “Annabelle” types (Hydrangea arborescens) produce white flowers from spring to fall on new wood., Use sharp hand pruners that will cut the stems quickly and easily.


Hedge shears or clippers should not be used as they tend to shred the hydrangea leaves. This not only looks unsightly, it also opens the plant up to bacterial and fungal diseases as well as insect attacks.
 If you are removing any diseased stems, disinfect the pruners between pruning cuts to prevent the spread of disease.


Always wipe the disinfectant off the pruners before using them as it could harm the hydrangea., Then, wrap a woven nylon strap, twine or rope around the whole shrub at two-thirds to one-half the shrub’s height from the ground. Pull it snug and tie it to hold all the stems together like a bouquet.
 You should remove the top one-third to one-half of the shrub.


When all the stems are cut and settle back to their natural position, the shrub will have a pleasant, rounded shape.
Smooth hydrangeas or “Annabelle” types and PeeGee or panicle hydrangeas can have all of their stems cut all the way back to 4 to 6 inches from the ground and they will grow back in time to bloom the following year. This should not be done every year, though, as cutting them all the way back each year will eventually result in weak stems that cannot hold up the flowers.

