 Whether you have group coverage from your employer or your spouse's employer, or you have an individual plan, read through it several times until you completely understand what it covers and what it excludes. Many of your initial expenses will likely be covered, and you want to make sure you are prepared for further costs that you will have to pay for out of pocket. If you have any questions, contact your health plan administrator or the customer service department of the insurance company and ask for help.


Check the insurance plan for caps. Most insurance policies will have a maximum amount that they will pay on claims in your lifetime.;
, Physicians may hesitate to give you an estimated cost of treatment and care right after the diagnosis, but the sooner you have a ballpark number, the better you can plan. Ask for a list of treatments, office visits, surgeries, and prescriptions you know you will need.
 If you know your total cost of care and treatment may exceed your insurance policy's lifetime cap, or if your out-of-pocket expenses will be hard to pay, consider changing plans or buying catastrophic insurance. A catastrophic insurance plan will begin paying after your health insurance reaches its cap. This type of policy is typically expensive, but it might be worth it if your medical bills will continue to climb as treatment progresses.
 If you get your insurance plan through your employer, talk to them about the time off you may need to undergo treatment. If you will be too sick to continue working, make sure you are able to take advantage of COBRA after you leave.
 Reach out to friends and family if you will need help in paying your medical bills. Even if they cannot help you with your cancer treatment costs, they might be able to help provide food, medicine, care at home, or help with transportation.
 You may qualify for Medicare, Medicaid, or Social Security. If you are a veteran, you are probably entitled to help through Veteran's Affairs. Contact a social services agency in your area to see if you are eligible for any public assistance as you manage your cancer treatments.
 Manage your mortgage or rent, electric and water bills, as well as other monthly bills so that you do not drop behind in those payments. Most utilities and companies will allow you to sign up for recurring payment schedules so the money is taken right out of your account when the bill is due.

