 Many people start with their face makeup, and move onto the eyes later. However, you often get fallout on your cheeks from the shadows that you’re applying to your eyes. When you’re using really dark shadows, it can be difficult to get rid of the specks on your face without ruining your foundation and concealer. That’s why it’s best to do your eye makeup first and then apply your face products.








If you just prefer to do your face makeup first, apply a generous amount of loose translucent powder beneath your eyes before applying your shadow. The powder will catch any fallout, and you can just sweep it away with a brush when you’re finished with your eyes.
 You always want your makeup to look fresh all day, but it’s especially important with dark eyeshadows that fade and crease more noticeably. Before you apply any shadows to your eyes, dab on an eye primer. It will form a barrier between the oils in your lid and the shadow, so it stays looking fresh. Primer can also help intensify the shadows that you layer over it.








If you don’t have a specific eye primer on hand, apply a little concealer or foundation to your eyelids before using any eye shadows. Next, dust the lids with translucent powder to create a smooth base.
 When you’re wearing a bold, smoky eye, it’s usually best to tone down the rest of your look. That means wearing a bright red lip or super shimmery blush with dramatic black smoky eye isn’t always the best choice. Instead, opt for light, neutral shades, such as a nude lip color and a matte neutral blush, so your eyes are the star of your look.








Keep in mind that they are no rules in makeup. If you feel like wearing a bold red lip with your smoky eye, go for it. However, if you’re new to smoky eye looks, it’s best to start slow with a soft pink or nude lip.
 While you typically don’t want to go too bold with the rest of your makeup, it’s important to add some color to your face with a smoky eye. That’s because the dark eyeshadows can make you look pale and almost sickly. Apply a rosy or peachy blush to the apples of your cheeks and blend it back toward your hairline to liven up your skin.If you’re not a fan of blush, swap it for your favorite bronzer. Dust it over the tops of your cheekbones to add warmth and color to your skin.

