 One of the main characteristics of a Bombay cat is its black fur, which should be glossy and short. The goal of the original breeder was to create a cat that looked like a miniature panther, hence the fur color., Another defining characteristic of the breed is its eyes. It was specifically bred to have gold or copper eyes, so if the cat you're looking at doesn't have that characteristic, it's not a purebred Bombay., Bombays tend to have rounded edges. That is, they have a rounded head with a short nose. This trend continues throughout the cat's body, with rounded eyes, ears, and feet, as well as a rounded tail., Bombay cats tend to be medium to large cats. They range in weight from six to over twelve pounds, and the males are larger than the females. While they aren't as stocky as the Burmese, they are still very muscular, strongly built cats.Bombays tend to feel heavier than they appear., Bombays generally walk in a certain way. It's a kind of swishing, swaying walk. Interestingly, it mimics the walk of a panther, the large cat the Bombay was bred to look like., Bombay cats are fairly talkative, and they will hold conversations with you. They aren't loud, per se, they just like to talk often. They have a distinctive meow, so you will know when your cat wants your attention.However, not every Bombay cat will show this characteristic., Bombays are pretty smart cats, so watch to see if the cat is able to figure things out. For instance, this might be the cat that will figure out how to open your bedroom door or get the treats that you've hidden on a high shelf. These cats love to be engaged in games of fetch, puzzle games, and other types of fun cat toys., Of course, all cats are naturally curious and inquisitive. However, Bombays are even more so. They will always want to be in the middle of the action, so they can see what's going on., These cats are fairly laid back when it comes to social situations. They do well around families and pets, though they may want to be the dominant pet in the household, particularly if there are other cats.They also enjoy curling up on your lap for some snuggle time.