 Starting with primer helps your makeup to stay fresh longer because it gives your makeup a good base to cling to (rather than just your skin). You can use an all over primer that’s good for your whole face, or two different primers – one for your face and one especially for your eyes. You should use a special eye primer if you’re planning on using quite a bit of eye makeup.
You can also apply lip balm during this step to prep your lips. This step is particularly important if you’re using lipstick (rather than a gloss), which can dry out your lips., Using either a foundation brush, a makeup blender, or your hand, blend on your foundation. Choose a foundation color that matches the skin on your neck – your neck is usually a shade or two lighter than your face, and matching your foundation shade to your neck prevents the rest of your makeup from looking too dark., Using a concealer, cover any discolored spots and the area under your eyes famous for those blueish bags. You can use either your hand, your foundation blush or a beauty blender to do this.Choose your concealer based on the color of the blemishes you want to conceal and by looking for opposite colors on the color wheel. So, for example, if you want to cover up the blue circles under your eyes, look for an orange-hued concealer. Cover up redness with green.You can blend your colored concealers with a bit of beige concealer to match your skin tone, but don't use a beige concealer by itself - it will make your skin look muddy.To properly conceal the bags under your eyes, apply concealer in what’s called a “Hollywood V” pattern. Start at one corner of your eye, draw a v under the middle of your eye (about an inch you’re your face) and then connect to other corner before filling in., Once you have the base for your makeup down, work on contouring with bronzer and highlighter. If you don’t normally contour, that’s fine, just move right to putting your blush on.You generally want to choose a bronzer that’s one or two shades darker than your natural skin tone. You want it to look like the natural contours of your face once you’re done blending, so don’t go too dark.
 Apply blush along your cheek bone and at the apple of your cheeks. If you’ve contoured, this is the area between where your highlighter and bronzer goes. The apple of your cheeks is the spot right above the corner of your mouth when you smile.
 There are lots of different looks you can achieve by using eyeshadow, and much of the application depends on the look you’re aiming for. Generally though, you want to use an eyeshadow brush and work from your inner corner out, feathering your shadow onto your eyelid and in your crease.Use shadows the opposite color of your eyes to make your eyes stand out. So if you have blue eyes, you should use shadows with orangey undertones. For green eyes use purples. Brown eyes are neutral so most colors look good, but blue and purple work best.To add definition to your eyes, use a light bronzer in your crease (the area halfway between your eyebrow and your lash line).
Use highlighting/contouring technique to address droopy eyes by applying highlighter above your crease and then blend a darker shadow into the fold that you want to recede. Make sure you blend these together well so it looks natural., Once your shadow is set, apply your choice of eyeliner to give your eyes definition. Black will give you the most intense definition, while brown will give you a more natural look.Make your eyes look longer by applying black eyeliner to your upper and lower lash lines. Start from the middle of your eye and work your way out to the corner of your eyes. Make sure you connect the lines on your upper and lower lash lines at the corner of your eye.To naturally define your eyes, use a black or brown pencil on the inner upper rims of your eyes only.
Don’t draw on your eyeliner in one continuous line – your pencil or brush will likely catch on your eyelid and interrupt the line. Instead, feather your eyeliner from the inner corner to the middle of your eye and then from outer corner to the middle, meeting in the middle., Once your eye makeup is finished, apply your mascara. Curl your lashes with a lash curler before you put on your mascara – this gives your lashes shape and definition before the mascara coats them. Curling them before coating them helps your lashes keep their shape and prevents them for just sticking out straight.Apply two to three coats of mascara to ensure adequate coating.
 The intensity of your eyebrows should match your eye makeup, so you want to save them for last. If you’re working on a more intense eye makeup look, go for a darker brow. A more natural look requires a lighter brow.If you’re applying brow powder, work against the grain of the hair in a powder a shade or two lighter than your natural hair color. If you’re using a pencil, feather it on by pressing harder at the root than at the end to stimulate the look of natural brows.
 Once you’re finished with your look, apply a finishing or setting powder to set your makeup and keep it fresh as long as possible. You should apply loose powder to your forehead, cheeks, chin, and nose., The final step in applying your makeup should be to apply your lipstick or gloss. If you’re using lipstick, apply it using downward strokes, moving from your cupid’s bow (the point your lips make under your nose) to the outer corners of your top lip. Then move from the outer corner of your bottom lip to the middle.You can dab a bit of lip gloss at your cupid’s bow and the middle of your lower lip for a natural looking pouty lip.