 Whatever extractor you choose, the process involves opening the image in the extractor, extracting the text from it, and then copying and pasting the text into a document for editing. Different types of applications or services abound:


Scanner-included software: If you have a scanner and still have the software that came with it, it probably includes OCR text extraction capabilities. Instructions should have come with the scanner or you should be able to look them up online for a relatively modern scanner.
Free Websites: These ad-driven but functional Websites typically take TIF, GIF, PDF, JPG, BMP, PNG or some combination. They often have limits (such as 5MB) to the size of files you can upload. Some sites will email you a Word document or other file containing the text of your image for free, others will simply provide the text for you to copy. A few include:

Free-ocr.comOnlineocr.netHigh-cost OCR software: Some OCR software costs up to $500 to purchase; consider these only if you need extremely highly accurate OCR results. Some of the more popular can be found at TopTenReviews.com or similar sites; several of the top currently include:OmniPage Standard
Adobe Acrobat
ABBYY FineReader


Free software; it is likely that these solutions will not work with larger images and many don’t work beyond more than the first page of a PDF:

FreeOCRSimpleOCRFree OCR To Word, You can usually save your text as either plain text, Word .doc format, or in Rich Text Format (RTF). RTF format was a precursor to .doc and (like .doc) allows for saving text formatting, margins, images, and so forth into a single, portable and shareable file. RTF files are much larger than .doc files, and since .doc is viewable by just about anyone (MS Word has a free viewer available), .doc is probably your best bet., It will likely look a formatting mess when you paste it in, so you will have to remove a lot of spaces or break up words that have been crammed together. The level of formatting messiness depends largely on how clean the image that you extracted the text from was.
 You are limited in terms of formatting and such only by the app you choose to paste into – the latest version of Microsoft Word, for example, always has far more options and gives you much more control than Microsoft Notepad or even Google Docs, for example.

