 Most speed networking events adhere to a general format: one group remains stationary while a second group rotates from person to person, allowing for every potential pair to meet and talk briefly. Individual events may have particular rules and specifications, including the length of time you have to speak to each person. Familiarize yourself with these rules before the event.;
, Due to time constraints, you must be cautious about the information you choose to discuss with each person. Strategize by thinking about what you want to get from the event. Are you looking for a new job? Are you searching for a business partner? Do you need new suppliers? Having a clear sense of your objective will help you choose your topics of discussion wisely.
 An “elevator speech” is a very brief pitch that explains who you are and what you do – the term is connected to the idea that you should be able to convey this information to people in the time it takes you to ride on an elevator. The length of your elevator speech can vary depending on how much time you are given to speak. If, for example, you have five minutes, then plan for a thirty-second speech. Remember that the other person will also need to speak, and then you’ll want time for a conversation. Your elevator speech should include:


A basic introduction, with your name and current title. For example, you might say, “Hi, I’m Jane Smith. I’m the CEO of ABC Pool Company.”
A brief explanation of what you do and what you value. For example, you might say, “I manage the general operations for my company in order to help homeowners build the pools and pool areas of their dreams.”
A brief explanation of why you are speed networking. For example, you might say, “I am here today to make some connections. I’d like to find some individuals who can assist me in increasing my market share.”

, As with any networking event, it’s important to show up for a speed networking event with a stack of business cards. Plan to distribute them to every person you meet.


If you do not have formal business cards from your employer (or if you are unemployed), you can design them yourself. Use a professional template, and include your name, title, area of expertise, and contact information.
 Get to the event a few minutes early. Doing so ensures that you can start the rotation on time, without interfering with any logistical plans.

