 Live by your own rules to set a good example for your teen. This means being civil at home, saying please, thank you, and excuse me, and being polite in your daily interactions.


In setting an example, go beyond the basic standards you have set out. When you answer the phone, say something like “Hello, this is Dan. How can I help you?”
Practice good table etiquette. Help to set the table and clean up. Don’t chew with your mouth full. Eat with silverware rather than with your hands. Wait until the meal is over or ask to be excused before leaving the table.Share spaces like the shower, the bathroom, the computer, and the television room. Don’t monopolize them and allow others a turn.
Thank your teen if he helps you or does something thoughtful. Recognize his contributions.
 Setting an example in good manners extends to your interactions at work, at the store, at the park, and anywhere else you may be. Demonstrate that you try to be as polite to strangers as to your own family.


If you bump into someone, say “I’m sorry, please excuse me” or “Pardon me.” Make room on the sidewalk for others, do not litter, and thank people who hold open doors for you.Treat service employees well. Your teen will notice if you talk down to a cashier, don’t tip a waiter, or are rude to stranger.
 Try to take the high ground and to remain civil to your teen, no matter how hard and no matter how impolite he may be. This does not mean you should let him walk all over you. However, try to keep your cool.


Speak civilly. Try not to raise your voice or to respond in kind to snarky comments or insults. By taking the high ground you will avoid escalation and continue to model good behavior.Say, for instance, “I’m about to lose my temper. Please leave the room if you can’t talk to me more civilly.”
Some teens like to bait parents. Don’t fall for it. Losing your temper doesn’t work, and you will undermine your cause.
Try to stay empathetic. Remember how you felt as a teenager, what your moods were like, and how you might have clashed with your own parents.
 Own up to your own failures in being polite and good-mannered. If your teen points out a flaw, take responsibility for it rather than making excuses.


Say, “You’re right. I was a bit rude to that attendant. I shouldn’t have done that.” Or, “Yes, I ought to have given my seat to that older gentleman. That was the polite thing to do.”
Use your failings as a learning opportunity. If caught in a lapse of manners, try to engage your teen and ask him how you could have better responded.

