 Our bodies absorb the flavors and odors of the foods we eat, so particularly odorous cuisine can linger in your breath for hours after eating. Consider eliminating these foods from your diet, or at the least be sure to brush after eating.


Vegetables in the Allium family, like onion, garlic, leeks, and chives, have a notorious pungent aroma. Eating these foods and foods prepared with them like hummus or curry can leave your breath particularly aromatic. However, these foods also have many health benefits, so rather than eliminating them, try to limit them to times when you will be alone afterwards, like dinners at home.Recognize that even brushing won't be enough to really eliminate raw garlic smells and other pungent aromas. In fact, your body digests these foods, and the odor goes into the bloodstream and lungs and comes back out again as bad breath! If you eat a diet that is very high in these foods, reducing them (without completely eliminating them) may go a long way in improving your breath., The chemical compounds in these beverages alter the environment of your mouth, making it favorable for odor-causing bacteria to thrive.If you can't or don't want to quit drinking these beverages, be sure that after drinking them you rinse your mouth well with water or a mix of one part baking soda to eight parts water, and then brush your teeth well about 30 minutes later.Avoid brushing directly after drinking coffee or alcohol (or other acidic foods or drinks), as the acid in the drink can make your teeth vulnerable to abrasion from brushing., Did you know that if you're on a low-carb diet, you might have "ketone breath"?Basically, as your body breaks down fats instead of carbs for energy, it creates ketones, some of which are released in your mouth. Unfortunately, ketones smell bad, and so will your breath. If you're on a strict carb-restricting diet, or any diet that forces you to burn fat instead of carbs, consider throwing healthy carb-rich snacks into the mix, like apples or bananas.


In addition, fruits with high vitamin C content will help you fight potentially harmful bacteria, which can be a cause of bad breath.
This will also happen to anyone who fasts, whether for religious reasons, or because they are anorexic. If you are anorexic, bad breath is only one of the reasons to stop starving yourself. Read How to Cope if You Want to Become Anorexic.

