"This is a congratulatory sentiment often used on birthdays, among other occasions.



Felicidades is translated most closely as "congratulations" or "all the best." It is strictly used as an interjection, but it is related to the Spanish noun felicitaciones, which also means "congratulations."
While it may seem odd within U.S. culture to tell someone "congratulations" on his or her birthday, it is an acceptable greeting to use in most Spanish-speaking countries. You are essentially congratulating the individual on the end of one year and start of another.
Pronounce this sentiment as fay-lees-ee-dah-days.
 This is another congratulatory sentiment, but it is a little more birthday-specific than the basic felicidades.



Felicidades still means “congratulations” in this birthday greeting.

En means “on,” tu is the familiar form of the word “your,” and día means “day.”
Note that when speaking to someone you are not on familiar terms with, you should say “su”—pronounced soo”—instead of “tu.” The term “su” is a more formal way of saying “your” when used in this context.

The entire phrase translates into English as “Congratulations on your day!”
Pronounce the sentiment as fay-lees-ee-dah-days ehn too dee-ah.
"This expression is far less common than other congratulatory sentiments, but it is the most birthday-specific one you can use.



El aniversario is the Spanish way of saying “the anniversary.”

Del is actually a combination of “de,” meaning “of,” and “el,” meaning “the.” The “el” is connected to the word “día,” meaning “day.”
The phrase “que tu has nacido” translates into “that you were born.” Nacido is a conjugated form of the Spanish verb “nacer,” meaning “to be born.”
When put all together, the phrase says, “Congratulations on the anniversary of the day on which you were born.”
You can pronounce this sentence as fay-lees-ee-dah-days ehn ehl ah-nee-vers-ahr-ee-oh dehl dee-ah ehn kay too ahs nah-cee-doh.




Que translates into the English "that."

Cumplas is derived from the Spanish verb "cumplir," meaning "to complete," "to accomplish," or "to fulfill."

Muchos is a plural form of the Spanish word "mucho," meaning "many."

Más means "more" in English.
When translated directly, this wish states, "that you complete many more." In essence, you are telling the birthday boy or birthday girl that you hope he or she has many more birthdays after this one.
Pronounce the entire sentiment as kay koom-plahs mooch-ohs mahs.
 While this greeting may seem a little less birthday-specific, it is another common sentiment used to wish someone happiness on his or her birthday.


The phrase translates directly into “that you have a happy day.” By using this phrase, you are wishing someone happiness on his or her birthday even though you are not specifying that it is his or her birthday in the phrase itself.

Que means “that,” “feliz” means “happy,” and “día” means “day.”

Tengas is a conjugated form of the verb “tener,” meaning “to have.”
Pronounce the sentiment as kay tehn-gahs oon fay-lees dee-ah.



Translated more directly, the question asks, “how many years do you have?”

Cuántos asks "how many."

Años means "years" in English. Note the tilde over the "n" is essential to maintain the meaning of the word.

Tienes is a conjugated form of the Spanish verb "tener," meaning "to have."
Pronounce the question as kwahn-tohs ahn-yohs tee-en-ays.


