 The easiest way to save for retirement as a digital nomad is to look at your budget and allot a certain percentage, say between 5 and 10 percent, that you will put towards your retirement savings every month.The benefit of using a percentage rather than a fixed amount is that you can easily fit it into your budget regardless of your income.
This works especially well if your income varies widely from place to place, or if you plan on traveling extensively.
To choose the correct percentage, think about your ultimate goal of how much you want to save, then divide it by the number of years you plan to save (depending on your current age and the age at which you'd like to retire).
 You may need to set up temporary local accounts from time to time, especially if you get a day job somewhere. However, all of your savings and your main checking account should be located in the same country.Keeping your accounts in one country also means your money is not as vulnerable to exchange rates, because you're only transferring foreign currency once and it is kept in your home currency.
If possible, try to set up all your accounts in the same bank. That way you can easily transfer funds from one account to another without incurring unnecessary fees. This also makes multiple accounts easier to manage.
Many banks also offer various discounts or incentives, such as a better interest rate, if you have multiple accounts with them.
 Based on the percentage of your income that you've chosen to save for retirement, automatic transfers either weekly or monthly from your checking or other payment account to your savings account mean you don't have to think about your savings.If all of your accounts are being managed through the same financial advisor, or using the same bank, you also may be able to set up automatic transfers directly into an investment account or other retirement savings vehicle.
Automating at least some, if not all, of the saving process will greatly increase your chances of success.
 When your income is widely variable, you may benefit from a third savings account that allows you to skim off the excess when you have a high-income month so you can get through particularly lean months.For example, if you normally make around $3,000 a month, but one month you make $5,000, you could take the extra $2,000 and move it to a savings account where it will earn at least a little interest. Taking it out of your checking account helps you control your expenses and keeps you from splurging on unnecessary luxuries. That way, you'll have that money if you had an extraordinarily lean month, such as if you only made $500 one month.
You may want to simply add this money to your emergency fund, or you may want to create a separate account that you can dip into so you don't risk disturbing your emergency money.
 If you're saving for retirement based on a percentage plan, you need to make sure your contributions, especially automatic transfers, are consistently in line with that percentage as your income and expenses change.Take the opportunity to review your budget and make any adjustments to your average expenses as necessary.
Keep in mind that even though you're saving for retirement based on a percentage system, your weekly or monthly automatic contributions will typically be a fixed dollar amount. You may have to adjust that amount based on your actual income.
For example, suppose that based on savings of 10 percent each month, you were contributing $200 of your average income of $2,000 a month. However, when you review your income you find that in the entire last year you have never made less than $3,000 a month. You should up your contributions to $300 a month.

