 Before starting the aerial, find your balance by standing with your legs apart and your arms at your sides. Finding your balance will help you execute the aerial more precisely. Don’t do aerial cartwheels on a hard surface. Always do them either outside on the grass or inside on gymnastic mats.Use a spotter who can catch you if you fall.
Don't attempt an aerial cartwheel if you are not already proficient in regular and one-handed cartwheel as well as in other advanced gymnastics moves. If you go into doing aerial cartwheels with no prior gymnastics experience, you run a high risk of getting hurt.;
, Running before the aerial gives you more speed and momentum, making it easier to perform the trick with no hands. Make sure your steps are even and controlled.








Once you master the aerial, you will be able to do it without running first. Running can make it easier to get the momentum you need as you are starting to learn.
 After you have taken a few steps, bring up your launching leg, or leg that you want to launch off of for your aerial, so that it’s parallel to your chest. As you bring up your launching leg, do a small hop with your rear leg. Keep your hands away from your body, outstretched to the side and level with your shoulders. 








If you are just beginning, your launching leg should be your dominant leg, which is generally stronger.
Think of this as a wind up step which will help you generate the momentum you need for aerial.
 After you hop with your rear leg, plant your launching leg into the ground. Keep the knee of your launching leg bent and bring your arms down so that they are still out but are level with your waist.
 With your leading leg planted, kick off with your back leg. Your torso should now be horizontal to the ground, with your leading leg planted perpendicular to the ground and your other leg swinging up behind you.
 Keep whipping up your rear leg, then launch off your leading leg so that both legs are above your head. Keep your hands in fists if you are tempted to reach out and grab the ground.









If you feel like you’re going to fall on your head, put your hands down. It’s better to be safe than to risk getting hurt.
Try to twist your torso so that it is pointed in the direction of travel, with your arms perpendicular from your torso.
Keep looking forwards as you go through the aerial.
 To finish the aerial, swing your leg between your outstretched arms and plant it on the ground. If your leg is swinging down and your arms are in its path, move your arms so you don’t kick yourself on your landing.








Touch down with your launching leg about a foot’s distance from your landing leg.
Straighten up and use your hands to regain your balance if you need to. You’ve just finished your aerial!

, When you are just learning how to do an aerial cartwheel, make sure to always practice with someone there to spot you. Have the spotter stand behind you and over to the side in the direction that you will be doing the cartwheel.A spotter can assist you by putting their right hand on your left hip when you are performing the aerial, and catch you when you are finished by putting their left hand on your right hip so you don't lose balance.
A spotter can also catch you if you can't complete the aerial and topple over.
 When you are just starting learning how to do aerials, it’s easier to get the momentum you need by taking a few running steps. As you get comfortable doing aerials, cut out the running and get your momentum through your hop with your rear leg and an explosive take off.








