 Carefully remove any chunks of carpet that are attached to your carpet or furniture. Be careful to place the chunks into a garbage immediately, so there is no danger of further stains.If the hard candy is really stuck to the carpet or upholstery, you can moisten the candy with cold water and let it sit. Once it has softened a bit, you can pull it up from the carpet.If it is a caramel candy stain, you can use an alcohol soaked pad or sponge to remove the caramel.You can use rubbing alcohol., You will need to spray a cleaning solution onto the affected area of carpet or upholstery. You can use a plastic spray bottle with an appropriate cleaning solution. At this stage, you have the choice of using one of the following cleaners:Mix a quarter teaspoon of liquid hand detergent and one cup of warm water. Use this solution to clean the carpet.
Use an ammonia cleaner containing one tablespoon of ammonia per cup of water. Be careful with ammonia because it could discolour your carpet if it is too strong.
Avoid dish detergent. The detergent used for dishwashing has bleaching agents and dye, which could adversely impact your carpet.
 Use a clean rag to gradually blot the stain, starting from the outside and moving inwards. At this stage, it is important to adjust your rag so that you are using clean parts of it to blot out the stain from the carpet. This will help you avoid reapplying the stain to the carpet.It is also very important to move from the outside towards the inside, so that you avoid staining other parts of your carpet.


If the stain persists, you can blot it again with white vinegar. , After removing the stain, you should rinse the area to remove any lingering cleaning solution. Use a damp wet cloth to rinse the carpet. Then, you should dry the area by blotting the area with a clean and dry cloth. Afterwards, you should let it air dry for a day and avoid stepping on the area., At the very least, you should vacuum your carpets and upholstery. If it has been a while since you last had a professional cleaning done, you should consider whether it is an opportune time to get professional carpet or upholstery cleaning.


Carpet cleaners have methods and chemicals available that you do not have in your home. If your candy stain remains after trying multiple attempts at removing it, you could get a professional to clean your carpet. Professional cleaning can help get rid of pollutants, get rid of mite infestations mold growth, as well as get rid of stains. They use methods like steam cleaning and shampooing to thoroughly clean your carpet.