 If you tend to cope with after hours stress by eating junk food or with alcohol, these practices likely are not helping you in the long-run. Things like zoning out by watching television or doing recreational drugs are not effective ways to cope with stress.If you find yourself using unhealthy coping strategies, stop engaging as soon as you can. Replace the time you spend in these activities with more healthy activities, such as reading or exercising.


If you find yourself wanting junk food or substances, remind yourself that they do not relieve stress effectively and choose something healthier.
 Exercise can help you boost your mood, deal with stress, and give you more energy. See if your workplace has a gym and consider going there either before work or during your lunch break. Try taking a 10-minute walk between appointments, or give your dog a walk before going into work. Aim to get about 30 minutes of exercise each day.If you dread going to work, try working out in the mornings. This can improve your mood and make it easier to get out the door and start your day.
Consider taking a dance class, karate class, or yoga.
 Find some healthy outlets for stress, such as relaxation. Daily relaxation can help you deal with stress and feel calm.Aim to relax either early in the morning or before you go to bed for about 30 minutes. This can include reading, taking a bath, or listening to calm, relaxing music.


Find relaxation methods that feel good and that you want to do every day. Try daily yoga, qi gong, tai chi, and meditation.
 If you’re under-sleeping, it’s more likely that you’ll feel stressed and cranky the next day. Having good rest allows you to be more emotionally balanced, which can help you cope with stressors at work and after work. Aim to get between 7-9 hours of sleep each night.If you’re having trouble sleeping, turn off all screens (tv, laptop, and phone) at least one hour before bed, as the light can disrupt your sleep. Keep time before bed relaxing and calming.
Get in the habit of going to bed and waking up at the same time each day, even on the weekends.
Spend time before bed relaxing. Take a bath, read a book, journal, or meditate. This can help your mind slow down and prepare to sleep.

