 If you are with someone who is grieving and don't know what to say, then don't say anything. Don't feel obliged to speak, as you may very well accomplish exactly the opposite of what you intend by saying something stupid. Sitting there in silence may feel very awkward to you, but some of the greatest help you can offer is simply to sit next to your friend, put your arm around their shoulders and let them cry in silence. Your presence next to that person says the one thing that is most needed in those moments and says it more eloquently than you ever could in words. It says, "I love you and you are not alone!";
, At various points in the process, your friend will likely want to scream at someone. Who that "someone" will be changes from moment to moment. They may want to yell at God for not keeping the suicide from happening, at the deceased loved one for not calling for help, at anyone and everyone who had ever failed the deceased, including themselves. They may want to say things that are absolutely crazy. In those moments, it is essential for them to have friends and family who will allow them to say these things without judgement advice or correction. If the person who is grieving says something hurtful or incorrect or just plain stupid, don't use it as an opportunity to show off your counselling skills. A simple statement such as this will be much more helpful: "I love you. I know you are hurt beyond what I could ever understand; but know that I'm here for you any time you need me and for as long as you need me. And, I truly believe you are going to get through this." The person probably knows that what they are saying is irrational (and is likely feeling guilty about it), so unconditional acceptance and love at that moment is powerful.
 A person who has lost someone due to suicide will very likely find that their sleep has been stolen from them. They will wake up in the middle of the night - if they were lucky enough to fall asleep in the first place - and the loneliness and sorrow will sometimes be overwhelming. During the first few weeks, it is essential that the person has someone to call any time, day or night. They may feel awkward or say they won't do it, but they may very well find themselves needing a listening ear at three in the morning and you can graciously sit and talk to them for as long as they need you. Physical darkness can enhance the darkness someone feels inside; having someone to talk them through the night can help a grief-stricken survivor get through until the sunrise reminds them that there is still hope.
 When there is a death, social custom causes the bereaved to be drowned in flowers, calls of sympathy and letters in the mail. These things are essential and appreciated. However, with all the emotional trauma being dealt with, most of those things will be just a blur to the person. Months later, they probably could not tell you who specifically sent a card or flowers or called in the days immediately after the suicide. What they will remember, though, is the friend who does something that shows real thoughtfulness beyond social duty. These will be specific to each individual circumstance, but the tips section below gives some examples of things that have helped others in the same situation.
 From the day of the suicide until the wake, funeral, and burial are complete (i.e. - the first week or two), the survivor will be surrounded by well-wishers. However, that crowd quickly dissipates after the "official" social processes have been completed, leaving the griever alone long before the pain has gone away. One way you can remind that person that they are not alone is by remembering the tough dates. The "month-markers" are the first that come to mind in a suicide. If the loved one died on the 10th of October, your friend will undoubtedly face particularly-difficult days on the 10 of November, the 10th of December, the 10th of January and so forth. The first 6 months to a year are especially rough to get through (perhaps longer for some), and a call or a note on those month marks will do more than you can imagine to communicate to the person that you truly care for. Other dates that are difficult include the deceased person's birthday, any special days they shared (for example, if it's a partner or spouse that has passed away, the date of their anniversary or first date) and special holidays. The greater the joy previously associated with a date, the greater is the potential for sorrow now.
 By realizing that you don't have to fix everything, you can be the "first responder" who helps your friend get through the most critical time in those days following the worst day of their life. Keeping these suggestions in mind will set you miles apart from many who will be kind, but not really infuse hope to a person who probably feels like there is no reason even to look to the future.

