 If you hide back, you can't get yourself out there and experience life at its fullest. Everyone has something they want to change about themselves, and that's ok, but don't let it ruin you. Don't give up hope if you can't seem to be happy or confident in yourself. Don't be a wallflower; get out and dance. Don't worry.


Feel okay about stepping out of your comfort zone. Be yourself, and even though you might feel like its fake, it won't be.





;
, In real life, the outgoing girls are the popular ones, not the ones everyone hates, so be nice, and people will appreciate your social skills. Wave to people you know in the hall, hug your friends, and smile at everybody else. Make small talk with people who you kind of know, but aren't really close too.
 One way to be a happy teen is to have friends and be social. Spend more time with people. Go out to eat, or go spend a day outside in the world meeting new people. Join a sports team or extracurricular activity and make a new friend. Don't be afraid to take chances; if you get yourself out there and take every opportunity you are given, you won't regret it.


Volunteer. It's a great way to help people and to do great things.






Make eye contact and smile. If you look down and frown, no one will want to talk to you and might think something is wrong.
 Follow the trends and always dress nicely and look presentable. Wear clothes that look good on you, and above all, keep it classy.


Make your hair nice everyday! No one likes a messy hairstyle or smelly hair. Style your hair in a way that suits your face. Get you hair trimmed every four-eight weeks, or highlight or cut your hair to go for a new look.
 Use shampoos and conditioners made for your hair type, and shower every other day. Shower with a hydrating body wash. Brush your teeth regularly. Always make sure you shave and put on makeup that suits your face. Get checkups and of course get braces and teeth whitenings.
 Find something you're truly passionate about and people will respect you for it. Think about what you want to do with your life, and live your dream.
 If your parents don't give you an allowance then get a stylish job to save up some cash. Try to pass on the gritty ones such as fast-food restaurants and get something that will make your friends jealous and make working seem cool.
 Everyone loves a good party-goer, and organizing a fantastic event can make you the most popular girl in school., Don't do sports you hate or take classes you don't like, but do try to take chances that you wouldn't normally go for. Meet people who have the same interests as you, and you'll be happier, but don't change yourself to make a friend; a real friend should be able to accept you for you.

