 Liposuction removes fat cells permanently, but if you gain weight, it may alter you results or the fat may return to the site at which you had surgery. Maintain your weight to help your surgery result keep the appearance you desire.


It’s best to keep a steady weight. While it might not affect you significantly to gain or lose a pound or two, gaining larger amounts may significantly alter your results.
Staying active and keeping a healthy diet can help you maintain your weight.
 Eating healthy, balanced, and regular meals can help maintain your weight. Foods that have moderate fat, complex carbohydrates, and are high in nutrients, for example, are best for your general health.


Stick to a diet of about 1,800-2,200 nutrient-rich calories a day, depending on how active you are.You will get proper nutrition if you incorporate foods from the five food groups every day. The five food groups are: fruits, vegetables, grains, proteins, and dairy.You need 1-1.5 cups of fruit per day. You can get this from eating whole fruits such as raspberries, blueberries, or strawberries, or from drinking 100% fruit juice.Make sure to vary the fruits you choose so that you get a range of nutrients and don’t process them in any way. For example, eating a cup of pure berries is much cleaner than eating berries on top of a cake.
You need 2.5-3 cups of vegetables per day. You can get this from eating whole vegetables such as broccoli, carrots, or peppers, or from drinking 100% vegetable juice.Make sure to vary the vegetables you choose so that you get a range of nutrients.
Fruits and vegetables are an excellent source of fiber. Fiber will also help you to maintain your weight.You need between 5-8 ounces of grains per day, of which ½ should be whole grains. You can get grains and whole grains from foods such as brown rice, whole wheat pasta or bread, oatmeal, or cereal.Grains will provide you with vital Vitamin B, which can help aid slowed digestion.You need 5-6.5 ounces of protein per day. You can get protein from lean meats including beef, pork, or poultry; cooked beans; eggs; peanut butter; or nuts and seeds.These will also help you to build and maintain muscle.You need 2-3 cups, or 12 oz., of dairy per day.You can get dairy from cheese, yogurt, milk, soymilk, or even ice cream.Avoid excessive amounts of sodium in your diet, which is prevalent in mass-processed foods. Your sense of taste decreases as you age, and you may want to salt your food. Try using alternative seasonings such as garlic or herbs to help you avoid excess sodium and gaining water weight., If you’re trying to lose weight, it’s a good idea to avoid unhealthy or junk foods, many of which are loaded with fat and calories. Steer clear of the snack food aisles in the grocery store when you go shopping.Potato chips, nachos, pizza, burgers, cake, and ice cream will not help you lose weight.


Stay away from starchy, refined carbs such as bread, crackers, pasta, rice, cereal, and baked goods. Eliminating these foods can also help you maintain your weight.
Look out for hidden sugar in your food choices, which can make you put on weight.
 Doing low-impact, moderate intensity cardiovascular exercise can help you maintain your fitness and may also help you lose weight. Discuss your plan to do cardio training with your doctor and certified fitness professional before you start.


You should do at least 30 minutes of moderate exercise all or most days of the week.If you are just beginning or need to do a lower impact activity, walking and swimming are excellent options.You can do any type of cardio training to help you lose weight. Beyond walking and swimming, consider running, rowing, biking, or using an elliptical machine., In addition to cardiovascular exercise, strength training can help you maintain your weight and liposuction results.Before you begin any strength training program, consult with your doctor and maybe even with a certified trainer, who will create the best plan for your abilities and needs.
Try a yoga or Pilates class either in a studio or online. These lower-impact activities can help strengthen and stretch your muscles while helping you to keep your weight in check.