 Although this will not rake in a ton of money, taking surveys online can bring in anywhere from $5 per week to a couple hundred dollars per month. This type of additional income is unpredictable, as you have to wait for surveys to be sent to you, and have to qualify for those surveys. One month, you could qualify for 20 surveys, and the next, qualify for none.Survey sites include SwagBucks, Valued Opinions, and Inbox Dollars. Signing up is easy: input your name, email, and a few other bits of information, such as your gender and your age. Some sites will require your state, as well. This information is then used to assign useful surveys.;
, You can test websites to make sure things are running smoothly and get paid for it. Websites rely heavily on traffic to drive sales; even if a particular site is not selling a tangible product, they requires page visits to get paid by advertisers and other companies. In order to get more page views, sites must be interesting and easy to navigate. You can get paid to help companies determine how to improve to garner pageviews.The two most common testing sites are User Testing and Enroll, but there are others, such as Start Up Lift and Testing Time. Although, again, you will not make a ton of cash using these sites, you can make at least an extra $20 per week. All you need to apply is an email address and Paypal account.
 Some apps will pay you just for having the app installed for a certain length of time while it gathers information about your usage habits. Others will pay you according to how often you go to the gym. If you have the phone space and you are willing to allow your internet history to be collected, this is a great way to earn small, passive income.Make sure you read the terms and agreements for apps such as this. Most are paying you to essentially gather data about you, and will use your data to learn more about your shopping habits and internet usage.
Apps such as GymPact allow you to place wagers on yourself, paying out each time you exercise, but requiring a fee if you do not exercise. If you regularly go to the gym and rarely miss, this is a great way to earn extra money.
 Many credit cards offer incentives for opening a card with their company--many of these incentives come in the form of a cash bonus. Be careful not to open too many new cards, as cards can lower your credit score. If you have good credit and can spend your money wisely, a cash bonus is a simple, easy way to make money.Read the terms and agreements of each card you sign up for; many of them have caveats to their cash bonuses, such as spending a certain amount in the allotted time.
Refrain from treating a credit card as free money. Instead, if you use a card, be sure to pay it off each month.
 Using coupon apps pays you for purchases you’re already making. Download a coupon app, search for coupons you’d like to use, and shop. Once you’re done, send in a copy of your receipt, and voila! You have cash back. Note that most companies have a minimum payout (usually $20). Although you may not wish to make grocery purchases online, many coupon apps include clothing and lifestyle stores, as well, and require a screenshot or other proof of purchase.Two popular apps are Ibotta and Receipt Hog, though there are many others. Using these sites does not cost money, but beware: you may be tempted to make purchases you wouldn’t normally make.

