 NSAIDs tend to work quickly, easing the pain within half an hour or so. They are available over-the-counter in most countries. Follow the dosing instructions on the bottle. Generally, you can take 400-600mg every four to six hours as needed.Acetaminophen (Tylenol) is another option that can help with the pain of menstrual cramps. It can be used in addition to NSAIDs as they work via different mechanisms in your body. Tylenol and ibuprofen should be alternated and not used together at the same time.
If over-the-counter pain medications such as ibuprofen and acetaminophen are insufficient to control your pain, you can speak to your physician for a prescription-strength alternative which may be more effective in controlling your menstrual pain.
Do not take aspirin if you are under 19-years-old without first consulting your doctor. Aspirin may cause a rare but serious condition called Reye's syndrome.;
, Menstrual cramps are located in the uterus, which contracts to release its lining when you have your period. The uterus, like any muscle, relaxes in response to warm temperatures, so applying some heat to your abdomen may help relieve cramps.Fill a hot water bottle and lay it across your stomach while you are resting. Let it sit for as long as you'd like.
Make sure you do not fall asleep while the heating pad is on you.Another option is to draw a warm bath and soak for about half an hour. Try to relax your muscles in response to the warm water.
 Place your hands over your stomach or back and gently knead the area. A vibrating self-massaging tool applied to your back can also help, or you could ask a partner to massage you.
 The chemicals released in your body during sex act as pain-relievers, and can also help to relax the muscles in that area of your body.
 Tea can help to settle your stomach and to relieve aching muscles. Certain types of tea have properties that can relax the uterus and help to get rid of painful cramping. Brew yourself a pot of one of these types of tea:


Raspberry leaf, which eases muscle cramps
Cramp bark, which relaxes the uterus
Dong Quai, which soothes the nervous system.

