 Proper hydration is important when treating PV. Dehydration can worsen your condition, so make sure to drink water frequently.Keep a water bottle on hand throughout the day and periodically take sips.
Stop at a water fountain whenever you see one to take a drink.
If you dislike drinking plain water, try flavored seltzer water or adding things like fruit to tap water.
 Itchy skin can be a major problem if you have PV. There are many ways to minimize and treat itchiness at home if it's an issue for you.Use lotions and other moisturizers on a regular basis, especially when your skin feels dry and itchy. These can hydrate your skin, lessening itchiness.
Heat can make itchiness worse, so avoid hot showers, hot tubs, and other exposure to hot water. Use warm water instead of hot water when bathing and showering.
Always pat your skin dry after taking a shower or bath. Rubbing your skin can make itchiness worse. After getting out of the shower, use a clean towel to gently pat water off of your skin.
Avoid scratching when you're itchy. This can make itchiness worse and increase your risk for an infection. It can help to trim your nails very short or wear gloves or mittens during the day to reduce the temptation to itch.
 Extreme hot and cold can worsen symptoms of PV. Take measures to protect yourself from extreme temperatures.Always bundle up if you have to go out in cold weather.
Drink extra liquids in hot weather and wear things like visors to protect yourself from the sun. You should also use sunscreen.
 People with PV commonly have non-healing sores, such as bruises or scrapes from normal activities, that are very slow to heal. The slowed blood flow in PV delays healing, so minor sores may take much longer to heal than normal. Look over your body regularly if you have PV to keep an eye out for new sores.Feet are particularly prone to sores, so check your feet frequently. Talk to your doctor about any new sores you find.
Take extra care with your sores until they are healed. Bandage them carefully and try not to bump them.

