 Excess salt in the body attracts water to the tissues, so reducing salt consumption can reduce edema.You may want to consult a nutritionist or dietitian for help with maintaining a low-salt diet, but there are some general tips you can follow to reduce your salt consumption.Do not add table salt to food. It may take some time to adjust to the less salty flavor, but you may find that you enjoy the flavors of the foods themselves more. You can also try adding other herbs or spices like dill, curry powder, pepper, cumin or thyme to add a bit of flavor variety.
Limit your processed food intake. This includes boxed, frozen, and canned items (including soup) that you buy at the store.
Eat whole foods that you cook yourself. If you prepare food yourself, you can be sure there is no added salt. A good approach is to shop around the perimeter of a grocery store, not in the center aisles. The perimeter of a store usually contains all of the produce, meats and seafood, dairy, and bulk products (which often includes beans, legumes, whole grains, and nuts).
Check the organic section of the grocery store. There are sometimes whole-food versions of convenience foods in the organic section. Read the label of any prepared food to check for sodium content.
 The best way to ensure that you are getting a good nutritional balance in your diet is to eat a variety of fruits and vegetables. These foods are naturally low in salt and pack all kinds of healthy nutrients.


Get a variety of fruits and vegetables, including asparagus, parsley, beets, grapes, green beans, leafy greens, pumpkin, pineapple, onion, leeks, and garlic.
Vegetables that have deep, rich colors often have the most nutritional value.It can be beneficial to your edema to include antioxidant foods like blueberries, raspberries, cherries, tomatoes, squash, and bell peppers.
 You should limit the amount of meat you consume. Some meat (such as cured meats, cold cuts, and red meat) is high in sodium.Additionally, excessive fat consumption can interfere with the healthy function of the liver, gallbladder, and digestion, which can worsen edema.
 It may seem counterintuitive to drink more water if you are retaining water. But this is the best way to help flush out your system. Be sure to drink 6-8 8-ounce glasses of water daily.If your doctor has prescribed diuretics (water pills), be sure that you talk to him or her about appropriate water consumption.
 These products can increase peripheral edema and affect your overall health. Alcohol and caffeine can dehydrate you,so if you do consume these beverages, be sure to drink additional water to counteract their effects.
 It is fairly common knowledge that edema can result from not getting enough movement or exercise. Many people don’t know that edema can also result from over exercising. It’s important to talk to your physician about the right amount (and the right kind) of exercise for your particular situation.


If you are not accustomed to a rigorous exercise routine, be sure to implement exercise gradually. If you are recovering from a surgery or medical condition, be sure to be cautious and work with a doctor or physical therapist as you slowly increase your exercise., Spending too much time sitting and not moving is one of the biggest contributors to edema. Walking around causes your leg muscles to expand and contract, which “massages” or stimulates your veins and allows them to push blood back up towards your heart and lungs. Sitting for long periods of time allows that blood to pool in your extremities., If you cannot avoid extended periods of sitting, try to keep your legs elevated to avoid pooling. Prop your feet up on your desk or on a stool or ottoman. You can even make a stack of pillows on which to comfortably rest your feet.
 If you do have to spend a lot of time sitting, getting up for a 5-minute walk every hour should help your edema.Go for a walk around the room, walk to refill your water bottle, or take a stroll around the block outside. It will likely improve your mood and focus as well as your edema.


Many people find that their edema is worse in the evenings. If you are relaxing on the couch after a long day at work, you should still make an effort to get up and walk around once or twice an hour.
 If most of the peripheral edema is in your hands and wrists, try raising your arms and hands high above your head every 30-60 minutes. This will allow gravity to help drain the fluid out of your extremities.


You may find it helpful to gently shake or pulse your hands while they are raised in the air over your head.
 Compression (or support) stockings are tight elastic stockings that keep pressure around your lower leg and ankle to prevent fluid buildup.They can be found at medical device stores and some drug stores.


Many people find the stockings difficult to put on because they are so tight. The best way to put them on is to roll the end of the stocking down to the ankle. Then put your foot inside the stocking and roll the remaining length over your ankle and calf.
Many physicians or physical therapists recommend wearing compression garments while you exercise;be sure to consult your medical professional for her/his recommendations.
Some compression garments need to be specially fitted to your body. For example, some women wear customized arm compression garments after breast surgery.
Occasionally, a compression garment that includes an air-pump that will contract intermittently will be necessary.