 Read several books. Always have a good book at home that you are reading. Books can be a great icebreaker and can stimulate conversation at parties. Plus, someone who is well-read is always attractive. The more you read, the more you know, and the more you'll develop a unique perspective on the world.


If people call you a nerd, just laugh it off. Anything is cool if you make it cool.
Reading will also make it easier for you to talk to a variety of people, not just one narrow social circle. Truly cool people can talk to almost anyone.
 You don't need to tear through several newspapers per day, but having a basic understanding of what's going on in the world will give you a reputation of being smart and knowledgeable, both of which are attractive qualities. This process can be as simple as going on Google News and reading two or three of the biggest stories each day.


You don't have to sound like a know-it-all to bring up something interesting and relevant. People will think it's cool that you have time to think about the world -- not just yourself.
If you have no idea what's going on in the world, you'll look clueless -- and that's just not cool.
 Being physically fit and active is already cool. Even if you're not a big athlete, going to the gym or running can get your blood flowing and can improve your physique. Being physically active will also develop your confidence, which is very cool.


Sports are also a great way to make new friends and bond with other people. Join a sports team or two in your school, and see how many new friends you make.
Physical activity also releases endorphins which make you feel better, improving your overall mood and making you more appealing to hang out with.
 Whether you join a club at school or take a screenwriting class in your community, doing something that you love will not only make you more interesting, but it can help you make new friends. Don't be shy about pursuing your interests, even if some of the things you love may not be traditionally considered to be "cool."


If you join a club, you can eventually have a leadership position in the organization, which is very cool.
 The more you can do, the cooler you'll be. Learn how to fix a car, build a table, finish a deck, or even to cook the perfect steak. If you have a skill, you'll not only be useful to others, but people will think it's cool that you took the initiative to do something.


Once you've mastered a skill, you can even teach it to someone else. Now that's cool.
 Though certain interests, like team sports, can be developed better in groups, part of being cool is being able to spend time learning things on your own. Anyone who is comfortable spending time by himself and who even likes spending time by himself is much cooler than a person who is so socially eager that he's desperate to always be hanging out with people.


Spend time learning to play the guitar, picking up a new language, or just writing down your thoughts in a journal. This will help you figure out who you are and you'll become cooler in the process.
If you're always around, people will take you for granted. But if you're sometimes busy because you're catching up on some alone time, then people will appreciate you more when you're around.

