 Closing yourself off emotionally from the person may be another way you can avoid falling for them. Try to control your emotions so you do not feel overwhelmed or out of control around the person. Make a list of the person’s negative qualities. Read them over and let yourself feel discouraged or disengaged from the person because of these negative qualities. This may help you avoid falling in love with the person.Be honest and think about qualities of the person that may be bothersome or an issue if you were in a relationship with them. For example, you may write down about the person: “too career-focused, quiet and introverted, hard to talk to in a big group.”

, You should also think about why you and the person are not suitable mates. You may make a list of their negative qualities and then write down why these negative qualities mean you and the person are not meant to be together. You may also write down specific instances where you and the person did not seem to mesh or jive well together. Focusing on your incompatibility could help you close yourself off emotionally from the person and see them as nothing more than a friend.


For example, you may write down: “we are incompatible because they are career focused and I would prefer to travel” or “we would not work out because they are intent on settling in one place and I plan to move around often.”

, If you are already on friendly terms with the person, you can try focusing on your friendship with them over any romantic relationship. Perhaps you and the person get along well as friends. Remind yourself that pursuing the person romantically could lead to hurt feelings and ruin your friendship. You may then reason that you are better off maintaining a friendship with the person rather than a romance.For example, you may sit down and write out all the fun times you have had with the person as friends. Then, you may consider if it is worth risking your meaningful, fulfilling relationship with the person to pursue a romance.

