 Mortar and pestles are usually made in a matching set. The mortar is a small bowl and the pestle is a wand with a curve that's perfectly shaped to grind smoothly against the mortar. The instrument may be made from wood, stone or ceramic, and you'll want to choose your material based on your culinary needs and personal preferences.


Ceramic mortar and pestles are capable of grinding spices very finely, but they're also more fragile than other types.
Wood mortar and pestles are durable, but they're also slightly porous, and subject to stains. It's also possible for the flavor of one spice to stay present in the mortar between uses, tainting the flavor of the next spice you grind.
Stone mortar and pestles also grind very finely, but unless they're conditioned properly, fine particles of stone can get ground into the spices.;
, Do you want to crush large amounts of spices, seeds, and nuts, or only small amounts? You will find varying sizes from palm size to bowl size, and it may even be handy to have two different sizes if you have the space and budget for it.


If you plan to grind a very large amount of spices, getting a spice grinder may be more suitable for your needs. A mortar and pestle is best for just enough spices to create whatever dish or spice mix you immediately want to use.
 If you need something ground into a paste or powder, this is the ideal tool. Items that are good to grind or crush in the mortar and pestle include peppercorns, spice seeds, herb seeds, fresh herb and spice leaves, rice, nuts, other plant seeds, hard candies, sea salt, and so on. Anything used for baking or eating that can be crushed is likely to work in the mortar and pestle.


If you need something chopped, pureed, or blended, you may be better off with another tool, such as a blender or processor. The recipe will often be a guide on this.
 Measure out your whole peppercorns, cinnamon, or other ingredient and place it in the mortar. Fill the mortar no more than ⅓ full with raw spices; otherwise, it will be difficult to get an even grind. If you have too much to fit, it's fine to process the spices in batches.
 Hold the mortar in place with one hand, take the pestle in your opposite fist, and twist it against the ingredients in the mortar so that they are ground against its bottom and sides. Evenly grind, bash or crush all of the spices, using the pestle to mix and grind them until they are all reduced to the same consistency. Continue until the ingredients are as coarse or fine as you want.


See below to learn specific techniques for grinding, crushing or bashing your ingredients. Each technique will result in a different consistency, and can affect the flavor and final outcome of your dish.
 You can either place the freshly ground contents of the mortar into a glass spice jar with a tight-fitting lid, or go ahead and measure out how much you need for your recipe.
 This is the ideal technique for most spices you'll use in baked goods, sauces and other dishes. You can grind to a coarse, medium or fine consistency.


Place your ingredients in the mortar and hold it in place with one hand.
Hold the pestle in your fist with a firm but comfortable grip.
Press the rounded end of the pestle down onto the ingredients and roll it against the mortar while applying firm pressure.
Grind until you've reached your preferred consistency.
 If the item resists or is simply large and needs this approach, use firm but gentle pounding, sometimes called bashing. This will crack the spices, allowing you to switch techniques to get a finer grind.


Grind first. This action will catch the ingredients that crush easily and make the pounding easier.
Pound or bash the ingredients. Use the broad end of the pestle and bring it down gently. Use short, sharp pounds to speed up the process and conserve your own energy.
To avoid mishaps, cup your other hand (or a small cloth) over the top opposite side of the mortar and pestle to catch any of the bashed item that tries to bounce out.
Grind again if needed. Once most of the ingredients have been crushed, a little end muddling may assist to finish off the crushing.
 If your recipe calls for crushed, rather than ground, spices, that means they shouldn't be completely pulverized. Instead, you want to keep them mostly intact. This is also a suitable technique for processing garlic.


Place the ingredients in the mortar.
Roll the pestle across the ingredients so that they crush and burst.
Continue until all of the ingredients have been crushed, but not finely ground.
 The cleaning approach is dependent on the material of the mortar and pestle. Check the instructions that came with the mortar and pestle you bought to ensure you clean it properly. Here are some broad advisories:


For a dishwasher-safe mortar and pestle, simply place in the usual dishwasher cycle.
If it is not dishwasher-safe (such as a wooden set), clean with warm water. Dry it completely before storing.
For a dry grind, it may be sufficient to simply brush out with a clean cloth or paper towel.
 Since most mortar and pestles are a little porous, soap can leave an ill-tasting residue that can get mixed in with your spices next time you grind something.Wiping it out with warm water, then drying it thoroughly should do the trick.
 Sometimes it's difficult to remove smells and stains from strong spices. A good trick is to pour some dry white rice into the mortar, then use the pestle to grind it finely. The rice will probably take on the color and smell of the last spice you processed. Discard the rice, then repeat the process until the ground rice remains white and odor-free after the grinding.

