 Before you can grow fenugreek for yourself, you will need to obtain the seeds from which the plants grow. If you know someone who already grows this herb, you could ask them for some, but most likely you will need to buy some. Because fenugreek is commonly used in Indian curries and homeopathic medicine, you can try an Indian grocery store or an herb shop. You can also try online stores like Amazon.com, Foodtolive.com, or Nuts.com.Depending on where you buy from and whether or not you buy organic seeds, it will cost anywhere between 25 cents to $1 for an ounce of fenugreek seeds.;
, Although some plants are particular in that they must be planted in tightly controlled conditions, fenugreek can be planted in the soil in your yard, a twelve inch planter, or even an aluminum tray filled with dirt.Ideally you want an area with full sun, but partial shade or even filtered sunlight will also work.Fenugreek does not do well when transplanted, so either plan to plant your fenugreek in the area where it will mature from the beginning, or try using a biodegradable pot that you can plant into the ground later.
 You will want the soil you use to have a well-drained, loamy texture. It should also have a slightly acidic pH balance. 6.4 pH is considered ideal, but anything between 6.0 and 7.0 pH is generally considered acceptable, so test it before you plant your seeds., Fenugreek prospers in warm soil, so any time from spring to early autumn will work for most places. If you live in a colder place, or you want to start growing your fenugreek before spring, you can start it off indoors as early as 5 weeks before the last frost., Fenugreek seeds must be continually kept moist, but you also have to make sure they don't become overwatered. For that purpose you will need to make sure that the water can easily drain away by breaking up any large chunks of soil. You can also mix in river sand to make it drain better, and add organic compost material and manure to help fertilize it better. You'll also need to make sure that there is space to cover your seeds with more potting soil.If you are planting your seeds in an outdoor garden, you'll want to dig the ground up to 25 cm down to break up soil.
If you are using a container (like a pot or an aluminum pan) with loose potting soil instead, you probably won't need to break any of the soil once you've poured it into the container. Be sure to leave some space between the top of the soil and the edge of the container to fill in more soil on top of the seeds once they have been sown., Soaking the seeds overnight before you plant them will help to increase their germination rate.Place the seeds in a bowl or cup of room temperature water and leave them there overnight. In the morning, drain the water before planting the seeds.