 If you have an infant or newborn, consider breastfeeding your child. Studies have shown that breastfed babies have a healthier gut compared to formula-fed babies.Human breast milk contains prebiotics (food for probiotics and good gut bacteria). This allows the growth of more Bifidobacteria and Lactobacilli which have been shown to be beneficial for infants GI systems.If you cannot support your child 100% on breast milk that's OK. Even breastfeeding half of the time or giving him a bottle or two of breast milk will be beneficial to his GI system and immune system.;
, There are a variety of foods that contain probiotics, but many studies have shown that yogurt is one of the best.Plus, it's a kid-friendly food that will go down easily.


When you're looking for yogurts that have probiotics, it's important to look for the Live Cultures seal. This means that there are live bacteria in the yogurt.
It's also recommended to get organic yogurt. This may be a little more expensive, but studies have shown there are higher levels of probiotics in this type of yogurt due to the processing methods.Serve kid's yogurt plain with some fruit, a drizzle of honey (if they're over two years old), mixed into a fruit smoothie or used to make a sweet dip for fruit.
 Kefir is another powerful source of many strains of helpful probiotics.It's a little less common than yogurt, but is equally beneficial.


Kefir is a fermented drink and has the consistency of runny yogurt.It's typically very tart, but many brands sell kefir that's flavored — like strawberry or blueberry kefir.
Some health professionals think kefir is even superior to yogurt since it may have up to 12 different strains of probiotics.Since kefir might be a little strong for your child's palate, you may want to consider making a smoothie with it. You can mix sweet fruits (like strawberries, pineapple or bananas) to reduce the tartness of the kefir. However, some children may like the kefir alone or the fruit kefir drinks.
 Many fermented and pickled vegetables contain a good amount of probiotics. An especially kid-friendly source of probiotics are pickles.


When you're looking to purchase pickles, choose a brand that is brined in salt and water — not vinegar. Vinegar-based pickles do not have probiotics. You may find salt-brined pickles in the refrigerated section of the grocery store.Serve pickles on your kid's sandwiches, alongside a sandwich or wrap or just encourage your child to crunch on them as a snack.
There are also many easy do-it-yourself recipes to make pickles with probiotics in your own home.
 A more unique source of probiotics is tempeh.This vegetarian protein source also delivers fiber and a boost of healthy bacteria.


Tempeh is made from fermented soybeans which are then pressed together into a solid block. It's more firm and dense compared to tofu and doesn't have a spongy or squishy texture.
Tempeh has little flavor and children may not like it plain. However, if you pan-fry tempeh or sauté it with a flavorful sauce, it'll blend great into your meal.
You can pan fry tempeh sticks and use them in a wrap in place of deli meat, you can crumble tempeh and sauté and use as a ground meat substitute or you can cube it up and stir-fry it with vegetables.
 Another soy-based source of probiotics is miso. Commonly used to make miso soup, this fermented soybean paste may be another great way to get in extra "good bacteria."Like tempeh, miso is also made from fermented soybeans. It's the fermentation of both of these products that results in their high probiotic content.
You may think your child won't eat miso - especially miso soup, however there are a large variety of ways to use miso paste without your child ever knowing.
Try adding miso to: mayonnaise for a savory twist on their sandwich, homemade salad dressings, homemade marinades, or in casseroles., If you have a picky eater or have difficulty getting in probiotic-rich foods every day, you may want to consider having your child take a probiotic supplement.


Most health professionals believe that probiotics in the form of food or supplements are safe for children. However, always talk to your child's pediatrician before giving her any over-the-counter supplement.Probiotic supplements may come in a tablet, pill or liquid form. Some brands come in chewable tablets and in single-serving packets which can be dissolved into food or liquids. Choose something that your child will tolerate and enjoy.
Also make sure your supplement has at least 1 billion CFUs or colony forming units. This has been shown to be a beneficial level of probiotics for children's GI systems., Like probiotics, prebiotics have been associated with improved gut health. Adding foods that contain prebiotics in addition to probiotics can help maximize the amount of good bacteria in your child's gut.


Prebiotics are indigestible food components that serve as the food for probiotics.They help promote the growth and proliferation of the good bacteria in your GI system.
Foods that contain prebiotics include: Jerusalem artichokes, dandelion greens, garlic, leeks, onions, asparagus, banana, wheat bran and wheat flour.
Some of theses foods aren't super "kid-friendly" and will most likely be better tolerated when they are cooked and tossed together in a meal.
 If you're interested in giving your child probiotics and managing your child's GI system, the first place to start is talking to your pediatrician.


These children's specialists will be able to give you a lot of good information on whether or not probiotics are safe or effective for your child.
Ask the pediatrician about any research or his opinion on whether or not probiotics are effective.
In addition, share with your pediatrician the ways in which you were considering adding probiotics to your child's diet. Ask if these are appropriate or safe.
 If you're increasing or starting to use probiotics with your child, you may be looking for some improvements in her health. You should monitor your child's overall health and response to probiotics to ensure they're effective and safe.


Consider keeping a journal or log of what your child ate and how much. Also track symptoms or reactions your child has to foods that contain probiotics.
If you're giving your child a probiotic supplement, make sure to note the brand, ingredients and how often you're giving it to your child.
Also note the progress or improvement in your child's health. If you do not notice a difference in several weeks, you may want to discontinue as both probiotic foods and supplements can be expensive.
 Although probiotics are generally considered safe for most people, even kids, not everyone or every child should take them.


It's generally considered safe for children — even infants. However, only give probiotics to infants who were full-term.Avoid probiotic use in premature infants, babies or children with an immune disorder or weakened immune system, those who are receiving any type of medical treatment that would cause a weakened immune system or those with any medical devices placed (like a catheter)., There is some research that suggests supplementing your child's diet with foods containing acidophilus or Lactobacillus supplements can cause adverse health effects. Be aware of:


Children with milk allergies or are lactose intolerant can react to foods or supplements with Lactobacillus acidophilus in them. There may be trace amounts of lactose or other milk compounds left over and can cause side effects.Also, some studies show that supplementing an infant's diet with Lactobacillus acidophilus prior to six months of age may increase the likelihood of that child developing a food allergy to milk., A common reason many parents start to use probiotics in children is to manage eczema or atopic dermatitis.Eczema is somewhat common in children. It's a skin condition that usually poses no significant harm to children, but presents as an itchy, red, scaly rash.Studies have shown that regular consumption of foods containing probiotics or probiotic supplements helped prevent eczema and the extent and severity of eczema in children already presenting with it., Another common health problem children face is diarrhea. Whether they ate something that made them sick or got a stomach bug from other kids at school, diarrhea is something most children will encounter at some point.


One of the most common causes of diarrhea in children is rotavirus-related diarrhea.Many children will also get diarrhea after taking an antibiotic. Probiotics may help this as well.
Using probiotic foods and supplements can help prevent diarrhea in addition to decreasing the total time the diarrhea is present and decrease symptoms., Infants and babies with colic can be challenging for parents. However, probiotics may also be beneficial to those babies who have been diagnosed with colic.


Colic is a frustrating condition that results in infants and babies crying for extended periods of time. It can cause babies to cry for over three hours daily on a regular basis; the cause is unknown.Studies have shown that infants with colic that have been treated with probiotics decreased the amount of time crying by over 50%., Like diarrhea, probiotics have also been shown to be beneficial in children that have chronic intestinal conditions like Crohn's Disease.Common intestinal conditions in children include Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and IBS. Many are thought to be autoimmune diseases that are only managed, not cured.
Studies have shown that kids who are treated with probiotics have decreased abdominal pain in addition to decreased bloating, gas, cramping and diarrhea., There has been recent research that seems to suggest that starting infants on probiotics may help prevent or reduce the risk for acquiring food allergies.Studies have shown that children with food allergies have an imbalance of beneficial and harmful bacteria in their GI systems.
Starting children on probiotics at infancy can help ensure the right type of beneficial bacteria populate their GI system.