 When your child is diagnosed with TS, you need to explain the condition to your other children. Your child's siblings may feel left out if a brother or sister if getting more attention because your family is dealing with TS.


Some siblings will step up and take care of his or her sibling.
This can be tough to manage, but just make sure you pay attention to each of your children in their own way. This may be tough to understand, but each of your children want to know they have your attention and love.Tell your other children, "Although I may spend a little more time with your sibling, he/she needs my help more than you do sometimes. This doesn't mean I love you any less."
For example, if you have to do something specific with your child that has TS, make some time to spend one on one with your other children so they don't feel left out or as if they aren't getting the same attention.
 If a loved one with TS isn't your child but another family member, such as a grandpa, grandma, aunt, or uncle, you need to make sure you discuss the condition with your family. Your children may not understand the condition or be afraid of it because they aren't sure what it means.


Just be honest with they and make them aware of the condition so no one is surprised or confused.Tell your family, "Someone in our family has Tourette Syndrome. This means he/she has motor and verbal tics that he/she cannot control. Don't stare or make fun of him/her."

, It may be hard to get used to having a family member with TS, but this doesn't mean your life will be hard. Your life will likely not look exactly like others, especially if your loved one's TS tics are severe. But try to see this new family structure as a strength.


Pay attention to your loved one with TS in public. Embrace the new way your family looks by joining other families with TS in events. Just try to do activities that make the TS part of your life instead of ignoring it., Once you accept your new life, learn to adjust to your new life in a way that will not make your loved one with TS feel like an burden. Look on the difference in your family as a strength, not a weakness.


This means that you should keep doing as much as possible of those things that you did before your child was diagnosed. Go on vacation, go to the store, go to the movies if possible. If you keep doing all those things that your family always loved to do that are still possible, the Tourette Syndrome will fee less like a burden.
If you are the main caregiver of a loved one with TS, you may need a break from time to time. This will help you recharge and not feel overwhelmed by your caregiver tasks.