 Ask the woman if there's anything you can do to make her more comfortable in the car. For safety reasons, it's important that she buckles up. She may feel more at ease if she sits in the back seat where she can stretch out.You may want to keep blankets and pillows in the car to make her even more comfortable.
 If the woman's water hasn't broken, be prepared in case it breaks while you're driving. Lay a thick towel down on the seat and have a few more in case she needs to wipe herself off as well. You should also travel with a plastic bag for the woman to use if she develops nausea and needs something to vomit into.Some women may still experience leaking even after their waters break, so it's a good idea to put down a towel anyway.
 Play relaxing music or use scents that soothe the laboring woman so her labor continues to progress. Many women find that the stress of traveling to the hospital causes the labor to stall or temporarily stop. Consider spritzing a little perfume or essential oils in the car and turn on soft music. These can relax her and help her labor progress.It's alright if her labor slows down a little. This just means that it may take more time for her labor to pick back up at the hospital.
Some laboring women prefer quiet, so ask the woman if she'd rather you turn the music off.
 Avoid speeding, running lights, and reckless driving that could put your car and others in danger. Instead, follow the traffic laws to ensure that you make it safely to the hospital. You may even want to drive slower if this makes the woman in labor more comfortable.Try to go slower over bumps, railroad tracks, or through construction. The jostling may be painful for the laboring woman, so taking it slowly can make it easier to handle.
 The laboring woman will pick up on your stress and nervousness which could stall her labor (making it temporarily slow down). Try to remain in control, calm, and confident so she can focus on making it through contractions. Practice any breathing exercises you learned birthing classes, repeat a mantra, or visualize a safe arrival at the hospital.Remember that it's alright if you don't feel calm and confident. You just need to display outward control of the situation. Once she realizes that you can safely get her to the hospital, she'll feel more comfortable.

