 Pick the creamy tan color first, located right below bright yellow. Make the rabbit's ear color pink.;
, For example, a nice pattern is lavender splotches and use the pretty pink located right next to the fox red.
 The best ones are the original eyes, or the eyelash eyes. Use the dark purple color on the eyes.
 Focus on clothes that look sweet on the bunny.


For example: A flower crown (members unless you have a freedom flower crown), any colored fox hat, any type of blanket (any color), and any other cute items you like.



For example, use the lightest gray, located right above white. Add a secondary color will such as lavender-pink, found right next to bright yellow.
Another example is white color as the first color and mysterious icy blue for the secondary color.



Lavender-pink: A good choice is the irregular swirls in the same lavender you used for your secondary color.
Icy blue: Use the thunderbolt pattern.
 These will look really pretty!

,


For example: A light gray beret, pink designer skirt, black heart locket, and pink tail armor or the raccoon tail used for the bunny.
Another example: Black top hat, black bat wings and black clothing for an Emo/Goth look.
 For example, make the shell blue, found next to the olive green and dark bluish purple. Choose a secondary color, such as the blue located next to grassy green and bright purple.
 The best ones are the circular ones used for the bunny, in the black color.
 A good choice is the blue underwater flower necklace.
 Choose your favorite colors, and be sure to make them match.
 If you're a girl, get the normal girl eyes. If you're a guy, avoid the pointy evil eyes unless you want to scare away the girls.
 For a fox (depending on color): A beret, heart locket, glove or leaf bracelet and anything you want on the back to spice it up. Also add tail armor, like a raccoon tail, stegosaurus tail, or the actual tail guard.

Clothes: a designer skirt, a baseball cap, and a gem necklace.
,,,,, Make the second color white.
 This looks cool.
 Wear white sparkly shoes or high heels, white sparkly head bow and a white sparkly boa. For the back wear a white tutu.
 The second color should be light yellow.
 The gender of the animal will determine the color of the penguins eyes. If you're a girl, make the penguin's eyes a light blue color. If you're a guy, make the eyes a dark blue.
 Dress a boy penguin up in headphones, a bow and arrow and any necklace.

