 Not all types of flowers are safe to eat. Don’t buy flowers that have been treated with pesticides, insecticides, growth agents or other toxic chemicals. These can make you very sick.In general, it may be best to find a source other than supermarket florists for fresh flowers. Most of the flowers sold in these places are grown in highly-controlled conditions using various chemicals.;
, Check with the florist to see if the flowers they sell are grown organically. Flowers grown naturally are generally the best to use for culinary purposes, as they don’t contain chemical additives that can leach into your cake. In most cases, vendors are required to disclose whether or not their flowers are organic.Visit a local farm, greenhouse or flower nursery to find flowers that have been cultivated using safe, organic growing practices.Even organic flowers may not be suitable for human consumption. Certain species contain saps and microbes that may cause irritation to the eyes, skin or digestive tract if they come into contact with food., Think about the kind of cake you’re making when you pick out flowers to decorate it. Try to match colors and textures, or create a tasteful contrast. For instance, white flowers such as will look subtle and elegant on a white cake, whereas bright red roses might be used to offset softer pastel colored cakes.Take a look at which types of flowers are safe to consume or use in foods and which are harmful., Certain species of flowering plants can be safely consumed. These flowers offer unique, perfumed flavor notes and make an effortless addition to floral cakes because they don't need to be removed prior to serving. Some of the most common types of edible flowers include roses, begonias, chrysanthemums, daisies, dandelions and hibiscus. Each of these edibles can be distinguished by their subtle flavors, which should be used to enhance the flavor of the cake they're to be added to.Flowers like dandelion, chicory and calendula feature bright, zesty notes that can be used to offset the sweetness of a frosted cake, while mild herbal flowers like hibiscus and lavender work well with naked cakes and those garnished with fresh fruit.Though they are technically edible, it is not advisable to use more fragrant types of flowers like roses, carnations and jasmine as food additives, as the chemicals that lend them their characteristic scents can easily overpower the flavors of the confection.
 Before you begin decorating, rinse the flower from petal to stem under a light stream of cool water. Just like with produce, you should wash flowers before putting them to culinary use to remove any traces of soil, bacteria or insects. Even if the flowers you’ve bought are organically grown, they should be rinsed to avoid contaminated food items.Be careful not to damage the delicate flower blossoms by rinsing them under too high a water pressure or scrubbing them by hand.

