 Download your top keywords by sales into Adwords Editor, and see what Google thinks about them. (If you don't see the Quality Score, simply select 'show quality score' on the columns menu on top left.);
, From the campaigns tab, select the Keywords tab and click the white speech bubble, which will tell you not only the QS of that keywords, but click-through rate, ad relevance, and landing page experience. Note if there are any problems.


If you have 'below average' for landing page experience, then you have a problem to fix. If landing page experience is the issue, first confirm you are not a fraudster, selling weight loss, payday loans or similar. If you are, it is unlikely you will get out of this penalty box, so you should try buying ads on Facebook instead! If you are not, and Google simply thinks you are not relevant, then you should speak to your web designers about getting more relevant content onto the landing page.
If you are below average for Ad Relevance, that means Google thinks your Keywords, Ads and Landing Pages are not related. Try putting keywords into all three as a theme. For example, if you are selling personal robots, make sure that the landing page says personal robot, and it says personal robot somewhere in your Ad copy.
 There is no way to know everything about the 100+ separate elements that Google has stated are part of your Quality Scores, but they do tell us the number one element is your Click Through Rate (CTR) on Google Search. That's right, Google shows your ads on tens of thousands of different websites including Ask.com and AOL.com, but they only care about how you are doing on Google!


To see your CTR on Google, go to the Ads menu, click on the "Segment" button and select Network (With Search Partners).
 You do this by adding a new Ad to run at the same time as your existing one. This is called A/B testing. For example, one time tested way of increasing your CTR on a keyword is to put that keyword into your ad copy.


After you put a new Ad live and confirm it is showing, come back and see if it is doing better than the old ad at a later time, waiting at least a few days.
If you find your new ad has a better CTR, turn off the old one. Then wait a few days and check again, and you may be rewarded with a better QS.

