 Do this exercise right when you first wake up, to clear breathing passages and relieve muscle stiffness, or use it throughout the day any time you need to relieve tension in your back. In addition to relieving muscle tension and stiffness, this technique helps improve mental clarity and boosts your energy your energy. Perform this exercise while standing upright.Bend forward at the waist with your knees slightly bent, and let your arms hang down toward the floor.
Inhale slowly and deeply through your nose, while straightening up to a standing position. Roll your body up slowly, rolling your neck back last until you are facing the ceiling. Only lean your head back as far as is comfortable for you.
Once you are standing upright, hold your breath for a count of three. Exhale slowly through your mouth and slowly bend forward again. Repeat this motion several times.
 Practice this exercise any time you feel your energy wane throughout the day, to help you focus on work or activities. This technique reduces agitation, anxiety, and anger, and helps to improve mental clarity. Do this exercise while sitting comfortably on the floor or in a chair, with your spine erect and your shoulders relaxed.Lower your chin slightly, and roll your tongue lengthwise to form a sort of “straw,” with the tip projecting slightly from your mouth. (The ability to roll your tongue is a genetic trait. If you don't roll your tongue, you can press the tip of your tongue against your top front teeth instead.) Inhale through your mouth as you gently lift your chin toward the ceiling.
Close your mouth and slowly return your head to a forward position, as you exhale through your nose. Repeat this movement 8 to 10 times.
 This exercise encourages deep relaxation by balancing the left and right halves of your brain, calming your nervous system. This technique produces an almost instantaneous feeling of stress relief and lowers your blood pressure and standing pulse rate. It also helps improve concentration and increase energy. For this exercise you should sit in bed with your legs crossed or with propped up with pillows at the small of your back. Place one finger against each side of your nose. Press your right nostril closed and inhale slowly through the left, for a count of four.
Pinch both nostrils closed and hold your breath for a count of four.
Release your right nostril and exhale through your right nostril, again for a count of four.
Repeat several times, switching sides each time to breathe in through one nostril and out through the other.
 This traditional yoga exercise oxygenates the blood rapidly, leaving you feeling alert and invigorated. Sit comfortably with your legs crossed and rest your hands on your knees – palms facing up if you need to receive energy, or palms facing down if you want to ground yourself.Breathe in through your nostrils as deeply as possible, while expanding your lungs as wide out to the sides as is comfortable for your body.
Release the breath completely out through your nose, allowing the body to shrink inward with your navel gently drawing toward your spine. This is a loud breath that may clear your nostrils, so you might need a tissue.
Repeat for several minutes at a steady pace that is comfortable for you.

