 When you get to the hospital, your doctor will take x-rays of your wrist to determine how badly your wrist has been fractured. This is the best way to see the damage to the bone and to figure out the best course of treatment.
 Fractures are described in terms displacement of fragments and involvement of the joint. Displacement of fragments means how many of the bone pieces are out of place. Displacement can be minimal or great, and is judged on a spectrum. The other prominent feature in gauging the severity of fractures is whether the fracture involves a joint, or is “articular," in contrast to an extra-articular fracture, in which the joint is not involved. Breaks involving joints are inherently more severe because healing them is more complicated.


There are several classifications of Colles fractures, depending on the severity of the injury. Colles fractures are referred to as: Type I: extra articular and non-displaced, Type II: extra articular and displaced, Type III: intra articular and non-displaced, and Type IV: Intra articular and displaced.The criteria that define a break as a Colles fracture include: transverse fracture of the radius, the fracture occurs within 2.5 cm proximal to the radio-carpal or wrist joint, and dorsal or posterior displacement and dorsal angulation with a radial tilt. , This type of small fracture does not require realignment of the bone. Instead, your bone just needs to be held in place in order to heal properly.
 If your wrist is fractured so that the ends of the bone overlap or are slightly at an angle, your doctor will most likely perform a closed reduction. For this treatment, the wrist is manipulated and positioned so that the bones are in the correct position. Then a cast is applied to keep the wrist in this proper position. The majority of Colles fractures may be treated non-surgically with a cast for a period of 6 weeks.You will be given anesthesia if you have to have the bones in your wrist repositioned. However, keep in mind that this procedure doesn’t require surgery. Your doctor is essentially just popping your wrist back into place.
You might have to wear a splint for a couple of days to deal with the swelling in your wrist before getting a proper cast.
There are some newer casting technologies which allow for the structural integrity and durability of a cast, while still allowing for a degree of airiness and the and ability to bathe normally. Closed reduction would be appropriate for Types I, II fractures certainly, and may be appropriate for Type III fractures. ( Diaz-Garcia, 2012).
In recent studies, there are few differences in comparison of non-operative and operative management of Colles fractures.In elderly patients with distal radius fractures, those who received treatment with closed reduction (moving the bone back into place manually) with casting alone had equal functional status scores and significantly decreased pain scores.
In patients who reported excellent functional status, 77% had a notable visual deformity the “dinner fork deformity” often seen in this fracture. This deformity did not correspond with poor functional outcome, or patient dissatisfaction. Persistent pain was correlated with patient dissatisfaction and surgical treatment.
 If the fracture is determined to be unstable, then you may need surgical treatment, which is also called an open reduction. You would have to have this surgery done if: the fracture involves the wrist joints, the fractured bone breaks through the skin, the bone is fractured or broken in many places, or the injury also involves torn ligaments. Basically, if you have really done a number on your wrist and it is severely fractured, you may be referred to an orthopedic surgeon so that you can have your wrist corrected surgically.


This will occur if a closed reduction does not result in satisfactory use of the wrist, there is a “shortening” of the radius of greater than 5 mm, or it is a comminuted fracture with greater than 3 fracture fragments of the radius.
With surgery, the fracture is placed back together with tiny plates and screws to achieve an anatomically superior result. The extremity will still be placed in a splint or cast and monitored sequentially during the 6 week healing period. This approach would be typically considered more favorable in younger patients. A superior radiographic outcome is not always correlated with a superior functional outcome, but it is always the goal, set out upon when repairing these fractures.
During the operation, you will be asleep (under general anesthesia) and your bones will be straightened, placed correctly and held together with pins, plates and/or screws specifically designed for use in bone. After surgery your wrist will be placed in a splint or cast to prevent it from moving.Complications are not dependent on treatment method selected, but due to the trauma sustained. Specific complications include: the presence of a cosmetic “dinner fork” deformity, median nerve palsy or weakness also called post traumatic carpal tunnel syndrome, or Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy  (RSD) or Chronic Regional Pain Syndrome. This occurs as a result of injury to the median nerve from compression due to swelling, or lack of blood flow, secondary to a compartment like syndrome.