 First and foremost, you should be aware that Euro bills come only in denominations of 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 200, and 500. So, if you are handed a €15 note, reject it immediately. Each legitimate Euro denomination also has a standard color palette and image style.Euros feature distinctive styles of architectural imagery from different periods of European history. The front of each bill shows a window, door, or gate motif; the rear, a bridge (along with a map of Europe).
Five Euro bills feature Classical architecture and are predominantly gray in color.
Ten Euro bills feature Romanesque architecture and are predominantly red in color.
Twenty Euro bills feature Gothic architecture and are predominantly blue in color.
Fifty Euro bills feature Renaissance architecture and are predominantly orange in color.
One-hundred Euro bills feature Baroque / Rococo architecture and are predominantly green in color.
Two-hundred Euro bills feature iron and glass architecture and are predominantly yellow-brown in color.
Five-hundred Euro bills feature Modern architecture and are predominantly purple in color.;
, Unlike U.S. currency, for instance, Euro bills are different sizes. This hinders counterfeiting somewhat, but is mainly done for the benefit of the visually-impaired.€5 = 120 x 62 mm
€10 = 127 x 67 mm
€20 = 133 x 72 mm
€50 = 140 x 77 mm
€100 = 147 x 82 mm
€200 = 153 x 82 mm
€500 = 160 x 82 mm

, Euros are made of 100% cotton fiber, which enhances durability and gives the bills a distinctive feel. Real Euros should feel crisp and firm, and the print should feel raised in areas where the ink is thicker.Fake Euros tend to feel limp and waxy to the touch, and often lack the raised print texture.
The older and more worn the Euro bill is, the more difficult it may be to distinguish these features. Even then, however, an experienced handler of Euros can likely tell the difference.
 The European Central Bank has over the past few years been slowly rolling out a new series of Euro bills. These are widely known as the Europa Series because some of the major security enhancements involve imagery of the Greek mythological figure Europa.These bills include a watermark portrait of Europa (a female), visible when the bill is held up to light.
They also include a hologram image of Europa in the silver security stripe, which becomes visible when the bill is tilted.

