 Use a basic color such as white or cream, so that anything goes. If you'd rather, you can paint them another color but don't make it too bizarre. You'll need your parent's permission, the paint and many drop cloths to prevent paint stains everywhere. Also, get some advice on painting from an experienced painter before going ahead.


Skip this step if you aren't painting your walls.;
, If you're not painting the walls, clean them at the very least. Clear off all existing posters, photos and pictures. Give the walls a good wash and use a magic eraser to get rid of scuff marks from the walls.
 A large chart detailing the elements (periodic table), a map of space constellations, anything describing a physics theory, and so forth, make for nerdy wall additions. A map of the world is always useful too, and you might consider getting one that demonstrates various things such as forestation, geo-political issues, and the like.


Notes for memorization can be attached to the wall as well. A few facts could be put up here and there too.
Put a poster of your role model on the wall, such as Einstein, Brian Cox or Marie Curie.
Tables for math such as trigonometry look good on the wall.
 This is the hallowed place of learning, so ensure that it has all the features you like, including drawers, book space and room to study with books open alongside the computer. Having a desk with shelves on top is ideal.


Roll-top desks can look great, depending on your color scheme, or you can just get a small, rectangular, narrow table. Put two short filing cabinets underneath it on either side of the chair, and mount shelves into the wall above.
For filing cabinets, you might want to try getting a few of those, metal or wood. Even if you don’t have a ton of papers to file, you can use them as dressers for clothes or for knick-nacks.
Put the desk where you can see it when you first walk in.
 Lots of memory prompts are a good addition as well as the usual times tables charts, spelling lists and chemistry formulas.


Consider placing a globe of the world on your desk.
Put a few posters around the desk (science and/or technology ones are best––you can get some good ones at science and job fairs––or you can add a favorite singer music group). Place these where you can see them both from the door and from the desk.
 Put all your stationery in the drawer and the items such as pens, pencils, erasers and sharpeners on the table in a pen stand. Put a lamp on the table. Put your planner or schedule marked on table calendar on the table. Remember to keep a paper vet on your table. If space is still available, keep your most frequently used books on the desk too.
 If you have an open one, no problem though, as it'll still work. Just remember to keep it clean with regular dusting down of the books. Stick some notes or your syllabi on the shelf's door.
 Fill it with algebra equations and cosines.
 Put a plant or two (plastic or real) on your desk or filing cabinets. Put some stuff (trophies, a few photos, a stack of blank or loaded CDs, a clock, a gimmicky or funny toy you like, and maybe even a small stuffed animal or action figure) on the shelves. Just don’t overdo it – if it looks cluttered at all, change something or move it elsewhere (into a drawer, perhaps).
 Most styles of beds would work for this kind of room; just as long as the spread and/or blankets you use on top aren’t too ‘cutesy’. Solid colors look best, and, like the walls, dark shades are most likely what you want. If you really want, you could have a multi-colored, patterned, or tie-dyed cover, depending on your personality. Just make sure it’s a darker shade.


Fandom duvet covers are absolutely okay. Your idea of nerdification is completely up to you.
Your bed should be kept neat. However, you can keep some books on your bedside table and a lamp there.
 This can be flipped around when you don't mind being disturbed.
 Buy a hand vacuum or broom and keep the room clean and clutter-free. The cleaner and neater a room is, the better it comes off, regardless of how it's decorated.

