 If you’re looking to travel cheaply, travel during the off season. There are some pros and cons to traveling during the off season, which usually falls during the colder months. It’s good because you receive better rates for airfare, accommodation, rental cars, and the attractions will not be as crowded. Negatively, not every attraction is open during the off season, and the weather is a lot colder than it is during the warmer summer months.You may have to travel during peak season if you’re traveling with children that only have the summer and holidays off.
June through August are the peak traveling months. Spring, fall, and winter are considered the off season months for traveling to Ireland.;
, It is better to book your plane tickets as far ahead of time as possible. You pay more if you book close to the date of your departure. Look for discounts on websites like Expedia, Trip Adviser, and Kayak. If you will be flying within Ireland, book with low fare airlines before you get to Ireland, like Ryan Air, Easy Jet, and Flybe.


About seven weeks before your departure is the ideal time to buy tickets.
Fly with only carry on luggage to avoid additional fees and lessen time spent in the airport.
 Your itinerary may change slightly when you get to Ireland, but try to figure out where you will be staying. Dublin, Cork, and Limerick are some of the largest cities in the Republic of Ireland. Belfast is the largest city in Northern Island, but some other cities you can visit are Ballymena, Coleraine, and Craigavon.How many cities you visit depends on the amount of time you have. If you only have a few days, you may want to stick to the Republic of Ireland. Both parts of Ireland can be visited even if you only have a week.
 Once you know what cities you will be visiting, begin looking for accommodation. You may decide to stay the night in an unplanned city when you get there, but it’s better to book as much accommodation as possible to save money. If you’re looking for a hotel, look on websites like Expedia and Trip Adviser to compare prices. If you want to an book apartment, look through rooms on AirBnB. You can also search for hostels if you want to go for a cheaper route. Try to book the apartment as far ahead of time as possible.Who you’re traveling with may determine what kind of accommodation you choose. For example, a hotel or apartment would be better if you’re traveling with family, especially if there are children. For students, younger travelers, and individuals traveling alone, hostels would be okay.
 Unless you’re planning to visit only one city, you will need to plan a way to get around. You can take a small, lost cost airline if you want to get around quickly. But since Ireland is a small and scenic country, it is arguable that the best way to get around is by car. Renting a car gives you the option to stop off wherever you want and make spontaneous visits to unexpected destinations. You can also book trains or buses to get from one city to the other. As with airfare and accommodation, book your travel method as early as possible.You can use websites like Expedia to compare rental car prices. Keep in mind that you may have to pay an extra fee per day if you are under the age of 25.
Irish Rail has trains to all major cities in Ireland.
Megabus is a bus service that offers inexpensive bus rides across Ireland.
 Once you have planned out the cities you will be visiting, plan out some activities. Look at the local museums, attractions, and scenery. You should also look for guided tours through the city or parts of the city if you want an experienced guide to help you get to know the layout and history of the city.In Dublin, Saint Patrick’s Cathedral and Trinity College are worth visiting.
In Belfast, the Titanic Belfast Museum and Crumlin Road Gaol are popular tourist sites.
 Even in the summer, Ireland can be chilly. If you’re traveling during the winter, you will definitely need warm clothing. Rain is common in Ireland, so bring hats, raincoats, and hoodies. Make sure to bring a hat, jacket, socks, scarf, gloves, and comfortable shoes, along with your outfits and undergarments. Bring clothing that can be mixed and matched to avoid overpacking.Buy thermal clothing if you are traveling during winter.
 You can choose to pack or bring things like toothbrush, toothpaste, shampoo and conditioner, razors, and other items. You will need to bring your passport, an adapter (Ireland does not have the same outlet as the US and other countries), health insurance information, your wallet, and driver’s license.You should also bring any necessary medication in the bottles they were prescribed in.
Make a list and check it off as you’re packing.
 You should bring at least one guide book with you. Guidebooks help you find attractions, eating recommendations, helpful information, some history, and advice for accommodation and travel if you need it. Some guidebooks are general, and some are made specifically for certain audiences. For example, you can find a guidebook made for students, but you can also find one aimed at families. Some guidebooks to choose from are Rick Steve’s Ireland 2016 (or whatever year you’re traveling), Lonely Planet Ireland, and Frommer’s Guide to Ireland.Backroads Ireland is a guide that comes with a map and gives advice for visiting the hidden gems of Ireland.
 It is helpful to keep a map or GPS system with you, especially if you’re driving. If you’re staying in one city, you can find a map of the city. If you’re traveling throughout Ireland, it is good to buy two maps. One map should be a map that is focused on roads. The second map should focus on site markings.Smartphones usually come with a GPS, but it can be very expensive to use your phone if you are outside of your own country.
 You can exchange your currency for Irish currency once you arrive in Ireland, but it is good to have some cash with you before you arrive. 100 euros or pounds is recommended. Northern Ireland uses the pound sterling, and the Republic of Ireland uses the euro. Get the currency for whatever part of Ireland you will be using first. After that, it is better to withdraw money from ATMs (cashpoints). The exchange rates vary a lot, and you get the best deal when you use your debit card to exchange money rather than going to an exchange place in the airport.Make sure to let your bank know where you will be traveling before you go. Many banks will allow you to set a travel notice on your phone. If you don’t, your bank may think your card was stolen and cancel it.
 In Ireland, you drive on the left side of the road and pass on the right. This is the exact opposite to how it is in the US and most countries in the world. Make sure to keep this in mind if you will be driving a rental car. Start slowly and practice in the parking lot if you feel uncomfortable.Most cars are manual in Ireland. Make sure to rent an automatic car if you don’t know how to drive manual.
 The Cliffs of Moher is perhaps the most famous natural scenery in Ireland. It is definitely worth taking the time to visit. The Cliffs of Moher are located on the western coastline of Ireland, and they stretch for nearly five miles. Nearly one million people visit per year, but that doesn’t take the beauty away from these famous cliffs., Guinness comes from Ireland, but it is world famous. The storehouse is a great place to visit if you’re a fan of Guinness or beer in general. When you visit the Storehouse, you can take a tour of the seven story building, learn how Guinness is made, and learn about the history of the famous dark beer. After that you get a complimentary glass and you can enjoy the Dublin view from the top floor.It is best to visit this attraction without children.
 Ireland is famous for its wonderful pubs. Check your guidebook or ask the locals for recommendations. You can simply grab a beer, or you can order a meal. Often, you can have lunch in a pub even if you’re with children.Cobblestone’s is a famous pub in Dublin that is known for its beer and music.
 If you’re more interested in the nature side of Ireland, Killarney National Park is a great option for visiting. The park spans over 25,000 acres, and mountains, lakes, and woodlands can be viewed in the park. This park is also where the only wild red deer can be found in Ireland., The Rock of Cashel is a great place to visit if you’re interested in Ireland’s rich history. Located in County Tipperary, this attraction features multiple ancient sites. A 12th century Romanesque chapel and 13th century Gothic cathedral can be visited in this location. Over 1000 years of Irish history exists in this location.