 Shakira always seems to have flawless skin, and she's shared beauty tips that have helped her keep her skin hydrated and clean. Before bed, remove any makeup on your skin so that your pores do not get clogged overnight. Then, apply a vitamin C serum daily before applying your makeup, and Vitamin E when your skin gets especially dry. Shakira also stresses the importance of wearing sunscreen to keep your skin healthy.Shakira gets her vitamin E from capsules she buys at the pharmacy and squeezes them onto her skin.
Shakira is a proponent of natural products, and tries to buy beauty products that have as few chemicals in them as possible. Her favorite sunscreen is BabyGanic Sunscreen Spray.;
, Differing from many stars, Shakira actually claims to do most of her own makeup herself. To get the same look that Shakira has, focus on keeping it simple. Start by applying a foundation and then move onto makeup that accentuates your features without going overboard.Shakira prefers Tarte foundation because it is oil-free and waterproof, and then uses Origins Pinch Your Cheeks to add a soft pink glow to her cheeks.
 After Shakira has applied a layer of foundation to cover up any blemishes, she applies blush to her cheeks, but not too much. Consider using a cream blush and brush it along the apple of your cheeks. Use a shade that is only slightly pinker than your skin tone. You want your blush to look natural, as if you weren't wearing any and your cheeks just have a rosy glow.


If you aren't sure what color of blush to wear, pinch your cheeks. Then, strive for the color that you see on your cheeks.
 Use an eyeshadow that is a shade slightly darker than your skin tone. Gently swipe the eyeshadow on your eyelid, to lift your eyes a little. Then apply a mascara that is similar to your eyelash color (if you have brown eyelashes use a dark-brown mascara or a brown-black). Sometimes Shakira will just use an eyelash curler and skip the mascara.


If you can get away without using eyeshadow, try it. Sometimes natural beauty is the best, but you can make your eyes look a little more alive by applying a thin layer of mascara.
 Shakira uses a light pink on her lips, just enough color to make her lips pop. Choose a color of lipstick or lipgloss that is only slightly darker than your actual lip color. Then, apply it to your lips and blot it out with a napkin or tissue until you can't blot any more out. You can use a lip gloss to add a little shine to your lips.
 Shakira has honey-blonde hair with sun-kissed highlights. To achieve this similar look, bleach your hair, but not a platinum blonde, and add some highlights and low lights to your hair. If you hair is already blonde, then just add some low lights to achieve the different dimensions of Shakira's hair. Some of her lowlights have a reddish tent, so consider doing a mixture of dark blonde and strawberry blond low lights.Shakira does a really good job of making her hair look natural -- it doesn't seem obvious that she's naturally a brunette. When bleaching or coloring your hair, strive for a shade of blonde that looks natural with your skin tone and eyebrow color. Even if you can't get Shakira's exact color, it's better to follow her in the sense that her hair doesn't look unnatural.
Shakira has had several different hair styles and hair colors, so you may be looking for one of her darker, shorter cuts. Shakira has been a brunette with highlights, has had very short hair, and has had extremely curly hair. You can achieve any of her looks by visiting a professional to color and cut your hair, or you can do it yourself by buying a boxed dye and highlighting kit.
 Shakira is a fan of avoiding harsh chemicals when it comes to taking care of her hair. She uses sulfate-free shampoo on her hair and refrains from using products with alcohols as they can dry out your hair. To really get Shakira's hair, try to go for natural serums and products for your hair.


Aloe vera, coconut oil, shea butter, honey, and vegetable glycerin are all natural products that can provide moisture and improve the health of your hair., Shakira's most recent hairstyle that causes envy from others is her long hair. If you have short hair, overtime you can grow it out like Shakira's so that you can achieve the same wavy look as hers. To grow your hair long, follow these tips:Consider taking supplements for your hair. There are different vitamins you can take to improve hair growth, some of which are Biotin and Niacin. Take one of these supplements daily to help boost your hair growth. Keep in mind that it might promote hair growth in other places on your body as well!
Get regular trims. It may seem strange to cut your hair regularly when you are growing it out, but your hair will be healthier and it will prevent split ends from working their way up your hair. If you go a long time without trimming your hair, your hair may begin breaking off. Make sure you get a trim every 10 to 12 weeks.
Don't shampoo your hair daily, and always use conditioner. Some people feel they need to shampoo their hair every day, but in truth it is healthier for your hair if you shampoo it every other day or longer. This allows the natural oils to be restored in your hair, which keeps the strands healthy. Do condition your hair every time you shower though, as conditioner will help prevent excessive damage from heating products and coloring.
Do a cold rinse at the end of each shower. Turn your shower to cold and rinse your hair for a few seconds. The cold water will lay down the outer layer of your hair smoothly, preventing moisture loss, snags, and heat damage.
Apply a weekly oil or mask treatment. Sometimes conditioning your hair in the shower is not enough and it needs extra care, especially if you have long hair. Mix one cup of unrefined coconut oil mixed with one tablespoon each of almond, macadamia and jojoba oil. Then, apply to damp hair, leave on for ten minutes, and rinse out with shampoo and conditioner. You can also buy an oil based treatment at your local drug or cosmetics store.
Don't put your hair up too often. Wearing a ponytail every now and then is okay, but because it usually causes tension in your hair by pulling it, it can damage your hair or make it more prone to breakage overtime. So, when wearing your ponytail make sure it is not too tight. A low ponytail is better for your hair.
 Shakira has been praised for her beautiful, wavy, long locks that look so natural. If your hair has a wave to it, try styling it naturally by applying serums with natural oils. You can also achieve a naturally wavy look by braiding your hair when it is wet and letting it dry in the braid. Then, when you undo your braid your hair will have long, flowing waves. You can also use styling products to achieve a wavy look:If your hair is not naturally wavy, you can try a number of different things to achieve the wavy look. When you shower, use a shampoo that will help you achieve that wavy look like Herbal Essences Tousle Me Softly. Then, towel dry your hair and spritz with spray gel, or if you have very straight hair apply a volumizing mousse and comb through with a wide tooth comb.
Dry your hair with a diffuser, flipping your hair over and trying not to touch it so that you don't create too much frizziness in your hair. You can also use a round brush while blow drying your hair to achieve a wavy look. Roll the brush away from your face when blow drying sections of your hair, and then use a 3/4 inch curling iron to curl sections of your hair, starting a few inches past the root. For a more natural look, comb fingers through your curls once you are done curling your hair.
To achieve a really wavy look, wrap two inch sections of hair up into tiny buns and pin them to your head with bobby pins. Then, blast a blow dryer on each section until the bobby pins feel hot. Allow the mini buns to cool down before you unwind them.
 Shakira gets much of her exercise from the dancing that she does on tour, so to look like Shakira, sign up for some dance lessons. Shakira combines different dance styles like the Samba and other Spanish-influenced dance forms, hip hop, and belly dancing. Watch some of Shakira's videos and take lessons in these types of dance so that you can mimic her dance style., Even after Shakira had her baby, her body was in shape. To look like Shakira you'll want to exercise and go for a similar body type. While Shakira is curvy, she has toned hips and thighs and a flat stomach, which give her an hour glass shape. Along with exercises to target specific muscle groups you can do these routines to improve your health and body shape:Zumba: Shakira claims that she did Zumba throughout her pregnancy and after her pregnancy she did it four to five times a week. Take a Zumba class at your local gym -- it's a great form of exercise!
Eat eight small meals a day: Instead of having three large meals throughout the day, Shakira eats eight small meals packed with fiber, calcium, iron, and protein. This helped to keep her metabolism boosted.
 To get Shakira's toned stomach, do 15 to 20 minutes of ab exercises at least three times a week. Some effective ab exercises to achieve that hourglass shape and flat tummy are:Leg lifts: Lie on your back and extend your legs out in front of you. Then, keeping your legs straight, lift them into the air, targeting your lower abs. Lower legs back to the floor, but don't let them touch the ground. You'll want to keep your back flat while doing this (don't use your back strength because it can hurt your back), so if you need extra help, place both your hands underneath your tailbone.
Waist whittlers: Get in plank position, with your elbows on the ground and your hands together. Then, twist your waist so that one side hits the ground below you, and then twist to the other side. Make sure your back is flat and that you aren't arching your butt down or up.
Russian twists: Sit on your butt with your knees bent in front of you. Then, slowly lean back, keeping your stomach and back flat, and lift your legs so that your feet are a few inches off the ground. Keep your knees bent, and twist from side to side, touching the floor on each side with both hands as you go.
Cross body crunches: Lie on your back with your hands behind your neck and legs straight in front of you. Then, lift both legs off the ground and bring your left knee towards your nose. As you do this, lift your right shoulder off the ground and reach it as close to your left knee as possible. Then, do the same action on the right side, going from left to right and back to the left at a fast pace.
 Shakira has curvy hips and thighs, but they are made of toned muscle, so she looks healthy and in shape. To tone your lower body like Shakira, do these exercises:


Squats: You can do plié squats, sumo squats, or narrow squats. Either place your feet next to each other, place them in a wide stance, or stay on your toes while you squat and squat as low as you can, keeping your back straight. Do as many reps of these as you can.
Leg circles: Begin by getting on your knees and extending one leg out to the side. Then, place the opposite hand on the ground so that your body weight is on that arm. Lift your extended leg up to the height of your hip and then make small circles in the air for about a minute. To make it even harder, after you have done circles, keep your leg extended and bend your knee so that your lower leg comes back towards your body. Then, extend it out again.
Fire hydrant: Place your hands on the ground in front of you, in line with your shoulders, with your legs bent and your knees on the ground. Then, lift one leg to the side, keeping it bent, and lower back down to the ground. (Imagine you are a dog peeing on a fire hydrant if that helps).
 Shakira knows how to achieve a sexy look without being overtly sexy -- she usually wears tight fitting clothes, but in a modest, classy way. Because Shakira has great abs, she sometimes wears shirts that show her stomach, and she tends to wear tight jeans or pants to show off her curves.To really achieve Shakira's look, wear shirts that are somewhat loose, tight jeans, and a pair of sexy heals or boots. Shakira tends to wear neutral tones -- blacks, dark blues, and grays. She also loves her fun, wide brimmed hats. When it comes to dressing up, Shakira tends to wear tight fitting dresses that cling to her curves in an appealing way.
If you still aren't sure what to wear, try searching for images of Shakira and copying some of her outfits.
 One of Shakira's greatest attributes is her confidence. She believes a great smile and positivity are the best beauty tips. To truly look like Shakira you need to be confident in who you are and show people that confidence is more important than perfection., Shakira wrote her first song at age eight and signed her first record deal at age 13. Her first two albums weren't very successful, but she continued to push forward and her third album became a hit. As you can see, Shakira took risks, even though she knew she might experience failure. To really imitate Shakira, be adventurous and pursue the things that you are passionate about, even though you may not succeed right away., Shakira has a Lebanese father and Colombian mother, and in her music she stays true to her heritage, bringing in her Latino and Arabic background. Shakira is proud of where she came from, and so to emulate Shakira, you should learn to be proud of your background as well. Even when Shakira really hit stardom, she still incorporated her heritage into her music.


You can also learn more about Shakira's background and strive to incorporate her culture into your life if you want to understand her more.
 This goes beyond looking like Shakira in appearance, but is more about carrying the same attitude as Shakira, which helps give her confidence. Shakira has created the Pies Descalzos (Barefoot) foundation, which provides education to children in impoverished countries. She has also founded Alas, and served as an ambassador for Unicef. So, if you really want to look like Shakira and emulate her, find a charity to donate to and join in their efforts. Think about the things you have a passion for or find important and choose a charity based on that. Contributing to others doesn't have to just be monetarily either. You can serve your community with your time and energy as well.

