 If you're not used to working at home, then your environment may not be well-suited to take an interview over a phone call. Make sure to turn off any music, television, or alarms that may interrupt the interview.If you have children or pets, make sure they are in the other room so you can concentrate on answering the questions.
Do not have an instant messenger or website open while answering questions on the interview.
Get a pen and paper ready in case you need to write anything down. Keyboard clicks can be loud and distracting during an interview.
 A benefit of having a phone interview is that the employer won't be able to see you. This is a significant advantage because you can create a cheat sheet before your interview that will help you stay on track during the interview.Your cheat sheet can include valuable information about the company or the position you're applying to. Also, you can have your pre-written answers in front of you.


Do not respond to questions word for word by reading off your cheat sheet. Try to make your responses as natural sounding as possible.
Hit the major points that you've outlined in your cheat sheet and adapt depending on the interviewer's questions.
 Because the interview is over the phone, your speaking demeanour becomes even more important. The person interviewing you won't have anything else to go on other than the sound of your voice and the way that you answer their questions. Do not mumble and speak loudly enough so the hiring manager can hear you. Make sure to pronounce words and take your time to think about your answers., The person interviewing you may have a speech that's been prepared, so allow them to speak. Many times they will inform you about the company or describe the duties you'll need to fulfill in the position. Asking a few follow-up questions shows your interest and tells the interviewer that you're paying attention.


While a silence may feel awkward, it's better than going on an unrelated tangent and dominating the conversation.
Smile as you answer your questions. They won't be able to see it, but it will affect the way your voice sounds., A common mistake many people make on phone interviews is taking it too casually. Make sure that you're properly sitting at a desk and have gotten dressed for the day. The more ready you are, the more attentive and prepared you'll sound over the phone. Get in the right state of mind for the interview before your new employer calls you.The way you look and feel dictates your energy level during a phone interview.
 A faulty phone or weak cellphone connection are terrible reasons for a phone interview to go poorly. Before you go on the interview, make sure that your phone is in good working order and that you have good reception in the area where you'll be taking the call.

