 To overhaul your dog's hyperactivity, take it for a vigorous walk; rather than quelling your dog's energy, this is a way of repurposing it to avoid bad behaviour. The exercise can calm your dog's nerves and leave it happily exhausted. Try walking in a park or field rather than a busy street- the lack of stimuli like traffic, crowds, and city noises will allow your dog to relax more., If possible, bring your dog to a fenced in yard or local dog park where it can run around without a leash. Running freely and being actively engaged can help burn off your dog's pent-up energy and frustration. Socialization with other dogs may also allow for play and enjoyment that your dog would not otherwise get., Activity that engages your dog physically and mentally might be the ticket to neutralizing its hyperactivity. Hyperactive dogs are not merely energetic dogs, but dogs who lack focus, are easily distracted, or are highly impulsive. Playing games with your dog, which will allow it time to unwind but also require its focus, is one way to channel energy in a positive way.Games suitable for helping a hyper dog may include:


fetch: a classic game that you can vary by using different objects
frisbee: another classic game that requires agility and concentrationtug of war: a basic game that should incorporate the use of commands (e.g. "Get it" and "let go")

, Treat release toys require your dog to focus and engage with the toy in order to access the treats inside. They are a good solution for boredom, which can lead your pet to hyperactive behavior. Choose a model that is size appropriate for your dog and made of good quality, safe materials (i.e. non-toxic substances like rubber).Be sure to choose a model that is easy to clean so you can wash the toy regularly. Dispose of any uneaten food that remains inside for more than a few hours.
 Since kids have boundless energy, it may be a perfect idea to have them play with your hyper dog to tire it out and prevent hyperactivity. Make sure that your dog and the children have a good rapport, and that your dog respects the children (and vice-versa); if your dog has a tendency to jump all over people, be sure to supervise the play closely. Note that, since dogs have a tendency to mirror the behavior of humans close to them, a child’s excitement may spark your dog’s hyperactivity. Make sure that excitement levels stay in check, and that neither the dog nor the kids get aggressive. Avoid letting your dog play with children that you don't know, or trust to be respectful and responsible with your pet.

