 If you want a Persian kitten, you may have to go through a breeder. However, it's important that you only work with reputable breeders. This helps ensure your cat's health and its true breed identity, and it also helps reduce business for disreputable or illegal breeders.A reputable breeder will offer you health certifications that prove that the cat has been screened for genetic health complications.
Reputable breeders typically make kittens available when they are between 12 and 16 weeks old. Kittens sold before 12 weeks of age may not be inoculated and will lack the physical and social strength to adjust to a new home.Ask if you can tour the facility, which any reputable breeder should be able to accommodate. Look for any signs of sick animals or unsanitary/unhealthy living conditions.
You can ask your veterinarian for a list of reputable breeders in your area. If a vet recommends a breeder, there's a good chance that breeder follows acceptable practices.
 If you choose to work with a breeder, make sure you know what to look for. In addition to having health certifications and an open facility, a reputable breeder should have limitations on the number and variety of kittens available at any given time. A reputable breeder will also be more particular about how you can pay for your cat once you've worked out an arrangement and chosen a kitten.Any breeder who has kittens continuously available or houses multiple litters should be seen as a red flag. Also, anyone selling kittens younger than 12 weeks of age is probably an disreputable breeder.Ask the breeder whether he or she sells to pet stores and wholesalers. Reputable breeders are bound by a code of professional ethics that bans this practice, and any breeder who makes these sales is not to be trusted.
If the breeder allows you to pay online using a credit card, it might be a scam or an disreputable breeder. Most breeders will want you to pay in person, usually with cash or a check.
 Persian kittens are incredibly rare to find in an animal rescue or shelter, but adult Persian cats are frequently available for adoption. If you check at a few different rescues or shelters, you will find both mixed-breed and pedigreed Persian cats looking for a home.You can try visiting shelters and rescues in your area, or you can search online with listings like Petfinder or Adopt-a-Pet. Some online listings may allow you to search by breed, which can help you narrow down your search for a Persian.
You can also search online for Persian breed-specific rescue groups in your area. These groups specialize in finding homes for a given breed, and can be an excellent resource for finding and adopting your own Persian cat.

