 Lesbians are women who have natural and normal attraction to other women. They feel deep emotional bonds with women and prefer the romantic company of another lady.Being a lesbian is not a choice that you've made, but a part of your personality.Just like some people are born tall and others short, some people are naturally heterosexual and some homosexual and many in between. You are the way you are for a reason.


Recognizing and accepting your feelings is all that matters when accepting yourself as a lesbian. If you feel attracted to women, then there you are. There is no need to judge that attraction in any way. You should simply accept it.;
, There are many boxes that people can be placed in when it comes to sexual orientation. You may have feelings for both men and women, for just women, or for very few people at all. You may also swing and shift from desire to desire. All of this, however, is perfectly normal. Because there are no boxes to fit in, there are no "right" ways to be lesbian, straight, bisexual, or any other sexual or gender identity., If you start to feel attracted to women, don't shy away from the feeling or try and hold it down. This doesn't mean that you need to go out and start dating girls right off the bat, but you should take the time to examine your own feelings. But in a world where every movie, show, and song says that girls should date boys, these feelings can be confusing. However, you should trust yourself and think about your feelings honestly instead of repressing them.


Do you feel nervous or out of place with your girlfriend/s?
Do you find yourself looking at women and girls more frequently than men?
Do you constantly think "why can't the guys I date be more like the awesome women I know?", Being a lesbian does not make you a different person, after all you were born this way! There is no set of beliefs, hobbies, or interests that you can or cannot enjoy because of your sexuality. You should never ever feel like you need to change because of your sexuality, or that you're going to be pigeonholed once you tell your friends and family.Your identity is not determined by your sexual/romantic orientation. If you do not want to be known as "just a lesbian," you should introduce yourself on other terms.
 Luckily, you live in a world that is slowly realizing that being a lesbian is not a curse or decision and that it is a part of life. Unfortunately, there are still people who cannot accept that others are homosexual. Kids, in particular, can be merciless bullies when someone is not like them. That said, you must remember that these people are just confused. They lash out or act angry because they have not had the chance to meet you and are instead basing their attitudes on stereotypes and ignorance. People who don't accept you are not, in the end, worth your worry, and they are missing the chance to get to know an incredible person. That's their problem, not yours.quoting Dr. Suess, "those who mind don't matter and those who matter don't mind!"

, Coming out is an incredibly difficult and nerve-wracking process. You can never be entirely sure how someone will react, and you shouldn't feel obliged to tell someone if you're not comfortable yet. Take you time and bring up the conversation when you're ready!.


Studies have shown that people who come out are happier and healthier as a result of decreased worry, stress, and anxiety! Be honest and direct with your words. You shouldn't feel ashamed about your sexual orientation, even if your feel nervous about telling people about it.
Start by telling close friends that you know will support you. These people will help you through the tougher conversations. And most of all, DON'T BE SORRY!!!