


Wei: Stronger but also more expensive soldiers. An extra space in the building queue provides a better chance to develop economy. More powerful in the late stage of the game.
Shu: Primary soldiers are the most cost efficient. Very aggressive at the early stage, thrives on invading others.
Wu: Highly effective Hidden Warehouse can protect your resources when you have enemy invading. In the later stage of the game, this can help you to survive overwhelming enemies.
 Equipment, weapons, mounts and scrolls can help your hero to achieve significant victories. You may obtain items by purchasing them in the Mall, or by completing quests and receiving rewards.
 This can help them to gain experiences and items.
 Attack and occupy an appointed city to get an abundance of rewards.
 You may successfully challenge powerful rivals with a combination with superior strategy. Build a level 20 palace and defend it to establish your own empire.
 This will help you get started.
Military Quest: Contained in the Main Quests, helps players to become familiar with tactics and strategies.
Scholar’s Quest: Contained in the Main Quests, helps players to get used to all the interfaces in game.
Growth Quests: Growth quests provide goals for a player to achieve in each stage of his development.
Daily Quests: You can gain rewards by training your hero in the morning, or read through the historical classic works in your idle time. You can also communicate with hermits as the evaluation to heroes.;
, Players can hire them from the Career House. You may conquer other cities and capture other players' epic heroes as well.

League Structures: League members can view the general structure of the league here.
League Logs: You can view the achievement record for every step of development and conquer of your league.
League Military: Military officers can arrange warfare of the league.
League Policy: Officers of each league can modify and appoint officers and titles.
League Ranking: Know thy enemy and know thyself, and thy shall never be defeated.

