 Acupuncture is a part of traditional Chinese medicine that uses needles inserted at specific parts of the body to correct energy blocks or imbalances.See an acupuncture specialist to talk about specific treatments for you.


The evidence for the effectiveness of acupuncture is mixed.One study has shown a link between acupuncture and normalization of a neuroprotective protein called glial cell line derived- neurotrophic factor, and comparable effectiveness with fluoxetine (the generic name for Prozac).Another study has shown effectiveness comparable to psychotherapy.These studies lend some credibility to acupuncture as a treatment for depression, but more research is needed to support the effectiveness of acupuncture.Check with your health insurance to see if this type of alternative treatment is covered by your health plan.
 St. John’s Wort is an alternative medicine that is readily available at natural food stores. This medicine is considered by many to have superior effectiveness versus a placebo, especially in milder forms of depression.Small-scale studies tend to observe effectiveness of St. John’s Wort, while large-scale studies tend to show that St. John’s Wort is no more effective than a placebo.The American Psychiatric Association does not recommend St. John’s Wort for general use.
St. John’s Wort can impact other medications, making these medications less effective. These medications include oral contraceptives, antiretroviral medications, anticoagulants, hormone replacement therapies, and immunosuppressant medications. Taking St. John's Wort while on other medications can cause serotonin syndrome, wherein your body has an excessive amount of serotonin.Too much serotonin can cause symptoms such as diarrhea, fever, seizures and even possible death.It is especially important to work with your doctor if you are on other medications and let your doctor know if you need to be given another medication.
Follow the dosage instructions when taking St. John’s Wort.
 Another alternative medicine is S-adenosyl methionine (SAMe).SAMe is a naturally occurring molecule, and low levels of SAMe have been linked to depression. Increase your levels of SAMe by taking this supplement orally, intravenously or intramuscularly. Oral supplements are most common.


The preparation of SAMe is not regulated and the potency and ingredients can vary among manufacturers.
Follow the dosage instructions when taking SAMe supplements.
 Although many claim that homeopathic medicine is highly effective, there is little to no clinical evidence that these treatments do in fact work.


The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates some homeopathic treatments, but the FDA does not evaluate them for safety or effectiveness. Therefore, even for treatments with some demonstration of effectiveness, the studies may not be as rigorous as approved medications.
The preparation of the medicine is not regulated, so the ingredients and potency of the medicine can vary depending on the manufacturer.
The National Center for Alternative and Complementary Medicine recommends caution in using homeopathic remedies and encourages open discussions with healthcare providers so that treatment can be coordinated and safe.