 In order to help you cough up phlegm, you need to treat your lungs. For steam treatments, you need to pick the right herbs to add as an oil, dried herb, or fresh herb. With steam treatments, the herbs and steam goes directly into your lungs, which allows it to act fast and be the most effective. It also helps expand your sinuses and nasal passages, which with thin mucus. Some herbs have antifungal and antibacterial in addition to expectorant properties. That means these help kill bacteria and other microorganisms. The different herbs you can use include:


EucalyptusSpearmint or peppermint, which contain mentholGingerCamphorThymeHyssopFennel seed
MulleinLobeliaOther herbs, including coltsfoot, marshmallow or slippery elm, Fill a pot with water. Bring it to a boil. Once it is at a roiling boil, add one to two drops of any essential oils listed above. You can also use one to two teaspoons of them as dried herbs. Stir the herbs into the water.
 Once you add the oil or the herbs, let the water boil for another minute. Turn off the stove and remove the pot from heat. Place it on a counter at a comfortable height for you. Once it cools down a minute or two, cover your head with a towel or cloth, close your eyes, and lean your head over the pot.


Breathe the steam in through your nose for five seconds. Next, breathe out through your nose for five seconds. Repeat breathing in and out through your mouth for two counts each.
Continue this for 10 minutes.
During this step, stay 12 inches from the surface of the water. The steam will rise and being too close to the steam can burn your face.
 Once you finish with the treatment, you need to repeat. You use this treatment every two hours while you are suffering from a bad cough. You should also try to blow your nose and cough as much as possible between these treatments.


If you aren’t getting quite the help you need, try using a small pinch of black or cayenne pepper. Don’t add too much because it can cause irritation.
 Once you have undergone the steam treatment, try to make yourself cough if you aren’t already. This will help bring out the phlegm in your system. Once you cough, you should try not to swallow the phlegm again. Instead, spit it out into a napkin or tissue.


You should do the same after any other remedy listed above.

