 This means clean hair (soft, not greasy), white teeth (use whitening toothpaste and mouthwash every morning), and nice skin, which means not too oily. Try to exercise at least three days a week. I know that some memberships are too expensive, so you can always just work out at home with simple things!;
, It doesn't matter where your clothes are from, as long as they don't have rips, tears, or faded color. Make your own style--don't copy anyone else's, and don't take all your tips from magazines. There are plenty of articles on how to make your own style. If your school has a dress code, wear your uniform with confidence and let your attitude be your fashion statement.
 Showing too much skin isn't stylish, and short skirts and shorts will make you look like the kind of girl you're not. Sometimes, girls wear shorts that cover less surface skin than Boy short underwear. If your shorts could be mistaken for underwear, you're doing it wrong.
 If that person doesn't like you the way you really are, you're not suited to be friends or to be together.
 If it's allowed in your school, makeup can make you look more mature. There are plenty of tutorials on the Internet; start off with something simple and subtle. When you're in middle school, makeup should make you look like a pretty yet still natural version of yourself, not a Barbie doll. Don't go overboard.
 Dye it (but learn how to do this correctly, or you'll ruin your hair), cut it, curl it, straighten it, wear it in different styles, but go with whichever hairstyle you feel is more like you and feel comfortable with. Don't wear your hair the same every day and get stuck in a rut.
 Everyone loves to be around someone who's creative and outgoing. You can express yourself through everything! Be you through your style, your hair, and your makeup. Express who you are. Don't just copy someone else .
 People will think of you as sweet and cute if you are nice to everyone, even the "weird" kids. Don't be a pushover, but do be kind to everyone you meet.
 If you are shy, try to relax and open up by going to new places and meeting new people. Being relaxed and confident will make you feel a million times better, and make you more likeable.
 Let people know that you love to be appreciated, but not messed around with. People love confidence (just don't be cocky)!

, Be a conversationalist and everyone will know you as that super cool, cute, gorgeous girl.
 A smile is the cherry on top of a positive attitude.
 Remember you don't have to put on three pounds of makeup or pretend to be someone you're not in order to be cute. You're beautiful! Accept who you are!

, If you do, you'd be just as bad as them. Consider that they might be putting you down because they feel bad about themselves, and being mean makes them feel better. It doesn't excuse what they're doing, but it'll help you understand them better.

