 The biggest benefit of using a screenshot extension is the ability to take a single screenshot of an entire page, even if it stretches outside of your viewing area. Screenshot extensions also allow you to quickly upload screenshots to various image hosting sites, and some include editing tools.;
, This will open the Add-ons Manager.
 This will display a variety of different screenshot extensions, most of which behave very similarly. This guide will discuss "Nimbus Screen Grab". Other popular options include "Screengrab (fix version)" and "Lightshot"., You can double-click an extension to see more details, including user reviews. Check out a few different extensions before choosing the one you want to install.


Some extensions require you to restart Firefox after installing.
 Once you've got the extension installed, visit the site that you want to capture in a screenshot. With the extension, you'll be able to screenshot the visible area, a manual selection, or the entire page.
 You may also be able to access it by right-clicking on the page. You'll be presented with the various screenshot options that are available for that extension.
 Chose your screenshot boundary from the menu. If you are manually setting the area, you can click and drag a rectangle to select what you want captured.
 If the extension supports editing, the editing tools will appear after you have selected what you want to capture. You can then make notations, highlight important areas, scribble, and more. The editing tools will appear beneath the Firefox address bar. Click "Done" when you are finished making changes.
 Once you are done editing, you can choose where you want to save or upload the screenshot. You can also copy the screenshot to your clipboard instead of saving it if you want to paste it into a document.
 While the default options for these extensions are usually fine for most users, you can adjust the settings by clicking the extension's button and selecting Options or Settings. Here you can change the format that you want the screenshots to be, adjust the quality, change the naming conventions, and more depending on your screenshot extension.
 You saved screenshots are typically saved in your Pictures or Documents folders. You can check your screenshot extension Options page to change the default location.

