 When starting out, you want to build 500 cav or post "Help train some Horses" to Facebook so your friends can give you cav, and get some for themselves. You can receive up to 2000 cav from a single post. However, 500 cav is enough to take a freshly-taken level 10 NPC or any other undefended city that someone gives you, but you have to make your basic city first. Alternatively, you can build from scratch completely.;
,, From your inn you want one high Politics hero and one high Intelligence hero, the other 3 being space for heroes with an attack base of AT LEAST 60. Don't redistribute them just yet, and don't increase them past level 9 until much later. Evony effectively adds 10 levels to heroes that are under level 10 to give new players a break, so you should wait until you can raise them to level 20 before raising them beyond level 9.
 The game doesn't give you enough time to really be able to defend yourself before you can be attacked, so it comes down to luck. For this reason, have multiple accounts right from the start on a new server, and don't get upset if you lose some., The ultimate purpose of Evony is to be a maxed player. You don't need to have nine cities to play as a maxed player, but you will want to have more than one eventually. You will pick up cities naturally over time, so don't worry about that one too much. You will always be building cities until you have 9 stripped down, maxed out cities, so get used to building.
 If you're not researching, you're wasting your life.



Money - You can't use money to play the game unless you print your own money. Sometimes you need to buy medal packages. When the $5 packages come up, buy them!

Farming - The passing of time by itself will not improve your account. Instead think of the passing of time as farming. You should be farming every second you are playing, even if some heroes are out attacking cities, unless you are about to tele a city. If you are not getting bigger, you are getting smaller.

Heroes - Your heroes are the most valuable thing you have. When you are a new player, or get a new city, farm some heroes from the inn. Just keep buying and dismissing heroes until you get ones with a high attack base. If you feel you must have one high politics or intelligence hero, that's your decision but I wouldn't bother, just go for high attack. Inn should be level 3 max, if it is higher bring it down. Keep buying and dismissing heroes until all your heroes have a base attack of at least 60. So if you have a level 1 hero, attack should be at least 61. This takes time. You will kick yourself later if your heroes are up to 170 attack and could have been 200 already. If you have a 170 attack hero with a low base, don't worry, he is nearly ready to farm l10 npcs. You will lose heroes sometimes. If you attack a city and the fight goes more than 100 rounds without winning, and the red city has an empty hero slot, you will lose the hero.

Food - What do you get for 1 million food per hour?

8k catapults = 1 mil food
20k rams = 1 mil food
40k ballistas = 1 mil food
66.6k transports = 1 mil food
58.8k cataphracts = 1 mil food
125cavalry = 1 mil food
250k archers = 1 mil food
333k swords = 1 mil food
333k pike = 1 mil food
500k scouts = 1 mil food
1mil warriors = 1 mil food
1mil workers = 1 mil food



, If you farm 5s twice a day, you can afford a food bill of 2.25 million per hour. As you can see you want to be farming at least 3 times per day.
 That's a million archers per city, with room left for scouts and meat. With 10 cities, that's 10 million archers. It's a hell of a food bill if you miss a day farming. To do this you would need all your heroes with attack over 300, so that's playing for 1-2 years, and never losing heroes. You will lose heroes.
 Get someone to give you a captured L10. Beats building your own, just build it in reverse. You still need to do your research though, but that should be easy in your new Level 10 Academy.



Iron - needs 10 cottages. Very useful to have a city that only makes iron. Makes 750k iron per hour. Handy.

Lumber - needs 6 cottages. That's an extra 4 barracks. Makes 750k lumber per hour and the prices are the same, which is better?

Food - a captured L10 is full of farms. Helps the food bill a little, gives no resources though.

Players-one city A one city account is the most useful thing in the world. Looks small, but makes an awesome launching pad that you can't lose. Good for scouting and attacking from in relative anonymity. Has to use its own troops though, you can't attack with reins lol.

Players-optimists Will attack anything that moves with their last 20k warriors. More cities than they can hold, but, can make troops faster than you to hit you back with if you do take one. Often group cities together. If they lose a city they will be upset, but will take one from someone else next day.

Players-pessimists Try to hold onto cities whatever the cost. Don't like being scoutable, or anyone getting a report on them. Only attacks with troops they can afford to lose without affecting points one or two. Problem with being pessimistic is they are trying to do the impossible, which is not good for their health. Need to learn to relax and have fun.

Scouts - stop scouting people. If you get bad news, you're gonna be attacked anyway so you may as well attack first. Also it drives people nuts to be attacked without being scouted first, makes people think they have a spy.

Attacks - Since you've stopped scouting people, how do you attack a city blind?

Mechs - A well tuned alliance will have some players who volunteer to feed reins, while that player is building Catapults, Rams and Ballistas. A hit of 30k Catapults, 10k Rams, 20k Ballistas, 20k arch, 10k cav, 5k Sword and Pike, will give you a pretty good idea what the other guy has. Sure beats conventional attacks. Hit with mechs, recall your archers from the person feeding them, and zero that sucker. To avoid wasting food on big long hits, use a war ensign and throw in 25k transports as an incentive against him closing his gates ;)

Conventional Attacks


Scout Bombs - kills some troops with the highest aggregate hit points. (ie: if opponent has 1mil warriors, and 300k archers, the scout bomb will hit the warriors. If the opponent has 500k archers and 500k warriors, the scouts will hit the archers.)

Arch Rainbow - kills layers and eventually archers and mechs (standard way of attacking someone. 99k arch, 333warriors, 333sword, 333pike 1cav)

Cav Waves - Expensive and wasteful if used incorrectly. If the target has lots of warriors, the cav will die hitting them. To effectively use cav, ensure that all traps, defensive trebuchets, and abatis are gone prior to attacking. This will ensure that the battle starts close enough to allow the cav to get hits.



