 Surgery is usually scheduled in advance to give you enough time to prepare and work on an exercise routine. Exercising prior to surgery will restore some of your knee function and will ensure that your knee will be strong enough for the surgery.


The main objectives of exercising the ACL are to strengthen the supporting muscles and to improve your range of motion as much as possible.
The intensity of the exercise should be gradually increased. Be alert of pain which may signal that you are pushing yourself too much.
When pain is felt, stop the exercise immediately and decrease the intensity of the exercise.
Your physician might refer you to a physical therapist who will develop an exercise program especially tailored to your current condition.
Talk to your doctor before starting any exercise regimens.
 This exercise will help strengthen your hamstring, gluteus (butt muscles), and hip muscles. Perform 3 sets of 12 repetitions of this exercise.


Lie on your back with your hands interlaced on your stomach. Your knees and ankles should be bent in such a way that only your heels are in contact with the floor.
Tighten your abdominal muscles and lift your buttocks and hips up off the floor until your knees, hips, and shoulders are all in line.
Hold this position for 6 seconds and then slowly go back to the starting position and rest for 10 seconds.
Repeat the whole exercise.
 This exercise will strengthen your gluteus muscles, which are important when extending and rotating your legs. Do 3 sets of 12 repetitions.


Lie on your back with your knees straightened and ankles at a 90 degree angle perpendicular to the floor.
Use your elbow to raise your upper body.
Squeeze your buttocks as strongly as possible and hold for 6 seconds. Relax for 10 seconds and repeat the whole procedure.
 This exercise will develop the muscles at the back of your thigh. Do 3 sets of 12 repetitions.


Lie on your stomach with your hands folded to support your head.

You can place a washcloth above your knee if your kneecap feels painful or uncomfortable.


Bend the injured knee towards your hamstring.
Swing down your injured knee back to the starting position in a free-fall, but as the leg is about to hit the floor, “catch” it. Then continue bringing it down again.
Perform the same procedure until desired number of repetitions is achieved.
 This exercise will improve the strength of your calf muscles. Perform 3 sets of 12 repetitions.


Stand behind a backrest of a chair and hold it to gain support.

Your feet should be a 6 inches apart.


Slowly raise your heels off the floor. Keep the knees straight. Hold for 6 seconds and then slowly return to the starting position.
 Straight leg raises will strengthen your quadriceps muscles.


Sit on the floor/mat with your legs straight out in front of you.
Lift your shoulders, using your forearms to maintain this position.
Tighten the thigh muscle on the leg of your injured knee.
Keep your thigh tight and knee straight while you lift your leg 3 to 5 cm off the floor/mat.
Perform this exercise on each leg 5 to 10 times.
Hold each contraction for 5 seconds.
In time, you should be able to progress to 30 reps on each leg holding each contraction for 10 seconds.
 Performing hip adductions will strengthen your hip muscles and increase stability.


Lie down on the floor/mat with your legs bent.
Place a pillow between your knees.
Squeeze your knees together.
Hold this position for 5 seconds.
Rest for 5 seconds.
Repeat 5 to 10 times.
As you become stronger, increase your reps and your time progressing to 30 times and holding each rep for 10 to 15 seconds.
 Calf raises will build the muscles in the lower part of your legs and enable you to support your legs properly.


Stand facing a wall.
Place your feet shoulder width apart.
Point your toes straight ahead.
Lift your heels so you are standing on your toes.
Begin with a set of 10, holding each lift for 5 seconds.
 Manage any swelling with elevation, ice packs and a wrap (ace bandage). If you notice that your knee swells more or your knee pain increases following exercise, bring the swelling down by wrapping your knee in an ace bandage, elevating it and using ice.


Ice packs can remain on your knee for 15 to 20 minutes.
Make sure you have a barrier between your skin and the ice; otherwise, you could damage your tissues.
You can use ice on your knee once every hour.
Bringing the swelling down will ultimately decrease your pain level.
Rest your knee and contact your physiotherapist or surgeon before resuming your exercise routine.
 If your surgeon instructs you to do so, use your brace or crutches to get around. Avoid limping around and further aggravating your knee.

