 Whether it is rap, punk or pop, you usually have to stick to one type. But remember, there are branches of every genre. For example, along with rock is punk, metal, emo, etc. So if you choose rock music, be sure to check out its branches.;
, Outside of most popular music genres, the term will frequently be inaccurate. There's no easier way for you to reveal the limitations of your knowledge. A safer idea is to use one of the terms "piece" or "work" unless the musical object in question has words that are sung.
 The only real way to develop an ear for that which makes pieces of music unique is to get as much exposure to as much music as possible. Also, evaluate music as you listen to it. By doing this, you build the associations between descriptive or critical terms and the actual phenomena associated with them. Most people familiar with pop music can identify verse, chorus, and bridge; awareness of concepts such as alternative modal frameworks and metric modulations is a sign of a greater musical knowledge.
 This mostly goes for people that like alternative music because it is, well, alternative. In every genre of music, there are alternative bands. For example, My Chemical Romance, newer stuff by AFI etc. are mainstream punk, although AFI covers many genres because they try many different sounds. Artists are usually mainstream for a reason, and it may be their image rather than their music that you do not like.
 Find the origins of your scene, and learn the grandfathers of it. Find out as many bands as you can, and listen to as many songs as you can by them. , Join the official fansite, and then after maybe there, branches. , It's fine to correct people's lyrics while they are singing, but do not say to someone 'You can't like that band because they came out five years ago and you've only liked them for five months!' Remember, there was a time that you probably knew nothing about music yourself, or had only recently started liking a band.
 Who knows; maybe they'll make it big and you can brag about having seen them at their first shows.

