 The first step to reduce dandruff is to determine the underlying cause for the problem. Since some physical ailments can cause skin to dry and flake, it is important to eliminate those possible underlying factors before attempting to find the ideal solution for the problem.
 Stress interferes with a number of body functions, and can lead to skin problems that produce dandruff. Some people find that the incidence and severity of dandruff begins to ease off once the underlying causes for the stress are addressed and resolved. Implementing the use of exercise or other means to alleviate stress may be especially important if it is not possible to resolve the stressful issues.
 Without the inclusion of foods that provide a sufficient supply of nutrients, the scalp will be more susceptible to dryness and flaking. Pay close attention to the types of fat you ingest, and make sure there is plenty of the water-soluble B vitamins present in the foods you consume. Also include foods that offer an equitable amount of zinc as part of your daily diet.
 Sunlight does more than promote the production of vitamin D3; it also helps to promote the production of healthy oils in the skin when exposure is kept within reasonable limits. Make it a point to spend a few minutes in the sun each day, but take precautions to protect the exposed skin of the face and arms from too much exposure to damaging ultraviolet rays.
 Some gels, hairsprays and other styling products can not only damage hair but also cause the scalp to dry and flake. Try cutting back on your use of the products as well as switch to products that are infused with nutrients that help feed the scalp.
 There are a number of medicated shampoos on the market today that help to reduce hair dandruff by fighting the underlying causes for the skin irritation and flaking. Along with over the counter products, physicians can also provide access to prescription only formulas for advanced cases. Use the products according the instructions for the best possible results.
 Pour it in a mixing bowl and add a couple tablespoons of olive oil.;
, Use a fork or spoon to beat the yoghurt and oil into a smooth mixture.
 Put on a shower cap and leave it in for 30 to 40 minutes. For best results, use a blowdryer to apply heat for 5 to 10 minutes during this process.
 It may take one or two round of shampoo to get the mixture completely out.
 For best results, do this at least once a week.

