 The average age of onset for SAD is 13 years old, but it can occur in younger children too.It is linked to the development of depression and substance abuse in adolescents.Therefore, it is extremely important to seek a doctor's advice if you think your child or teen may have SAD.
 A therapist can be very helpful in determining the source of your child's anxiety, which will help you manage it. The therapist can also help your child through exposure therapy, in which the child gradually faces his fears by being exposed to them in a controlled situation.The child's therapist can also offer you advice on how to help your child.
Another popular treatment is cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), which can help the child learn to identify and manage negative or unhelpful patterns of thinking.Your child's therapist may even suggest group therapy. This can be helpful for your child, as he will see that he is not alone in his fears and that others struggle just like he does.
A family therapist can help you communicate your support for your child and work with him to manage his anxiety. This type of therapy is especially helpful if the child's anxiety is causing other family difficulties., If you are worried that your child has SAD, seek professional help to support your child. Avoid forcing your child to address his shyness such as pushing him to perform or forcing him into social situations that create anxiety. Do what you can to help your child feel more comfortable in social situations.Make sure that you acknowledge your child’s feelings.
Model confidence for your child, such as by being relaxed in social situations.
Help your child learn social skills, such as by making friends, shaking hands, making complaints etc.
 If you child has SAD, it is important to find ways to help your child cope with anxiety. There are several ways that you can help your child cope with anxiety and overcome some of his social anxiety. Some of the ways you can help your child include teaching your child how to do breathing exercises, helping your child restructure negative thoughts, providing a calming cue, and offering gentle encouragement.


Teach your child to calm down by taking slow deep breaths. Show your child how to practice deep breathing and then instruct your child to use this technique any time he or she feels anxious.
Help your child restructure his negative thoughts. For example, if your child says something like “I am going to mess up my book report tomorrow!” respond with something like, “If you practice really well, you will have a better idea of how you are going to give your book report and you will do a good job.”
Provide your child with a picture to act as a calming cue. For example, if your child is especially nervous about his book report, you can give your child a small picture of yourself and instruct him to hold it near the top of the page. That way, your child can pretend he is just reading the book report to you.
Offer gentle encouragement rather than forcing your child to participate in activities that make him or her anxious. For example, if your child is not comfortable with participating in a game with some other children, don’t push him to participate. But if your child does choose to participate, offer some quiet praise and then shower your child with praise when you are away from other people., While it may be tempting to protect your child from situations that cause him stress or anxiety, this could actually make his anxiety even worse. It is more helpful for your child to learn how to manage his responses to stressful everyday situations, with your support.Instead, remind your child that he has successfully survived stressful situations in the past, and he can do it again., If your child’s anxiety is severe or does not improve, you may consider talking to your child’s doctor about medications that might help. For some children, SSRIs (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors) may be effective at alleviating the anxiety produced by SAD.Commonly prescribed SSRIs for childhood SAD include citalopram (Celexa), escitalopram (Lexapro), fluoxetine (Prozac), and paroxetine (Paxil).Venlafaxine HCI (Effexor) is another commonly prescribed anti-depressant, but it is an SNRI (serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor).