, It takes time to teach a dog how to use an obstacle course, so this is about your own training in patience too.
 A few treats as rewards are vital too.
 These are important for increasing your dog's agility and running skills.;
, You can make those from PVC pipes as well but they are more time consuming.


The best way to do this is to buy very large, tall orange cones, line them up in a line and have your dog weave through. Plus, since they are so much thicker than normal weave poles, your dog will find that the real weaves are a breeze to do. Cones can be purchased at any hardware or home depot type place.
Strong and sturdy sticks or bamboo poles can also be pounded into the ground in a pattern that requires your dog to weave in and out. Bamboo poles can be purchased from a garden center or hardware store.
 There are various ways that you can build your own dog jump, some suggestions are provided next.



Use two flowerpots and balance a broomstick or a long stick on top of them.
If you want a higher jump, use two identical height chairs. Line the chairs back to back, separated by about three feet/90 centimeter (35.4 in). Balance a broom or a stick on top of the chairs or through the top rungs.



Take two flowerpots and place them upside down on the ground.
Put a PVC pipe in the hole in each flowerpot.
Attach another PVC pipe to each pole. Use such items as heavy-duty rope to duct tape to affix the pipe.
 Tie a tire (or a hula hoop/bendable pipe) sideways between two chairs or posts. Instant jump-through hoop!


Tie tightly so that the tire or hoop doesn't fall onto your dog as it jumps.
 If you go to any large children's shop they will usually have play tunnels for children. These are an inexpensive alternative to buying the special agility tunnels. True, it won't last as long as the specially made ones, but it will definitely work.


Box stores like IKEA also carry children's tent tunnels. You could also look at online auction sites or Freecycle for unwanted/used ones.
 Use a row of low tables––children's tables are a good height. Cover with blankets to create "tunnel" sides.

