 Place 1 cup (240 ml) of milk and 2 tablespoons of butter or margarine into a small saucepan. Heat the milk and butter over medium heat until the temperature reaches 120 to 130 degrees F (48 to 54 C).The butter won't melt completely. You're just warming the milk and butter which will help the yeast dissolve and activate.;
, Put 2 tablespoons of packed brown sugar and 1 envelope (2 1/4 teaspoons) of instant yeast into the bowl of a stand mixer. Add the warmed milk and butter mixture and stir to dissolve the brown sugar and yeast.If you don't have a stand mixer, place your ingredients in a large mixing bowl and use a hand mixer or large wooden spoon to combine them.
 Add 2 cups of the all-purpose flour and 2 teaspoons of salt to the mixing bowl. Beat the dough for 3 minutes so that the flour is completely incorporated. If the dough looks very sticky and continues to cling to the sides of the bowl, slowly add more flour to make the dough soft. It should start to pull away from the sides of the mixing bowl.Keep track of how much flour you add. Avoid adding more than 1 1/2 cups in total.
Add the additional flour in very small amounts (about 1/4 of a cup at a time). It's easier to add flour than remove excess flour from your dough.
 Flour a counter top or bread board. Scoop the dough onto the work space and knead the bread until it's smooth and stretchy. This should take about 8 to 10 minutes of kneading. To knead the dough, punch it down in the center, fold it in half and push it forward with the palm of your hand.


Continue the process of folding and pushing the dough. This kneading will activate the gluten in the bread and help your pretzel bread develop a good consistency.
 Grease a large mixing bowl and set your pretzel dough in the bottom. Cover the bowl and put it somewhere warm and draft-free to prove for one to two hours. Let it prove until it's doubled in size.


It's easiest to use a clear bowl. This way, you can keep an eye on how much your dough has risen.
If you can't find a warm spot to prove the dough, try placing it in your unheated oven with the door closed. Turn on the oven light. This should warm the oven enough to prove the dough., Get your oven heating and prepare your baking pan while you boil the pretzel bread. Turn the oven on to 400째F (204째C). To make the boiling solution, put 3 quarts (2.8 liters) of water and 3/4 cup (135 g) of baking soda into a large saucepan or pot over high heat. Bring the solution to a boil.


To prepare your baking pan, simply grease it lightly with shortening or butter.
 Remove your dough from the greased bowl and punch it straight down. Divide the dough into two large pieces and roll each into a smooth ball that is tightly packed. Place the loaves in the boiling solution for 1 minute. Turn them using tongs and boil them for 1 more minute. Use a slotted spoon to carefully remove them from the solution.To evenly divide the proved dough, you can cut it in half using a sharp knife or a bench scraper.
Always use caution when handling boiling liquid. Use oven mitts when touching the handles of your pot.
 Set both boiled loaves on your greased baking sheet. Brush the beaten egg over the tops and sides of the loaves using a pastry brush. Take a sharp knife and score a cross in the top of each loaf. Bake the loaves for 15 minutes.You can leave off the egg wash, although your pretzel bread won't be as shiny or glossy after it bakes.
 After 15 minutes, reduce the oven temperature to 350째F (175째C) and bake the loaves for another 10 to 12 minutes. The pretzel bread should look brown. Carefully remove the baking pan from the oven.Take the loaves off of the sheet and let them cool on a wire rack.

