 You should only have one window open—the one you are taking notes in. Close all other windows and programs. Consider turning WiFi off. Put your phone away.
 Pick a note-taking or word-processing program that works best for your needs.For example, you may want to pick a program you know well, like Microsoft Word. On the other hand, you may want something simple and basic, like Text Edit. Consider using a note-taking program like Evernote or One Note.
 There are a variety of keyboard shortcuts that can help you take notes more quickly. Keyboard shortcuts can vary depending on the kind of computer you use (Macor Windows) and what kind of word-processing program you are using. That being said, you will find keyboard shortcuts useful for the following note-taking issues:


Formatting. Keyboard shortcuts can allow you to emphasize key concepts through shortcuts that help you highlight, bold, or underline words or phrases. For example, command + B will make a word bold.
Navigation. Certain keystrokes can help you move to the beginning or the end of a line. Other keystrokes allow you to move seamlessly between programs or windows. In the Windows program OneNote, using the "End" or "Home" key will allow you to move your cursor to the end or beginning of the line you are on.Organization. Keyboard shortcuts can allow you to automatically make ordered, hierarchical lists like outlines or numbered lists.
Type expanding. You can program your word processor to recognize phrases as you type them. Instead of typing out “interdisciplinary coordinated calculus” you can type “icc” and your computer will know what you mean.
 Writing down everything the teacher says will waste time. Instead, pick up on larger, overarching issues. You should be writing out short sentences, no more than five words., You can always come back to a concept or ask a question. But don’t spend time finishing up a section to your satisfaction while your professor moves on. Instead, switch concepts when they do.
 After the lecture or class is over, go over your quickly written notes and fill in any gaps.Take this time to


Add any information you were not able to type quickly enough.
Fix any typos or misspelled words.
Pick up on larger overarching concepts and add them while they are still fresh in your mind.

