 In a mixing bowl, combine the flours and a pinch of salt. Add one teaspoon of warm water and mix it with your fingers. Add another spoonful of water and mix more. The dough should be course and loose in texture, rather than moist.


Add the water very slowly, in small increments, so that you don't end up mixing in too much. Poori dough should never be wet or sticky.
If the dough seems very moist, work in some extra maida (or cake flour) to absorb the extra moisture.;
, Use your hands to knead the dough for about 7 minutes, until it becomes tight, stretchy and shiny. This will encourage the formation of gluten, which is essential to the texture of the finished pooris.If the dough feels loose and falls apart, keep kneading. You should be able to stretch the dough without it breaking.
If you wish, you can knead the dough using the dough hook attachment on a stand mixer.
 Pour the oil over the dough and knead it into the dough for another 3 minutes. This will improve the flavor and texture of the dough.
 Form it into a ball and place it in the a bowl. Cover the bowl with a damp dishcloth. Set the bowl in a dry, warm place. Let it sit for 15-20 minutes to rest. This will further improve the texture of the finished pooris.
 Place the ball of dough on an oiled surface and use a rolling pin to roll the dough into a circle no thicker than 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm). The dough should be easy to roll thin without tearing. It may snap back when you attempt to roll it, but with a little work you'll be able to create a large, thin circle of dough.
 You can use a biscuit cutter or the rim of a cut. Cut out as many dough circles as possible from the rolled-out dough.
 Pour 2 inches (5.1 cm) of oil into a stockpot or high-sided frying pan. Heat the oil until it reaches 400 °F (204 °C), or a bit of dough dropped into the oil sizzles and browns.
 When the oil is hot, place a few dough circles into the oil to cook. After just a few seconds, they'll begin to puff up and crisp. When they are crispy and very lightly brown, after about 20-30 seconds, use a large slotted spoon to place them on a plate lined with paper towels to drain. Continue frying the remaining dough circles.


The pooris will cook very quickly, so it's necessary to watch them the whole time they're in the oil. Remove them before they turn dark brown, or they'll have a burned taste and fall apart easily.
Cook only a few pooris at a time. If you crowd the pot, it will be difficult to control the cooking time of each poori.
Don't cover the pooris when they're finished cooking, or they won't stay crispy.
 Peel the potatoes, then roughly chop them. Put them in a pot and cover them with cold water. Bring the water to a boil, then reduce it to a simmer. Cook the potatoes until they're completely soft, and a fork slides through them easily. Drain the water. Mash the potatoes roughly with a fork.
 Put the red chili powder,chopped green chilli,chopped onions, chat masala and coriander leaves in the pot with the potatoes. Add a pinch of salt. Use a fork to mash the spices in with the potatoes to thoroughly distribute them. Taste the mixture and add more spices or salt if you wish.
 Stir in the and chickpeas with a spoon, so that everything is completely mixed. If you wish, add a few drops of oil to moisten the filling. It doesn't need too much moisture, though, since you'll be adding pani as the finishing touch, It will ruin the taste. Place all the spices and herbs together in a blender, food processor or mortar. Process them until they are ground into a fine paste. Add a little water if necessary to loosen the ingredients and make them easier to grind.
 Place the paste and water in a mixing bowl and mix well. Taste the mixture and add more black salt or spices as necessary.
 It's often served cold with the poori. If you wish to chill it, cover the bowl and place it in the refrigerator until you're ready to serve pani poori.
 Do this with the tip of a knife or your fingertip. Be sure to tap gently, since the poori is crispy and fragile.
 Scoop in some of the mashed potato and chickpea filling. If you wish, you can add other fillings, too, like chutney, yogurt sauce or green moong dal sprouts. Spoon in enough to fill about half of the poori.
 Submerge the filled poori in the bowl of pani so that the extra space fills with the spicy water. Don't keep it underwater too long, or it will get soft.
 It's necessary to serve and eat pani poori right away, before it gets soggy and falls apart. Eat the whole thing in one or two quick bites. If you're serving guests, you can have them assemble their own pani poori so they experience the best texture possible.