 It will need to be standing in order to be assessed properly. From a standing position you will be able to reach all the areas on the yearling's body that you need to feel.Make sure that you keep the yearling at ease while you are doing condition scoring. If you have a report with the horse, it is more likely to allow you touch the areas you need to. Consider giving it a treat or petting it how it likes to be petted while doing the scoring in order to keep it happy and cooperative.;
, Get a general impression of the horse's shape to begin with. You are looking for areas on the body that seem out of proportion or are noticeably thin or thick. You will need to look at the horse from all directions: the front, the back, and the sides.This overview will allow you to get a general sense of the condition of the horse. Having a general understanding of the horse will help you move forward through your assessment.
 The condition scoring system was designed to take information from six key areas of the horse's body: the neck, the withers, the loin, the ribs, the shoulder, and at the top of the tail. Looking at these specific areas will allow you to assess how much fat the horse is carrying.The condition scoring is based on how much of the horse's bones you can see and feel in these areas.
You will need to look at each of these areas and make a determination about how much of the animals bones can you see through the coat. If the bones are sticking out a lot, then the horse is too thin. If the bones are not visible, then the horse is carrying too much fat.
 In addition to looking at the horse's body, you will need to feel it to determine how much fat is being held under the skin. Like with the visual inspection, this should be done at the six key points: the neck, the withers, the loin, the ribs, the shoulder, and at the tail.Feel each of these spots on the horse to assess how easily you can feel the bones underneath.


For example, if you can really easily feel the ribs, then the horse is too thin. If there is a crease down the yearling's back, then it is probably overweight.If the condition scoring is done in the winter, the yearling may have its winter coat on, which may make the horse look and feel different from other times of year. Take this into consideration when condition scoring. It is often the case that a thick winter coat can hide the fact that a horse is too thin.
 This is a chart that allows you to fill in a score for each area of the yearling's body that you assess. It usually includes parameters for what each score would look and feel like on the horse.


For example, it will give a description of what you might feel and how much that would score.In the case of the yearling's ribs, if you can't see the ribs but can feel them easily, that would be a score of five, which is ideal.
To get a scorecard, do an online search for "horse condition scoring scorecard." Once you find one, you can download and print it for your own use.
 When feeling each area on the yearling's body you will need to assign a numerical score. This numerical score, between one and nine, is directly connected to how much you can feel the animal's bones through its coat.


Under the body conditioning system, one is used for extremely thin and nine is used for extremely overweight. In between those numbers are various parameters for differentiating between levels of thinness and thickness. For example, a horse who has ribs that are protruding prominently should get a rib score of one. A horse that has ribs that can't be seen but can be easily felt should get a score of 5., Look at all the scores for all areas of the body. These are your horse's body conditioning scores. For a healthy yearling, you expect the score in each category to be somewhere between five and seven.


If the score is higher than seven or lower than five, then you should work on changing the amount of fat your horse is carrying around on its body.
 There are a variety of ways to change your horse's body condition. This depends on if your horse has too much fat or too little fat.


If the horse does not have enough fat then you need to feed it more, feed it food that gives it more nutrition, work it less, or keep it warmer. Many times a horse that is cold in the winter will lose too much weight because of it. Simply putting a blanket on it or adding to its shelter can help it gain weight.
If the horse has too much fat then you should reduce the amount it is eating and consider working it more. However, if you reduce its feed, still make sure it is getting enough nutrients to sustain it.
 Whether your horse's score is good or needs improvement, it's a good idea to discuss it with the horse's veterinarian. If the score is good, tell your veterinarian so they know the good news. If the score is not good, discuss ways to improve it with the horse's veterinarian.


If your horse's score is good, you can wait until its next exam to tell the veterinarian the good news. If the score is bad, you should contact your veterinarian right away to begin helping your horse improve its health.

