 The best way to improve your English in all respects is to read aggressively. Read difficult books, read silly books, read long books, read magazines, read cereal boxes, billboards, and programs. Read everything and surround yourself with words. Reading lots of different books will not only improve your vocabulary, but it will help you with spelling. Plus, it's great entertainment and a good alternative to watching TV.


Try reading out loud sometimes, especially if you're uncomfortable doing so in class. The more comfortable you get working your way through words, the better your speech will become and the more confidence you'll have about pronunciation and speaking. It can also be fun to hear how really great writing sounds. Read Edgar Allan Poe aloud, or other poetry to get the full effect.
 English is full of contradictions and abnormalities, making it difficult to sound out everything and spell it correctly. Why is there a "b" at the end of "comb" when it makes no sound? Why do people pronounce "conch" like "konk" but don't say "church" like "churk"? Who knows. We all have words that give us fits, so it's best to just learn the spelling and memorize those words you have a hard time remembering.Commonly misspelled or challenging words people struggle with include:


definitely
beautiful
believe
library
nuclear
neighbor
ceiling
exercise
vacuum
villain
jewelry
license

, People have been misspelling words for as long as people have been spelling words. It's not a new thing. Fortunately, that means lots of little tricks have been passed down over the ages, so you can use some great shortcuts to make life easier on yourself, and on your English grade card.Here are a few of the best ones:


You cut a piece of pie

You hear with your ear


Because Elephants Can Always Understand Small Elephants. Just because.
Never believe a lie.
An island is land.

Eee! A cemetery!

, There are loss of digital and analog word games you can play that will help you stay engaged with words on a regular basis, in a fun way as opposed to homework. Play board games like Boggle, Scrabble, and Bananagrams to keep your spelling muscles flexed and do crossword puzzles to help with your vocabulary. On your phone, you can play Crosstix, Hangman, and Word Scramble for free, or challenge your friends to the popular game "Words with Friends." Way better than Candy Crush.
 In a recent study completed and reported by the BBC, over a third of respondents were unable to spell "definitely" correctly, while two-thirds were unable to identify the correct spelling of "necessary." Dubbed this the "auto-correct" effect, it seems that spell-check might have a negative effect on our ability to spell words correctly.While getting rid of your spelling companion and crutch might seem like a fate worse than death, it can be good to force yourself to learn and spell the words correctly. You can still run it through the spell-checker before you turn it in. Just practice.

