 This will help your child get in and out of bed and will also reduce the chance for injury if the child falls.If you're concerned about falls, you can place some cushioning on the floor around the bed.
You may wish to place a sturdy step-stool next to the bed if your child needs a bit more help getting on and off the mattress.;
, A wood frame will be the sturdiest bed, but if you choose a metal frame, check the joints to make sure the screws are secure. You want to be certain the bed can’t wobble or break while your child is sleeping or climbing in and out of bed., Look for round edges when the frame is made of wood or metal. There should not be parts on the bed or the frame that jut out. This will prevent your child from getting jabbed by any sharp edges., Because some paints may contain chemicals that cause harmful or allergic reactions, you don’t want your child chewing on the bed frame or otherwise putting the frame in his or her mouth.


Look for a natural paint or finish and low volatile organic compounds, or VOCs, which are organic compounds that easily become vapors or gases and contain elements such as hydrogen, oxygen, fluorine, chlorine, bromine, sulfur, or nitrogen.
If you paint the bed frame yourself, opt for dark or pastel colors, which will help your child sleep better without being overly stimulated.
 This will ensure that a child prone to tossing and turning can’t roll out of bed. It is important that you install guardrails on both sides of the bed, even if the bed is against a wall, to prevent the child from becoming wedged between the wall and mattress.Make sure the guard rails are flush with the mattress.
 You should choose a mattress that will fit the frame, preferably a crib-sized mattress. The mattress should be fire retardant as well. It is better to choose a firm mattress so the child can't sink into it and potentially suffocate., A child can become trapped if the mattress is too short or causes a gap. Your child will be accustomed to sleeping in a crib-sized mattress, which will make the transition to the toddler bed that much easier.
 Look for the Juvenile Products Manufacturers Association (JPMA) certification, which ensures that the toddler bed has passed strict safety regulations. You may also wish to check the national manufacturer’s guide or user reviews to see what other consumers have experienced with the bed you’ve chosen., Online assembly instructions will let you know what to expect when building the bed and what tools you’ll need. Make sure you have someone to help you put the bed together.


You may look for online user reviews to tell you about others’ experiences putting the bed together and how well the bed holds up after extended use.
 You may want to buy a bed that matches the furniture already in your child’s room, or you might redecorate the room based on the style of the bed. You’ll want a style that will make your child excited to sleep in their new bed.
 Try to find a toddler bed that fits your budget. However, it's important to not let a cheaper price override the importance of safety., Some manufacturers will have warranties for up to 90 days on parts for the bed while others will have a full warranty up to a year. This could be important if a part breaks on the bed and needs to be replaced or repaired.

