 Start wearing skirts instead of pants or jeans — nothing works better at defining you as a girl who cherishes her femininity. A skirt looks cute paired with a blouse, belt and flats. Don't wear skirts too short. The right length is just above the knee so you look demure and nice. Don't fall for the 'girly' trap of wearing pink or baby blue, if you look great in black or navy blue or perhaps maroon. Nothing really beats a classic pencil skirt, while a pleated skirt can be both cute and comfortable. If you've been wearing jeans for years, wearing a skirt will be a revelation; it will make you feel classy and feminine, especially when you're out with friends who are all wearing jeans or if you're the only girl at work wearing a skirt.


Dresses (fit & flare dresses with a belt) are sweet too.
Always wear hosiery rather than bare legs. Go for the classic sheer look and avoid patterns. Tan or nearly black are also great colours to choose. Your skirt will help you enjoy the feeling of having your legs on display, so never wear opaque.
Wear flat shoes if you don't like heels. The key is to choose something simple and classy
Avoid the "just rolled out of bed" look. Don't wear anything that hides your shape. Whatever you wear, people should be able to tell you've put some time and effort into putting your look together.;
, This step is not necessary, but it will help make you look a little more feminine. Red and pink lipstick and neutral eyeshadows will help to create a feminine look. But remember, you do not need makeup. Wear it only if you want to. If you're not comfortable with makeup, then so be it.


If you're really opposed to makeup, make sure your lips are moist by wearing lip balm whenever you can.
 In addition to your clothes and makeup, you should spend some time finding the perfect accessories to go with your wardrobe. You don't need a box full of accessories -- just a few key items can help tie your look together and can make you look more feminine. Here are some items to consider as you work on your more feminine look:


A pretty silk scarf
Pearl earrings or other studs
A cute headband
A ribbon hair barrette
Some thin silver bracelets
Rings that are cute, but not too chunky or flashy

, Your body is what makes you female, so how can you be feminine if you don't embrace your female form? A woman's body naturally has a higher body fat percentage than that of a man, so don't dismiss your curves. On the other hand, part of loving your body is taking care of it, so maintain a healthy diet, get enough sleep and exercise to stay in shape. Fortunately, you don't have to look like a model to look feminine.


Loving every inch of your body doesn't mean flaunting your body or showing it off every chance you get. It just means loving how you look and being comfortable in your own skin.
Don't think that you can't work out because it's not lady-like. Taking a yoga class, a dance class or running or swimming will get you more in touch with your feminine side and will make you love your body even more.
 Though you don't have to take a two-hour shower every day or spend an hour doing your hair, you should make sure that you always look, feel and smell clean and that you've devoted enough time to keeping up a ladylike appearance. Showing up somewhere after working out without showering is not very feminine; make sure that you exude cleanliness and poise and look relatively put together wherever you go.


Never look like you rushed to get your look together in time or put on makeup or comb your hair in front of your friends because you didn't have time to do it before.
 If you want to look like a lady, then you have to smell like a lady. Consider putting a dab of perfume on your neck or rubbing some scented lotion on your neck or arms. Remember to only use a light touch , You don't want to overwhelm anyone with perfume that is overpowering

