 Remove the doorknob and any other screwed-on attachments. This will allow you to lay the door flat and apply paint evenly. Set aside the hardware so you can restore it after the process is done.






;
, Antiquing a door while it's attached to the wall makes the project harder than it needs to be. Lay the door over a large work table in a well-ventilated room or outside. Cover the floor with a drop cloth to catch spills.
 If you have a wooden door and are aiming for a rustic, weathered look, you can intentionally damage the wood surface. Try the following distressing methods:








Lay a screw on its side and lightly hammer it into the wood.
To imitate severe worm holes, hammer several screws through the end of a plank. Whack the plank against the door so the screw ends dent the wood.
Scratch grooves with a screwdriver or pry bar.
Create a random pattern of damage by bashing the door with a chain.
 Sand through old finishes to reveal bare wood. Even if the wood is unfinished, sand to remove burrs and create a paint-ready surface. Start with medium-grit sandpaper, then move on to fine-grit sandpaper.









If the door is painted, sand lightly to wear through patches of paint, while leaving the rest on. This makes it look like the paint has worn away over the years.
Sand the corners and edges a little extra, to round them slightly as though they'd been heavily used.
 The steps below describe three options for a weathered, old-fashioned door: wood glaze, vinegar, or paint. You'll only need to use one of these approaches. Their effect can vary based on the type of door you have, so it's best to test them out on a low corner of the door first.









Alternatively, test them on scrap lumber of the same type as the door.
 Mimic the appearance of weathered outdoor furniture with wood stain. Apply it as follows:









Brush the stain over the door. Cover it evenly if the door is new. Cover just the lighter spots of wood if the door is partially painted or weathered already.Immediately wipe it with a dry cloth to rub it into the wood and remove the excess.
Buff with a second cloth if necessary to work the stain into crevices.
 Alternatively, try this homemade weathering agent to turn the wood grey and flecked with black. While this won't weaken the door, keep in mind that this does cause irreversible surface damage.If this is what you're going for, treat the wood as follows:








Rip a piece of 0000 steel wool into shreds.
Place it in a glass bottle of white vinegar. Set aside for 24 hours somewhere where the smell won't bother anyone.
Once the steel wool is dissolved, brush it over the door. Let dry for about 24 hours.
Sand lightly for a more even grey.
 You may prefer the look of old, painted material to bare wood. In order to make a fresh coat of paint look old, you'll need either a wood glaze or a crackle medium. Here's a description of the two approaches:

Wood glaze can be used to leave scratchy streaks over existing paint. Paint the door and let dry. Dip an old, straggly brush in the stain and wipe most of it off. Lightly drag the bristles over the paint to leave streaks along edges and places where the door might have been damaged.












A crackle medium causes the paint over it to shrink together and leave wiggly cracks, revealing wood or undercoats beneath.Check the label for timing instructions, as some crackle mediums must be left on for an hour or more before painting the wood.
 You can leave the door unprotected for a more rustic look, but may not appreciate the real weathering and grime buildup. If you want to protect the wood, use a clear satin finish. This will make the door shiny and reflective, but won't cover up your careful distressing.







