 You'll need to set aside enough of a space where the track can be laid out, scenery grown and tended to, and model features such as buildings and bridges can be added.


Try to choose a place that is visually pleasing and easy to access.
Consider elevating the display if possible; it will make it easier to look after and to see. Something about the height a young child would find easy to view is good.
Be sure to keep in mind the usual use of the garden and how that will impact and be impacted by the garden railway. In addition, consider the possible problems of pets and wild animals having access to the track and plan to guard against any potential damage.;
, Make it as much a family affair as possible because it's more fun that way and you'll have more hands to help out. Kids are usually thrilled to be involved but their level of interest depends very much on their ability to contribute, so try to find something age-appropriate for each of them. If you've got a neighbor who is keen too, rope them in!

, Your design will need to reflect your aesthetic preferences, your budget, and the space available. If you plan to build the track over stages, take this into account when preparing the plan.


A simple round or oval track without anything fancy is a good starting layout. It will allow you to shape the plants and props around it to give it more interest, and it will be easy to incorporate a bridge and a tunnel if wished.
If planning a fancier design, ensure that the design can be achieved by doing a layout with regular track on your floor.
Always account for the size of the trains you'll be adding as this will determine the size of the track, which in turn impacts the whole design.
 It's important to be aware from the start that a garden railway can cost a fair amount, including the costs of preparing the garden space (soil, retaining or elevating elements, gravel/pebbles, etc.), the costs of the plants, and the costs of the track, trains, and accompanying items. The fancier you get, the costlier it becomes but you will probably enjoy making some of the times, and hunting things down in online auctions, etc. Plan to add to it gradually and the costs will be spread out over time.
 The track and carriages must be capable of staying outdoors in all weather, so be sure to purchase or build items that are capable of withstanding outdoor elements. Some of the things to consider purchasing or building include:


Track
Bridge
Buildings
Make use of natural features incorporated into the garden railway
Tunnel

, This will take anywhere from a few days to a few weeks or even months, depending on the time you have available and the complexity of your design. The weather will also impact your ability to complete it.



Prepare the garden space. Clear away all debris and unwanted plants in the vicinity. Use a level to ensure evenness of the surface.
Gather the materials. If you're elevating or adding retaining features, put these in first.
Ensure adequate drainage and weed protection. Consider laying down weed mat. Be sure that the soil will drain well following rain.
Follow the design. Lay the track where the design indicates. Use rustproof nails and screws.
Place down the materials that will cover the soil, around and over the track (sand, gravel, etc.). For the track, use layering to build railway ballast, such as sawdust, fine cover, then larger pebbles or small rocks.
Smooth over the soil cover so that it sits evenly.

Use a brush (a pastry brush or paintbrush are both good) to remove sand or soil off the tracks as you build.
Place the buildings into position once the track and soil cover are neatly in place.
 You should have already chosen the train size to suit the track. Now it's time to find some trains!


Make a decision about whether you prefer having the trains controlled by battery inserted direct into the train, or using a transformer box. If using electricity outdoors, follow all the safety instructions for outdoor usage and get the help of an electrician if needed.
Investigate a timer for the trains to prevent them from running continuously and running down their batteries.
 It's important to keep the garden railway well cared for or you risk losing it to nature's overgrowth.


Weed it regularly.

Trim the bushes serving as "trees" regularly. Consider bonsai methods.
Remove dirt, dust, fallen leaves, and other garden debris on a regular basis.
Keep trains inside when not in use.

