 If you have a smaller amount of sap, this is easiest done with a coffee filter. This is only to remove any sediment, bugs, or twigs from the sap. You could also reach in and remove large pieces of debris with a slotted spoon. The sap will be filtered again later, after it's boiled., Syrup is made by removing water from the sap, so that only the sugar remains. Sap contains only about 2 % sugar. You can use an evaporator, which is a machine made specifically for boiling sap into syrup, or a less expensive alternative like a good, hot fire (you can also boil it in a pan on the stove, but you're evaporating so much moisture that your whole house will fill with steam). To build an outdoor fire for sap boiling, follow these steps:

Get one or more 5 gallon pots.
Dig a shallow hole in the ground where you want to build the fire.
Build a box out of cinder blocks around the hole. It need only be large enough to accommodate all of your pots. Set a fire grate in the box to hold the pots, leaving enough space below the grate to build a fire.
Build a fire under the grate so it will heat the pots.
 Fill them about 3/4 full of sap. The flames should lick the bottom of the pans and bring the sap to a boil. As the water evaporates, slowly add more sap. Continue stoking the fire and adding sap to the pots until the pots are half full with the remaining sap.

The process of boiling sap down to syrup takes many hours, and you can't take any breaks or you'll end up with burned maple syrup. The fire needs to be hot enough to keep the sap boiling constantly, and you need to keep adding more sap when the liquid gets low - even if it means staying up all night.
You can hang a coffee can with a handle over the sap pot. Cut a hole in the bottom so the sap trickles out gradually. This way you won't have to be there to monitor its progress at all times.
 When you're finished adding sap and the remaining liquid starts to get low, use a candy thermometer to check the temperature. It will have rested at 212 degrees Fahrenheit or so during the boiling process, but once most of the water has evaporated, the temperature will rise. Remove the liquid from heat when it reaches 219 degrees Fahrenheit.If you remove the syrup too late, it will thicken or burn, so make sure you monitor it closely.
You can finish the syrup inside if you want to be able to control the heat and temperature more closely.

