 The easiest way to make a small amount of liquor portable and keep it in your pocket, bag, or purse is to transfer it into a hip flask. These usually hold about 8 oz. of liquid, are available in stainless steel and other materials, and are relatively cheap to buy. They're usually made to fit comfortably in the interior jacket pocket of a men's coat.


To clean out a hip flask, rinse it with hot water and leave it open on the counter overnight to dry. Never put soap in a hip flask, because it can be very difficult to clean out thoroughly, and you might leave a soapy residue around for next shot of scotch.;
, If you want to sit in the park and enjoy an adult beverage, ask for a paper bag at the liquor store. In most places, it's illegal to drink in public, but "brown-bagging" a beverage is often enough to avoid giving police probable cause to search you, meaning–even though it's obvious what you've got in there–most police departments are happy to leave well enough alone and focus on other concerns as a departmental policy. Research the open container laws in your town to find out for sure.


Please note that this method involves negotiating a legal gray area. It's illegal in the United States to consume alcohol in public, technically, and many small-town cops might take pleasure in inventing probable cause to search you if you appear drunk or disorderly. If you want to brown-bag, you'll do so at a risk.
 Novelty beer cozies can help keep cans of beer cold, and also make them look an awful lot like cans of soda. Like brown-bags, cozies big enough to obscure the brand label on the can will keep people off your back if you want to have a few cold ones without hassle.


Make a soda can cozy to keep beers in. If you don't have a cozy, snip the top inch or so off of a soda can, slot your beer into it, and voila. It'll look like you're drinking Dr. Pepper.
 One of the best ways to mask the presence of alcohol and hide it in plain sight is to pour it into an inconspicuous bottle, then carry it as if it were water, soda, or some other beverage. No one need be the wiser. Opaque Nalgene bottles, or other all-purpose water bottles are perfect for hiding booze.


Put vodka, gin, and other clear spirits in water bottles. Make sure you leave the cap on at all times, when you're not drinking, to avoid the strong smell attracting attention.
Hide wine in Nalgenes, in fruit-drink bottles, or Vitamin Water containers. These colored liquids should look similar to the color and texture of wine, making it pass an initial eye test.
 CamelBaks are backpacks designed for hiking and transporting water, for hiding booze on the down-low. These can be excellent for porting any kind of illicit liquid. They usually feature a long rubber straw clipped to the shoulder-strap, which you can use to drink from.
 Similar to the Camelbak, the wine rack is so hidden it's under your clothes. A basic sports bra that features as much as 20 oz. of space to hide liquid, and an accompanying straw, the wine-rack is perfect if you don't mind drinking, uh, body-temperature booze from your own brassiere. They're commonly sold at places like Urban Outfitters and other novelty stores.
 While a bottle of Jack Daniels will draw glares if your'e in public, a bag of Doritos usually won't. If you're somewhere you can have a cooler and some food handy, use an empty bag of potato chips, or some other snack of choice, to cloak the bottle. Drape it over the liquor upside down, then cut a little hole in the bottom of the bag for the neck to fit through. No one walking by your picnic will be the wiser., One of the best ways to hide alcohol in plain sight is mixing up a mixed drink like a rum and coke, or a whiskey and ginger, but doing it in the can or bottle of the soda you're using as a mixer. The color will be basically the same, the smell won't be as strong, and you'll be able to bring sodas with you into most places.


This works just as well for fountain drinks. If you've got a Big Gulp going, spike it and enjoy your mixed drink without hassle.

