 A small effort on your part can go a long way toward charming the host into forgetting that you weren't invited. A unique skill, like decorating talent or a knowledge of specialty drinks, can enhance the theme of the party . You might:


Make specialty decorations.
Mix up a batch of your favorite party drink.
Offer your services as a DJ., Many people feel awkward about approaching the party host or one of its organizers to offer help, but this can get you on their good side and earn you an invite. It may be easier for you to ask someone you already know. Start with specific suggestions, but also offer to help in any way you can. You might suggest:Helping with decorations, for larger parties.
Assisting refreshing party necessaries, like ice.
Organizing or setting up sound equipment., If the host or one of the party organizers accepts your offers of help, you might be put to work double-time. Follow instructions and use your judgement to try and take as much pressure of the host/organizers as you possibly can. And don't forget to relax about your invite - now that you're involved with party preparation, you are most likely invited!, You could hurt your chances of getting invited to a party next time around if you sit around when you're supposed to be helping or only do the bare minimum. If you finish your job early, see about helping others in their tasks. Even something as simply as handing pieces of tape to someone putting up decorations can help the party set up go smoothly.
 It can hurt if the party host or organizer says everything is taken care of without offering an invite, but there are other considerations the host may be taking into account. It's even possible that the host is trying to protect you from having a bad time, especially if, for instance, someone you seriously dislike will be attending.


If you have a great idea that would add to the party, you might suggest this to the host, but you should be aware that this refusal might be a gentle way of saying you aren't invited.
As an example, you might volunteer to take photos of the party to commemorate the event. If the party host or organizer likes your idea, you are in!