 Treat them and their disability with respect. It's possible to see both the person and the disability.;
, They enjoy it just as anyone else does, they just can't see it the way a sighted person does. Not everyone has to see a story to enjoy it. People enjoy radio plays and audio books without seeing the story.
 Some people may find it useful to know how many steps it takes to cross rooms in their own home, in the same way sighted people know how big their rooms are. No one can get around in the world just knowing how many steps it is between where they are and where they want to get to.
 There are many reasons why a person chooses to have a guide dog, and just as many reasons why they may choose not to. Some blind people feel they can manage without, some just don't like dogs, some have partners they can rely on, et cetera.
 Not all blind or partially sighted people have eyes that look any different from a sighted person's eyes. Some sighted people have unusual eyes, and may avoid eye contact (such as cases of social anxiety or autism). Some blind or partially sighted people may not be able to focus their eyes on the person they are talking to. Don't be offended if someone doesn't make eye contact with you unless you are sure they are avoiding eye contact deliberately. It's okay to ask them why they aren't looking you in the eye.
 Most blind people are not deaf or hard of hearing, and they do not need to be spoken to like children. If they need you to speak more loudly, slowly, or clearly, they will let you know.
 Very few people are totally blind. Blind is a term used for people who cannot see at all or who have very very restricted sight. Partially sighted people are not always registered blind, but may have such poor vision that they require visual aids such as a white cane or a guide dog.
 It's perfectly fine to offer help crossing a street, finding a building, or navigating obstacles. Ask the blind person if they would like help. If not, don't impose your help on them.
 Be respectful and never jump over a cane or push one out of your path any more than you would step over a someone walking slower than you or push someone out of your way.
 Never distract a guide dog by petting it or feeding it.

