


You will need to be able to take out the drawers and move about in the dishwasher.
You won't be able to take apart certain parts of the dishwasher to see if there are any problems if there are dishes in the way.
Make sure you store any sharp knives where they are easily seen, so someone doesn't reach into the sink and cut themselves.;
, You don't want to work on any appliance with the power connected.The water and power supplies to the dishwasher are located behind the front panel of the dishwasher below the door.
You can do this by unplugging the dishwasher or shutting off the circuit that the dishwasher is connected to.
Keeping the power connected to an appliance during repairs is an electrocution hazard.
Shutting off the water line is a good idea while you are doing repairs. The water supply is usually a flexible copper line or braided stainless steel.
 Moving a dishwasher full of water can be messy.


Protect the floor under, and in front of, the dishwasher with old towels.
Use cups or other containers to scoop out the water and transfer it to the sink drain.
Use a couple of towels to soak up the last portion of the water. Put these towels in the sink until you are completely finished mopping up the leftover water.
 Use caution when doing this as dishwashers are heavy. You can lower the dishwasher using the feet on the front to get more clearance.
Slide the dishwasher out slowly to prevent gouging your floors.
Pull it out far enough so you can see and reach behind it.
 See if there is a major kink preventing drainage.You can access the drain hose by removing the kick plate on the front of the dishwasher. If you disconnected the power and water supply to the dishwasher, you have likely already removed this.
The drain hose runs from the drain pump on the bottom of the dishwasher to the sink drain or air gap on the sink.
Use a flashlight to follow the hose to the drainage area. Look for any bends or kinks constraining the line.
Correct any kinks in the line.
 Examine it to determine whether there are any clogs.Place a pan or rag underneath the hose to prevent spills and for easy cleanup.
A clog of food or other fragments will prevent proper drainage of the machine.
Clear any blockage you encounter in the hose by running a long flexible brush through it.
You can also run water from a high powered hose through the drain line to clear any debris.
After you are done, reconnect the hose.
 This will allow you to see if there is any improvement in draining the water.A very small amount of water in the bottom of a dishwasher is normal.
If the dishwaster is still not draining, you will have to check other parts for malfunction.
Make sure the dishwasher is cool before checking anything else.
 Parts can become hot during the heating and rinsing cycles.


This can help you avoid burns from hot parts or steam.
It will be easier to work on the dishwasher if the parts are cool.
 It may have become stuck closed, preventing water from draining from the dishwasher.The drain valve is located underneath the dishwasher behind the front kick panel.
It is usually by the motor, so you can use that to find its location.
The valve consists of a gate arm and solenoid (also called a coil)

, This is one component of the drain valve. The gate arm allows water to drain out of the dishwasher through the valve.
You should be able to move it freely.
The gate arm has two springs attached to it. If either spring is damaged or missing, it must be replaced.
 The solenoid is connected by two wires.
Disconnect the solenoid from the wires.
Test the solenoid for resistance using a multi-tester. Set the tester to the ohms setting X1.
Place the tester probes on the terminals of the solenoid. A normal reading is 40 ohms. If the reading is significantly different, the solenoid will need to be replaced.
 This is the rotating blade inside the dishwasher.


Inactivity sometimes causes a dishwasher motor to stick.
Turning it by hand will take care of this problem and allow water to drain.
This is something that should be tried before testing the dishwasher again.
 Run a short cycle so you aren't wasting water.


A very small amount of water in the bottom of a dishwasher is normal.
If the dishwaster is still not draining, you will have to check other parts for malfunction.
In this case, you should call a repair person since you have already troubleshooted through the most common problems that prevent a dishwasher from draining.

