 A big part of having joy in your life is doing self-care, where you are kind and compassionate to your needs. Try to schedule in some “you time” in your day, even if it’s only 10 – 15 minutes. Spend this time doing something that you find relaxing and calming. Having this time to yourself can help you feel less stressed and more centered.For example, you may spend your “you time” doing a relaxing activity like knitting, painting, drawing, or writing in your journal. You can also do self-care like taking a bath, getting a massage, or watching your favorite television show.
 Another way you can be kind and compassionate to yourself is to focus on your personal goals and work to achieve them. Having goals and accomplishing them can help you feel motivated and excited on a day to day basis. The goals can be small and short-term or big and long-term. Have a mix of short-term and long-term goals so you can stay motivated and joyful about your life.


To pursue your goals, you can start by identifying one to three short-term goals as well as one to three long-term goals. Then, make a timeline to motivate you to achieve these goals. Check them off your list as you go so you can feel a sense of accomplishment.
 Positive affirmations can help you stay joyful on a regular basis, especially if you are struggling with low self-esteem and low self-confidence. Saying positive affirmations before you start your day or before you go to bed can help you set a good intention and allow you to focus on bringing more joy into your life.


For example, you may use positive affirmations like, “I will expand my capacity for joy today,” “I will bring more joy into my life today,” and “I am going to spread joy to others.”

, Try to make your home into a place where you feel at ease and positive. It may be as simple as rearranging your furniture or painting a room, or you may need to spend some time decluttering. If you don't have control over your home, try to make at least one room or even part of a room your own. Put up artwork that makes you feel good. A positive environment in which you feel comfortable and happy can go a long way in increasing joy in your daily life.
 Make the choice to care for your physical well-being, which is ultimately an act of kindness toward yourself. This can improve your mental and physical health, as well as open you up to new interests.


Learn to cook nutritious and healthy food for yourself. It may be fun and helpful to sign up for a cooking class to learn recipes and techniques.
Set aside time to exercise. Consider joining a running group, taking a dance class, or a hiking club.
Examine your habits and try to cut out negative behaviors, such as smoking or drinking too much.
 Maybe there is a hobby you have always wanted to try, but put off because you got too busy or overwhelmed. Perhaps there is a hobby that you have always wished you could do, but forgot about. Take up a hobby that you find interesting, challenging, and engaging. Set aside some of your free time to learning this hobby. Doing this can help you feel more excited and joyful about your life.For example, if you have always wanted to learn how to draw, you may take a drawing class. If you have always wanted to learn how to code, you may sign up for online tutorials on coding that you can do in your spare time.
 Sometimes, getting out of your comfort zone and your normal environment can help you discover more joy and happiness. Travel to a place you have always wanted to go to. You may plan a trip with friends or your partner to an exciting destination. Or you may try travelling alone, especially if you have never done it before and want to have a new experience on your own.Look for trips you can take that are within your budget. Opt for a cheaper trip if your budget is tight and check out sights that are off the beaten path.

