 Catch the part of your nose above the tip and stretch it out as if you are removing your nose out of your face. It should not be painful, but simply stretch out your cartilage, stopping the sneeze.;
, Use a tissue and blow your nose when you feel a sneeze coming on. It should clear your sinuses of what caused the sneeze in the first place.
 Using your thumb and forefinger, pinch your upper lip lightly and press it upward toward your nostrils. Your thumb should head toward one nostril and your forefinger toward the other, bunching up your upper lip slightly.
 Press your tongue behind your two front teeth, where the roof of your mouth meets the gum palate or alveolar ridge. Press hard with your most powerful muscles against your teeth until the tickling sensation dissipates.
 Find a small table anywhere in your home, hold your face about 1 inch (2.5 cm) from the top of the table and stick your tongue out; the sneeze should subside naturally. It takes about 5 to 7 seconds. If it doesn't work, at least, whoever's around will get a good kick out of it!

, Tickle the roof of your mouth with the tip of your tongue when you feel the sneeze coming on. Continue until the urge to sneeze dissipates. This should take 5 to 10 seconds.
 Spread the thumb of one hand away from the fingers. Using the sharp edges of the nails on the thumb and index finger of your other hand, pinch the flap of skin between the spread thumb and the fingers.
 This is a pressure point that some grab to stop a headache, and it can work with sneezes, too. With your thumb and forefinger, pinch between your eyebrows until you feel a substantial amount of pressure.
 With the side of your forefinger (hand held horizontally beneath your eyes), press into the cartilage on your nose, just beneath the bone of the bridge of your nose. This will pinch one of the nerves involved in triggering a sneeze.
 Wiggle your ear lobe gently as you feel a sneeze coming on. This can be masked as looking like you are playing with an earring or something if you're stifling a public sneeze.
, Clench your teeth together, but try to stick out your tongue (use the muscle to push against the back of your front teeth). Push as hard as you can! The stimulation may stop the sneeze from materializing.
 You can buy this online or at your local vitamin/herb shop. Take a handful and wrap it in a cloth—handkerchief, washcloth, etc.—then roll it in your hand to break it up a little bit. Hold this next to your nose and inhale it for a few breaths. Your sneezing should clear right up!