 At work you may be forced to interact with people you don’t like, but in your personal life you have much more freedom to choose who you do and do not engage with.


If you notice your nemesis standing by the bar, head towards the patio instead.
Don’t make eye contact with them because this could invite them to approach you and begin a conversation.
It may not always be possible to avoid the person — they may approach you anyway or join a group conversation, and you may want to gracefully remove yourself from the situation. You can chat with the person for a moment and then say, "Well, I hope you enjoy the party! I'm needed by the food table."

, Most of us have family members we don’t enjoy being around. If you have a particularly annoying family member, try to avoid them even though it might be a bit complicated.


Try not to answer the phone when they call. If they do catch you on the phone, try getting away respectfully by saying something like, “I wish I had more time to chat, but I have a lot of things to get done at the moment.”
Avoid family gatherings that you know they will be attending. You could try planning a vacation during the holidays. This way, you can spend time with your immediate family while limiting your responsibility to attend other, more stressful gatherings.
Don’t add them on social media. This will give them access to your life and more things to try to talk to you about. Or add them, but manage your privacy settings so they can't see your posts.
Again, you may want to consider whether avoidance is the best strategy. Is it really worth missing out on seeing the rest of your family just to avoid that uncle you don't like? Consider finding an appropriate time (i.e. not during a big family gathering) to address your issues with the person. One uncomfortable conversation may be worth it to save yourself a lifetime of opting out of family gatherings.
 Sometimes neighbors are annoying or nosey and they can get on your nerves. If you have a nosy neighbor you want to avoid, try to be proactive about how much access you give them.

Avoid hanging out near the door or talking to someone with the door open.
If your nosy neighbor won’t leave you alone, try asking them respectfully by saying something like, “I am really quite a private person. I would actually prefer it if you could please give me a little more space.”

, If you feel as if your personal space has been invaded, try to realize that it is only for a very short time in the span of your lifetime. If you feel the need, you can make a polite comment about wanting more space. Then edge away, or steer the person away from you by holding their elbow and gently moving them away from you.

Take a step back if you are feeling crowded. Or try to come up with an excuse to step away from the situation for a moment, like that you need to use the restroom or grab something to drink.
You are perfectly entitled to make a request for more space in a polite way. For example: "Thanks for your concern Mr. Close, however, I would feel more comfortable standing further apart.", If possible, bring an easygoing friend along when you know you will have to see this person, especially if you're having a hard time being respectful. Let your friend do all the talking and simply agree with what your friend says.Perhaps you could even talk about your feelings with your friend later to get an idea of how you might better approach the disliked person next time.

