 If you can interact with your classmates before going to present, you will feel more at ease during the presentation. Look directly out and over the heads of the audience at a point toward the center rear of the classroom in which you’re speaking. Get into the presentation and try to enjoy it.


Pretending to be calm can actually make you calm. Don’t engage in nervous habits like pacing back and forth while presenting, shifting your weight about, blinking constantly, or rubbing your face or the back of your neck.;
, Don’t mumble or speak into your notes or the computer. If you want to emphasize something, raise your voice. Use a lower volume when adding intensity., Other times -- if you’re a group presenting for a business class, for instance -- you’ll want to dress professionally. Men should wear a black, navy, or gray suit, a blue or white dress shirt, and a matching tie. Women have more options: a dress with a sweater over it, or a blouse and matching suit are good option.


Whatever your gender, choose muted earth tones and avoid transparent or mesh-like material.Avoid brightly colored clothes and energetic patterns like polka dots or plaid.
 This will give you a stage presence and drive home the main points you’re explaining.
 If possible, introduce props to illustrate your points. For instance, you could bring a small piece of amethyst or quartz if presenting on rock formations and pass it around the class.
 Open your presentation with a story to foreground how important your topic is. For instance, if your presentation is on bicycle safety, you could present a story about someone who was hit by car but survived because he was wearing a helmet.


People love stories, and your presentation will be more memorable if you incorporate a story into your presentation.
 By the time you present, you should feel confident about the whole presentation. Smile! Don’t stare at your notes during the entire time you’re presenting. Glance at them briefly and try to maximize the time you spend looking out at the audience.Keep your body language open by keeping your hands at your sides or in front of you. Don’t cross your arms.
 Summarize your main points. For instance, if you presented about the dangers of drunk driving, you could list the main points of your presentation in a few simple sentences by explaining, “Drunk driving is extremely costly. Not only could you hurt or kill yourself or someone else, but you might crash your car and end up in prison. Don’t let that happen to you.” Thank the audience for listening and allow the next group to present.