 This is just a fact of life.


Pay attention to your personal hygiene (shower, brush your teeth, check your breath) and dress attractively.
You don't have to be fancy or overdressed; just avoid looking too sloppy or unwashed.



A smile is kind of a universal sign that you're friendly and your intentions are good. It also suggests that you have a positive personality, which is appealing to most people.
If you have trouble smiling naturally, try thinking of something that makes you happy.
 Be sure not to choose some random stranger, just make sure that you known them the least bit and at least know their name.


Don't agonize over this – the point is to talk to as many people as possible in a social setting to increase your chances of making a new friend.
Don't choose people based on their "attractiveness," or on how "confident" they appear. Your new best friend may not fit either of those descriptions, but may still be a fantastic person. So just approach anyone who looks available for a conversation. If the conversation doesn't pan out, you can always move on with no guilt (see below).
Put yourself at ease by remembering that the people around you are probably as interested in making new friends as you are.
 Look, you approached this person, so logically it's up to you to start the ball rolling. Almost any opening remark can start a productive conversation.

If the two of you happen to have anything in common, start with that. For example, "Hey, I think I've seen you in my biology class – how do you like that teacher?" Or, "Do you work at Starbucks? I think I've seen you there."
Give the person a compliment that leads to a question: "Wow, that's a really nice bracelet – where did you get it?" Or maybe, "Your hair looks amazing – how do you get it to do that?"
Go with the age-old standby – the weather. If it's hot, say you're burning up and you need to sit down for a minute. If it's raining, say you'd been planning to go shopping (or biking, or sightseeing, or something else interesting), but now you might be changing your plans.
 Unless the person is disastrously insecure or just not in the mood to talk (it happens), your opening line will get some kind of response. Be prepared to follow up with additional remarks.


Try to retain interesting bits of information from reading books, magazines and newspapers, watching TV and surfing the Web. These can be life-savers in a conversation.
Talk about yourself and gradually share more information as the conversation progresses.
 This is one of the main things that people respond to when meeting someone new – when you give someone your attention, you make that person feel important and worthwhile.

Make eye contact – the best way to show that you're tuned in. Don't stare into space or look at other people, and definitely don't look at your phone!
When the person makes a statement or relates a story, give a response that expands on the topic or otherwise shows that you understand.
 Did you make a connection?


If no, that's okay. You won't strike gold every time, and people aren't always in the mood to be social, so you shouldn't feel discouraged. All you have to do is politely disengage yourself ("Hey, thanks for chatting. I should get going – talk to you later!") and then find a new person to approach.
If yes, great! Keep talking for as long as it's comfortable, and then when it's time to go, be sure to exchange phone numbers and/or email addresses so you can stay in touch. Then be sure to follow up. This may not turn into the friendship of a lifetime, but you'll only find out by taking the initiative and contacting the person to talk or hang out again.

