 Her blue-green-gray eyes are one of Adriana's most memorable features, and she usually uses pretty heavy makeup to bring them out. The key is to use shades of peach, black, and browns on the eyelid and under the lower lash line as well in the corner of the eye.


Take a pretty gray eye shadow. Sweep that under your brow area and on the inner corner of your eyes. It’s her eyes that she’s remembered for most.
Sweep a darker brown eye shadow on your lids. Add some bronze eye shadow in between the brown and white eye shadow on the lower eye. Add blue contacts to look more like Adriana if you don't have eyes her color.
The final eye shadow is black. Put that on top of the brown, but let the brown peak up from the corners.;
, Adriana favors black eyeliner, and she uses it to create a rock look. Shape your eyebrows, too, to further dramatize the eyes.


Put the black eyeliner in your eyes’ waterline, and in the corner of the eyes, as well as on top of the lash line.She suggests moistening the eyeliner pencil before applying.
Use an eyebrow pencil to create distinct, shaped brows. Her eyebrows are brown, and she has them neatly waxed and tweezed.
 She also has long and thick dark eyelashes. Curl your eyelashes with an eyelash curler.


She has said she never takes her mascara off. She just keeps adding to it. She puts it on top and bottom lashes. “The more you apply the better.”You might occasionally see Adriana without all of her heavy eye makeup when she is running errands, but she usually has a bit of mascara on even then.
 Finish off the look with pink lipstick. She models for a lip gloss company, so you could use that look.


She does not have dramatic lips, almost always favoring nude or pink shades of lipstick or lip gloss. Her trick is to emphasize the eyes, while downplaying the lips. Her top lip is smaller than her fuller lower lip.
Sometimes she takes a little red or pink lipstick and dabs it on her lips and cheek to give it a slightly tinted but natural look.
Use browner blush and brush it on the hollows of your cheek bone. Brush it on your temples too. It will make your face slimmer.
 Adriana is a dark brunette whose hair is chocolate-brown to almost black. You could get some slightly golden highlights, but not too dramatic. You’ll have to go dark to look like Adriana.


Use a hair straightener because she often wears her hair straight. Her hair is very clean and never overly styled. Sometimes she pulls it back.
She takes a flaxseed oil pill to keep her fair shiny and long. Check with your doctor first. To keep her hair healthy, she doesn’t wash it every day. Oils will help your hair look better.
If she styles her hair at all, she will create longer waves in her hair. When she wears her hair styled, it’s usually beachy hair waves. Try spritzing your hair with sea salt spray. Part your hair in the middle and wear it very long. Adriana’s hair often cascades past the bust line.

