 Once you've established the basics, you'll need to hire and train employees. The amount of employees you'll need depends heavily on the size of your business and your needs.


First off, you will need delivery people able to transport products. Look for people who have clean driving records. You should also keep physical fitness in mind. If you have people making bike deliveries, for example, you'll need to find people physically capable of riding a bike long hours. If you're going to have couriers transporting large objects, make sure employees are able to do heavy lifting.
You will also need a variety of administrative positions for a courier company. Who will answer phone calls and deal with customer concerns or complaints? Who will keep track of the location of items? You'll need a customer service team, a sales team, and other basic administrative employees. Seek people out who have experience working with people and are friendly, respectful, and outgoing.
You'll need to conduct some training with new employees. Every business has certain ethics and standards it strives to live up to. Think of a training policy ahead of time and spend some time going over ideas on how to best instruct your employees.
 As your business is starting, advertising is vital. You'll need to make sure customers know you're an option in the world of transportation and delivery.


Forming an advertising campaign is difficult, especially if you're doing it for the first time. However, the advantage to a campaign is that you have full control over how your product is advertised and the image you're presenting. Prior to starting a campaign, think of how to brand your business. Is your appeal lower costs? Reliable drivers? Do you deliver items that other companies might not? Spend some time forming a fun, engaging advertising plan.Be upfront about certain facts when designing things like fliers, websites, and press releases. What services do you offer? How can customers obtain these services? What are your rates? What promises or guarantees are you giving? Customers are more likely to contact your business if the information is presented in an accessible manner.Knowing your audience can help you decide when and where to advertise. Having an online presence, for example, can help with a younger crowd. If you're advertising for an older generation, you might want to stick to more traditional forms of advertising. Knowing your audience will allow you to most effectively deliver your message.If you're new to running your own business, you might want to consider taking a marketing, graphic design, or business course.
 You may have to seek out clients and customers as a courier business. Are you planning on offering your services to local businesses that do not offer delivery? Make some phone calls to restaurants, furniture stores, or other places. Word of mouth helps a lot with these kinds of businesses. Offer special member-to-member discounts when you're starting to encourage people to recommend your services to others., Starting any business is stressful. However, try to be persistent. It may take awhile for a new business to become established so don't expect success to happen overnight. Keep working hard and eventually it will pay off.

