 While in high school:


try to complete at least one course in psychology
try to attend at least one psychology convention such as the American Psychological Association (APA) or one of the regional psychological associations such as: Eastern Psychological Association (EPA), the Midwestern Psychological Association (MPA)
become familiar with the web site of the American Psychological Association.
visit the psychology department at a local college or university. Try to attend a few psychology classes and/or a meeting of their psychology club. Talk with some of the faculty, graduate students or advanced undergraduate students about their research and what it is like being an undergraduate and a graduate student.;
, While in college:


Complete basic courses in a variety of areas of psychology.
Complete introduction to psychology, basic statistics and basic research methods as early as possible in your undergraduate career.
Complete advanced psychology courses (including some graduate level courses if offered at your university) in areas related to your desired area of psychology. While you do not necessarily have to major in psychology to enter a graduate program in psychology, you most likely will need to demonstrate competency in your area of interest as well as in the field as a whole.
Become very involved in doing research with a faculty member, or a few faculty members in your area of interest. Aim to have completed several conference papers and/or refereed journal articles prior to graduation as the most competitive candidates will have done this.
Assume a leadership role in your school's psychology club and/or Psi Chi chapter. If your school does not have such an organization work with your adviser and department chair to establish one.
 The competent candidate will be familiar with the faculty at the school which they are applying to. The ideal candidate will also have developed a professional reputation so that the faculty are familiar with them also.
 There are often many applicants for each slot. To up your chances of being accepted you need to have established a reputation in the field as an undergraduate. You need the best possible recommendations from psychology faculty. Also, you need to apply to more than one program.
 You can get help from most undergraduate college in drafting and revising the CV and letters of intent. Remember, the best letters of recommendation will go to the students who have been actively involved in faculty members research for one or more years.
, If they expect you to interview in person, many schools will reimburse your travel expenses.
 If you have not already done so, visit your first choice school. Meet the faculty and other graduate students in your area of interest. Confirm that it is really where you want to be.
 Look into other possible areas/schools that may not be as coveted and apply. In the mean time try to gain extra experience by getting a job that will increase your knowledge and experience in the field. Volunteer in research labs or crisis centers. Practice interviewing, polish your CV and don't let rejection stand in your way. There is always another chance!

