 A snowy, icy, cold, or rainy world can be beautiful and often has sounds and smells all its own. If you're an artist, photographer, or craftsperson, winter provides a great deal of inspiration and different colors to work with. Even if you don't feel that creative, simply watching a winter scene from the comfort of your home can be a pleasant way to relax and enjoy the peace.
 Enjoy skiing, sledding, or ice skating. Visit someplace nearby while the summer crowds are gone.


If you're a beginner to snow sports, try learning in areas where you won't be worried about more experienced people crowding you out. Local parks and quiet cross country or downhill ski circuits are ideal starting points to encourage you to get out and give new winter sports a go.
Making snow-men, snow-huts, and snow-lanterns are fun activities for both kids and adults.
 Whether that means sitting by the fire, snuggling up with a loved one or pet, piling on the blankets, or having a warm drink, keep yourself warm. The best way to stay warm all the time is to wear layers of suitable clothes, especially woolen long-johns, undershirts, and sweaters. And don't neglect your feet – woolen socks and slippers are a must-have for keeping you toasty warm all winter.

Remember: a significant proportion of body heat is lost through your head - so now is the time to whip out your most fashionable winter hats, berets, earmuffs, headbands, shawls, and other accessories.
 This would be a great time to read that book that's been on your list—or even write it. Play cards, clean the house, cook up a big pot of soup, take up a hobby, or knit another warm sweater. It's also a good time to sort photos, computer files, fabric stashes, and anything else that has accumulated over the other months of the year.


Go to the movies more frequently.
Visit museums, art galleries, astronomy observatories, food-making facilities (for example, chocolate, cheese, etc.), and while away the cold hours in their heated rooms learning something new.
Use indoor sports facilities such as rock-climbing walls, squash courts, badminton halls, etc.
Read How to keep kids entertained in winter for ideas on keeping children happy in winter.
 Winter comes with the shortest days and lowest light of the year. Go out if you can. If you can't, or if you're so far from the equator as to have little or no daylight, use full-spectrum lights, light or white walls, and perhaps some vibrant accent colors.


Learn how to make winter window decorations.
 As much as possible, get yourself outside. Bundle up and take at least a short walk. If the weather does not permit, move around inside. Walk up and down your stairs if you have them. Do a workout tape or use that treadmill or stair machine that is gathering dust. Exercise gets your body temperature up and your blood flowing. It also regulates such things as sleep and diet. Move around at least a bit each day.


If you have a dog, keep walking him during winter. It will do both of you the world of good and it's a regular routine that helps to get you outside exercising. Read How to keep dogs warm in the winter for tips on keeping your dog warm when walking.
See How to jog in cold weather, How to walk in the winter and How to keep running during snow season for lots of helpful winter exercise tips.
 There's nothing quite as promising as the idea that spring is around the corner. You could even start some plants indoors under artificial light.


See How to grow winter salads and How to winter sow seeds outdoors for more ideas.
Take a walk in your garden or the local park and spotting how the wildlife survives and how the plants are coping. You might like to try identifying trees in winter as well.
 You may tend to eat more in winter, whether because of holidays or because your body craves more energy. Either way, try to keep a balanced diet including whatever fruits and vegetables (dried or canned if necessary) you can. Try not to overdo it on the sugars and starch.

Choose your carbohydrates wisely. It's natural to crave them during colder months and it's important to consume complex carbohydrates (fruits, vegetables and enriched whole grains) over processed food.Maintain your vitamin intake. Vitamin B is important, especially folate, to help stop you feeling the blues; this in foods such as lentils, peas, and spinach.Ensure that your intake of foods rich in tryptophan is increased because this is the amino acid required to manufacture serotonin, the neurotransmitter that helps you to feel good. Suitable foods include bananas, poultry, dairy produce, and peas.Keep up your intake of omega-3 fatty acids to help fight off the blues, eating such foods as cold-water fish and flaxseed and walnuts.Avoid any foods that cause you to feel sluggish, such as highly processed foods, saturated fats, and sugary foods. These can worsen any blues because they cause you to feel lethargic and often result in a crash after the initial energy burst. In addition, be careful with aspartame as it can interfere with serotonin functioning and leave you feeling moodier; if you notice any reactions to it, avoid consuming it., Call friends or make new ones. If you regularly attend club meetings, church, or other activities, try not to interrupt your routine just for bad weather. If transportation is a challenge for you, link up with friends or helpful people who can give you a ride to and from your usual activities.
 People manage to draw a lot of inspiration from winter, including spending more family together and using this as a chance to increase skills that will be useful when the weather warms up. Some people even choose to use winter to celebrate important life events, such as getting married in the snow. Whatever your take on winter, in contrast to our ancestors for many previous centuries, our modern lifestyle helps us to keep warm, travel safely, and continue life with a good amount of comfort during winter seasons, all sound reasons for finding something good about living through the coldest months.

