 Or, you can just check the weather online or in your local newspaper.


It's ideal to pack enough clothes to last the trip. Pack depending on the weather. It's typical to bring an extra pair of pants and an extra shirt.
If you have one, bring your school shirt or trip shirt. It may not be a shirt, but at least be sure to bring the school required article.
Appropriate nightwear. You probably can't sleep in the nude while on the trip, so try grabbing a pair of sleep shorts, pajama pants (fleece for colder nights), and a t-shirt.
Towels for swimming, or for showers. If you're in a hotel, they usually supply towels.
Toiletries (soap, toothbrush, shampoo, etc). Once again, hotels normally supply things like soap, shampoo, and conditioner. Check to make sure that you're allowed to bring hair straighteners/curlers if you plan on packing yours.
Comfortable and warm clothing. It's up to you what you pack for this, but grab a sweatshirt just in case.
Suitable footwear. Don't bring new shoes on the trip, unless you absolutely need to. Always bring a pair of gym shoes/sneakers if you know you'll be walking. Converse or other shoes similar to them are okay, but sometimes don't offer the support in your arches. It's not a good idea to wear heels or wedges. Also, bring a pair of flip-flops if you plan on swimming or using a public shower.
Don't forget your undergarments. Bring two extra pairs of socks and three extra pairs of underwear/boxers. Girls may want an extra bra, and a sports bra too.
It may be warm so, in addition -

Swimsuit (schools might not allow the little Speedos for guys, and thong swimsuits for girls; check to see if you are allowed to wear a bikini.)
Shorts, t-shirts, tank tops, etc. Check to make sure that the clothes apply with the trip's dress code. If there is no dress code, some teachers or supervisors might say to pack things that won't embarrass them with your wearing them. Try to stick to your school dress code, or close to it. (This mainly is for girls, don't wear a bandeau only or shorts that just barely cover your butt. Some guys also can wear too short of shorts.)
Bug repellent - it's a good idea to bring a small bottle of bug spray in you're doing night activities, near water, etc.
Sunscreen to protect from sunburns. Bring along a pair of sunglasses- a pair that has UV protection, and tinted sunglasses are a better preference. Also, don't forget a baseball/snapback hat to shade your face. Don’t forget a water bottle.


It can be cold, so pop in an extra pair of pants or sweatpants. If it's really cold, don't forget a hat and gloves!
Flashlights, with spare unused batteries, you might need a flashlight for at night. Flashlights that require to be shaken to project the light work well.
Insulated insoles (to put an additional set in your shoes if you get cold feet), or take a pair out of some old shoes.
Extra things to suit the weather. Bring a handheld battery-operated fan if it's supposed to be warm. It's always a good idea to bring a windbreaker jacket if it's somewhat windy where you're going. Also, don't forget to bring a foldable umbrella to fit in your bag in case it rains.;
, Some girls will need feminine hygiene products, so pack a few even if you're not on it or haven't gotten it.
 You may get bored on the journey there so here are some ideas: DS, PSP, MP3 player or even a book.
 For example, Aidez-moi s'il vous plait? means Could you help me? Or Où sont les toilettes? means Where are the restrooms?

, On the train in Japan, its considered rude to be on the phone ; In France if you say something to your friend in French, joking about your mum (saying for example Ta mère...) is considered very offensive.

