 Turn the oven on to 250 degrees F (121 C). Move the rack in your oven so that it's in the center. This will ensure that the sweet potato chips bake evenly. You should also set aside one or two baking sheets.Consider using rimmed baking sheets. The rims can prevent the cooked sweet potato chips from sliding off of the sheet as you remove them from the oven.
 Scrub two large sweet potatoes under cold water and dry them completely. Take a sharp knife and cut the sweet potatoes into very thin slices (as thin as you can get them). You could also use a mandolin and slice them on the thinnest setting. A mandolin will give you more uniform chips.You may want to use organic sweet potatoes since you'll be leaving the skins on the potatoes. Studies on pesticides in potatoes found that pesticides are concentrated in the peel., Place your sliced sweet potato chips into a large mixing bowl and drizzle them with 2 tablespoons of olive oil. Sprinkle 1/4 teaspoon of salt over the chips. Use a spoon to toss the mixture so the sweet potato chips are completely covered with the oil.If you'd like a spicier chip, you can also sprinkle 1/4 of a teaspoon of cayenne pepper on the sweet potatoes.
For a sweet and salty chip, you could add 2 tablespoons of maple syrup when you drizzle the olive oil over the chips., Place the chips on one or two baking sheets so that they're laying flat in a single layer. Bake the chips for one hour. Remove them from the oven and carefully flip the chips. Return the chips to the oven and bake them for another hour.Flipping the sweet potato chips halfway through cooking helps the chips crisp up on both sides.
 The chips are done once they're crisp and golden brown in color. If the chips were a little thick (more than 1/4 inch thick), they may be firm or tender in the center. Remove the sweet potato chips from the oven and let them rest for 10 minutes. Once they've cooled and crisped, you can serve them.The sweet potato chips won't stay crispy for very long, so try to use them immediately. If you must store them, keep them in an airtight container.

