 Each country-constituent of the Rhodes Scholarship program has its own local affiliates. Make sure to contact the proper offices in your home country once you have printed off the application. These applications can be mailed, emailed, or dropped off., Four of the letters must be from faculty or graduate students; however, you should also include letters from employers, coaches, and people you have worked with on charitable endeavors.


The Rhodes Scholarship only accepts digital submissions for the letters of recommendation. Hard-copies will not be considered.Recommenders should submit their letters online themselves, and should not go through you. There are also online services for the management of these letters and other similar documents.
 This endorsement is something you will need to contact your school about. They will provide this to you upon your request. Contact student services to see how to go about getting this endorsement. You will need to provide the contact details of the person who will supply this endorsement., If there are other institutions of learning that you have attended, get a transcript from these as well. These transcripts show your academic accomplishments. Make sure you leave adequate time for your school to respond to your request.
 This should be an image of just your head and shoulders.Be sure to use a well-lit space. Wear nice clothing. Take more than one photograph, and use the best one.


Passport-style photographs would work in this situation.
For really high quality images, hire a professional photographer.
 In the United States, more than 1,500 students apply for Rhodes Scholarships and about 200 are selected for an interview. There is no explicit time line for how long it might take to hear back regarding your application and whether or not you have been selected for an interview. It may be as little as two weeks beforehand., Interviews are usually conducted very soon after the announcement is made. Applicants are responsible for travel expenses to and from the interview. These interviews are designed to reveal the character of an applicant, not just their intellect and reasoning skills. Think about the criteria for the scholarship when trying to anticipate what kinds of questions you may be asked during the interview.Consider the people interviewing you when giving answers. If there is a Major General interviewing you, you may not want to make an argument for reductions in military spending.Interviews may last between 15 to 30 minutes.
A typical interview lasts between 20 and 25 minutes.
Interviews must be conducted in person., Accepting the Rhodes Scholarship means that you intend to study at Oxford. If you win and accept the award, you will be moving to England. Take care of the important elements in your life in order to make this happen.


Figure out expenses.
Inform your family and friends.
Thank the people who helped you.

