 Bright lights can upset the body's release of melatonin, which tells you when it's time to go to bed (and helps you fall asleep).Adjusting your exposure to light in the hours before sleep will help you fall asleep easier and get a better night's sleep.


Dim your lights an hour before getting ready for bed. Invest in a dimmer if you haven't already. Dim lights will help your body start producing melatonin, giving you a better chance of falling sleep early.
Turn off bright computer monitors and TV screens after 8. If you have trouble getting to sleep early on in the night, bright computer monitors and TV screens are your enemy. If you have to be connected, try to dim the lights on the computer so that your overall exposure to light is less.
 Waiting for your alarm clock to hit a certain time — and stressing about how late it's getting — may actually keep you from getting a restful sleep. It seems like the harder you try to fall asleep, the harder it is to actually do.The solution: turn your alarm clock so that it's facing away from you. Or even better: place your alarm clock on the other side of the room so that you can't see it and you have to get out of bed in order to turn it off in the morning.
 For those who like to snuggle with their partner at night, the results may seem alarming: researchers found that people who sleep in the same bed as their partners woke up during the night, experienced major disturbances, and got less restful sleep.If you suffer from chronic fatigue, talk with your partner about sleeping alone at least a couple nights per week.


Don't invite your pet in on the sleepover. A study by Mayo Clinic Sleep Disorders Center found that 53% of pet owners who slept with their pets experienced a major sleep disturbance during the night., People who have an alcoholic beverage before bed have a higher likelihood of waking up in the middle of the night when the body finishes processing the alcohol, studies say.When you're sober, your parasympathetic nervous system (PNS) lowers your heart rate, giving you a restful sleep. When your body is processing alcohol, your sympathetic nervous system never gives up the reigns to the PNS, leaving you more tired than you would have been had you fallen asleep naturally.
 If, after 15 minutes of trying to go to sleep, you find that you can't, get out of bed and read, write, or find another soothing activity. (Remember, no bright lights or TV screens!) Not being able to go to sleep, and trying really hard to do so, can produce stress, which will ultimately keep you awake longer. Finish your activity and then try to go to sleep again.
 Cool environments help the body get better sleep. That's because cool temperatures help bring on the drop in core temperature that signals sleepiness.


What's the ideal temperature at which to fall asleep? Scientists say that a relatively cool temperature of between 60 and 68 degrees is optimal for getting to sleep.Studies have found that insomniacs have higher core temperatures right before they get into bed.If you're having trouble getting to sleep, try dropping the temperature pretty low and putting a hot water bottle in between your feet.A hot water bottle will rapidly dilate blood vessels, which can help regulate the body's internal temperature.

