 Pacing yourself is important because it is easy to become overwhelmed and distracted if you try to work on too many assignments at once. Approach your homework one piece at a time, and work on each piece to completion. Avoid having two or three half-completed assignments, as this can be stressful.
 Make sure that you aren’t setting yourself up for failure by setting unrealistic goals for yourself. Trying to complete too much school work in too short a time is a recipe for stress and discouragement.


For example, don’t expect that you can come home from school and spend an hour writing a quality ten page paper. Research papers take time to both write and research, so it’s unrealistic to expect to squeeze all of that work into one evening. Instead, spread your writing and research out across several days to make the project more manageable.
 If you are truly struggling to focus on your school work despite taking steps to help refocus yourself, try speaking with your advisor or guidance counselor. He or she might be able to help you see issues that you missed, such as an overly heavy course load.Asking for their help is nothing to be ashamed of. In fact, it’s their job to help you when you are struggling!

, Even the best time management and homework techniques won’t be helpful if you aren’t taking care of yourself first. Be sure that you are getting enough sleep and eating properly. Pulling all-nighters to complete your homework might work in the short term. However, this technique will backfire because you’ll become exhausted and have even more difficulty focusing on your work.Don’t skip meals, especially breakfast. Even if you aren’t hungry in the mornings, have some juice or pack a portable snack like an apple or a granola bar for later., If you have tried many different techniques to focus on your school work and spoken with your advisor or counselor, then it might be helpful for you to talk to your doctor about your struggles. He or she might test you for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) to see if that could be the cause of your concentration problems.If your doctor determines that you have this disorder, then he or she might recommend medications, dietary changes, therapy, or a combination of these to Treat ADHD.

