 If there's a feature of your build that you want to accentuate, really focus on it at the gym! The quickest and most effective way to really build up a specific muscle is to target it with isolation exercises.An isolation exercise uses one muscle group almost completely. The movements isolate one muscle so it is doing all of the work to lift a weight.


Isolate a muscle that you're already proud of and would like to pump up even more!
Isolation exercises are the opposite of compound exercises, which require the use of multiple muscles and joints at once.Most experts recommend starting a workout with compound exercises first, followed by isolation exercises that zero in on one specific muscle.Focus on isolating one muscle group at a time. Devote about 4 weeks per area to really see results.
 When it comes to big arms, biceps get all the glory. But a double bicep flex is also an obvious, over-the-top way to show off your muscles. Biceps and triceps are opposing muscle groups; when one is working and flexing, the other is relaxed.The secret to noticeable arms is your triceps - when you stand with your arms at your sides, triceps are the ones doing the flexing! Work them hard in the gym with dips:


Grasp each parallel dip bar with one hand, palms facing inward.
With your feet suspended in the air, slowly lower your body by bending your elbows. Stop when your upper arms are parallel to the ground.
Press upward to raise your body back to the starting position where your arms are fully extended. That is one repetition, or rep.
Perform 4 sets of 6-8 reps.
 A ripped chest is a physical feature that is noticeable with or without a shirt. You'll see a lot of guys in the gym waiting in line for the bench press just to get those perfect pecs. It's a time honored compound exercise, but fly's are a chest isolation exercise:


Lie with your back flat on a bench with a dumbbell in both hands. Hold the dumbbells over your chest with your arms fully extended.
Slowly lower the dumbbells toward your sides, keeping your elbows bent. Stop when your elbows stick out in an "L" shape away from your torso.
Raise the dumbbells back up until your arms are fully extended over your chest. That's one rep.
Perform 4 sets of 6-8 reps.
Changing the slope of the bench while doing dumbbell fly's will isolate different areas of the pectoral muscles. Use a bench with an adjustable angle.
 Your legs have a lot of different muscles, but most people only see them below the knee when you're wearing shorts. Your calves are the most visible part of your legs during warm weather and in the gym. Get them toned and defined for next summer by doing calf raises:


Sit on a bench, box, or chair holding a dumbbell on top of each knee.
Keep the dumbbell still and slowly raise your knee until your lower leg is on tiptoe.
Lower the knee until your foot is flat on the floor again. Repeat the motion with your other leg. That's one rep.
Perform 3 sets of 10-12 reps per leg.
Unlike a lot of other muscle groups, for best results you only need to devote one exercise in your workout to calves., Back muscles don't often get a lot of whistles and second looks, but they serve a crucial role. The best back exercises have a positive effect on your posture.A strong back will help you stand up straight and show off a lot of other muscles in the process! Good posture also makes you appear more confident to others. Try this classic barbell row:


Lean forward with feet shoulder width apart and knees slightly bent. To help keep your back flat, raise your head and look forward.
Hold a barbell in an overhand grip with your hands about shoulder width apart.
Slowly pull the barbell upward until it touches your belly. Do your best to keep your elbows tight against your body while you pull.
Lower the bar back down to the starting position. That's one rep.
Perform 4 sets of 6-8 reps.

