 It's a white icon with a multicolored musical note on it.

If a window pops up that tells you to update iTunes, click Download Update and wait for iTunes to update. You'll need to restart your computer after iTunes finishes updating.
 The large end of the cable should fit into your computer, while the small end goes in the charging port on your iPhone.

Although you can use any USB-to-iPhone charger, use the one that came with your iPhone for best results.
 The bar at the top of your iTunes window should say "Syncing 's iPhone (Step 1 of 6)" or something similar. After your iPhone finishes syncing to iTunes, you can begin the restoration process., This icon resembles an iPhone and is located beneath the "Account" tab., Doing so will prompt your iPhone to create a backup will all of your iPhone's data that is as up to date as possible.

If you have automatic backups enabled, you don't need to back up again--your phone will have done so when you plugged it into your computer.
You can check the date of the latest backup under the "Backups" section to confirm that your phone's data backed up.
When backing up your phone, you can choose either iCloud, which backs up your phone to your iCloud account, or "This computer", which saves your phone's data on your current computer.
 This option is on the right side of the iTunes page.

If you have "Find My iPhone" enabled, iTunes will prompt you to disable it before restoring. Do this by tapping the Settings app, scrolling down and tapping iCloud, scrolling down and tapping Find My iPhone, and sliding Find My iPhone left to the "Off" position. You may need to enter your Apple ID password.
 You'll see this option in a pop-up menu on your computer's screen.

Be sure to read the information on the pop-up before continuing so you know what to expect when you restore your iPhone.
 Doing so will initiate the restore process.

Beginning the restore process means that you accept the terms and conditions of use for Apple's software.
 Since iTunes is erasing and reinstalling iOS on your phone, this may take several minutes., To do so, click the bar with your iPhone's name in it, then click the date and location of your most recent backup.

You'll need to click the circle next to "Restore from this backup" to enable it if it isn't your default option.
 iTunes will begin restoring your phone; you should see a "Time remaining" value on the bottom of the restoration pop-up window.

The overall phone restoration time can take up to 30 minutes.
 Doing this will unlock your phone, with no need to enter your iPhone's passcode.You can place a new passcode on your phone at any time from the Touch ID and Passcode (or just Passcode) section in the Settings app.
 Doing this will restore your phone and its data, though you'll need to wait for awhile longer to allow your phone's apps to finish updating.