 Face the door so that the surfaces you intend to frost are facing up.


A garage or backyard patio are ideal areas to frost glass. This will prevent inhalation of hazardous fumes and limit the amount of accidental spray.
 Any residue left on the window will appear in your frosting and will not look as professional.


Even if there is no dirt or residue on your windows, you should still wipe it down to ensure that it is dry. Frosting will not adhere well to windows that are moist or oily.
 One tape edge should always be against the muntins (wooden frames separating panes).


Since individual window panes are typically small on glass paneled doors, stay within the 1-inch margin of the painter's tape. Using too big of borders will allow more light in but will also reduce the surface area of the frosting.
 The only visible parts of the door should be the glass surfaces.


Be sure to overlap tape strips and press firmly to avoid penetration of overspray to the wood.
 Though each can's label advises a specific time, the spray generally requires just a couple of minutes for preparation.


Spray some frosting onto something clear, like a piece of plastic, before applying to your window. Make sure that the nozzle sprays steadily and evenly. This will ensure that your frosted glass is smooth and consistent.
 Hold the spray can about 1 foot (0.3 m) from the surface so that the coat is light and even.


Pay attention to the pressure you put on the nozzle, as this will affect how much and how quickly frosting is sprayed. Try to apply enough pressure to spray a steady stream, and do so in short bursts. This will help you apply a light coat that can be sprayed over with another light coat, if necessary.
Let the first coat completely dry before spraying on a second coat. Apply each successive coat with the lightest possible amount, even if you have to spray on a third or fourth layer. Gradually applying frosting will limit areas with heavy paint and blemishes., Be sure that the frosting has dried first before removing the tape, as this could damage the outline.


The drying process typically takes about 5 minutes, though you should allow an extra few minutes just to be certain. Also take into account how many layers you've applied and how heavy, as these factors will also affect drying time.
If you are still uncertain about whether or not the paint has dried, leave it for half an hour in which the paint should most likely be dried by then.
Avoid touching the frosted area to test its wetness. This will create a smudge in the frosting and will require more layers to repair it.

