 Passports can be obtained at post offices and through the relevant agencies in most large towns and cities. Travel visas should be obtained if staying less than 90 days, if required. Citizens of the European Union, Monaco, Switzerland and San Marino may enter with their National Identity Card.;
, Both are widely accepted in Rome, and paying with traveler's checks or credit cards will allow you to bypass currency exchange centers, which usually charge a fee. Newspapers in Rome will list the current exchange rate daily.
 Rome is well known for its tourism, which brings along with it petty theft and pick pockets. Be sure to pack your money into a money belt or concealed pocket., In the winter, Rome has an average temperature of 9 degrees Celsius, or around 48 degrees Fahrenheit so be sure to bring slightly heavier jackets and hats, gloves and scarves. Summers are dry and warm with an average of 26 degrees Celsius or 80 degrees Fahrenheit, so bring cool clothing, such as short sleeves and light shirts.
 When visiting Rome and sightseeing, one will most likely being standing or walking for extended periods of time. Bring tennis shoes or comfortable trainers to give your feet a break.
 Rome has many religious attractions, including Vatican City and St. Peter's Basilica within. Tourists must be dressed appropriately to enter.


In the Vatican, men must wear long pants and women must have their shoulders and knees covered. Those who do not adhere to these guidelines will not be permitted to enter the territory of the Vatican. It's also generally a good idea to dress more business-like than overly-casual. Contact tourism bureaus in advance to make sure you will be dressed in a proper fashion.
 While English is spoken in Rome due to high tourism, a book of common Italian phrases would be extremely useful for any tourist.
 Italian power outlets are in the C, E, or F styles. These are common throughout Europe, but are not used in North America and Asia.
 Rome is a beautiful city with a wealth of photo opportunities. Be sure to bring extra memory cards for your digital camera, or extra film for your film camera.

