 If you can't remember your Facebook password, you can use the password reset tool to create a new one.


If you can't remember your Facebook password and normally use the mobile app, tap "Need help?" on the app's main page and then follow these steps.;
, link. This is located beneath the password field at the top of the Facebook login page.
 You can enter your email address, phone number, username, or full name to try to locate your account.


You can enter any of the emails that are associated with your account, so try each one that you can remember one at a time.
You can only use the phone number option if you have a phone number associated with your account.
If you are having difficulty finding your account, see the Troubleshooting section at the bottom of this article.
 You will several options available, depending on the recovery information you have associated with your account.


Use my Google account - This will allow you to reset your Facebook password by logging in with your Google account.
Email me a link to reset my password - This will send an email to the address listed with a link to set a new password.
Text me a code to reset my password - This will send an SMS to the phone number listed with a code that will allow you to reset your password.
If you don't have access to the email anymore, don't have a Google account, and don't have a phone number associated with your account, click "No longer have access to these?". This will take you to a page where you can enter your new email address or phone number. You will need to answer security questions in order to reset your password this way to verify your identity, and the process will not be instantaneous.
 Depending on the method you picked, retrieve the code that is sent to you. It should appear after a few moments. Enter the code into the box to access the password reset page.
 Once you enter the code, you'll be able to pick a new password. Make sure it's strong but easy enough to remember. Click here for tips on creating a good password.
 If you have an old stored password on your browser for your Facebook account, it could be overwriting the new password that you're entering. Delete your stored password and try logging in with your new password afterwards.



Click here for detailed instructions on deleting saved passwords for most major browsers.
 Get a friend to look up your contact information. If you are trying to find your account during the password reset process, you may be having difficulties if you used an old email that you can't remember anymore. Have a friend look up your Facebook profile and check the Contact Information section to find the email address you registered with.
 Get a friend to look up your username by loading your profile. Your username is the end of the URL when you are viewing your Facebook profile (after the last /). Have a friend load your profile and send you the end of the URL to retrieve your username.

