 Aim to be polite and respectful of the other person, showing that you're keen to get to know him or her better. For instance, you could use common references to start a conversation: instead of saying "Hi, how are you," you could say it like Joey from Friends, "How you doin'?" This shows you have a sense of humor and are on the same wavelength as the other person;
, You want to keep the conversation going, and the best way to do that is to keep the other person talking. However, don't get too personal during your initial conversations. Doing so will make you appear creepy. Examples of suitable things to ask include:


"How was your day?"
"So, what are your favorite hobbies?"
"Where do you like to go on the weekends?"

, This isn't 2005 when you were texting your friends in the code designed for your flip-phone's numeric keypad. You probably have a smartphone now, or at least a slider with a full keyboard. Type out full words and use proper punctuation. Disregarding grammar and using chat-speak makes you look childish.


Another faux-pas is using too many emoticons. Use those smiley faces and winks sparingly.
 A little innuendo is fine and even desirable in some cases. However, draw the line at any joke that makes outright references to sexual acts, especially in the context of your love-interest.


Of course, racial and ethnic jokes are never okay.
Also, do we even have to say it? No nude pictures, please.
 If you haven't heard from your love-interest in a few minutes to a few hours, don't send him or her text after text asking if he or she received your message. Behavior such as this is a big red flag for someone who is desperate, has no life, or worse, is a creepy stalker waiting to happen. Not to mention, it is very annoying to the other person.
 Eye contact is very important in human-to-human interaction, but it has an added element when it comes to partner selection. When you meet your crush's eyes, you are demonstratingthat you're into him or her without being obvious about it. Here are some ways not to do it:


Avoid staring at the other person's body. It can be considered as "sexing", which isn't really comfortable for some people. A lingering glance is okay, though.
Avoid staring into the eyes without a break. That's plain creepy!

, It doesn't need to be long at first, and it definitely shouldn't be complicated or make your partner feel uncomfortable. Here are some tips:


Don't make "you" the main topic of conversation. Your partner will think that you're arrogant and just a bit boring.
Get him or her talking about him or herself. Not only will you learn about the other person, he or she will also enjoy the conversation and want to continue talking.
Avoid talking about personal or touchy things, especially money, faith, and politics. Money is a general turn-off (especially boasting or acting desperate) while beliefs can be navigated a little later on, when you're both feeling a little more certain about one another.
 Nothing is more annoying that having someone that you're not interested in keep pursuing you. Watch the other person's body language for clues on how he or she is feeling about you. Some signals are deliberate while others are done instinctively, almost without the other person knowing it.


If the person you're flirting with is a woman and she puts her pursebetween you and her or grips it tightly, she's sending you a signal that she's not interested in you.
Another signal is the direction of the body. If his or her body faces away from you, even if it's just the angle of his or her legs, it's time to move on.
He or she may also come right out and tell you that he or she is not interested. If this happens, then politely leave.

