 Organize an outing in nature for you and your Sagittarius. Go for a hike, explore a cave, go camping, or have a picnic once you’ve reached the mountain peak, forest glen, or secluded island you’ve ventured to.


Further pump up adrenaline with an activity like an amusement park, water park, or go-kart race.Take the Sagittarius out to dinner at a restaurant with foreign cuisine and pretend you’re traveling to that country, or even plan a future trip there together.;
, Consider splurging on a trip to someplace new and exciting that your Sagittarius has never been to. Ride camels in Morocco or go white water rafting in New Zealand. The more exotic the better!


Opt for the type of trip that will keep a Sagittarius active and exploring, rather than a relaxed cruise or beach vacation for which he or she will stay very idle or cooped up.If you can’t afford such a trip, try buying a book with rich photos and maps of an exotic locale, pick up a cookbook for international cuisine, or visit an import store to find something straight out of a foreign country., Give a Sagittarius some of the gear and accessories needed to travel easily and in style. Try new luggage, backpacking gear, guidebooks, or useful maps. Tailor your gift to the person’s needs for a specific upcoming trip, or one that you plan to take with her or him in the future.


Also try giving a Sagittarius a digital camera, a Polaroid camera, or other photography equipment to document travels.
 Plan a gift where you hop on a train for a cross-country trip by rail. Get a sleeper car for longer trips, or just take time to explore the observation and dining cars during the trip.


Try hopping out at every stop to take a quick picture at each location. Then put together a photo collage or album of all the snapshots to give to the Sagittarius as part of the gift.
 Take a Sagittarius kayaking, rock climbing, boating, or even bungee jumping or skydiving. Try something new that he or she has never done before and that will get the heart pumping.


If you’re looking for a good activity for the winter months, when a Sagittarius has their birthday, try skiing, snowboarding, ice skating, or snowmobiling.