 Your small group may be discussing an issue, solving a problem, or sharing personal problems. Make a list of what the group wants to accomplish, and break it down into specific tasks or discussion points. If you're not sure how long each task will take, organize the discussion so the most important tasks are first on the group's agenda. Write down notes using the steps below, to help guide you through the facilitation process.;
, The main advantage to small group discussions, as opposed to large meetings, is the chance each member has to provide detailed, high-quality input to the discussion. Encourage people to break out of formal roles by meeting in a living room, a quiet café, or a natural, outdoor area., Introduce yourself, define your role in the discussion and the objective of the group. Invite group members to introduce themselves.


If participants do not know each other or are acting shy, ask specific questions, such as where each participant is from and what they hope to gain from the group meeting.
Allow for longer introductions in special cases. If the group will explore personal problems, or if the backgrounds of group members are important to the process, allow each participant to speak for about a minute.
 When delivering information or asking group members to solve specific problems, develop informational handouts that they may refer to during the group session. The information may also be written on a board or projected on a wall for reference.
 When group members are just getting to know one another, they may be hesitant to speak. Create a safe space for participants to contribute their ideas, suggestions and questions, by explaining that all questions are welcome. If someone is staying silent, occasionally ask her a question, or invite her to share her thoughts, but don't force her to participate.If necessary, break the group into smaller groups of two or three participants to allow time for greater sharing.
 Prepare a list of questions to keep the discussion moving. When participants ask for your opinion on the discussion topic, direct the question back to the group to generate their insights or feedback. Clarify and summarize each point before moving on to the next topic.
 Successful small group facilitators refrain from speaking extensively.A small group discussion is considered effective when it stimulates thought and sharing by all members. Lecturing or delivering too much information can cause inattention or lack of interest.
 When people express diverse views or are attached to their opinions, conflicts may ensue. Ask group members to listen to opposing views without interrupting, and to respond to the group as a whole, rather than an individual person. Model this behavior yourself by refraining from reacting negatively towards individuals whose beliefs or opinions differ from yours.
 Group discussions can have a habit of running on too long, or getting bogged down in one topic past the point where anything new is being said. Unless an agenda item needs to be dealt with for the group to continue, keep track of the time and let people know when you need to move on to the next point. If this is a recurring problem, consider using hourglasses or other timers as tools., Briefly summarize the discussion or activities of the group, taking no more than a minute or two. Thank the group members for their participation and announce the details of the next meeting, if applicable.
 Evaluate the experience of group members by requesting anonymous feedback. Ask participants to fill out evaluation forms and drop them off on the way out. Assigning quality ratings, making suggestions for improvements and sharing insights gained during the group process are the types of responses that may be included on a feedback form.


Keep in mind that it may not be appropriate to ask for "anonymous" feedback if the group is small enough to make each person's feedback easily identifiable. In these cases, it may be more effective to encourage other members of the group to arrange a one on one meeting or email correspondence.

