 Traditionally, planchettes are made from a thin piece of attractive wood, such as birch, mahogany, or oak.However, you can make a planchette from any lightweight material, such as thick cardboard, utility board, or a clear hard sheet of plastic.;
, Use a utility knife (for cardboard), a saw (for wood), or a plastic scoring knife (for plastic) to cut your planchette into the desired shape.Most planchettes are shaped like a heart, a teardrop, or a rounded triangle. You can use any shape you find attractive or that has a special meaning for you.


Make the planchette large enough that at least three people can comfortably place their fingertips on the edge.
 Most planchettes have a hole in the middle to act as a "window" you can look through to see the answer. If your planchette has an obvious pointer end, you can use that instead to indicate the answer on your Ouija board.


Many planchettes have both a pointer and a window. If you include both, you'll have to experiment to see which points to the right answer. Perhaps different spirits use different methods of communicating.
Optionally, fit a piece of clear plastic or glass into the window. The plastic "window" on some greeting cards is a good option that can be popped right in., Glue three or four tiny circles of felt to the outer edge of the planchette's underside. This helps the planchette slide smoothly across the board. Apply the glue sparingly, or the felt may become soggy or crusty.


A brief spray of 3M 77 or a dab of Elmer's Carpenter Glue are both good options.You can use small metal casters instead, attaching two of them to the wide end of the planchette and using a felt-tipped peg on the third side.
 If you like, you can decorate your planchette with astrological symbols, spirit names, or other mystical writing. Use a permanent marker or a fine-tipped paintbrush. If you are using a wood planchette and would like to prevent it from getting scratched, purchase wood finish from a hardware store and apply it in a thin coat to the top surface of the board.


Sand the wooden surface lightly before applying the finish for best results.
 If you want to use your planchette for automatic writing, fit a sharpened pencil through the viewing window so the tip just barely touches the surface underneath. Hold it in place using tape or a tight-fitting washer, then place the planchette over a piece of paper instead of a ouija board. The pencil might begin to draw or write strange shapes.