 If you experience bleeding anytime during your pregnancy, it is important to seek immediate medical attention. Depending on the trimester you are in, bleeding could mean several different things: if you are in your first trimester, it could mean a miscarriage or ectopic pregnancy (which is when an embryo implants itself somewhere other than your uterus). Look for:


Heavy bleeding (similar or more than a heavy day during your period).
Cramping.
Severe abdominal pain.;
, Nausea and Vomiting are normal during pregnancy, especially during the first trimester (this is known as morning sickness). However, if your nausea and vomiting get to the point where they are keeping you from eating or drinking, you should seek medical attention. A lack of nutrients and dehydration can endanger both you and your baby. Look for:


Severe nausea that leads to vomiting.
An inability to eat anything.
Becoming dehydrated because you can’t drink anything without becoming nauseous.
 If your baby’s movement suddenly decreases, it may be a sign that something is wrong. However, in order to know if movement has decreased, it’s important to know what sort of movement is normal. To find your baby’s regular movement:


First time mothers will normally feel their baby’s first kicks at around 25 weeks. Second time mothers should feel the kicks at around 18 weeks.
To find your baby’s regular activity, sit and count your baby’s kicks for two hours. This amount is called the baseline. Normal baselines are generally around 10 or more kicks for every two hours.If you are concerned about your baby’s health, count the kicks. If it is less than normal, seek medical help. You can also test this by drinking a very cold glass of water and then lying down on your side. If the baby does not kick for two hours, consider calling your doctor.
 Contractions can be difficult to keep track of. However, if you feel contractions during your first trimester, it may be a sign of preterm labor. In your third trimester, erratic contractions could be signs of a false labor.Contractions in false labor: Unpredictable contractions that don’t seem to follow a rhythm. They also do not increase in intensity and may even go away if you change your position or the activity you are doing.

Contractions in true labor: These will be regular and normally come in intervals of 10 minutes or less. They will get more intense and more frequent as time progresses.

