 They will smooth and hydrate itchy skin. Do this at least once a week for maximum benefit.


Take 1/3 cup oatmeal and blend in a blender until it's a fine powder.
Pour into your warm bath as you run the water, to help mix it thoroughly.
After your bath the oatmeal powder may be left in tub, especially if you did not blend enough. Don't worry, this isn't difficult to clean (unless you leave it in for days).
Oatmeal baths can be bought in stores too if you would rather nix the extra work of blending it yourself.
 If you live in a dry area, your skin will be extra sensitive, and a humidifier can help. By adding moisture to the air, this basic machine can help your skin to stay soft.


Using distilled water (pure water, no minerals, no contaminants) is recommended. Tap water contains lead, chlorine and nitrates, which is best to avoid whenever possible.
If you don’t have your own humidifier, consider making your own using an old t-shirt and fan.
 Low temperatures and humidity dry out skin, leaving it rough. For someone suffering with keratosis pilaris, this can aggravate your condition even more. If you live in a cool, dry area, make sure to moisturize daily.
 Keratosis pilaris is typically less noticeable in the summer, which may have ties to being in the sun. Spend a little time outdoors to get the hormonal boost the sun provides while aiding your skin in clearing out dead cells.


Always wear sunscreen when you spend time in the sun to avoid skin damage.
There have been no official studies that prove sunlight improves keratosis pilaris, but there seems to be a correlation between the two. If nothing else, spending time in the sun has direct links to lessening depression and anxiety, which is good for everyone., Taking extremely hot baths or showers can scald the skin and dry it out. When possible take warm or cool baths and showers to lessen the effect of the heat on your skin.
 Take a visit to your dermatologist to get a prescription for medication which may help your case. Your doctor may prescribe you a pill, oil, or cream, but each should make a difference in improving your skin.
 Although this is expensive and not beneficial in 100% of cases, getting laser treatment may help severe cases of keratosis pilaris. If you have been struggling for many years with your skin condition, this may be a viable option for you.

