 Make a list as you walk around all of the potential hazards and harmful things, so that you can follow up each one and check it off as it's done. Bear in mind that you might discount potential hazards if you don't get down and look at things from the level of a baby, so kneel down in different spots to check out things from a lower level as well.;
, Put plug protectors over any outlets. This stops the baby from sticking his or her little fingers or small objects in the outlets and getting electrocuted.


Keep the paper shredder well out of reach and only turn it on when you're actually using it. When not in use, pull its plug right out of the mains, every single time. Do the same for any other potentially dangerous office equipment.
 Make sure that all wires, cords or hanging things are near the wall so the baby doesn't pull things down, crawl into them or become tangled up in wires. Tuck away cords using cord tidies and wall clips and make sure that any cord that has to run along the carpet or floor is tightly taped down with strong tape so that the tape can't be pulled up or the floor cord tripped over. Use flexible plastic cable to cover cords and if you use power strips, choose the ones with automatic shutting covers to prevent access to unused points. Beware if blind cords too. Ensure these are child safe ones if you have them.


Make sure there are no fragile or heavy things on top of the desk or bookcase.
Bracket or attach all tall furniture to the wall, such as bookcases and stands, so that they cannot be pulled over or fall onto baby. This is standard practice for those living in zones prone to earthquakes and is good practice for everyone.
 Work will swallow up your attention and you may not be able to keep a constant eye on your baby's wanderings around the home office. For a baby not yet able to crawl or walk, this won't be such an issue; just provide a comfortable bouncing seat or bassinet and some age suitable toys. For an older baby though, place him or her into a special part of the home office. A playpen is a great option for babies who would otherwise be crawling around and you can add suitable toys, books and comfort items such as blankets. For older children, set up their own "mini office" consisting of a pint sized desk and chair with suitable crayons, paper, etc. for them to play with. An easel could be a good choice too.


If your office is on a different floor or far away from the play room or nursery, keep a crib in your office so you don't have to keep checking on the baby.
Keep toys and books in a "play box". This will keep the baby happy while you work if you want the baby in the office all day.
 The home office can contain sharp problems such as push pins, paperclips, file pins, the edges of filing cabinets and desks, pens, etc. Keep all pens, pencils, markers, and sharp instruments in the top drawer or box out of reach of the baby. Always shut drawers after you have removed the item needed; have a well labeled filing system so that you know exactly where things go back rather than relying on leaving drawers open "at the spot".


Also take note of heavy objects such as glass or stone paperweights, large books, etc. and be sure to keep these well out of baby's reach. Also be sure that these things aren't at risk of being bumped off desks, shelves, etc., by you or any other older person in the office space. Keep heavy books on the bottom level of book shelves. They'll be too heavy for baby to pull out but if they do somehow fall out, they don't fall a long way and therefore have less force.
Pick up nails or small things the baby can choke on and put in another box or drawer.
 If you have hot drinks, keep them well away from the edges of your desk. If you keep a kettle in the home office, be sure that it is unable to be accessed by your baby. If there is a microwave in the room, keep it up high.
 If the home office has a wooden floor, put down rugs or carpet, at least where your baby is located, to make it softer and to protect your baby. Cushions, pillows or other soft items might be suitable additions.


Keep the floor clean. Vacuum, sweep or mop the floor regularly (preferably daily), so that it remains in a clean state.
 The air quality inside of our homes is not the best and some rooms are worse than others thanks to the emissions from the items we own and use. In the home office environment, be especially conscious of the emissions from printer ink, electronics such as computers and any stationery products and office furniture that might off-gas. Keep the home office environment well ventilated at all times and during warmer days, keep a window open to let in fresh air. Make use of plants to clean the air but also ensure that these plants don't present a potential hazard for your baby through ingesting or being poked by them.
 As your baby ages, he or she will explore and discover new things that you might not have expected to be of interest. Remove anything potentially harmful from reach or access as it becomes clear that your baby is curious about it.
 These include latches, outlet covers, and corner guards.
 Store your documents on a high shelf or in a locking filing cabinet where they can not be ruined by your children. You could also place them in a locking briefcase.
 This will keep these items totally safe from not only marauding children but thieves, clumsy pets,vandals, arsonists and the forces of nature. Better safe than sorry, literally. This may seem a bit over the top but there's no point having a safe if you don't use it and you may be able to negotiate lower insurance costs if you can prove your items are secure.
 This will prevent your child from deleting files and changing settings. You will need your files for work, you don't want to disappoint a client because little Johnny deleted his tax return, or whatever.

