 Once most of your plants are harvested and done growing, it’s good to improve your soil for the next season. Take a soil sample to a garden store or agriculture extension office and have them test it.A soil test can tell you the pH of your soil and relative levels of potassium, phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, and sulfur, which are important for healthy growth. A test can also tell you how much organic matter is present and about the lead content.
You can search online or a local business directory to find garden stores near you, and you can call to see what soil testing options they have. At the very least, you can buy pretty simple home testing kits which should give you the basic information you need.
Many county extension offices have departments that you can contact to find out if they are able to test soil.
pH adjusting treatments like lime take a few months to work into the soil, so applying them in the winter helps ensure the soil will be adjusted by spring for planting.
 Shredded leaves and plant matter leftover in your garden are great for putting nutrients back into the soil during winter. Throughout the fall, gather brown and green plant matter into a compost pile or bin and cover your whole garden with it after you have cleaned up all of the plants.


As this stuff decomposes during winter, it keeps some of the moisture in the soil during the dry times of winter. Even though not much is growing, composting during the winter will keep the soil healthier.
If you have enough compost matter, 1-2 inches is a good thickness for a layer of compost. If you don’t have much compost to work with, you can lay it only on the rows where you actually plant crops, leaving walking rows and the edges of the garden without compost.
 Much like compost, mulch helps protect the soil from erosion, temperature changes, and animals. While the compost will nourish the soil during the dormant period, mulch is sort of a way to cover the compost and keep it protected.Common mulch options include peat moss, bark, sawdust, and shredded newspapers.
While you probably can’t avoid the ground freezing if you live somewhere with consistently low winter temperatures, the compost and mulch layers help keep the ground temperature regulated against multiple freezes and thaws.
Mulch and compost serve similar purposes, so if your options are limited, you can go with just mulch. Otherwise, you can lay the mulch down on top of the compost. These can also help attract earthworms, which work to improve your soil.

