 If you do not receive a copy of your contract within a few days of making a follow up telephone call, write a demand letter. This letter should formally demand a copy of the contract and request a response within 10 days., You want the recipient of the letter to be as clear as possible about which contract you would like copied and sent to you. Give the names of the parties, the subject of the contract, and the date on which it was executed, or signed.
 Make it as easy as possible to respond to your request quickly and efficiently. If it is easy to comply, you are more likely to get a response.For example, you might write, “please mail a copy of the contract to me at the following address” and provide your mailing address and a self-addressed stamped envelope.
You also might write, "please leave a copy of the contract with my secretary," and provide a physical address where it can be delivered.
You also could provide your e-mail address and write, “please e-mail a copy of the contract to me at the following e-mail address.”

, Name the exact date or time period by which you should receive a copy of the contract. For example, you could give the recipient 10 days or a deadline of September 1, 2015.
 Let the recipient know what will happen if he or she fails to comply with your request and provide you with a copy of the contract.


For example, you could write, “If I do not receive the requested information by the date specified, I will be forced to hire an attorney.”
You also could write, “Failure to comply with this demand will result in legal action against you.”

, If all else fails, and you find yourself still without a copy of the contract, hire an attorney. You may have legal options that will force the other party to produce the contract for your review. Oftentimes, receiving a threatening letter from an attorney is just what is needed to force a party to comply with simple requests, such as mailing a copy of a contract.
 In some cases, another agency may have a copy of the contract on file. For instance, if you live in government-subsidized housing, your landlord is typically required to file a copy of your lease with the local or state housing agency every year. If there has been a court proceeding about your lease, mortgage loan agreement, or another type of contract, then the Clerk of Court is likely to have a copy of the contract on file.

