 It used to be that doctors told women to wait at least six weeks after delivery to start exercising again. This has changed, though. So long as you’ve had an uncomplicated delivery, it’s usually safe to start working out once you feel ready. Just talk to your doctor first to make sure.

There’s every reason to start exercising again after your delivery. Working out can improve your cardiovascular fitness, help you lose baby weight, restore your muscle tone, boost your mood, and improve your energy levels.
You will probably have to wait a while longer to exercise if you had a C-section or complicated vaginal delivery, however. Make sure to talk to your doctor to ensure you’re sufficiently healed before starting.;
, One great possibility is a baby-carrier. A baby-carrier will let you get out of the house as well as get in a good workout with your baby practically in your arms. Using a walking or jogging stroller, backpack, or front-pack are all options. They also offer an added benefit for exercise — your baby will act as extra weight, forcing you to work harder.Try a jogging stroller. These have big tires and should be easy to push, whether you’re running, jogging, or just walking. They’re best for babies that are at least six months old and they can go off paved sidewalks and onto trails.
A front-pack is another great option. Just strap it on and snuggle close while walking — but don’t run or jog. You should also keep your baby facing you early on until her neck muscles are more developed. Just talk to your doctor before using one, if you’d had a C-section or other complication during your delivery.
Backpacks work the same as front-packs, of course, just on your back. You can adjust the straps to keep you and your baby comfortable while walking or going about your daily activities. With both backpacks and front-packs, you’ll also have to carry the baby’s extra weight and will burn more calories. Your baby will be ready to use a backpack when she can sit up unsupported, at about six to eight months.
 To start, just put your baby in a front carrier that supports their head or hold them in front of you.Put on some music that you like and then start to gently dance, keeping your abdominal muscles taut.
You can also switch between slow and moderately fast music to get your heart rate elevated. Just remember to move gently and to avoid bouncing and sharp turns, especially if your baby is in a carrier.
If you’d like, you might also put your baby in a bouncy seat or swing and dance around her. Keep interacting by maintaining eye contact and making animated movements.
 Putting a baby on their tummy while awake and supervised helps to develop stronger head, neck, and shoulder muscles and to practice skills that will eventually help them turn over. It can also prevent a flattening of the back of the head, or “positional plagiocephaly.”Set your baby down on their tummy across your lap two or three times per day for several minutes. As they get stronger, you can start to use a floor mat for longer periods of time. The idea is to encourage them to look around and hold up their head and upper body. Some research suggests that babies with more tummy-time may learn to turn over, sit up without support, and crawl earlier.Tummy-time will also ensure that the back of your baby’s head gets a rest. Babies’ skulls are formed of soft plates and, if too much time is spent on the back, these plates can become flattened.
Always make sure that tummy-time is supervised. It’s generally OK for your baby to be on their tummy while awake and attended, but doctors recommend that babies sleep on their backs to lower the risk of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS). Put your baby to sleep on their back if they get sleepy or fussy during tummy-time.
 One of the hardest parts about exercising with a small child is finding the time. Chances are that you’ll be emotionally and physically tired, and sometimes you may feel too worn down for a full workout. That’s OK, but do the best you can. Find ways to push yourself to be active and pencil exercise into your schedule.If you have a spouse or partner, negotiate times for your exercise. Ask your partner to take over baby duties so that you can get in a 30-minute walk or jog several times per week.
Consider feeding your baby before workouts. Some research suggests that intense physical exercise causes lactic acid to build up in breast milk. While this won’t harm your baby, it may give the milk a sour and unpleasant taste. One way you can avoid this is by sticking to moderate exercise and ingesting plenty of fluids, or by feeding your baby before the workout.
Alternatively, you can pump breast milk before your workout and feed the baby afterward. This may also help you stay comfortable while working out.
 If you want more company, you can also consider finding an exercise group or class. Check out the gyms and community centers in your area to see whether there are baby-friendly exercise classes. More and more, gyms recognize that parents with small children have trouble getting out and staying fit and offer special classes. These allow you to bring along a small child and to work out without having to find child care.Try searching on the internet for classes near you. You can also try calling local health clubs, gyms, and community centers to see what’s available.
Don’t just limit yourself to aerobics. You may also be able to find baby-friendly yoga, dance, or even martial arts classes. You can find classes like this in many cities for babies as young as six weeks old all the way up to one year.
 Another option is to try the pool. Many pools around the US offer infant and toddler aquatic classes, which allow parents to swim and enjoy time in the pool with small children. Such programs have even been developed by the American Red Cross and YMCA.Call pools in your neighborhood to inquire about aquatic lessons for moms and infants. Some places offer such classes all year round.
Keep in mind that these aren’t “swimming lessons,” though. Children really aren’t ready for proper swimming lessons until about age four and your infant will need your constant and close supervision. You should always be within an arm’s length of your child.
 Don’t forget to comb your own networks of friends, acquaintances, neighbors, and co-workers. Ask other people you know who have small children. See what your peers are doing and whether they know of or participate in informal groups of moms and dads who get together for exercise.


Informal groups might get together two or three times a week for stroller walks in the park or around the neighborhood, for example.
You might also be able to find informal groups of moms who do yoga together with their babies. Your baby can relax on your mat while you stretch and socialize.
 Exercising with your baby doesn’t have to start after delivery. Working out is also good for you while you’re still pregnant. Gentle stretching will keep your muscles limber and warm and reduce feelings of stiffness. It can also help to relieve aches and pains, including in the back, and reduce leg cramps. There are a number of simple stretches that you can do on your own to benefit. Make sure your muscles are already warmed up before you begin stretching to avoid injury. Try a light warm up like walking.Stretch your neck by relaxing your shoulders and neck muscles. Then, drop your head forward and slowly rotate it to your right shoulder, back to the middle, and to the left shoulder. Do three or four complete rotations in each direction.
To work your thighs, stand with one foot about two feet in front of the other and with your toes pointed in the same direction. Then lean forward, supporting your weight on the forward thigh. Switch sides and repeat for a total of ten.
To stretch your shoulders, bring them forward before rotating them up toward your ears and then back downward. Repeat this several times.
 Toning exercises include the benefits of stretches while also strengthening your core muscles, including the abdomen, pelvic floor, vaginal muscles, back, and thighs. Apart from the usual pluses of exercise, these activities will help to prepare you physically for delivery. Just remember to avoid positions that make you feel unstable or could increase the risk of falling.Try pelvic tilts. Start on the ground on all fours, keeping your hands in line with your shoulders and knees with your hips. Your back should be straight. Then, inhale and tighten your abdomen, tuck your buttocks under, and tilt your pelvis forward all in one motion. Exhale, relax, and repeat 10 times.
You can do a pelvic tilt while standing, as well. Just stand with your feet about 10 inches apart with your legs relaxed and bent slightly at the knee. Then, put your hands on your hips and inhale. Tighten your abdomen, tuck your buttocks under, and shift your pelvis forward. Exhale, relax, and repeat.
You can also do Kegel exercises. Just imagine that you are trying to stop yourself from passing gas or stopping the flow of urine. Try not to move other muscles or shift while doing Kegel exercises – in fact, no one should be able to tell that you’re doing them.
 It’s generally safe for pregnant women to exercise in low- or moderate-intensity aerobic exercise several times per week. In fact, most should aim for at least thirty minutes on most, if not all, days of the week. Slowly work your way up if you haven’t been exercising regularly, and expect to do lower-intensity workouts than you did before the pregnancy.If you weren’t exercising previously, start with as little as five minutes of activity per day. Then, work up to ten minutes, fifteen minutes, and eventually thirty. If you exercised before, it’s probably OK to continue at the same level while pregnant. Just make sure that you’re comfortable and have the go-ahead from your doctor.
Try a low-intensity activity like walking. It’s a great aerobic exercise and will be easy on your joints. You can also try things like swimming and cycling on a stationary bicycle.
You can also take a class. Consider signing up for prenatal yoga or low-impact aerobics for pregnant women, for example, which are offered at some hospitals and fitness centers. That way, you’ll be ready to continue exercising with your baby in the months after your delivery.

