 If you are working with an agent or a specific publisher, make sure you ask them about or familiarize yourself with their specific guidelines for the synopsis. You want to make sure you format it and submit it the way they want so it gets the best reception possible.If you are unsure, ask the agent or publisher about length, formatting, and style.
Even if this is an assignment for a class, make sure you adhere to the instructions or guidelines your teacher provided.
 Just like a synopsis for a work of fiction, you need to offer a brief summary of the content.Focus on clearly articulating your argument, and explain why the book should be published. Make an argument for why your book is important in some way.
 Even if you have not finished the book, you should still be able to provide a clear outline of its structure in the synopsis. Provide a chapter breakdown with temporary titles for each chapter, which will give an agent or publisher a good idea of the direction the work is headed.You can also include a short description (1 to 2 sentences) of each chapter.
 In the synopsis, explain what sets your book apart from existing material on the subject. Discuss how you bring something different to the table.For example, does your book offer a unique perspective or a new way of thinking about a topic?
List the leading authors and publications in the field and be clear about how your project is original.
Also, describe why you are the author best suited or qualified to produce this work.
 A publisher will look at your book and try to determine its place in the market and the intended audience. Take space in the synopsis to discuss where you see the book fitting in to the existing market.Include information on the section of the bookstore or bookshop you see your book being stocked in. This helps publishers assess whether the book will have an audience and how it should be marketed.
Are there groups you think would have a definite interest in this book? For example, would this be used in specific college courses, or are there events such as historical anniversaries that the book could be linked to and marketed around?, Many nonfiction books are accepted while still being written, but you should provide a clear time table of your anticipated progress in the synopsis.Discuss how much is currently completed, and give an estimate of when you expect to have a manuscript prepared.
 Include other pertinent details in the synopsis, such as an estimated word count and information about whether you will need illustrations. The more information you include about the structure and format of the book, the easier it will be for a publisher to determine if they would like to take the project on., To strengthen your synopsis, share the interesting and unique credentials that helped you write the book.While education and training are important things to mention, also think about whether there are parts of your background or life that publishers and readers may find interesting.
 Like any writing activity, sharing a draft of your synopsis with others can help you improve your wording and make the synopsis clearer and more compelling. Ask friends, family, and colleagues for feedback on a draft.


You do not have to be a specialist in the field to determine if a synopsis is interesting and readable, so don’t worry about finding someone who is an expert on the subject matter you write about.

