 There are many reasons why you might want to strike out on your own and earn money outside of traditional employment. Suffice to say, there are plenty of ways to make money on your own as a kid. First off, take a look at yourself. What kind of skills do you already have that people might pay money for? What are you interested in doing? Do you enjoy interacting with people, or are you looking for solitary work? Figuring out what you already bring to the table and how you might make money from those skills is the first step in working for yourself. This can be a very tricky thing to figure out; confidence, self-motivation, and creativity are all required to make self-employment work.


As a youth, the best thing you may have to offer over older people is your level of energy. This gives you an advantage in easily-learned, but time-consuming tasks like dishwashing and lawn mowing.
 After taking some time to analyze what you might have to offer, try looking around to see how you might put your unique skills and energy to good use. Take a walk around your neighbourhood; are there plenty of grass in need of mowing? In your own home, are there any additional chores your family might be convinced into paying you for handling them? No matter the situation or surroundings, there are always solid moneymaking opportunities laying around for those with the insight and patience to see them.


Contrarily, you might simply ask someone if they need any work done for them. Many parents may be willing to pay for certain tasks to be completed for them.
 No business can work properly without customers! Although it might seem obvious to you, you might be surprised how many people forget to pay attention to this crucial step in starting their business. Let as many people know as possible, and make sure you get the word out to your target market. Are you planning on mowing lawns or shovelling snow from driveways? Going door-to-door and letting homeowners know about your offer will get the ball rolling.


If your job idea applies to more than just the surrounding neighbourhood, you should make sure to make an online posting about it via a public board like Craigslist.
Once you have developed a good reputation for your hard work, other people might do your advertising for you via word-of-mouth. Keep that at the back of your mind while you're working; hard work goes a long way, and your customers will be quick to spot a go-getter!

, As a kid, it's understandable you may not have the know-how in certain subjects you'll enjoy as an adult. However, learning one specific skill and figuring out how to make money from it is a good way to start a business without becoming trapped in odd jobs.For example, you can make an explicit effort to learn the best, most efficient ways to wash cars. On the other hand, you could become an expert at a specific topic, like setting up cellular phones, and help out the elderly with it. While there is potentially greater satisfaction to be had in self-employment, you have to carry realistic, but creative expectations regarding yourself and what you might be able to offer other people.
 If odd jobs aren't your thing and you can't think of any marketable skills you have yet, with a little motivation and perseverance you can rack up some good money with a bottle drive. Many homes will collect bottles, and adults might not find it worthwhile to bring five dollars' worth of bottles and cans to the depot. While you should be prepared to meet a lot of rejections, getting the bottles from a few houses and taking them to a recycling depot can add up to quite a bit of money.If you want to earn money on a more permanent basis, try setting up a monthly arrangement with these houses, agreeing to come around to collect their bottles on the first of every month. This will ensure you a relatively steady source of income.
 Some adults make a good living purely by cleaning the properties of others. Whether it's family or neighbours, offering to clean someone's yard, car or windows can result in a pretty busy schedule if you work hard and consistently. Starting a regular maid or handyman service is an option available to a hard-working youth, and with the right kind of determination, you may find yourself making more working around the block than you would at a more structured job.
 Your duties will center around caring for a young child's needs while the parents are away, and making sure nothing bad happens while they're out. While this is a fairly common way for older kids and teens to make money, it's a major responsibility. Going around the neighbourhood to let people know might work depending on where you live, but it's a good bet to make an online advertisement listing the times you're free in a week. Due to the fact that babysitting requires a lot of trust between the employee and parents, you may be best off starting with babysitting the child of a well-known family friend. From there, you can start building references, and prove to people that you deserve their trust. Although it sounds like a lot to take in, babysitting is usually a fairly easygoing experience, and you might even have fun taking care of a tot!


Don't bother with babysitting if you're not sure you can handle the responsibility. Unlike most other services you might offer, babysitting means a baby's life is in your hands, so it's best to hold off on it if there's any doubt.

