 Figure out who would be most likely to use your service, then go a step further and narrow that broader audience down to a more specific niche market or ideal client.Be as specific as possible. At minimum, you should consider age, location, gender, education, family situation, interests, and income level.
If you already have clients, consider which traits your clients have in common. Your ideal client is a combination of these shared traits.
If you don't have any clients yet, your ideal client is merely the sort of person you would like to work with or the sort of person who would benefit most from the service you perform.;
, Get into your ideal client's head. Ask yourself where potential clients are most likely going to gather to solve their problems, then go to that location and meet them there.


Digital and print sources are both good places to start, but they aren't enough. You'll need to meet your potential clients in the real world, too.
If your ideal clients all exist within the professional world, attend an event or conference they'd be likely to go to. When your clients only exist within the everyday world, you'll have to get more creative. For instance, if you have a dog sitting service, you might consider hanging around local pet stores and talking with potential clients there.
 Even though meeting your clients in the real world is important, you shouldn't underestimate the power of a strong online presence, either. Know which blogs, websites, and forums your ideal client is likely to frequent, then become an active participant in those digital arenas.


Respond directly to the content posted on those other websites and do not make your comments look like an advertisement for your business. A better option would be to include a link to your business in your signature each time you comment.
 Your business probably isn't the only one that shares your ideal client. Figure out which other businesses share a similar customer base and strike a mutually beneficial deal with them to increase both of your client bases.


For instance, if you're looking for clients for a dog sitting business, you might want to consider teaming up with dog trainers, independent dog walking businesses, non-chain pet stores, and small local companies that make dog treats, toys, or food. Promise to direct you clients to their services in return for directing their clients to yours.
 When you're just starting out, your family and friends are among your greatest allies. Talk with them and ask if they know of anyone who might benefit from your services.


You can ask for potential clients' contact information or leave it up to your loved ones to make the connection with them. When doing the latter, however, make sure your loved ones have some idea of how to pitch your services to the people they refer to you. They need to know exactly what your services are and who might benefit from those services.
 Once you have a few clients, ask them to refer other potential clients to your business. Many existing clients who are pleased with your service will be happy enough to help out, but unfortunately, very few will think of doing so unless you directly ask them to.


When you ask past clients for referrals, give them all the information they might need to make a good referral. Share a little information with them about the type of client you wish to reach. Offer advice on how to introduce your service during a referral.
Another option might be to set up a client referral program. Clients who successfully refer another person to your business will receive a benefit under this program, and this benefit usually comes in the form of some discount on future services.
 Do what you can to establish yourself as an expert in the field or industry your work falls under. You can do so by writing for various publications and increasing your overall exposure.Consider writing a guest post on an established blog or a tutorial that provides useful information.
Teach a workshop at a local library or school.
Volunteer as a judge at local competitions related to your field.
 Make it easy for potential clients to find your website and blog online. If someone is looking for a service you provide, they should be able to find you without knowing who you are ahead of time.


One of the most important ways to do this is through SEO (Search Engine Optimization). To make use of SEO, you'll need to include a few primary keywords and keyword phrases in all of the online content you write. The content on your website should also be fresh, unique, and important.
 When calling, talking, or e-mailing a potential client, you should provide concise information about your services. Only get into the finer, lengthier details after a client has asked for them.


When talking to a potential client by phone or in person, keep your introduction to 30 seconds or less. Try to summarize what your business does in one simple sentence, like, "I help (this group of people) do (this task) so they can accomplish (some other task)."
When contacting a potential client by e-mail, keep the message down to about three short paragraphs. Mention your qualifications and clearly spell out what service you hope to provide. Make sure that your message has a subject line that reflects the content of the e-mail, too.
 When your business is still fairly young, you should commit to talking about it with at least three people each day. The odds of all three people needing your services will be fairly low, but you'll actually be more likely to stumble upon someone who does want to hire you when you talk to more people.Of the three people you speak with daily, try to make sure that at least two of them are people you've met out in the “real world” instead of the Internet. While the Internet can be a great way to enhance your search, you shouldn't rely on it, especially at the start.
If three people per day is too high a goal, set your own goal that seems more realistic. For instance, maybe you need to balance your own business with other responsibilities, so you can only realistically commit to speaking with five new people per week. It's fine if that's the case, but make sure that you stick to your goal. Keep in mind that less exposure will produce fewer clients, too.
 As soon as you find someone who might become a potential client, you should send that person a cold e-mail to introduce yourself and your services.


You can create a template e-mail to make the process easier and faster, but you should never do a mass e-mail to multiple clients at once. Tailor each message to each specific contact before sending it off. Doing so demonstrates a desirable level of personal interest in that specific individual/business.
 Advertise your business on numerous social media websites. Starting an account is not enough, though. You'll need to be consistently active and engaged on each page if you want to build a trusting fan base.


You should join every social network that makes sense for your business, but you don't need to join a social network you won't be able to make use of. For instance, if there are very few images attached to your business, it may not make sense for you to start an account on Pinterest or Instagram.
When you do join a social network, you need to interact consistently, even if traffic is slow at first. Answer questions, post helpful links, and join discussions. Maintaining a stronger presence will increase the trust your fan base feels toward you, eventually turning those fans into paying clients.
 People who wouldn't take a chance on your services if they had to hire you at full price will be more willing to give you a shot if you let them do so for free or at a highly discounted price.


For instance, if you need clients for a dog training business, you might consider passing out vouchers for a free 30-minutes training session.
Promotional items that advertise your business, like branded t-shirts or branded office supplies, might also be worth considering. You can pass these items out as you introduce yourself to potential clients.
 When possible, get to know each potential client before you contact him or her. Even within a finely-tuned target market, the people there will each have their own circumstances and needs. If you can identify these specifics, you'll have a better idea of which angle to pitch your services from.


When hoping to work with a business, make sure that you do enough research to understand what the business does and which individual you will need to speak with at that business.
When contacting someone who a relative, friend, or past client recommended, go to the person who recommended that potential client and learn what you can about him or her from your existing contact.
 The information you provide on your website and social media pages should contain all of the information your potential clients are likely to be curious about. You need to let clients know that your services are what they need instead of keeping them guessing.


Under most circumstances, it's a good idea to specifically outline the services you offer and the prices you offer them at. When possible, provide testimonials from past clients, as well. Make all of this information available online.
 Turn to sources who could tell you whether or not the business plan you have can work for your ideal client. Ask businesses already involved with your target market if the service you're offering will really work.


For instance, if you plan to start a pet photography business, you might want to consider talking with local groomers, dog trainers, and others in the pet industry to find out if the clients they have might consider paying for professional pet photography.
 When someone hires you, ask for feedback after you complete the job. When someone doesn't hire you, ask for feedback on why they declined your services.


Feedback on a completed job might be positive or negative, but either way, it should give you some idea of what you should continue doing and which areas you should improve upon.
Similarly, someone who tells you why they refused your services can provide some direction on where your sales pitch is going wrong.
 Keep each client's contact information even after you finish working with him or her. Periodically touch base with satisfied clients and ask if your services might be needed again in the present or sometime in the near future.


Moreover, you should also save contact information for people and businesses who claimed that your services weren't needed “at this time” since there may come a time when those services will be needed.

