 How readily a stone responds to home treatment mostly depends on the size of the stone.


Home treatments are usually effective on stones less than 1/10-inch (3 mm).
Once kidney stones reach about 3/10-inch (8 mm), they are only 20 percent likely to pass on their own with home treatment.
Stones that are 2/5-inch (1 cm) almost always need professional medical treatment.;
, Water assists your kidneys by flushing them out, so you should increase your water intake to as much as 2 to 3 quarts (1.9 to 2.8 liters) daily.You should drink enough fluid to produce clear or nearly clear urine each time you make a bathroom visit. Water is the best option.
 Occasionally squeeze a lemon into your water or consume foods made with lemon juice.


Lemon is high in citric acid, which is thought to be effective at breaking up calcium-based kidney stones. As the stones break down, they become easier and less painful to pass.Try to consume 1/2 cup (125 ml) of pure lemon juice daily.Note that other juices are far less effective. In fact, cranberry juice, apple juice, and grapefruit juice may increase your risk for developing kidney stones rather than helping you to break the stones up.
 Reduce your sodium intake to 3 g or less per day and consume meat protein in moderation.


Salt increases calcium in the urine, which can complicate calcium-based kidney stones. Some studies suggest that sodium also increases urate, a substance that triggers kidney stone formation.
Protein increases levels of uric acid, calcium, and oxalate in the urine while decreasing citrate. Meat protein is especially problematic since it has a higher content of sulfur, thereby producing more acid than vegetable protein.
 Consume more whole grains and fresh vegetables while attempting to pass a kidney stone.


Many fiber-rich foods contain phytate which can help prevent and reduce the crystallization of stone-causing calcium salts. This compound is found in legumes, wheat, and rice bran.
 On the other hand, coffee and tea is generally considered acceptable, especially if it is decaffeinated.


Soft drinks with phosphoric acid reduce citrate levels in the urine, complicating the condition. Those that contain citrate may be acceptable, however.
Note that water is still the best beverage to drink for kidney stones, even if coffee and tea are considered safe.
Avoid caffeine as much as possible. Some sources indicate that caffeine is safe while others suggest that the dehydrating nature of caffeine can cause complications. Opt for caffeine-free beverages to play things safe.
 Regular physical activity can help keep the kidney stones moving, so mild to moderate exercise is recommended.


Since kidney stones can be so painful, you may not be able to get much exercise in. Try light exercise, like walking, and rest as needed to reduce pain. You need to keep moving, but you can and should rest when the pain becomes too hard to bear.
 Some connection may exist between kidney stone formation and stress. While it is not clear that reducing your stress will help you to pass existing stones, it will at least help prevent the formation of new stones, thereby preventing further complications with existing stones.

