 You can paint labels on bowls, ceramic pots, and even dressers using chalkboard paint. You can then write whatever you want using chalk. When the contents of the container change, you can simply wipe the chalk off with a damp cloth and write something new.
 You can paint walls, table tops, and even refrigerators with chalkboard paint. Not only do these make great outlets for creativity, but you can also use the chalkboard surface in your kitchen to write down recipes and shopping lists.


Make sure that your wall is smooth before you prime and paint it. A bumpy, porous surface, such as brick or drywall, will make it difficult to write on it with chalk later. You will also need to use painter's tape to mask off anything you don't want painted, such as window trims and baseboards.
 Your painted patch of chalkboard does not have to be square or rectangular. You can use adhesive stencils, or make your own, to make your painted area look like a heart, circle, or oval.
 You will be left with a patch of unpainted wood or glass.
 Once your chalkboard paint has dried and cured, you paint a grid or title onto it with regular paint. This works great for calendars, charts, menus, and anything that you want to have a permanent grid or title on.You can paint your grid or title using regular paint and a small brush, or you can use paint pens.
Do not use a water-based paint or paint pens. Your design will come off when you clean the board with water.
 Add two tablespoons of unsanded tile grout to one cup of acrylic or latex paint. Stir, and paint your surface as you would with store-bought chalkboard paint. Once it is dry, sand it lightly with 150 grit sandpaper. Condition the surface by covering it with white chalk, and then wiping the surface clean with a damp cloth., Label your herbs and plants in your garden by painting garden plant markers with chalkboard paint, and then writing the herb or plant names on the surface with chalk.
 You can use squares, rectangles, circles or ovals. You can even create fancy markers by buying wooden shapes with flourished edges and corners.
 Apply five to six coats of magnetic paint onto your surface, waiting 30 minutes for each coat to dry before adding another.Refer to the instructions on the paint can before applying the chalkboard paint, as some require only three days to cure, while others require up to five. Once the last coat of magnetic paint has dried and cured, apply your chalkboard paint and let it cure for three days before conditioning it with white chalk.


You can condition your chalkboard by rubbing white chalk all over it, and then wiping it off with a damp cloth.
Be sure to stir your magnetic paint often to prevent the particles from settling.Magnetic paint is not very strong, and may not be able to hold larger magnets.
 You can also create a magnetic chalkboard by painting over a sheet of galvanized steel. Make sure that your sheet of metal is magnetic before painting it.