 Point out a specific feature you find particularly sexy about her. Not only will you brighten her day a little, you will also show her you find her attractive no matter what she’s feeling about herself.Letting her know she’s beautiful even when she isn’t expecting to hear it will boost her self confidence and make her feel more attractive. Self confidence will help her feel sexy and desirable.
 Showing that you are interested in more than just looks by listening to her. Actively listening to what she thinks and feels shows her that you love her mind, too, and that you want to truly get to know her. Demonstrating that you know she's more than just a pretty face can make a woman truly feel sexy.


To be a good listener, don't interrupt, put away your phone or turn off the TV, and give her your full attention. Make eye contact and nod to show that you are engaged.
Don't spend the time that she's talking thinking about what you are going to say — this means you are not truly giving her your full attention. Ask follow-up questions like "That's interesting; why do you think that?" or, "Wow, I had no idea. Can you tell me more about that?"

, One of the best ways to make a woman feel sexy is to show her you’re thinking about her. By sending her sweet little texts throughout the day, she will know she’s always on your mind. Flirt with her via text, tell her she’s beautiful, or tell her you can’t wait to see her later.If you are at work and can’t use your phone, you could send her emails, or even leave sticky notes around the house for her to find in the morning or when she gets home.
Your texts or notes might say things like “You looked so beautiful last night,” or, “I can’t wait to see you again after work,” or, “I can’t stop thinking about you.”

, Feeling desired and wanted will help a woman feel sexy. Tell her that you want her. Tell her you find her irresistible. Show her you want her by staring right into her eyes when you tell her these things. Be genuine, and she will notice.Telling her you want her out loud will probably have a more profound effect than if you send it over a text. Make eye contact, take her hand, or run your fingers through her hair while you tell her you want her to make the moment even sexier. Say the actual words: “I want you so badly.”

