 Crushes are the stuff that dreams are made of and they reveal more about you than you may think. This is the effect of early adolescence, when young girls and boys begin to grow out of childhood. For example:


When you see someone you like and your heart begins to beat faster or your palms may become sweaty, or it feels like butterflies are in your stomach, this is your body reacting to chemicals in your brain called dopamine. Also known as the "pleasure chemical." You may think about your crush constantly. When you wake up, when you eat, and when you sleep they are on your mind. It will feel like you're dreaming.
Do your best to not feel embarrassed by these side effects of liking someone. These are all natural chemical reactions in the body.
Release yourself from the expectation of anything happening. Just relax in the feeling of liking the person. It may seem like a difficult thing to do. But it will free you from any outcome. ;
, These new feelings may seem overwhelming and having an outlet for them could help you make sense of them.


Write love notes to your crush or create a "Feelings Journal." Keep everything you write to yourself. Make a playlist of songs that remind you of your crush. Play the songs when you can't see or talk to the person. Or you can save it for the special day when you do decide to reveal your feelings. , Become a secret admirer of your crush. But don't stalk the person. For example:


Notice the little things about your crush. There are obvious things you like about your crush, like their beauty or sense of humor. But also, take the time to notice other things, people might overlook. Maybe they snort when they laugh or they have a small visible birthmark. Anything that makes them different, learn to appreciate it.
Get to know your crush secretly. You can find out if they have social media accounts. What do they post about? If they post about a specific sports team or musician, do some research. Or maybe they like something you like too.
 It's solely up to you if you want anyone to know about your feelings. Be as private as you like. Here's how:


Remember, no one can read your mind. Don't worry, you have the choice of spilling your secret. And if anyone asks, you can deny or brush it off.
If you've written about your feelings, keep it to yourself. Make sure what you've written is in a safe place where no one can find it.
Try to act normal around the person you like. Don't bring any attention to your behavior. Remind yourself, they are a regular person, even if your mind tries to tell you otherwise.

