 Ceramic tile of the type found in kitchens, bathrooms, and laundry rooms, can certainly be painted, but the process is more involved than painting a hobby item like a plate or a lamp base. Additionally, there are practical limits to what can be painted, and how long you can expect your paint job to last.


Lay out a plan beforehand. When you paint home tile, you'll be decommissioning whatever area of the house you're painting for a while. Plan ahead to avoid awkward bathroom and kitchen situations.
Paint somewhere sensible. High-traffic areas, and tiles that are constantly subjected to moisture, are not generally considered good candidates for home repainting. At best, expert advice on the subject is ambivalent. Choose to repaint less-trafficked areas of tile, or accept that your project may not last as long as you'd like it to.
 Painting or repainting ceramic tiles in your home requires considerably more patience and preparation than the other ceramic painting methods described here, but it should go steadily as long as you have the tools you need. Collect the following items:


Fine grit sandpaper, such as 220 or 240 grit
An electric sander, preferably an orbital sander
Heavy rubber gloves, eye protection, and a face mask
Abrasive tile cleaner, such as Comet, Ajax (powder), or Bon Ami
Bleach to destroy mildew and other mold
High-adhesion primer designed for glossy surfaces
High-quality acrylic or epoxy paint
Clear urethane or epoxy top coat finish
A large paintbrush and/or paint roller
Rags and a vacuum cleaner for cleanup

, The first step to repainting your tile is be sure it's ready for new paint. Be sure to wear a face mask and safety goggles for this step, to avoid getting dust in your eyes or respiratory system. If you're worried that 220 grit sandpaper will sand too quickly or too deeply for you to apply it evenly, you can use a finer grit. Just remember that the process is likely to take longer as the grit number goes up.


Start with your abrasive tile cleaner. Thoroughly scrub the area you plan to repaint, and wipe it down until it's clean and dry.
Disinfect. Using a fresh rag, make a bleach solution and scrub through the tiles a second time to kill mold.
Sand down the area. Affix your sandpaper to the orbital sander and sand your tiles down carefully. Your goal is to remove any extra gloss remaining above the ceramic itself, without damaging the ceramic.
 As with painting a lamp, your exposed ceramic tile will need to be primed. Paint the primer on evenly with a brush.


Choose the right primer. Apply an oil-based primer to ensure better water protection.
Apply two coats, then finish. Once the first coat has dried a little, apply a second coat of primer over it. Give it time to dry thoroughly (a few hours), then sand it with ultra-fine grit sandpaper, such as 1500 or 2000 grit, to remove any bumps or ridges in the coat.
 Now that your tile is primed and dry, it's time to add paint. Choose the best paint possible. There are three basic options available:


Epoxy paint is glossy, highly durable and long-lasting, but also more expensive than most other kinds of paint.
Acrylic paint isn't as durable for high-traffic areas as epoxy, but is easier to work with and cheaper.
Latex paint provides a soft-looking, “rubbery” finish that some people prefer, but it's the least durable of the three.
 A flat-tipped brush with a fairly wide tip is best. Start with a thin coat, let it dry, and then add a second coat. You'll get brighter and smoother results than a thick one-coat job.


Refer to thinning instructions on your paint can to learn how to thin it properly, if thinning is required.
To paint a geometric pattern, tape shapes together out of blue painter's tape before you begin, and then use a laser level and a ruler to properly place them evenly throughout your work area. Remove the tape after you're finished (but before you apply a clear coat) to reveal sharp lines and shapes.
 Wait 2-3 days for the paint to dry completely. Once the paint has dried, it's time to apply a clear finish and seal it in. Apply two coats of finish. Wait long enough between coats for the first coat to become dry to the touch. Choose between urethane and epoxy finish. Both have advantages:


Urethane finish is cheaper, quicker to apply, and easier to work with. However, it doesn't hold up in high-traffic areas for as long as epoxy.
Epoxy finish is hard, glossy, and essentially permanent, making it the better choice for areas with a lot of foot traffic or areas that get wet regularly. However, it is more expensive and takes more care to apply properly.
 Throw away any paper you set out. Vacuum up any remaining dust or detritus. Clean and store your supplies. Let the finish dry fully. Again, 2-3 days is recommended.

