 Discuss and agree on an amount of time per day or week that you won’t go over when playing the game, or any video game, if your parents are concerned about how the content affects you based on how much you play. Let them know that if you get the game, you’ll stick to this time limit. Show them that you can play games in moderation.
 Promise all A’s or B’s on your next report card, or a similar goal for your grades, if they will get you the game.
 Agree on certain chores you will do every week or month in exchange for being able to get the game. You can say, “I’ll take out the trash and load the dishwasher every day, and vacuum every week, if I can have the game,” or something similar that you and your parents can agree on.
 Tell them you will not play on school nights, you will not play until you finish ALL your homework, and you will keep your grades up.
 Rent the game from a library, video store, Redbox, or invite a friend over who has the game. Tell your parents they can watch you play the game for a certain amount of time. If they are okay with what they see, they let you buy it; if they’re not okay with it, you will agree on a time when you can rent it and ask them again.


You can also show them screenshots of the game online; they might be convinced by them alone.
 Discuss and agree with your parents on a location of the house that you will always play the game if they let you get it. Letting them keep an eye on you in exchange for getting the game can be worth it, because they will likely stop paying attention after a time and let you play in peace.
 Let your parents know they can use whatever parental controls are available on the device you play on, as long as you can have the game. They may be able to restrict access to the internet, the ability to make purchases, or even control how long you play and what friends you play with.Consider that it could be worth it to sacrifice a small amount of your freedom in order to get the game you want. You might also impress your parents by being upfront about these controls rather than them having to do it behind your back.

