 To be a Renaissance person, you should have a little bit of knowledge about pretty much every academic subject. This includes math, world history, science (physics, biology, and chemistry), reading, and writing. Figure out which spots you’re already strong in, and then focus on building up the other ones.;
, Find some introductory textbooks for those subjects where you need some help. Check your library or go to the bookstore and see what they’ve got in stock. You can also order books online.Public schools in your area might also have textbooks they’d be willing to lend you over the summer.
 Renaissance people don’t just bury themselves in old textbooks, they’re aware of what’s going on in the world around them! Read lots of well-respected newspapers to keep aware of new and important developments happening around the world.Reading newspapers is also a great way to stay informed of new discoveries in science, history, and math.
For English-speaking newspapers in the United States, try the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal. Look at the Guardian for a paper based in the United Kingdom.
If it’s in your budget to subscribe to a daily paper, do so. If not, you can usually read several articles from popular newspapers based in the United States and elsewhere for free each month.
 Reading teaches you new words and makes you think about the world in new and different ways. Don’t just stick to the classics, however. Go online to find suggestions of great books written both recently and a long (sometimes long, long) time ago.Goodreads.com and Amazon both provide suggestion lists of books that you should read before you die. The New York Times Book Review also releases yearly “best book” picks that can keep you updated on the good new releases.
 Renaissance people are well rounded and can think about issues from lots of different sides. If there’s a hot-button debate going on in your town, state, or country, take the time to read up on both sides. Wait until you have as much information as possible before deciding on your own position.This might require you to read sources produced by different news outlets, politicians, or experts.
For example, to get a good picture of the debate about climate change, you can look at what different politicians around the world are saying and doing about the issue. Be sure to look at people from different parties. Run a Google search to find easy-to-read scientific studies. Finally, check out coverage from news outlets with different political leanings (such as Fox News and MSNBC in the U.S.).
 If the only country you can point out on a map is your own, spend some time learning world geography. This knowledge will help you better understand global history, as well as current political conflicts and environmental concerns.It’s also a good idea to know the capitals and major cities of countries around the world.
 Learn to communicate with people outside the country where you were born. Renaissance people are travelers and explorers (even if they can’t afford to actually visit other countries).If you speak another language, read a newspaper or listen to the news in that language! It’s a great way to build your skill and expose yourself to another perspective.

