 Ariel has long, beautiful red hair that turns heads, including Prince Eric's. Look for a shade of red that will complement your skin tone. If this is your first time coloring your hair red, get it done at a salon. Heat stylers can fade the color too, so stay away from those at all costs. Also, grow your hair long, at least a little bit past your shoulders. If you happen to be one of the rare natural redheads, then you have nothing to worry about.


Red hair tends to fade faster than other hair colors. Keep your color from fading by using products for colored hair. There are shampoos and conditioners on the market that are especially for bottle redheads. It's best to only shampoo once or twice a week to keep the color in. Try to avoid using heat styling products like curling or straightening irons, as well as direct sunlight and chlorinated pools.
If you don't want to dye your hair, you could try wigs, extensions, or semi-permanent hair coloring kits.
You don't have to dye your hair at all to be like Ariel.;
, Ariel is a natural beauty; therefore, she does not need a lot of makeup. If needed, use eyeliner on the top lashes only, drawing thin lines as close to the lashes as possible, or tight-line. Dust white eyeshadow/liner onto your waterline to make your eyes look bigger. Follow with a coat of mascara and finish it off with red lip color. If red though doesn't work on you, go for a rose-color! That's what Ariel sports in The Little Mermaid 3: Ariel's Beginning.
 Ariel does not sit around all day waiting for something fun to do. She's always out looking for the next adventure and living her life to the fullest. She is a daredevil and is never afraid to try new things. Do the same by always keeping your agenda open to new experiences. Spend time doing things you enjoy, just like Ariel, who's always singing, laughing, collecting treasures, and looking for adventure.
 Like her mother, Queen Athena, Ariel has a passion for music and was blessed with a beautiful singing voice. Listen to as much music as possible and know your favorite bands or singers. Also, be open to new ones, giving every one of them a chance. Sing along and dance with friends. Listen to it when you're just hanging out in your bedroom, while cleaning the house, or sleeping. If you're eighteen or over, go out to clubs and dance your butt off. Sing along with friends in the car. Go to concerts whenever you can. If you want, you can learn to play a musical instrument if you don't already play one.
 Ariel likes to collect interesting things that were left over from humans. If you want, you can do something similar by collecting antiques.
 Ariel has a lot of questions about the human world and wants answers. You can do the same by researching any topics that you're curious about and learn as much as you can about them! Google is a great place to begin. Or you could look up books at your local library.
 When in love, she's very dreamy and hums to herself.
 Go after your dreams and ambitions. Ariel let nothing stop her from being with Prince Eric!

, Ariel saved Prince Eric from drowning, after all.
 Ariel can act a bit shy, but she's still a flirt. So the next time you talk to your crush, subtly bat your eyelashes and smile. Ariel would also twirl her hair!

, Ariel has a great body. Don't idealize her though; she's animated so it's physically impossible to achieve her figure. She's very curvy with her tiny waist and wrists, decent bust, wide hips and slender legs, so don't starve yourself. Instead, work out regularly - about three times a week, go running, do crunches, an always remember, drink water!

