 Instead of smothering the dog with affection and attention as soon as it arrives in its new home – which can be stressful for the dog – allow it to introduce itself to its new family naturally. The dog should be free to roam the house and meet other members of your family when they wish to.Set the dog down and allow it to walk around the home on its own. You should, however, monitor it and prevent it from hurting itself near stairs or any other possible danger zones that it cannot yet use.
Don’t scream the dog’s name in a high-pitched voice or squeeze it in a tight embrace. Discourage your family members from doing likewise.
For instance, you might say, “Please do not engage in boisterous behavior around the dog or smother it with affection. This could cause it undue stress.”

, If the dog you received as a gift is relaxed and comfortable being touched, make a point of petting it often. Dogs love being rubbed behind the ears and patted on the head. Some dogs also enjoy rolling over and getting their belly rubbed. These actions can help you build a bond with the dog you received as a gift. You could also:hug your dog gently
play with your dog
offer treats to your dog
give your dog a chew toy
give your dog a KONG toy
get your dog a dog bone
tell your dog, “I love you, .”

, Dogs send identifiable signals when they feel threatened, aggressive, or sad. For instance, if the dog lowers its head, bares its teeth, and has its hackles raised, it feels threatened and might attack. If it’s walking around with its tail between its legs, it might have done something it feels ashamed of.Encourage your family to respond appropriately to the dog you got as a pet. For instance, if the dog seems scared or threatened, instruct family members to speak in a calm, soothing way to it.
 Keep your new dog in one part of the house and your other pets in another part of the house. Allow the dog to explore and sniff areas of the house where your other pets already roamed freely. Then, confine the new dog in one room and allow the pets you already owned to sniff the areas where the dog you got as a gift was exploring. This will provide an initial, introduction via scent.Introduce the new dog to the other pets face to face. Keep the new dog on a leash. If the new dog and your other pets take a friendly interest in each other, allow them to edge closer and closer together. Finally, when they are sniffing one another face to face, release the new dog from the leash.
If the pets you already own and your new dog seem hostile to each other, separate them and try to introduce them again some other day.
If the dog you received as a gift was a puppy and your other dog is quite large, always supervise their interactions.
 If the dog you received as a gift comes when you call its name, reward it with a doggie treat and verbal praise. For instance, you might say, “Good dog.” If the dog scratches at the door when it needs to go out, do the same thing.You can also give your dog a treat and verbal praise when it obeys commands like “Sit,” “Lie down,” “Roll over,” “Play dead,” and “Speak.”
If your dog sits quietly in the presence of visitors and guests, you can encourage them to continue doing so by offering a treat.
If rewarding good behavior seems to do little to end bad behavior in your dog, consider taking it to a “puppy kindergarten” or obedience school. You can locate such an institution by looking one up in your yellow pages.
 Your new dog might need to be housebroken. It might bark noisily and jump on furniture. But with time and training, you can help your dog become a well-behaved member of the family.To reduce the likelihood of trouble, dog-proof your house be removing things stored in locations where dogs might get into them and cause trouble for themselves or others. For instance, don’t store sharp objects like scissors or knives on low shelves where the dog might get into them.If you have long-term behavioral issues, get professional help by taking your doggie to a puppy finishing school or obedience school. Locate one in your area by looking such an institution up in your yellow pages.

