 You'll need to be at the side of the pool for this exercise. Grab hold of the wall with your right hand to keep your balance. Chest-deep works well for this exercise.Have your right leg nearest the wall. Put your weight on that leg alone, bending at the knee.
Lift your left leg up, bending at the knee. Bring it up as high as it will go. Your ultimate goal is to bring it to your chest.
Repeat five times for each leg.
 Face the wall of the pool and hold on. With your back straight, lift up your right leg out to the side. Bring it back down. Your left leg should stay stable on the floor.Don't turn your ankle. Just lift your leg as high as it will go without turning.
Lift that leg eight to 10 times or until you get tired, then move to the other leg.
Try to exhale as you bring your leg up and inhale as you bring it down.
 Slowly extend your body back, with your legs straight. Your body should look like Superman flying.


Hold position for several seconds before bringing your legs down.
Repeat five to 10 times.
Make sure you don’t hyperextend the back when doing the exercise., Balance, or "proprioception," is an important part of a healthy back. Try standing on one leg while standing in the pool. To make the exercise more difficult, try closing your eyes.


Hold this position for as long as you comfortably can.
Repeat four or five more times, and then perform the same exercise with the opposite leg.
 Bicycling in the pool can strengthen your abs, which in turn can help lower back pain. Start with your elbows on the side of the pool, facing outward. You need to be deep enough that you can move your feet without hitting the floor.With your legs slightly out in front of you, rotate them in the water as if you're riding a bike. In other words, bring one knee up, and rotate the foot forward in a circular motion that moves to the back. At the same time, your other foot should be on the other side of the circle you're making, rotating front and back as well.
You can also use this motion to move through the water. Simply use your arms as well, and let your feet move you. You can use a noodle to help keep you afloat.
 Lean against the wall again. Have your elbows on the side of the pool to support you. Lift both legs together, and then push them back down again. Chest deep works well for this exercise.Keep your legs straight.
Another option is to sit on the side of the pool and do the same exercise. Sitting on the side will make it easier.
 Go to the shallow end of the pool. Place your feet at about hip-width. Squat down in the water by bending your knees. Also, stick your butt out in the water.You should reach a position like you're sitting in a chair.
Try not to let your knees go in front of your toes.
Inhale as you squat down, and exhale as you stand back up. As you stand up, make sure to keep your core tight and your back straight.
During this exercise, your arms should be bent but close to your body. Have your palms facing down.
 At the wall, grasp the edge. Use your arms to push yourself down in the water, while making sure your legs are bent. Then, pull yourself up as far as you can. You'll need to be at least chest deep for this exercise.Just go as high as you can. Don't worry if you can't go too high yet.
Of course, if your back starts hurting more, it's important to stop what you're doing.
 Get in the shallow end, and stand with legs together. Start by doing a normal jumping jack, just like you would on land. Kick your legs apart, going outward to the side. As you do, raise your arms above your head.As you come back together, try to not to touch the bottom of the pool before you kick back out. Bring your arms down as you bring your legs in.
You can also do fully suspended jumping jacks by not touching the floor at all.
 These exercises work your abs through water resistance. Basically, you stand still in chest-deep water. Then you bring your knees up to your chest, moving them together.To make the move harder, jump up to bring your knees in faster.
Also, make sure to keep your head high, so you don't dunk yourself.

