 Reselling children’s clothing and equipment is a simple way to make a little extra money while passing useful items to parents who need them. Keep in mind, though, that you should only sell items that are in good condition – clean and functional, with no missing parts.


A good rule of thumb is to ask yourself whether you would buy the item, if you were in the market for it. If not, it’s probably best to donate or otherwise repurpose it.
 If you have a lot of clothing and equipment to sell, you might consider holding a garage sale on your own property. Before you do so, you should check the laws and guidelines in your area. Some neighborhoods require you to purchase a permit; others might restrict the days and times that such sales can take place.
 For the best possible turnout, you should advertise your sale at least a week or two in advance. Post clear, eye-catching signs in your neighborhood, or place ads in your local newspaper.


Keep in mind that buyers often plan their routes in advance, and they may show up very early to ensure they have the best opportunity to purchase your items. If you need to cancel or change the date of your sale, it’s polite to take down your notices and place an apology notice on your property.
 To make your items as accessible and appealing as possible, organize them neatly and attractively. A few suggestions:


Organize clothing according to size and gender.
Place a sticker on each item, marked clearly with the price.
Alternatively, use color-coded stickers, and have a printed price sheet handy that shows each color’s designated price.
 If you have only a few items to sell, or you have some items left after a garage sale, take your items to a secondhand store or consignment shop. You may have to try several different stores before you find one that will take your items. Store policies vary, but in general:


Consignment shops will take items likely to sell and have to fill out paperwork so that they can reach you if and when someone purchases them. You will only make money if an items sells.
Secondhand stores will often pay you a fair price up front, then sell the items at a higher price to make a profit.
 In addition to garage sales and secondhand stores, you can put your items up for sale online. Various sites, including eBay, function to connect buyers and sellers. A quick search for “sell baby clothes online” will generate a list of these sites.


Some people will meet in person to make the sale – this is often the case on sites like Craigslist. However, it can be safer, easier, and more convenient to let a site serve as the middleman, handling everything by mail and making sure no one is cheated.

