 Blister burns can occur anywhere on the body. The most common causes of blister burns, also known as second degree burns, are:Touching a hot object
Fires
Scalding from steam or hot liquids such as cooking oils
Electrical burns
Chemical burns

, Blisters occur whenever you burn your skin. The type of burn you have will depend on the severity of the burn. First degree burns affect the topmost layer of skin and appear reddish and swollen.First degree burns are painful but are considered minor. They do not usually produce blisters, but they may peel.
First degree burns are dry, and usually take three to five days to heal., Second degree burns are the next level of severity. They are considered minor as long as they are less than three inches wide in diameter. Second degree burns affect surface layer and the next few under layers of the skin. Blisters are often common with second degree burns.Second degree burns are painful and often form blisters and are red or pink. They may look swollen or have a pocket of clear, wet liquid.
If more severe, a second degree burn can be dry with a reduced level of feeling in the area. If you apply pressure, the skin will not turn white or turn white very slowly.Second degree burns usually heal within two to three weeks.
Blistering burns larger than three inches should be seen at an ER or by your physician as soon as possible. If a second degree burn is on the hands, feet, face, groin, a major joint, or the buttocks, see your physician or go to the ER right away. Older individuals and children should be seen at the ER for any second degree burn because complications are more common in these groups.
 The most severe burns are third degree burns. Third degree burns are considered a major burn because the skin layers are destroyed and should be seen immediately at an ER. These burns affect the deepest part of the skin and cause whitened or blackened skin.The burnt areas may be black or white. They also will be dry and leathery.These burns are often painless at first because the nerves in the skin have been damaged.
 A single or a few blisters are generally not a serious problem. Unless a singular blister is a severe second degree burn or third degree burn, you can treat it at home. However, if you are getting large numbers of blisters and they appear all over your body, see your physician right away.


Many blisters on your body can be a symptom of a serious health concern, such as pemphigus, bullous pemphigoid, and dermatitis herpetiformis.

