 These three states do not recognize the National Mail Voter Registration Form, a general mail-in registration form recognized by all other states.As such, you’ll have to follow procedures specific to your state; your election office will be able to guide you through this process.


Follow this link to USA.gov’s online portal. Although you won’t be able to register online, selecting your state from the dropdown menu will provide you with the necessary information to locate your local election office.
You’ll also need to go through your local election office if you live in a U.S. territory, e.g. Puerto Rico.
 On the landing page you’ll see several links, offering downloads of the form in English, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese, Tagalog, Korean, and Vietnamese. Select the appropriate language.
 If you don’t have easy access to a printer, you can use them at public libraries (sometimes for a small fee) or at business which offers copying services, such as Fedex Office (formerly Kinko’s).
 Ensure that you read the instructions thoroughly, and provide all necessary information. Even if you’re already registered to vote and would simply like to join the democratic party, you might be required to totally complete the form.


You will be required to provide your name, date of birth, and address. If you live in a rural area and do not have an address or street number, however, a map is available to allow you to draw a diagram of where you live.
A few states will ask for your driver's license number. If you do not have one, however, filling in "none" is acceptable.
Some states will require your social security number; this will be specified in the state-specific instructions.
 This is what it’s all for! Box 7 is where you’ll write you party affiliation. In legible print, write “Democratic” in the empty field. Once you've completed the rest of the form, make sure to sign your name.
 The cut-off dates for registration leading up to elections differ for every state. Consult the last several pages of the document to find your state; all relevant dates should be laid out for you in this section.

It takes an average of one to three days for Priority Mail to arrive at its destination, so don’t procrastinate if you’re edging up to that deadline.

The mailing address is also in the state instructions (the last several pages of the document).
 Voter I.D. cards can as many as 5-7 weeks to arrive, after your form has been received and processed.More reason not to procrastinate!


You do not actually need a voter registration card to vote, regardless of what you may hear elsewhere. You only need to be sure that you're registered, and know the county in which you're registered to vote.If your voter registration card never comes, call your voting office to ensure that you're registered. You can also request that they re-send your card.
36 states have passed laws requiring photo I.D. to vote, however. You should check with your state's identification requirements before heading to your polling place on election day.

