 The Cherokee rose is a plant very similar to a natural wild rose. It has five petals and grows like a shrub.


Unlike the wild rose, however, the Cherokee can reach impressive heights, towering more than 30 feet (9.1 m) in the air, if given the right tree to climb.
You should be prepared to prune the plant each year and give it space to grow.;
, You’ll find the rose either under its common name Cherokee or under its Latin name Rosa laevigata. Several varieties exist and choosing the right one for your area is a must.


Cherokee will not grow in areas cooler than zone 7a so the species as a whole is a bad choice for areas which experience harsh winters. Any hardware store, box store, or garden house in the correct regions will have this beautiful plant.
For more information on identifying which plant hardiness zone you live in, see this article.
 Choose a plant with a thick base stem and healthy green growth. If any spots, dark areas, or mold appears on any of the plants be wary of purchasing from that store. Cherokee rose is not hardy to diseases and will succumb quickly even during a brief contact.
 The Cherokee rose is a wonderful grower, with the capacity to grow over 15 feet (4.6 m) in a single summer.


You should plant the rose near a trellis or support (you could allow it to climb up the side of a garage, for example.)
Do not plant this rose plant near a tree you don’t want overrun with roses. This plant loves to use the branches of trees and will quickly overtake a slow growing tree.
 The Cherokee rose plant blooms during warmer temperatures, with the first blooms emerging after the days remain reliably above 50 degrees. The rose will continue to grow until later fall frosts force the plant to drop their leaves.


If you want to grow the rose in a colder area; plant the rose indoors or in a planter where it can be moved to covered areas— any temperature below 0 °F (−18 °C) is dangerous to the plant.
 This is what you'll need to plant the Cherokee rose:


A shovel
Heavy duty gloves
Rose fertilizer
Peat
Organic Compost or Manure

, You’ll need to dig down several feet and you don’t want accidents to occur, such as hitting a pipe. Your hole should be one foot from the structure you plan to support your rose with, and be in an area with full sun, and have good air flow.
 The hole should be at least 2 feet (0.6 m) deep but may need to be bigger for more mature roses.
 Place a mixture of peat and organic manure into the hole until the pot is level with the ground. The plant needs this rich soil for developing roots and will suffer if placed in un-altered soil.


Fill the remainder of the hole loosely with the peat and manure mixture and then place 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10.2 cm) of topsoil above the plant and hole. Cover with an inch or two of mulch and water completely.
This structure will protect the roots of the plant in case of extreme temperatures, will provide drainage during wet times, and conserve water during droughts.
 After a few days, water with the rose fertilizer, mixing according to package directions. Continue to fertilize according to the schedule provided on the package.
 Other than infections the plant will need nearly no maintenance. If you wish, weave canes into your support and secure with soft, stretchy ties.


The Cherokee rose will not need much pruning during the first years but feel free to remove canes near the ground when they grow in areas you don’t want.
 The Cherokee rose grows quickly, so be sure to prune the plant in the summer for size and shape, and then again after the leaves die back in the fall to remove the smaller canes for increased air flow.

