 Western Pleasure is NOT a class for hyper, bucking youngsters. The horse should move smoothly and slowly at all gaits (walk, jog, lope & rein back). He should not look choppy, artificial, or forced into a “frame”. This may be the trend right now, but the horse associations are working to fix that. Do not ruin your horse and train him to go exceedingly slow, with his head on the ground. These horses are not happy horses. Your horse should have his poll level with his withers, and very easy, flowing gaits, and he should carry himself on his hind end. He should turn, stop and back up with little or no pressure on the reins.;
, You may put "clothes" like a slicker hood (sleazy) and sheet on to keep him clean until show time.
 Or, you can leave it long and natural, if you desire. It is correct to shorten manes on stock breeds like Quarter Horses, Paints, and Appaloosas. Breeds like Arabians (and Half-Arabians), Morgans, and Saddlebreds must be shown with a long, natural mane.
 To bang it, have a helper hold your horse’s tailbone as he carries it in motion (most horses carry it a few inches away from their body). Cut the bottom of the tail straight across level with the bottom of the fetlock. If your horse’s tail is not long enough, you can bang it a little higher, or you can use a tail extension.
 Take a small section about the width of your little finger and wrap a rubber band around it. To make the band lay flat, pull only on the bottom hairs of the banded section. Make sure the band color matches your horse’s mane. Band tightly, but not too tightly. You want the mane to hang flat against the neck, not stick up over their crest or out to the side. Slicker hoods can be especially helpful in making the mane lay down, and it is often a good idea to band a horse the night before and then have him wear the hood all night so the mane will be flat in the morning. You will have to make some adjustments and re-tighten some of the bands in the morning, but you will not have a mane that sticks up.
,, Be careful of using too much spray with products like Ultra, especially if you are showing in a dusty arena. It attracts dust and makes it stick to the horse. Show sheen repels dust, but should never be used on the saddle area because it will cause the tack to slide.
 Remember that artificial tails are illegal for breeds that are shown with natural manes and tails like Arabians, Morgans, and Saddlebreds. Comb a detangler through the tail so no tangles appear in the ring.
, Your saddle should be carefully cleaned and all the silver shined, but do this at home before you get to the show by putting the saddle on a saddle rack. You can use a damp cloth and toothpaste or silver polish to remove all the dirt and grime from the silver. If it gets on the leather, just wipe it off. Leather should be cleaned with a product like Lexol, which is pH balanced to clean your leather without damaging it or leaving a residue. Condition the leather after cleaning it.
 Clean and polish your bridle.
 Make sure it is straight. If you put your number on your saddle pad, be sure that you have a number on EACH side of your horse. You may be disqualified if you have only one number on one side of the horse. Usually, people who show stock breeds put their numbers on the saddle pad, whereas people who show the saddle type breeds like Arabians, wear their numbers on their back.
 Sand his hooves smooth and apply two coats of clear polish for most hooves. If your horse has black hooves, you can first apply a coat of clear polish, then a black coat, and a finally, clear coat. Apply a hoof polish enhancer to make them shine.
, Be sure your boots are polished and your chaps are clean. Ultrasuede chaps are machine washable, and "slick-out" chaps can be wiped with a baby wipe or leather wipe. Wear fitted pants under your chaps as jeans are bulky and out of style (for women). Your pants should be the same color as your chaps (for women), but men may wear blue jeans under and color of chaps, and sometimes will wear black jeans under black chaps.
 There are many styles to choose from and western style and fashion tends to change quite rapidly. Search the internet or ask around to find out about current trends, or check ebay for show clothes for sale (keeping in mind that some are for sale because they are out of style.) It is a good idea to match your belt color to your pants/chaps. A different color visually cuts you in half.
, Long, curly or straight ponytails are acceptable in western pleasure as long as the hair is not bouncing as the rider moves. If your hat is a little loose or it is windy, put a piece of sticky, double-sided tape on your forehead and press the hat to it. Bobby pins stuck into the hat near the ears is also a good way to keep a hat on. If you don't have any sticky tape and the bobby pins won't do the job, you can spray your forehead with hairspray to make the hat stick. The best thing, however, is to have a hat that fits.
 Generally, horses that are bay, black, or grey for instance look best in "jewel tones" like red, blue, and purple. Horses that are sorrel, chestnut, or brown look best in "earth tones" like chocolate, sand, or rust.
, Do not try to introduce anything new to your horse, as this may upset him. Work just as you do at home. If possible, ride in the competition ring before the class so your horse can have a chance to see the arena and will be less likely to become upset or spook in this new environment.
 Wipe off any dust and re-apply the hoof polish enhancer, shining spray, highlighter (if needed) and brush his tail again. Wipe his hooves off when they are dry and wipe your boots as well.
 Hang back a little (or go first) and find a good spot on the rail to show your horse to the judge.
 Remember to breathe. If your horse acts goofy, try to deal with the situation quietly, taking care that you are not affecting anyone else's ride. The judge might not see small mistakes if you don’t make a big deal of it and just quietly fix it. Be very aware of your position in the ring and do not get in anyone's way. Stay a good distance behind the horse in front of you, and always pass to the inside. If your horse is really acting up such as bucking, rearing, or bolting, go to the center of the ring and make him stand quietly until the class is over. Do not get mad, school, or hit your horse. Consider waiting to take a horse to a show that has the potential to blow up like that. You would be making a bad impression of yourself to everyone watching (and the judge).
 Shows should be a fun and positive experience for you and your horse. To help calm nerves about winning, set personal goals. Say, “I’m going to get the correct lead, and I’m not going to lean back as he departs for the lope.” Then, you can focus on accomplishing your own goals, instead of on winning that blue ribbon. But, if you followed these steps carefully, you may be on your way to winning that ribbon!

