 Grease a 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 33.02-centimeter) casserole dish using cooking spray, oil, or butter. Set the dish aside when you are done., Heat some oil in a large skillet over high heat. Add the peppers and onion and half of the chili and cumin. Stir to combine with a wooden spoon, then cook until the peppers and onion turn golden-brown. Transfer them to a bowl.

Use enough oil to coat the vegetables, but not so much that it pools. About 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 milliliters) will be enough.A mild-tasting oil, such as canola or vegetable, will work the best. You can also use a more flavorful one, however, such as avocado or coconut., Add another 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 milliliters) of oil to the skillet and let it get hot. Add the corn and the rest of the chili and cumin. Stir the corn, then cook it until it turns a golden-brown color. Scrape the corn into the bowl with the peppers and onion., Add about 1 teaspoon of salt to the peppers, onions, and corn. Toss them together to coat, then set the bowl aside., Pour about a third of the enchilada sauce into the bottom of your prepared casserole dish. Use a wooden spoon or a rubber spatula to spread it around; it doesn't have to be perfect. Save the rest of the sauce for the rest of the casserole., Spread half of the tortilla strips across the bottom of the casserole dish. Spread all of the beans on top in an even layer, then add half of the roasted vegetables, sauce, and cheese.

Save the rest of the veggies, sauce, and cheese for the next layer.
If the beans are difficult to spread, you can mix some water into them. You need just enough to thin them out. About 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 milliliters) will be plenty.
 Gently lay the rest of the tortilla strips on top of the cheese layer. Add the rest of the roasted veggies, sauce, and cheese on top. Make sure that you spread the ingredients evenly in each layer., It's ready when the cheese melts and the sauce starts to bubble., Just about anything that you'd put on a taco, burrito, or nacho bowl will work here. Cilantro, guacamole, or sour cream are all delicious options.