 Find someone you're looking to impress, who has a few minutes to spare for your trick. It's best to find somewhere quiet to do this, as an interruption risks messing it up.;
, In theory, they could choose any real number. However, it's best to stick between one and ten for the sake of simplicity. Larger numbers will complicate the math; so will choosing numbers with decimal points or fractions. , This trick is a good one to start with, as its one of the simplest. There's just enough substance to make it impressive however, so take the following steps and get them wondering how you knew it:


Tell him to multiply their number by 2.
Ask him to multiply the new number by 5.
Have him divide their current number by their original number.
Instruct him to subtract 7 from their current number.
"Guess" the answer! If the prior steps were done correctly, the right answer will always be 3.
Witness as the fabric of their reality crashes down around them.


For example, if your friend chooses 3: 3x2=6. 6x5=30. 30/3=10. 10-7=3.
 This one's a little more complicated, but it's a perfect way to keep impressing your friend. This time, you'll have to choose a number too, so have an even number in mind before you begin. Once your friend has chosen a number, follow these steps:


Tell him to multiply the chosen number by 2.
Choose an even number to use yourself. Ask your friend to add this number to the one in his head.
Tell him to divide the new number by 2.
Tell him to subtract his original number from the equation.
"Guess" the number. This time around, the right answer will be half the even number you chose.


For example, if you choose 10, and your friend chooses 3, here's how the equation will go down: 3x2=6. 6+10=16. 16/2=8. 8-3=5. 5 is half of 10!

, This is a great trick that operates on the unique property of multiples of 9. It's very important the number your friend chooses is between 1-10. Once your friend has picked a number, here's how to do it:


Tell your friend to multiply his number by 9.
Tell him/her to add the first and second digit of his number together. If it's a single digit number (i.e. 9), add 0.
Get your friend to add 4 to his new number.
"Guess" the answer. Each and every time, the answer will be 13.
Watch as they begin to question everything they once held close and dear.


If your friend chooses 3, here's how the equation will unfold: 3x9=27. 2+7=9. 9+4=13.
 Giving your tricks a confident, theatrical presentation will make it more enjoyable for everyone.


A magician's costume isn't necessary, but it might be handy in giving the impression you're imbued with magical powers.
 The core mechanic in a lot of these tricks is getting your friend to eventually subtract his given number from the equation. Once the variable is out of the way, you have full control over where the equation goes. , The reason why the "Lucky Number 13" trick works so well is because multiples of 9 between 1-10 operate under in a uniquely identifiable way. In the case, each answer (e.g. 9, 18, 27 etc.) will equal to 9 if you add each digit together. Although this property is unique to multiples of 9, it makes a great trick, especially if your friend was quick to catch onto the fact that other tricks are quick to discard the original number.
 For instance the "End With 3" trick can be rearranged to end with any number.
 Once you've had some time getting used to mathematical mind tricks, you might be ready to try crafting your own. While they can become as infinitely complex as you want, it's a good thing to start out small, and slowly work your way up. For starters, use the "End With 3" as a template, and change the values of the constants to make a new equation. From there on, you'll be able to create new and inventive ways of ultimately removing the variable. Don't forget to consistently develop your presentation as well. People want to be entertained, and the way you baffle them with your trick is going to be just as important as the trick itself!

