 This is the most basic requirement of sniping efficiently. If you fire from the hip, your bullet could go anywhere. When you fire from the sights, your accuracy is 100%. However, if you are using a scope, your sights will move around quite a bit and will affect your accuracy. This can be avoided by "steadying" your aim, which removes most of this movement. However, steadying can only be done for a few seconds and will completely screw up the movement on your sights if you steady for too long, so you should only stead when you know you can get a shot off someone. (Note: steadying does not apply to the Wii version; if you are a Wii player, see step 6)

, Sniping is difficult because you need to minimize your chances of being attacked at close range or being noticed. If you can find several points on the map where you can easily attack the enemy without being attacked yourself, you're in luck and have found a good "sniper spot". The best "spots" provide maximum attacking power in a given situation with minimal risk of death.
 Head-shots are always preferable, and are a guaranteed one hit kill, but are difficult to pull off on a moving opponent in the heat of battle. For this reason, you should aim at the upper body if you cannot aim at the head. You will need to aim at the head less if you have a scoped weapon because scoped weapons do more damage per hit and thus can kill in one hit if you shoot at the upper body. For this same reason, un-scoped weapons need to be aimed at the head more for a kill.
 As a sniper, you can get a general idea of where an enemy is headed if you look at the radar frequently. In addition, if you are using a scoped weapon and are scanning over a specific area, pull down the sights for a brief second and look at the radar to see if the conditions of the battle are changing.
 If you know an enemy is coming your way and is close (through looking at the radar, seeing him, or hearing his footsteps), switch to the pistol quickly and take him out.
 This is notably quite difficult, as people can't intuitively aim in lag, but you will have to do this if you hope to kill under these conditions.
 If you stay at one spot too long, people WILL notice and kill you quickly. Be mobile to prevent predictability.
 As a sniper, security and stealth are your primary concerns. If the enemy sees that you're alone, you're an easy target.
 They will most likely be very useful in close combat situations, and are overall more reliable than your pistol in terms of killing ability.
 Grenades can be very useful for tense combat situations or points in the game where you know that your opponent lurks behind a wall / object. If you have a regular frag, remember that you should hold down the button a bit before throwing it; this way, your opponent has very little time to react.
 A well placed smoke, tabun gas, or flare can prevent the enemy from approaching you without a great deal of risk on their behalf. Sometimes, the best approach is to run away or confuse the enemy to prevent yourself from dying.

