 You need to be an informed seller so that you can provide the buyer with what they need to know. The most important information to gather is the car's title, service records and original sales paperwork. This information provides potential buyers with the information they need to make an informed decision.Other details to gather include year, make, model, current mileage, and any special features the car may have.
Receipts for regular oil changes are very also important. They show that the car was regularly maintained and help to increase the car's value.;
, The best way to set your price is by researching the value with Kelley Blue Book. There is a strong chance that a potential buyer will have looked up this number as well, so your figure should not be much higher than this. Setting the price around this level will help sell your car quickly, as potential buyers will know your offer is honest.


Many sellers believe their car is worth more than it is. Be aware of this. If you set the asking price too high, it is possible you will be unable to sell your car at all. You may consider having a pre-sell inspection that will give you an exact idea of how much your car is worth.Be mindful of psychology. Many products are priced with a number that ends in 99 or 95, as it makes people more likely to buy. Try this when pricing your car.Price your car higher if it is still under warranty or has new tires.
Price your car lower if you are looking to sell it quickly.
Build buffer space into the price. In other words, make the price slightly higher in anticipation that you will have to lower the price during negotiations.
 An advertisement is the best way to let the general public know that you are selling a car. One possible place to advertise is in a classified ad. You may want to consider the possibility of selling your car online. Websites such as ebay or autotrader have sections dedicated to selling pre-owned vehicles.


Your advertisement or online posting should include your contact information, up to 15 pictures of the car, your comments about what makes the vehicle unique, and key details such as mileage, price and features.An advertisement including this information will inform potential buyers about all they need to know.
 It is your time to shine when potential buyers come to view your car. Buyers will want to buy a car from someone responsible and honest, so be sure to appear so. Offer them a test drive, and before doing so check that they have a valid drivers license. Be aware that some buyers may want to take the car to a mechanic. If you have a pre-inspection, you can provide them with it to alleviate their worries. Otherwise, this is a reasonable request.Always evaluate potential buyers before showing them you car. Try to screen them on the phone, and if they sound suspicious do not do business with them.
 The potential buyer will want to negotiate a final price, so be prepared to stand firm or drop your price a little. You should know beforehand what the lowest possible price you will accept for the car is. If the offered price is too low, be prepared to walk away.
 To prevent yourself against any possible fraud, you should go with your buyer to the bank for a cashier's check. You will also need to draw up a bill of sale, which should include a description of the vehicle and its VIN number, any warranty that may have been agreed upon, a note if the car was sold as is, the final price, and the names and signatures of the buyer and seller.Call the DMV to check if your state requires any additional paperwork.
Don't forget to remove the car from your insurance.
Remove all personal items from the car.

