 Whether it is based on emotion or reason or a desire to help those in need, your conscience will guide you to make the right choices before you act.


Trigger your conscience by asking: “How would I feel if someone did this to me? What would the people I respect think or do in this situation?”

, Think about how you speak, stand, listen, and engage with your family, friends and co-workers. How could it be improved?


Just small differences in your communication style can make a big difference in how effectively you get along with others. Learn about how to practice respectful communication and practice non violent communication.
Show goodwill to everyone, even if they don’t seem to deserve it at the time. Remember that you don’t know the circumstance behind their bad behaviour. Choose to show kindness and respect to everyone. As Plato said: ”Be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a hard battle.”
Make what you think, say and do agree. Using your conscience will make decisions and personal relationships easier and give you peace of mind.
 At first you will have to think about it, but in time these will turn into habits.


You could decide to do a random act of kindness each day such as paying for the coffee of the person behind you.
You could decide that each day you will stop and tell someone how much you appreciate something they do.
 You might decide to make effort to really listen to others with full attention when they ask for it instead of waiting for your turn to talk or multi-tasking.


Use reminders to keep you on track such as the simple Buddhist mantra: “Right Thoughts, Right Words, Right Action.”
You can read 18 practical tips on living the golden rule here:, If you believe that helping others less fortunate than you is the right thing to do, then get out there and do it.


Reach out and volunteer in your community on issues that your conscience feels strongly about, whether it is people, animals, or the environment. You could offer to be a mentor to children or a tutor to students, or simply donate food and clothing to people in need.
If you can’t volunteer in the community, you can find many opportunities as a virtual volunteer., Each time you do it will increase your belief and confidence that you are a person who can be relied on to do the right thing.


Trust your own beliefs and decisions of what it right. Do not let yourself be swayed by what others think, say or do.
Speak up when you see an injustice being done. Many people have a strong conscience but are afraid to act. Make sure you are a person who not only knows the right thing but does the right thing.

