 A Windows 7 installation disc allows you to install Windows 7 from scratch using your product key. You can create a Windows 7 installation disc legally by downloading the necessary files from Microsoft. You can use the product key that came with your computer to reinstall Windows. The Windows 7 installation disc does not contain any drivers for your specific computer, but you'll be able to download the drivers from the manufacturer's website. You'll be able to use this disc on any computer as long as you have a valid product key.

If you want to create a recovery disc that contains all of the necessary drivers for your computer, see the next section.;
, In order to create an installation disc, you'll need your Windows 7 product key. If you purchased a prebuilt computer or laptop, you can usually find the product key printed on a sticker affixed to the bottom of your laptop or on the back of your tower. It may be included with your computer's documentation. If you purchased Windows 7 from a store, the key will be in the DVD case or in your confirmation email.


If you can't find the sticker, download ProduKey from NirSoft for free here. Unzip the file and run the program. Your Windows product key will be displayed in the ProduKey window.
 Microsoft allows you to download the Windows 7 disc image file, or "ISO," as long as you have your product key. You can download Windows 7 from Microsoft here.
 You'll need to verify your product key and then download the correct version. The download is several gigabytes large, and may take a while to complete.


To determine if you need the 32-bit or 64-bit version, press ⊞ Win+Pause and check the "System type" entry.
 This program will allow you to easily create a bootable DVD or USB drive that contains the Windows 7 ISO file. You can download the program for free from Microsoft here.
 Windows 7 is traditionally put onto a blank DVD, but you can also use a USB thumb drive, which is great for computers without a disc drive. The thumb drive will need to be at least 4 GB, and all of the data on it will be deleted.
 Browse your computer to find the ISO file that you downloaded. It will usually be in your Downloads folder.
 The ISO file will be burned to the blank disc or copied to the USB drive. This may take a little while to complete. Once the process is finished, you'll have a fully-functional Windows 7 installation disc.

