 Eggs and dairy are also rich in vitamin B6.


Add fish to your kid’s diet to help them get an adequate amount of vitamin B6. Even kid-friendly fish sticks contain enough to make a difference (about 0.4 mg).
Many kids enjoy scrambled eggs and toast with jam. Try giving this classic combo to your child to ensure they get enough vitamin B6. One egg contains around 0.121 mg of B6.
Like folate (vitamin B9), animal liver is a good source of B6 (3-oz of beef liver contains about 0.5 mg), but should be fed to your child sparingly so as to avoid negative health impacts.
 Many vegetables provide a natural source of vitamin B6.For instance, carrots, corn, spinach, beans, and lentils are all great sources of B6. Bananas are the one fruit with a notable level of B6 — a small banana contains 0.37 milligrams of B6.Nuts and sunflower seeds also contain high levels of B6. Peanuts contain about 0.5 mg per cup, while sunflower seeds contain about 1.9 mg per cup.
Instead of chips and cheesy treats as an after-school snack, try giving your child nuts and granola with raisins. Kids love this crunchy mixture, and it will give them plenty of B6.
Banana slices on toast with peanut butter makes a great breakfast or after-school snack.
Instead of using cow’s milk in your child’s cereal or hot chocolate, you could try soy milk. This is a great source of B6 (about 0.2 mg per cup) and also has lower levels of cholesterol.
 Whole grain foods are those which include all three parts of the grain — the germ, endosperm, and bran. Foods made with whole grains contain B vitamins — including B6 — that refined grains do not.Identify grain-based products that your child enjoys like waffles, bread, sandwiches, and cereal. Give your child these foods to ensure they get their vitamin B6.


A second option is to eat enriched grains which have B6 and other B vitamins added back into the mix; however, enriched grains have different proportions of the B vitamins than originally existed in the grain. Whole grain products are considered the best.
Brown rice is another grain that you can give your child to help them meet their B6 needs (about 0.3 mg per cup). Try making brown rice with sautéed vegetables in teriyaki sauce, or brown rice pasta in a rich alfredo sauce. Brown rice works well in tacos, too.
 You can get B6 in capsule form or in liquid form.


Be sure you get the children’s version of B6 so that your child doesn’t get the wrong amount.
If you feed your child liquid B6, follow the directions to ensure he or she receives the correct dosage.
 As they age, their B6 intake will increase. As men and women become adults, their levels of B6 begin to vary slightly.


Babies up to six months old need 0.1 mg daily
Babies seven – 12 months old need 0.3 mg daily
Children one – three years old require 0.5 mg daily
Children four – eight years old require 0.6 mg daily
Children nine – 13 years old require 1 mg daily
Teenage girls require 1.2 mg daily, and teenage boys need 1.3 mg daily
It is almost impossible to get too much vitamin B6. As long as your child is not consuming more than their recommended daily caloric intake and not swallowing B6 supplements by the handful, they will not get too much vitamin B6.

