 Choosing a good nation is vital to winning the game. If you want to have a head start, Great Britain is one of the better choices. Great Britain has powerful navies, which allow you to control the waters around Europe, India, and the New World.


This island empire will be left untouched unless an enemy country manages to build a strong battleship.;
, Early trade agreements and alliances will give you an edge. It will boost your income and relationship with the nation you wish to work with. Building your income in the early portion of the game is crucial for building your military might.There are chances that your allied nation will remove the treaty, so make use of them as much as you can.
Build trade ports. The more trade ports you have, the more trade partners you can get. You can also trade with neighboring countries by land.
If you're using Great Britain, it's necessary that you have a trade port for your supplies to be exported and to receive resources from your trade partner.
Pirating is a good way to decrease your enemy's resources. To do this, have your privateers block your enemy's trading route.
 Building and upgrading farms will help field larger armies, and production such as furs, cotton, sugar, and coffee will help increase your economic power.


Destroy Church Schools and replace them with Schools to let you do research. Research is conducted in Schools. The more you upgrade your Schools and fill them with Gentlemen, the faster the research goes. If you have multiple schools, you can research multiple technologies at the same time, but Schools cannot team up on the same technology.
Researching technology costs a certain number of research points. Research points can be gained from Schools per turn. The higher the level of your school, the more points they produce.
Gentlemen also provides points and decreases the turn time required to finish the research, so make sure to put your Gentlemen inside the School building to acquire this bonus.
 Research military technologies such as Plug Bayonet, Ring Bayonet, Formations, etc. These will strengthen your soldiers in the battlefield. Performing research under the Military tab will give your units new and stronger weapon upgrades and also unlocks drill buildings, which gives you access to tougher soldiers.


The same goes for naval upgrades. Aside from faster building and cheaper ships, high naval technology increases the movement range of your battleship, making travel much faster. Higher naval upgrade gives more accuracy using ship cannons.
You can upgrade your explosives for cannons.
Naval ships can be loaded with military units. This enables you to conquer lands across the ocean, but make sure you have enough soldiers to invade the capital city.
 Once you have a stable economy and strong units, don't hesitate to help your allies whenever they request for assistance. This will strengthen your relationship with them and also gives you a chance to conquer new lands.


To wage war against a certain nation, click on the Diplomatic Relations button and then look for the nation's name on the list and click on it. Make sure that your future enemy ally is not part of your allied group to avoid breaking the treaty. Now click on Open Negotiation and then Declare War.
If you declared war against your ally, the alliance automatically breaks.
If you have declared war against the same enemy as your allied nation, you can ask for their assistance. This is useful in putting down nations that constantly get in your way.
Rejecting an ally's request for help may or may not cancel their alliance with you.
Helping an ally in taking down an enemy nation increases your chance of having new lands. With their military support, there's no need for you to dispatch a lot of platoons to take over a city.
 Garrisoned forts have a zone of control that works exactly like the one for armies. This makes forts ideal to guard certain passages that will force enemy units to attack before they can get through.


Fortifying your unit in forts increases defense greatly, giving you enough time to summon reinforcement to put down invaders.
With the use of Generals or Admirals, you can recruit units directly.
 Plan which nation you will take down first. Make sure it's close to your main city and within your reach, or a nation close to your allied country. Most players target nations that are already struggling in war. Joining the battle is considered cheap but a very good strategy.
 In the Diplomatic Relations window, you can see every nation's status and their attitude toward other nations. Search a nation that can be considered as common enemy, and then make an alliance with those whom you think can give enough aid during your attack.
 Move your platoon close to your target. With your units gathered right outside your target's border, open your Diplomatic Relation window to declare war against them or just simply invade their territory.


A window will appear asking you if you wish to ask help from your alliance. Remember, choose only those who are close to you so they can give fast reinforcements.
 In Empire: Total War, there are two types of nations: Major and Minor. Minor nations usually only have one city, but can still field impressive armies if given enough time. Find the Minor nations nearby your starting point and mark them as your first targets.


If you give the minor nations too much time to build up their armies, they can pose serious threats and significantly slow down your expansion.
You can use Minor nations as a way to grind for more XP for your troops. Keep attacking the single city, letting the nation rebuild between each attack. This will provide you constant, easy targets for your armies.
 If there are no enemy armies nearby, you should almost always attack an undefended city. Even if you only have a few units, your soldiers will have an advantage over the garrison guarding the city. Attacking and sieging cities is a much more effective way for dealing with opposing nations instead of meeting their armies on the field.


If the city is defended by nearby, besiege the city with a large army. Use other troops to engage the nearby armies, or let them attack your besieging army. In either case, you will have the advantage over the enemy, and will split their forces.
When attacking a city, make sure you have the force necessary to take it and use the Auto-Resolve option. The computer will give you a higher advantage than normal. If the enemy comes out of the city to attack your siegers, play the battle manually. If any enemy attacks one of your cities, play the battle manually as well.
 Conquering Europe is just the first step, and shouldn't be your only focus. Use your strongest naval unit, load it with ground units, and start exploring the other side of the world. You should have a foothold in the New World by the 1700s at the latest.


Conquering America is much more ideal than taking over India since America holds a lot of resources and trading ports for you to use.
Some of the best provinces to take in the New World are Huron-Wyandot or Northern Quebec. You aren't likely to be attacked by other nations when you're that far north, making your stronghold secure. You can also easily move south or west to take out the other nations occupying the New World, as they are likely not very heavily defended.
If you're using Great Britain, you can start infiltrating America by using your base in Nassau and Port Royal. If your Thirteen Colonies are still under your protection, you can request for their assistance in conquering Native American tribes.
You get to fight France as well if you're at war against them; if not, avoid making sour confrontations until you're able to take over the Native Americans.
 Once you've entered America and taken over the Native Americans' city, build and expand your empire. Upgrade your resources, upgrade your drill building, and draft soldiers to have them stationed in your newly captured land to protect them from any invaders.


A newly claimed city will have a very unstable economy due to the residents' satisfaction.
Once you conquer a city, don't forget to repair them. The city needs to be in good shape in order for you to start upgrading and drafting more soldiers.
Exempt the region from tax if needed; this will boost the happiness of the residents. Once they're settled down, you can switch off the exemption to start earning income.
Build, increase your resource, draft, and then expand. Repeat. With high resources, you don't have to worry about income. Just focus with conquering, and then travel to India to continue your world domination.
 As your army grows, you may find that your income production does not match the upkeep costs of your military. Strike a balance between what you need to expand and conquer versus how much you can support.


Taxes are a great way to avoid bankruptcy in the late game, especially if you are playing as a Monarchy. Tax the wealthy classes to gain big income without inciting unrest.
 Whenever a city is attached or conquered, the residents' happiness drop dramatically. Rebellion, protesting, and other problems may happen. To get rid of this, attack any rebels that appears near your captured cities. Rebels will put a damper on your economics, and count against your world domination total., As the game starts wrapping up, you will find that you only have a few opponents left. Take them down one at a time, making sure that your forces aren't spread too thin.


You will need to start taking out your allies as well. Make sure that you only attack your allies one at a time. If you attack one ally, it will make you other allies mad but they should be too scared to try to attack you. Attacking multiple allies at once will cause them to band together against you.

