 If your school hosts social events or get-togethers before classes start, plan to attend them. Nursing school can be stressful, and it will be helpful to have a set of peers who understand and can help you through the challenges you’ll face as a nursing student., Every nurse will need to pass the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX) prior to working in the field. Review a study guide for the NCLEX before you start your studies and as you progress through school. This will help you understand the types of questions asked and the subjects that are featured on the exams.


There are different versions for registered nurses (NCLEX-RN) and licensed practical nurses (NCLEX-PN).
You will not have to worry about the NCLEX if you plan to become a CNA. CNAs do not take the NCLEX. They take a separate exam for CNAs.
 It is easy to become overwhelmed with the sheer volume of work involved in nursing school, as well as the wealth of knowledge you need to master. Schedule study time in your planner and develop good habits, like studying a little each day and reviewing your notes during your down time.Your professors will undoubtedly assign numerous chapters to read each week. Instead of trying to memorize all of them, focus more attention on the material covered in class.Keep in mind that you will using what you learn when treating patients. You may understand and master the material better if you think, “How will this information help me treat patients?”

, Your school may already have study groups set up, or you could form one with some friends. With a study group, you can compare notes, study for tests, and practice demonstrating skills.You will retain more knowledge and be less stressed if you study, either with a group or alone, on a regular basis rather than cram the night before exams., Nursing school involves learning a lot of material, sometimes in a short period of time. Since you will also be busy with other aspects of your life, you will need to figure out a way to remain organized and on top of things. Use either a daily planner, a wall calendar, or an online scheduling program to block out time for studying, projects, and all of the reading you will need to do.Use the alerts on your smart phone to keep track of upcoming exams and paper deadlines.
Keep all of your nursing gear in one place at home, so you always know where it is.
Organize other aspects of your life as well, like scheduling time for errands and household chores.
 Your outside life won’t stop just because you’re busy with nursing school. Be sure to have solid plans for your living arrangements, transportation, and income stream before starting your program.


If you can, live at home with your parents or find a roommate to share expenses with. This type of living situation can also be helpful because household chores won’t fall only on you.
If you plan to work during school, be upfront with your supervisor about your schedule. It will typically change every 8 weeks, so flexibility is a must for your job.

