 Before you decide you have no sense of humor, consider that you may have a different style than other people. For example, you may have a dark sense of humor which some individuals have difficulty responding to.Review different types of humor to see if any one of them feel similar to what you find funny. Some styles are as follows:


Witty humor. Witty humor tends to be more observational and deals with current events as well as intellectual topics.
Dark humor. People who enjoy dark humor will often joke about topics that others stay away from, like death.
Sarcastic humor. Sarcastic humor or a dry sense of humor, involves some exaggeration and deadpan jokes. People sometimes have trouble distinguishing if someone using sarcasm is serious or joking.
Silly humor. People who enjoy the sillier sense of humor often like slapstick bits, puns, double entendres, and euphemisms.
 It is important to know the difference between having no sense of humor and being unhappy. Jokes are often a way of dealing with anxiety and unhappiness.Sometimes your level of stress and emotions can get in the way of that. If you feel you are unable to enjoy funny things, consider it may be a sign of a temporary emotional obstacle rather a lack of humor.


If you are going through a time of grief or loneliness, it may be very difficult to find a consistent sense of humor.
If you struggle with depression, consider its effects on your ability to find things humorous or to be funny yourself.
If social anxiety has been a problem for you in the past, you may have a sense of humor that is just difficult to access in front of others.
 There are some circumstances, other than emotions, that can become obstacles to finding or developing a sense of humor. One of these obstacles can be if you are taking yourself too seriously.Being able to laugh at yourself is a difficult but important task.The more you are able to laugh at yourself, the easier you will be able to handle stress and difficult situations.Try practicing laughing at yourself when you are alone. Just as you might laugh at someone if they make a silly mistake or trip, try laughing at yourself when those occur.
Laugh with others at yourself.If something happens around friends, laugh together at you. You can even play it up. If you fall, jump back up take a big bow or demand scores from your friend on your “dismount.”

, If you are determined to develop a sense of humor, it is something you can learn to a certain extent. Begin by surrounding yourself with humor.Digesting different examples and styles allows you to become familiar with what is considered funny. You can even use jokes or bits you've heard to get you started in social situations. Immerse yourself in the following ways:


Watch comedy shows or stand up comedians.
Listen to podcasts that amuse you.
Meet, or spend time with, a funny person you know.
Read humorous books or autobiographies of comedians.

