 It means understanding the impermanence and imperfect nature of worldly objects and ideas, and to understand the law of karma. It begins with the insight that all beings are subject to suffering and it ends with complete understanding of the true nature of all things. Since our view of the world forms our thoughts and our actions, the right view yields the right thoughts and right actions.
 Buddha distinguishes three types of right intentions: 1. The intention of renunciation of unwholesome desire. 2. The intention of good will and eliminating feelings of anger and wishing bad will on others. 3. Not thinking or acting cruelly, violently, or aggressively towards others and developing compassion and kindness.
 Buddha explained right speech as follows: 1. Abstaining from false speech, especially not telling deliberate lies and not to speak deceitfully. 2. Abstaining from insulting speech and not to use words cruelly against others. 3. Refraining from using harsh words that offend or hurt others. 4. Abstaining from gossiping. What this means is to tell the truth, to speak friendly, warm, and gently.
 Unwholesome actions lead to unsound states of mind, while wholesome actions lead to sound states of mind.
Again, the principle is explained in terms of abstinence:
1. Abstaining from harming people, especially taking life (including suicide) and doing harm intentionally or delinquently to others.
2. Abstaining from stealing, fraud, deceitfulness, and dishonesty.
3. Abstaining from sexual misconduct.
Right action means to act kindly and compassionately, to be honest, to respect the belongings of others, and to keep sexual relationships harmless to others.
, Without effort, which is in itself an act of will, nothing can be achieved. Misguided effort distracts the mind from its task, and confusion will be the consequence.
Mental energy is the force behind right effort; it can occur in either wholesome or unwholesome states. The same type of energy that fuels desire, envy, aggression, and violence can on the other side fuel self-discipline, honesty, compassion, and kindness.
Right effort is detailed in four types:
1. To prevent the arising of unwholesome states;
2. To abandon unwholesome states that have already arisen;
3. To arouse wholesome states that have not yet arisen;
4. To maintain and perfect wholesome states.
 It is the mental ability to see things as they truly are, with clear consciousness. Instead, we almost always conceptualize, sense impressions and form thoughts immediately. We interpret actions and relate them to other thoughts and experiences. The mind then weaves those constructs into complex interpretative schemes.
Right mindfulness is clear perception and it penetrates impressions without getting carried away. It enables us to be aware of the process of conceptualization in a way that we actively observe and control our thoughts.
 This concentration is described as a single point of mind, a state where all mental faculties are unified and directed onto one particular object.
Right concentration for the purpose of the eightfold path means wholesome concentration, the concentration on wholesome thoughts and actions. The Buddhist method of choice to develop right concentration is through the practice of meditation. The meditating mind focuses on a selected object. It first directs itself onto it, then sustains concentration, and finally intensifies concentration step by step. Through this practice it becomes natural to apply elevated levels of concentration in everyday situations.

