 When changing the antifreeze in your vehicle, be very careful. Don't let any antifreeze drain onto the road because it has a sweet taste and it could be licked by passing pets. If drank, antifreeze containing ethylene glycol causes kidney failure and death.Store antifreeze in the garage on a high shelf in the original container, well out of reach.
 Even if you have a dog, you may use rodenticides, pesticides, or slug bait to get rid of annoying pests around your home. Make sure to take measures to protect your dog from these items when you use and store them.Rodents are mammals just like dogs. Rodenticides are harmful to dogs as well as rodents. If you place rodenticides out to kill rodents, make sure to place them in places where your dog cannot get into them, because it could be potentially fatal. Be sure to keep rodenticides in a sealed container on a high shelf when not being used.
Read the instructions for pesticides or herbicides carefully. Some may leave a residue on plants that is harmful to dogs even when dry. Avoid using products that are harmful to dogs. Instead, choose pet-friendly products. For products that are pet safe, be sure they are totally dry before the dog comes into contact with them.
When using slug bait, always read the label and make sure the product you are using is pet safe. Consider using alternative methods of slug and snail control, such as nematodes.
 Many common garden plants, and especially spring bulbs, are toxic and cause irritation of the gut if chewed and swallowed by dogs. If your dog likes to dig up plants and bulbs, put a fence or barrier around your garden or choose pet-friendly bulbs just in case. Carefully research all the plants in your garden to check they are safe for your dog before planting.For example, rhododendrons, azaleas, and tulip bulbs contain a substance which can cause sickness and diarrhea, coma, or even death.
 May patio cleaners contain caustic chemicals which can cause skin burns. If the dog walks across a wet patio and then washes his paws with his tongue, he could sustain damage not only to the paws, but also to his mouth, tongue, and esophagus. Always let the patio dry completely and then be washed clean by rain before letting the dog on it.


Alternatively, consider using a pressure washer to remove any leftover cleaner.

