 The ideal location for your date will be a public space close to either her residence or yours. A familiar setting will help your date feel more comfortable around you. In addition, such a location makes home an accessible destination.Be proactive in selecting the location. She’ll appreciate not having to do all the work.
Inform her of what you’ll do during the date before you meet her.;
, Dinner and a movie does work, but it’s better to choose a cheap, fun activity such as taking a walk, cooking together, going bowling, or going to karaoke. An energetic activity removes the pressure to talk for several hours, helps her associate the date with positive emotions and memories, and creates acceptable physical contact.If you do go out for drinks or dinner, try not to make it seem like an interview. Sit next to her instead of across from her.
 Good conversation is necessary in any date. Take time when you can to show who you are. Try to forget to think about how well the date is going or how to sell yourself as a partner. Instead, speak to her as you would a friend. Build a connection by sharing your life, your interests, and your goals with enthusiasm.One strategy is to reveal an appropriate vulnerability in an amusing way, such as discussing a funny but impactful story from childhood, something you don’t do well now, or a fear you have.
 Obviously, you need to offer her the opportunity to feel accepted and excited by you too. Start off with general questions like where she’s from or what she studied in school. Progress into more personal or unusual questions, such as what music she likes, her ambitions, or what she’d do if she won the lottery.Listen to her answers without judgment. Don't ridicule, no matter what you think.
Turn off your phone or leave it at home.
 Of course, you are more likely to continue a date at home if the girl is having fun. She’ll laugh when you build a rapport through activities and sharing your sense of humor. The atmosphere won’t feel tense; instead of her looking at the clock, she’ll lean in and pay close attention to what you have to say. She may flip her hair, tilt her head, or even gently touch your wrist.
 During a positive point in the middle of the date, hint at going home. You can say something like, “We should go home after this and watch the new episode” during a point when you’ve connected over a show you have in common or would like to see.Doing it subtly means suggesting the date continue, not demanding it. Be respectful.
 After you suggest you go home together, either overtly or covertly, return to normal conversation. Instead of focusing on what happens later, show that you’re a mature, consistent person who will respect her boundaries. Continue on with the date.
 At the end of the date, break any uncertainty or tension by asking her directly if she’d like to continue the date. Think of what subject you discussed that served as a means of connection. You can say, “I had fun, do you want to come up and watch YouTube videos?” or, “I’d love to see pictures, do you have time?” You may also try admitting you don’t want the date to end.If she seems tense, unless it’s in regards to how to end the date, it’s better to avoid asking. Try to build the connection more if you have a second date.
If she refuses, let her go. Don’t pressure her.
 Bringing her home, as well as any touching during the date, should only be done with consent. When you initiate contact in public, do it in a way you’d do with any acquaintance, including gentle touches on the wrist when making a point or guiding by the hand or shoulder during an activity.
 It’s important to make her feel comfortable. Keep your conversations and contact friendly during the date. When in private, be sure to move slow, starting with touches on the hand and low on her thigh. Any touch, including kissing, should be stopped if she pulls away or otherwise seems uncomfortable.Reassure her that you won’t do anything she doesn’t want you to do.
 Part of respecting her wishes is to restrain yourself verbally as well as physically. While flirting is acceptable, it usually is not appropriate to be lewd. Leave those jokes at home. In addition, her impression of you extends to how you treat people around you. Be as complementary and charming to everyone else as you are to her.Being polite and respectful involves not talking badly about past relationship partners, too. It’s often better to avoid this subject entirely and focus on your current date partner.
 In the event that the date doesn’t end the way you want, keep your calm. She is under no obligation to go home with you or even see you again. If she isn’t ready to go home, respect her wishes. Greet her goodnight even if you don’t kiss. This way, you’ll maintain any trust in case you do meet again.