 Most of the jump maps in existence can be downloaded from UrtJumpers, a hub for the jumping community. The jumping community consists of jumpers and mapmakers. You'll need to create an account to download maps from the website, but you may be able to download them directly from other sites by searching for a map name.

If you click on About Jump Maps, you can see the most popular maps. However, many of these will be very advanced and difficult for a beginner to complete.
To find easy to complete maps, click on Download. The default sort is alphabetical. To sort by level (ascending), click the level column label once. As you scroll down, you'll see maps with an increasing difficulty rating. To save time, download as many maps as you want all at once.
For an absolute beginner, Happy Jump Tutorial is a must. It contains tips and explanations for the most common types of jumps.
Once you already know the basics, Uber Jumps is a good second map because of its escalating jump difficulty. This'll help you get used to the concept of repeating jumps until you get them right.;
, This will make it a lot easier to keep retrying jumps since you just have to press a key to return to your saved position. This works on any server (or your computer) that has enabled position saving/loading. You can use any key binding you like.

For example, to bind "g" to load your position you would type /bind g load
To bind h to save your position you would type /bind g save

, If you play by yourself, you will not suffer the effects of lag, you can control certain game variables, and you can take as much time as you need without worrying about the server changing the map on you when you're not ready. If you play online, you can seek the assistance of other players and immerse yourself in the jumping community., Although you can play jump maps in FFA (Free for All) mode, it's not ideal as you won't be able to enable jumper-friendly features like stamina regeneration and position saving/loading. Run each of the commands below in the console while at the main menu to prepare your game. You can access the console by pressing tilde (~).


/g_gametype 9 - This will set the jump mode gametype for your local system.

/g_stamina 1 - This will turn on stamina regeneration. You can set it to 2 for infinite stamina, but this is not recommended because it makes some jumps easier than intended and may form bad jumping habits if you use it regularly.

/g_allowPosSaving 1 - this will allow you to save/load your position which will save you time and allow you to return to your saved location on the map at anytime.
 In the example below, we will load Happy Jump Tutorial, a good beginner map. Remember, you can use tab complete - type just a few letters and then press tab to autocomplete. If it doesn't complete, a list of possible matches will show and you'll need to type a few more letters before it can know exactly what you want

/map ut4_happyjumptutorial_beta3.pk3
Or, alternatively, /devmap ut4_happyjumptutorial_beta3.pk3 to enable cheats like noclip if you think you might like to use that for exploration.
 If you haven't quiet mastered the skill of jumping and sprinting, then you'll want to load a big wide open map like ut4_riyadh (which is not a jump map) just to have some space to try it out. If you think you've got the hang of it, you can try completing the jump tutorial map., The variable set earlier just turned on the feature. To actually toggle it for your player, you need to type /regainstamina in the console., Look in the gametype column for "JUMP" that indicates jump mode. Most jump servers will use this mode since it's the best for jumping, but if one doesn't, it should have "Jump" written in its name somewhere., A lot of maps may be below or above your current skill level. That's okay. Compare that to the difficulty rating table referred to earlier and see if it's something you think you'd like to try. If you don't already have the map, it should be automatically downloaded as long as the server is configured correctly., If you'd like, open the console and turn on stamina regeneration (/regainstamina), If there's no one else playing and you don't like the map, it might be a good idea to call a vote to cycle the map (or vote for the next map first, then cyclemap) so you can play the map you want., To sprint, press W and E at the same time. Most jump maps will require you to be sprinting to successfully complete the jumps., Jumping is easy, press SPACE. Do this several times while sprinting. After doing this for a while, you may notice that you can go faster by making a slight curve than by jumping in a straight line. This is an important technique you'll learn and use for future jumps. A powerslide can be achieved by holding crouch before landing after your last jump.,

If there are walls, chances are you need to walljump off of them. If there are platforms, you'll generally need to jump on them. To do a walljump, press jump (space by default) as soon as you hit the wall. You must be moving for this to work. If you're having trouble getting enough distance to a platform for example, try using prejumps. This means jumping several more times in advance to achieve the desired velocity. Note that not all walls can be jumped on. This is set by the mapmaker and may be used on more advanced maps.
See ice? Ice can be a bit tricky, but in general you want to move in a curve to build up speed (you do not usually need to jump on ice, just sprint).
Jump map ladders are a bit different from normal ladders. The rungs are spaced slightly farther apart, so you have to hold "W" longer in order to reach and grab the next ledge.
 You can learn a lot by watching more skilled players jump. Take note of where they walljump, jump off platforms, crouch, and how they flick their mouse during some jumps. These are all techniques that are learned through trial and error., Failing jumps is a necessary and unavoidable part of learning how to master the skill. Sometimes, you'll want to quit. If you feel like you're doing something wrong, try doing it in a different way. Look up a demo of someone doing it. Ask for help from veteran players on the server. It may take time, but eventually you will pass the jump.