 If you’re new to the sport, you may not have any idea how many options you have. Look at some sporting goods store sites to get an initial idea, and look at paintball specific retailers. Read reviews on various models to gauge which guns people tend to like most.


With so many choices on the market, it’s really not worth it to try and find the “best” gun, rather to find one that you think will suit you best.
You can gather a lot of information about various guns by going to online stores like Amazon or Ebay and reading product descriptions.
You can also visit specific paintball manufacturer’s sites to see their full selection and find out what advantages different guns offer.;
, If you are buying your first paintball gun, it’s likely that you don’t know quite what you need. If you have a paintball specific store or a paintball field with a pro shop, go there and talk to someone. They will be able to offer you a lot better information than you’ll find on your own.


If you go somewhere where people pay to play paintball that doesn’t sell guns, they may be more honest with you because they won’t be trying to sell you anything.
Ask friends who play often what gun they have and what they think of it.
 Paintball guns can range from $40 to upwards of $2000, so decide how much money you are willing to spend. For a basic gun that is of good quality, expect to pay around $200. Making a firm decision about how much you are willing to spend will help you narrow the focus when you choose a gun.Your budget should account for other necessary gear as well, which includes at least a mask, a CO2 or air tank, and a hopper. This will cost you $75 or more most of the time.
If you buy the gun with the lowest price you can find, you might be getting a low quality product. On the other hand, for most players, a top of the line gun is not necessary.
 These guns are lower tech so they are great if you’re a beginner or you won’t be playing a lot of highly competitive games. Mechanical guns have less parts and don’t require battery power so they tend to be sturdier.They can withstand woodsball where you might get them a little muddy or might be rougher on them.
This is also a good option if your budget is lower because their simplicity makes them cheaper.
One downside is they are not programmable so they are less versatile.
If you plan to play once or twice a month on a field course with some friends, get a mechanical gun.
 These guns are electric and can be programmed for fire-rate and for semi-automatic, burst, or automatic. If you will play competitive speedball, you can do it with a mechanical gun but you’ll be at a disadvantage. The electronic parts of these guns make them a little less durable.


These guns have come down in price a lot since they were introduced but will still typically cost more than a mechanical gun because of the added capability.
One of the key advantages of an electro-pneumatic gun is that you can fire much more rapidly and can program the gun to be automatic, meaning you can hold the trigger to fire multiple balls rather than one ball per trigger squeeze.
 There are lots of different ways you can customize some high-end guns, but others have littler versatility. If you think you may invest more money in your gun later on, you want to pick a gun that allows you to add scopes, adjust fire rate, or attach a new barrel.


Most paintball guns allow you to change barrels and hoppers at least, but higher tech ones will allow for greater customizations.
Balance is important here. You don’t want to buy a low-end gun that won’t let you make any changes, but you may not want an expensive, high-end gun that you’ll never actually add anything to.
It’s also good to choose guns that have mass-produced and interchangeable parts to ensure that you will be able to make repairs on the gun if you need to.
 The best gun is ultimately the one that feels most comfortable to you, not the gun with all the best specifications. See if the gun feels too heavy or too light, taking into account the added weight of the air tank, hopper, and any sights you might add.How the gun looks is somewhat important because you want to like the look, but how it feels in your hands is much more important.
If you are buying online, it is still good to shop around at stores that sell paintball guns so you are able to handle it. You can’t judge a gun fully just by seeing a picture on a screen.
 Squeeze the trigger to see how easy it moves. Switch the safety mechanism on and off. Try out the cocking mechanism. All of these should be easy to use so that you can do them quickly when you need to.


If the seller will let add and remove a barrel, hopper, and air tank, you can see how easy the parts are to adjust. Don’t buy a gun that doesn’t allow you to easily change part out.
 Once you have settled on the specific gun that you want, check with a few stores and online sellers to see if that particular gun is sold at different prices. A local shop might be able to lower the price or throw in extras.When comparing, double check that it’s the exact same model and whether or not the price includes any extras like hopper, strap, or tank.
If you decide on the model that you want, it’s worth looking into buying a used gun, which would save you money. You want to make sure the seller is reliable and that the gun definitely works.
Buying online might get you a lower original price, but make sure you know about any shipping costs as this might end up being more than you expect.

