 The human body is a very complex system, and the operations that control physical coordination have plenty of room for mix-ups. There are four major body parts responsible for coordination, and dysfunction in any one of the areas (or multiple areas) can cause clumsiness.Eyes. The eyes take in outside information about the body’s physical position in space.
Brain and nervous system. The brain and nervous system relay messages throughout the body on how to respond to information about its physical environment.
Cerebellum. The cerebellum is an area of the brain that handles physical coordination and balance.
Muscles and bones. Your muscles and bones respond to commands from your brain and move you around.;
, There are a whole host of issues that can cause clumsiness, whether it’s temporary or a chronic problem. Some of these are serious medical issues, while others can be addressed at home.Some common causes of clumsiness include:


Head injuries
Joint hypermobility
Vision issues
Arthritis
Certain medications
Alcohol consumption or drug use
Stress and fatigue
Muscle weakness or disuse

, There isn’t a lot of research about why people are chronic klutzes, but some research suggests that people who are particularly accident-prone may experience “cognitive failures,” or lapses in attentiveness.A "Cognitive Failures Questionnaire" developed by experimental psychologist Donald Broadbent may help you quantify your clumsiness.Below are some sample items from his questionnaire; the more you answer "yes" to, the greater your probable level of proneness to these "cognitive failures."


“Do you fail to notice signposts on the road?”
“Do you find you confuse right and left when giving directions?”
“Do you bump into people?”
“Do you find you forget which way to turn on a road you know well but rarely use?”
“Do you forget where you put something like a newspaper or book?”
“Do you fail to see what you want in a supermarket (although it’s there)?”
“Do you drop things?”
“Do you find you accidentally throw away the thing you want and keep what you meant to throw away -- as in the example of throwing away the matchbox and putting the used match in your pocket?”

