 To play Elder Scrolls Online, you will need to make an account at Bethesda.net, and pay a monthly subscription fee separate from the cost of the game.


If you already have an account at Bethesda, skip to Step 2 below.
Visit the official website for Elder Scrolls Online by simply typing into your browser’s search bar http://www.Bethesda.net. You should be redirected to a page that prompts you to enter your birthday. This is so the website can confirm that you are of appropriate age to play Elder Scrolls Online.
Once you’ve entered your birthday, you will be taken to a login screen. Look to the upper right-hand corner where there should be a “Create an account” button with a plus sign. Click on this button. You will be directed to a screen with several areas for you to fill in.
Enter all the necessary information, and make sure you have access to the email you give, as you will need to enter a confirmation code sent to this email address.
Check your inbox for an email from Bethesda.net. If you do not see one, check your Spam folder, and then attempt to resend it. Once you’ve entered your confirmation code, your account should be successfully activated

, Now that you’ve activated your account, you can close out your browser, and open Steam.


If you don’t have Steam yet, you can download it from this site: http://store.steampowered.com/. Just click the green “Download Steam” button at the top-right corner of the page.
 Click on the Store tab, and enter “Elder Scrolls Online” into the search bar.
 The very first result should be the one: the title should be “The Elder Scrolls Online,” and the price should be $59.99. Click on the game, enter your birth date once again, and add it to your cart.
 Click on the green button in the upper right-hand corner that reads “Cart.” At the next screen, select “Purchase For Myself” then select your payment method.


If you use PayPal, you will have to log into your account. If you decide to use any sort of card, you will have to enter its information.
 Hit “Continue,” making sure to check all necessary boxes, such as agreeing to living in the United States, and the Terms and Conditions. Once done, select the button that prompts you to finalize your purchase.


Congratulations, you are now the proud owner of Elder Scrolls Online!

, In the upper left-hand corner of your Steam home page, select your Library, click on “Elder Scrolls Online” and select “Install.”


Once the game is nearly finished downloading, a prompt will appear to activate your account on Bethesda.net. Luckily you’ve already done this, so simply click the “I already activated” option, and have fun playing!

, Upgrading is totally optional. Unlike the online store for Elder Scrolls Online, Steam does not provide the Imperial Edition as a standalone game. Once you have successfully purchased and installed the Standard Elder Scrolls Online to your computer, you can upgrade it for an extra twenty dollars.

Return to the Store on Steam, and enter “Elder Scrolls Online Imperial Edition” into the search bar. It should be the first result. Click on it, and follow the same instructions to purchase it as you did for the game itself.
Once you’ve successfully made your purchase, go into your Library once more, select Upgrade, and then Install.

