 You will not always agree with your parents and there will be misunderstandings. You can become a good daughter by addressing any conflicts that arise in a calm and mature manner before they get any bigger.If it’s not a big deal, then just go along with what they want. For example, if your mom wants you to wear the skirt she bought you to dinner, just wear it. It’s only for a few hours.
Agree to disagree. You are different people and will not always see eye-to-eye. That’s okay. Just respect each other’s right to have your own opinion.
Don’t use words like ‘always’ or ‘never’ (For example, “You always say that…”; “You never listen!”), or resort to name-calling or yelling.
Be willing to compromise. Working together and being flexible will help you resolve conflicts better., Be understanding and know that they're only human. Forgiving them when they do mess up helps you become a good daughter. It allows you to address the problem and move past it in a healthy way.The thought of having disappointed you is already torturing them, so don't worsen it by rubbing it in their faces like salt to a wound.
Instead, realize that their peace of mind and hearts is more important than what they failed to deliver and forgive them.
 You can become a good daughter by acknowledging when you do something wrong and apologizing for it. Instead of getting mad at your parents for holding you accountable for your actions, accept that you made a mistake, talk about it, and apologize.


You might try saying, “I didn’t use my best judgment. I’m really sorry.”
Don’t feel you need to apologize for something you didn’t do or that is beyond your control. For example, you shouldn’t apologize for being a girl.
 Parents may occasionally get upset and yell or speak sharply to you (like saying, “Get in your room!” instead of “Please go to your room.”) However, parents shouldn’t yell at you all the time. It’s also not okay for a parent to put you down, call you names, insult you, or threaten you.If your problem with your parents is that they do these things on a regular basis you should immediately tell someone you trust. You could be in a toxic relationship with them or it might be abuse.


If they are abusing drugs or alcohol, or even just very stressed, they may say or do things that hurt you emotionally, mentally, or physically.
If you see one of your parents abuse the other parent (or anyone else), it can also be considered abusing you. You should report this as well.
Know that telling someone what is going on does not make you a bad daughter. In fact, it makes you a great daughter because you are helping yourself and your parents.
Do things to take care of your mental and emotional health like keeping a journal, talking to a therapist, or practicing meditation.

