 If your relative has not asked you a direct political question, it may be best to ignore the topic and not add to the discussion. Only partake in conversations that you know will remain calm and respectful.You do not have to share your opinion, even if someone else is. You can keep it to yourself to avoid conflict, especially if you know what the hot button issues in your family are. Is it really worth it to respond if your uncle is hassling you about a political candidate you supported on Facebook this election?Sometimes, it's better to simply bite your tongue. Try to remind yourself you're unlikely to change anyone's mind in a brief argument over the holidays. Try to laugh it off if someone is saying something that irks you. You can always rant to friends later on.
 If a political discussion is beginning, find a way to derail it quickly. You can easily change the subject in an uncomfortable conversation by bringing up something tangentially related that's less loaded. See if you can remember any interesting facts or anecdotes related to a political discussion.Say your Aunt Lesley is loudly discussing her opinions on the United States prison system. Try to think of something less loaded you can insert into the discussion.
For example, "Speaking of prison, did you guys see that Orange is the New Black show? It's interesting how Netflix is doing its own original stuff now. Strange how TV is changing."
This turns the conversation away from prison altogether. While you're bringing up a show related to prison, that has some political undertones, you're turning the conversation towards changing forms of media rather than the show itself.
 If you are asked a direct question, and you simply disagree with someone, try to find commonality. You may be able to prevent a conversation from becoming a debate by trying to find something you can agree on.For example, say you're debating climate change. You can say something like, "Look, at the very least, I think we can both agree we should protect the planet, whether global warming is real at not. Why don't we just leave it at that?" Then, try to change the subject.
Again, be persistent. Some relatives may be particularly argumentative, so make an effort to shut this down. Just keep repeating yourself, in different ways. For example, "Yes, I know you don't think global warming is manmade, but we both know our planet is important. We can agree on that."

, If you get stuck in a political argument and cannot get out, try to find something the other person will want to discuss more. You can try to refer back to a previous topic, or you can ask a personal question. People like to talk about themselves, so oftentimes asking personal questions can trigger a topic change.Maybe you know your cousin Sophie is going through a rough breakup. She loves complaining about her ex, but the conversation has turned to religion. You can say something like, "What church did Chris go to again?" She may start ranting about her ex and abandon the politics.
You can also find a personal question to ask to derail the conversation. For example, your Uncle Ted has been complaining about the dangers of medical marijuana, a topic that usually sparks debate. He may say something like, "I never wasted my time on drugs when I was young." Try to say something like, "What kind of things did you do for fun in college?"

