 Your Xbox should be flashed with the latest version of the iXtreme LT+ firmware. You can either do this yourself or find someone to do it for a fee. It involves opening the Xbox, identifying the DVD drive manufacturer, connecting the DVD drive to your PC, and then installing custom firmware onto the Xbox DVD drive. This will allow your Xbox to play backup DVDs.;
, To burn a game, you will need the .iso file that is created when the disc is ripped to a computer. There are two main ways that you can get an Xbox 360 .iso file: you can download the .iso from a source online, or you can make a backup from a physical disc.


The most popular way to download .iso files online is to use a torrent client and tracker. You can find .iso files for nearly any game using torrents. Be aware that downloading games that you do not own is illegal in most areas, and even downloading games that you do own is frowned upon and could land you in trouble. See this guide for details on using torrents.
You can create your own .iso backup files from physical discs if you have the right software and hardware. You will need an IDE Kreon DVD drive (SATA will not work). If you don't use the right drive, your backup will likely be corrupted or won't work at all. You will also need a program called Xbox Backup Creator, which can be found on various Xbox modding sites. When using Xbox Backup Creator, simply insert the disc into the Kreon drive, select "Complete Backup", and click Start.
Xbox 360 .iso files are typically around 8 GB in size.
 The .iso file must be "stealth-patched" in order for it to work correctly online after being burned. You can do this using a program called ABGX, which can be found on most Xbox 360 modding sites. Make sure that you are connected to the internet while running ABGX 360 so the latest verification files can be downloaded.


In the ABGX Options menu, check the two boxes that say "Check/Fix Video padding" and "Check for AnyDVD style game data corruption."" In the AutoFix menu, select "Level 2" for the AutoFix Threshold. In the Region menu, select your region (NTSC/U for North America). Save the settings using the File menu.
Click File → Open Input and open the .iso file. Click the Launch button at the bottom of the window. A new window will appear with a readout of the patching details. The patching process will take a little while to complete. If you see the messages "Stealth check passed!" and "AnyDVD style corruption was not detected", then the patching process was successful and you will be safe to play the game online.
ABGX will create a .dvd file alongside the .iso file. You will need this when burning.
 There are essentially two types of Xbox 360 games: XGD2 and older, and XGD3 games, which use a newer form of copy protection. Only specific DVD burners will be able to create working copies of XGD3 games.


The LiteOn iHas Revision B burner is the highest recommended burner for copying XGD3 games, though several other models work as well. The DVD burner must have an MKT chipset in order to copy XGD3 games.
The Sony Optiarc 5280S-CB-PLUS is also able to burn XGD3 games and is able to do so right out of the box (no firmware modification needed).
XGD2 games do not require any particular model of DVD burner. Higher quality burners will lead to more successful copies.
 Burning newer 360 games pushes the disc to its physical limits by writing data further to the edge of the disc. Having a high quality DVD will reduce the number of bad burns you get.


Be sure to get Dual Layer (DL) DVD+R discs. These have a capacity of 8.5 gigabytes.
Verbatim brand discs are the most highly recommended, as they are the least likely to fail during the burning process. Any disc that is DL and has a capacity of 8.5 gigabytes should theoretically work

, Any image burning software that supports .iso files and is compatible with DL DVDs will work. There are many freeware burning programs available online.

