 You need to complete an “Application for Explosives License or Permit,” which is available from the Department of Justice’s Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives website.You can either print the form out and write in your information or you can enter the information into a PDF on your computer before printing it out.
If you print, then use all block letters.;
, One permit is required for an individual or business to acquire, use, or transport explosives. However, you need to submit a separate application and license fee for each premises on which you will manufacture, import, or distribute explosives., The form will ask for basic information about you and your business in Section A. If you need additional space for any item, then include a sheet of paper with your name and address at the top, and clearly identify the item the additional information refers to. Required personal information includes:Name
Trade or business name
Social Security Number or Employer Identification Number
County where your business is located
Physical address of the premises
Mailing address (if different from physical address)
Business and residence telephone numbers
Fax and email address
Your business’s legal form (partnership, corporation, sole proprietorship, etc.)

, You can pay by check, money order or cashier’s check, or credit/debit card. If you are paying by credit or debit card, then include the following:Card number, without dashes
Name as printed on the card
Expiration date
Billing address
Total amount of fees
Signature of cardholder
Date

, As part of the application, you need to identify all “responsible persons.” This term is defined in the application’s instructions. Essentially, it includes anyone with the power to direct the management of the applicant, such as an owner, partner, or shareholder (if the shareholder has the power to direct management and policies). Provide the following information for each “responsible person”:Full name
Alien number or admission number, if not a citizen
Position at the business
Social Security Number (voluntary)
Home address
Email address
Home and work telephone numbers
Date of birth
Place of birth
Country of citizenship
Sex
Ethnicity
Race

, For example, if you intend to manufacture explosives, then you should check all of the different explosives you manufacture, such as dynamite, fireworks, black powder, etc.You also should provide information about any local or state license you had to obtain in order to run your explosives operations or business.
 You will be asked a series of questions about your criminal background and the background of all people listed as Responsible Persons on your application. The following is a sample of what you will be asked:Whether you are a fugitive from justice
Whether you are under indictment or information for a felony or any crime for which you could be imprisoned for more than a year
Whether you are presently appealing a conviction
Whether you have ever been convicted of a felony
Whether you have ever received a dishonorable discharge from the Armed Forces

, The application also requests information about where your business is located and when it operates. For example, the form asks for the following:Your hours of operation (when you open and close)
The type of building your business is located in (commercial building, residence, etc.)
Whether you own or rent the premises

, You can call ATF at (877) 283-3352. Alternately, you could review information online at www.atf.gov.


If you want to mail correspondence, then send it to ATF Federal Explosives Licensing Center, 244 Needy Road, Martinsburg, WV 25405., You need to read the storage requirements set forth in 27 CFR, Part 555, Subpart K – Storage. Your application will be denied if your storage facilities are deemed inadequate after an investigation.You can find this federal regulation on the Internet., This form is part of the application. You must complete one worksheet for each magazine that you use as storage. Provide the following information:Magazine ID number
Any state or local explosives magazine certificate number
Storage magazine address
Type of magazine (permanent, mobile, indoor or outdoor, etc.)
ATF type
Distance to nearest storage magazine, regardless of ownership
Anything that could be damaged if the magazine exploded, such as nearby roads, buildings, utilities, etc.
Materials used in the magazine
Security or safety features
Explosives that will be stored in each magazine, including quantity and weight
A plat plan which shows all buildings on the premises and all magazines identified, including the distances between the magazines and the distances between the magazines and public highways, inhabited buildings, and passenger railways

, This questionnaire must be filled out by each employee who has “actual” or “constructive” possession of explosive materials during employment with you. “Actual” possession means the person has immediate physical possession or control. Someone has “constructive” possession when they don’t physically possess the explosives but otherwise exercise control—for example, someone who has the keys to the magazine. The form asks for the following information:Name
Social Security Number
Place of birth
Date of birth
Ethnicity and race
Sex
Home and work telephone numbers
Home address
Name and address of employer
Job position
Countries of citizenship
Questions about criminal background
Employee signature given under penalty of perjury

, Each “responsible person” must submit a completed FD-258 Finger Identification Card. You will need to contact your local law enforcement agency to have fingerprints taken., The photograph must show a full frontal view of the person’s features. The head must be bare. Make sure that the picture is not more than six months old., After filling out the forms, you should go through and double-check that you have answered everything. Then have the forms signed by an appropriate person in the business:The application form should be signed by the sole proprietor, corporate officer, or partner.
Each Employee Possessor form must be signed by the employee listed on the form.
 The fees are listed on the form, under Item 12. For example, a license to manufacture dynamite costs $200 ($100 for renewal). A permit to use dynamite costs $100 ($50 renewal).Make your check or money order payable to: “Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives.” Be sure to include your Social Security or employer identification number on your check or money order.
 You should mail the completed application to Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, P.O. Box 409567, Atlanta, GA 30384-9567.You should mail the application at least 90 days before you will need the license or permit. Remember that you cannot start operating your business until you receive the license or permit.
 If your application is approved, then ATF will send the license or permit to you. However, if the application is denied, then you will receive written notification explaining why your application was denied.You can get a refund of your application fee if your application is denied, abandoned, or withdrawn. Provide your Social Security or employer identification number.

