, You'll find this under your profile picture in the top right corner of the red toolbar at the very top of all Yelp pages.
 You'll find this towards the left hand side of the page below the red "toolbar" on the page.This button will give you all your reviews you've already written where you'll be given an option to post a new review as a follow-up to the review you posted before.
, Compare all your old reviews to your new review you are planning to post? Try to answer some questions: Were all problems dealt with already or are there others that are still open to discussion by the company? In cases where past experience great, how did the present experience stack up - was it any better or worse than before? Did the employees have to encounter any problems? Was there service issues or did things run rather smooth? Although no two reviews should ever be the same, you should get an idea of what is going on before you write a review update., Although most often you'll find this to the right of the businesses name, there will be times (rare) when you'll find this button placed underneath the business name, address and contact details and below the pictures (but above the recommended "other" places near the establishment).
 Try to focus at first on what you skimmed through before and then add more details about your current experience. There is no length requirement, but writing it in a 2-3 (or more) paragraph style, you can give an accurate representation of what Yelp would consider a great review!

, Rating your review is required for you to save or publish your review . The business' average star rating by customers who review will be determined solely on the review update as well any other updates from others (as opposed to any former reviews). If you write other review updates for that location of the business later, your newest dates' review will be used to determine the average rating for the business on Yelp. Make sure that the rating you give it, reflects the experience you described in the text of the review.
 You'll find the red and white "Post Review" button just below the optional questions and images to review (or below your the box for your present review (if there are no questions that Yelp is still unable to determine), but above your original reviews.

