 Hydroponics means growing plants without soil. Water-soluble fertilizer is used instead. It can produce bigger yields in a shorter period of time, but is more expensive, harder to set up, and requires more careful maintenance. It is ideal for people who are going into the business of growing medical marijuana for sale. That said, hydroponics kits can be purchased that make this an attractive option even for beginners growing their own supply., There are active systems, which use mechanical devices to deliver nutrients to the plants, and the passive wick systems. While active systems can produce higher yields faster, they are also more expensive, more delicate, and require more maintenance.Passive Wick System – The plant sits in a well-draining substrate above a nutrient solution, and nutrients are constantly drawn up into the substrate through a wick. Substrates: vermiculate, peat moss, coco peat.
Ebb and Flow – A nutrient reservoir periodically floods the containers where your plants are growing. The solution then slowly drains back into the reservoir. Substrates: rockwool or coco peat.
Top Feed/Drip Feed – Emitters drip nutrients directly into the soil near the roots. Excess nutrients then drain back down into the nutrient reservoir. Substrates: hydroton clay pebbles, coco peat, or rockwool.
Nutrient Film – Multiple plants are placed in a tilted tray, with nutrients constantly flowing down the slope past their roots, then being pumped back to flow past again. An effective system, but best for experience growers as it requires a lot of fine-tuning. Substrates: rockwool or coco peat.
Deep Water Culture – The roots grow in a constantly oxygenated nutrient solution. It is a low maintenance system, but a loss of power or incorrect nutrient levels can kill your plants. Substrates: rockwool or hydroton clay pebbles.
Aeroponics – The plant roots are held in a dark, sealed box where small nozzles emit a mist of nutrients over them, providing a humid, oxygenated area for the roots. This is the most effective system for growing marijuana, but is also very expensive. Also, if the power cuts out, the mist stops and your plants die. Substrate: hydroton clay.
 The easiest way to do this is to germinate (sprout) your seeds in a bit of rockwool. Keep it warm, wet, and in a dark place. Once sprouted, you can transfer the rockwool directly to your substrate.For older or dried out seeds, try germinating them in warm water in a dark room. If they have not sprouted after 32 hours, move them to a substrate to continue germinating.
 Do not mix nutrient solution inside your system. Instead, fill a bucket with water (pH 6-7, filtered if hard) and add the appropriate amount of nutrient solution to it. Adjust the pH after the solution is mixed; it should be between 5.8 and 6.2., The vegetative stage lasts as long as you want your plants to keep getting bigger. Once you have transferred your seedlings to you hydroponic system, you'll need to maintain the system, as well as the lighting and temperature in the growing environment.


Light – Your plants should receive at least 18 hours of light a day to keep them in the vegetative stage. 24 hours of light will not harm them.
Temperature – Keep it between 72 and 77 degrees.Humidity – Keep it at 50-80%.Nutrient mix – It should be changed at least every two weeks, or when the reservoir has dried. Mix the new solution in a bucket. Quickly throw out the old solution, clean the reservoir and pumps with hot water, and add the new solution.Cleaning – Clean your system once a week. Scoop up any plant material, flush all pots to remove roots, and wash tools in the dishwasher., The flowers of female marijuana plants are what produce the buds with active ingredients. Your plant will be capable of flowering after 4-5 weeks of growth. Plants typically double in height after flowering begins, so you'll want to induce it when they are half as tall as the final height you are aiming for. To induce flowering, change the light cycle to 12 hours light, 12 hours dark.
 Female marijuana plants can become hermaphroditic if stressed due to too much light during dark periods, lack of nutrients, low temperatures, low CO2, or other reasons. They will then produce male flowers. You'll want to remove them immediately to prevent pollination and the resulting seedy buds.A male flower has pollen sacks (little balls) around where the main stem connects to the branches.
A female flower has white hairs at that spot.
 Flowering plants have different nutrient requirements, and are also more prone to disease. To maximize your yield:


Nutrient mix – Switch to a low nitrogen, high phosphorus formula. A Nitrogen-Phosphorus-Potassium mix of 5-50-17 is ideal, though 15-30-15 will work. Use nothing but clean water the last two weeks of flowering to flush out any chemical taste.Humidity – Lower it to 40-50% to reduce the risk of disease.Light – Tuck leaves out of the way of the buds so they get plenty of light.

