


Never underestimate the role of your outfits. Get yourself a couple of smart ones and treat them as an investment in your career. The truth is, nothing can beat a new outfit or an almost new one when it comes to TV/video shooting. So remember to always keep a couple ready for when you might suddenly be required on camera. This will get you ready for any upcoming televisual possibilities and also save you from unnecessary nervousness, as you know that you already have something you can choose at your leisure. If you are running out of budget, simply put on the newest outfits you currently have and be confident. You only look smart when you feel smart!;
,


Say No to street shoes and stick to new ones only. You might think that shoes are not that important as surely the camera will be on your head, well, you can never tell what may get into frame. As you are keeping your video clothes fresh, dust-free and new, do the same to your shoes. Always keep a pair ready for camera in a shoes bag No matter what you are doing. Do not wear those shoes outdoors. You don't want them to scuff or their underside to show up in the frame, do you?
For ladies, closed toe shoes or ones with a block heel are the best options.
For gentlemen, clean, freshly polished smart shoes are top choices.
Don't forget a pair of new socks as unsightly ankles can ruin all the effort you have spent on your outfit.



Be sure that everything fits you perfectly. Baggy clothes will only flatten out your shape and make you look clumsy and heavy. Too snug is always better than too loose if you ever have a choice.



Remember your video is not only for Christmas but for life. Once your video/interview goes online, it stays there for a long time – potentially for ever!!. So it's obviously better to wear something conservative, light and fits any season. Avoid all sort of colourful summer clothes as viewers in wintertime might find it very odd!

,


If you want to stand out a bit more, more casual or trendy, feel free to do so. However, try avoid complex patterns or busy weaves. For gentlemen, a suit or jacket combo never goes wrong. A polo top is also advisable if you want to obtain a more casual look.
For ladies, you may find it strange but trousers work better than skirts and dresses, especially when it comes to seated interview.
For a casual look, try dark jeans with smart shoes. Heels are more preferable.
Just like any other summer clothes, shorts are not in the list. If you prefer skirts, make sure their hemlines are below the knee.
Tights can be quite risky so we would advise you to go for either flesh colored fishnets, bare legs or knee high boots.



You will be asked to wear a lapel clip microphone during the interview. So a shirt with a collar or lapel will be a great help.
If your outfit is not so microphone friendly, a jacket with lapels will save the day.



Choose your accessories with care.
They may look stunning but they might turn out to be an absolute nightmare producing all sorts of unwanted noise and light distractions. Both dangling earrings and necklaces tend to create jangling or rustling sounds, which will annoy and distract your audience from your message. It's best to have just one ring per hand and no reflective accessories such as watches, crystals, diamonds. As their dazzling light goes through the camera, it will hurt the eyes of the camera and also distract the audience from your speaking.



Contrast clothes usually make it impossible for the camera to stay focus on you.
If you have dark skin tone, avoid light colored clothing. It's also necessary to stay in sync with your set, for example: wearing dark with a dark background. Always look for low contrast outfits, in neutral shades. Both black suits or white tops are not a wise choice because of their extreme contrast. Incidentally, these rules also apply for all props you may possibly bring onto set.



Below are the most recommended colors for TV appearance:

Navy blue
Pastel blues(any shades you like)
Greys
Wine/Claret
Purples



,


Some particular patterns blur or cause stroboscope effects (also known as “moire”) on the screen. No matter what you are doing, always avoid:Stripes, Sequins, Checks, Fine weave/patterns, Plaid Linen, Tweed Polka dots, Any reflective or shiny fabric.



There is no harm in getting yourself extra prepared for such cases like having the same top as your co-host or another interviewee. So its advisable to bring along a change of clothing like an alternative tops/jackets or different pairs of shoes.
