 Choose the type that can project videos from a flash drive or an SD card. This keeps the operation simple, since you won't need a computer or a DVD player connected to the projector.
 If necessary, you can create an area by covering it with some type of white material such as white foam insulation board, white plastic, painted plywood or white fabric., Once you have located the spot and the height for the projector, you can proceed to make a protective stand for the projector., Set it in a bucket filled with concrete. If using a 5 gallon bucket, half full is enough. Screwing small pieces of thin scrap lumber cut to fit inside the bucket tightly at right angles to the vertical support will help hold it in place while the concrete is added and while it is curing. You may wish to drive some large nails into the lower part of the lumber before setting it in the concrete so that the wood cannot be pulled out once the concrete has set up., For a small projector, a plastic dishpan works well., Screw some scraps of lumber to the bottom of it to make a secure connection point for running in screws. Screw through the tub into the lumber with one screw on each of two opposite sides, the same distance from the edge so that the tub can be rotated up to reveal the plywood. You will want to place the screws toward one edge, not in the center., Leave it loose enough that the projector can be removed, but tight enough that it doesn't slide out too easily., You may also want to cut a hole to give line of sight to the spot on the projector that receives input from the infrared remote control., The projector is now ready to be positioned outdoors and plugged in. You may want to add a wireless motion sensor "driveway alert" type device to protect against theft. Place it inside the tub. The receiving unit inside the house will sound an alarm if the projector is tampered with., There are several good tools for making videos. Photofilmstrip and OpenShot Video editor are two free ones. Create slides as .jpg images and piece them into a video with your favorite video editing software. Wikimedia Commons is a good source for photos, or you can use you own. You can add text to images using graphics tools, such as Gimp, Pinta, or Paint.net., Set the projector to repeat the video continuously. By adding text you can express your own ideas of how the holiday should be celebrated. You may want to include religious texts, such as short Bible verses or other texts that are meaningful to you. Text seems to show up better on imperfect surfaces if you use white text on a darker background.