 When you're shopping for a new disposal, there are several factors to take into consideration. Think about who will be using the disposal, whether a noisy disposal is an issue in your household, and what kind of plumbing you have at your home.









If you have children who will be using the disposal, consider getting a batch feed disposal rather than a continuous feed disposal. Batch feed disposals, which are a bit more expensive, require the use of a stopper prior to operation, which can be safer in households with kids. Continuous feed disposals start running when you flip a switch and keep running when you switch it off. If someone drops a utensil down the drain or sticks their hand inside, this can be a dangerous situation.
Choose a motor that's right for your household. Models with lower horsepower, usually about 1/3, are suitable for small households with a small amount of food waste. Models with 1/2 horsepower are better for larger households with more food waste.
Consider the features you want the disposal to have. For a higher price, you can buy a disposal made to function more quietly, one made from stainless steel, or one that connects to your dishwasher.
If your plumbing is connected to a septic tank, you need to buy a disposal made especially for septic tanks.;
, In addition to an appropriate garbage disposal, you'll need the following equipment to complete the installation:









A screwdriver
A disposer wrench
A hacksaw
Water pump pliers
Plumber's putty
Electrical cord
Safety supplies, including goggles and a dust mask

, Make sure the power to the garbage disposal is turned off while you're installing it. Cover the panel box to make sure no one can turn it back on until the job is complete.
 Not all disposals are connected to a dishwasher, but if yours is, use a screwdriver to loosen and detach the hose attaching the disposal to your dishwasher.
 Remove the "P" trap waste line running from the disposal by using a wrench to unscrew the slip-nut connecting the disposal to the trap. You might want to place a bucket under the trap to catch any wastewater sitting in the bottom.
 Remove the disposal by inserting a screwdriver into the mounting ring lug and turning counterclockwise until it comes loose.
 Remove the ring on the sink sleeve, the sink sleeve, the flange, the fiber gasket, and the plumber's putty. Finish preparing the sink for the new disposal by cleaning the sleeve, flange and sink opening.
 Some disposals come with appliance wires attached, and others do not. If yours doesn't, remove the cover plate beneath the disposal and attach the wires according the manufacturer's instructions. Most standard disposals have you attach white wires to white wires and black wires to black wires. When you're finished, screw the cover plate back on.
 Roll plumber's putty between your hands to form a snake about 1/2-inch thick and 10 inches (25.4 cm) long. Apply it to the underside of the drain flange under the sink. Insert the flange into the drain hole and press down evenly to attach it. Then snap on the backup ring, fiber gasket and mounting ring.









Working from beneath the sink, use a screwdriver to screw the mounting ring tightly against the sink. It helps to alternate sides, screwing one screw and switching to the other, so that the mounting ring tightens evenly.
Some of the plumber's putty will have squeezed out around the flange. Use a knife to trim it away.
 Place the disposal into the mounting ring, making sure that the disposal's outlet is facing the drain pipe connection. Tighten it until the disposal stays in place.
 Measure the discharge pipe and use a hacksaw to cut it to size, then attach it to the outlet on the disposal. Be sure to read the manufacturer's instructions to make sure you connect it properly. Attach the dishwater discharge tube as well.
 Turn the power back on, run water into the sink and turn on the disposal to make sure it works. Check underneath to be sure there aren't any leaks. Run some food through the disposal to be sure it grinds and gets disposed of properly.








