 You'll need a few different colors to create the flower petals, and any shade of green to create the leaves. You can pick whatever colors are the most fun and visually appealing, but reds, yellows, or oranges will all look great. Text weight paper is a bit heavier than normal paper and will be easy to shape and curl. You should use 2-3 pieces of green paper -- the rest will be used for the flowers.
 Create a template of a few different flowers with connected petals, and then trace this shape onto the paper designated for the petals. Then, create a template of a few different patterns with leaves and trace them onto the green paper. These patterns can be of any size, but the flowers should ideally be about the size of your hand, and the leaves should be about the size of three of your fingers.
 Use a sharp pair of scissors to cut each of the patterns out of the paper. You should have around twenty-five flowers and ten leaves by now.
 Use a pair of scissors to curl the edges of the paper, just as you would curl ribbon. Just run the petals over the edge of the scissors until they curl. For variety, you can have some of the petals curling inward and some curling outward -- just alternate between curling the front of the paper and the back.
 Fold the leaves in half to create a line along the middle of the leaves, and then curl them inward using the scissors. This will add texture and dimension to the leaves.
 Now place the flowers and leaves in a horizontal pattern that would create an eye-catching garland. The leaves will appear to the sides of the petals and don't need to alternate between each flower. You can repeat a pattern of colors or just arrange them at random.
 Run baker's twine or very thick thread through a large needle, and use the needle to poke holes in the center of each petal and leaf. Then, run the threaded needle through the holes until you've connected all of the shapes with the thread. When you've run the thread through all of the shapes, just cut the thread and tie it in thick knots at both ends to hold the patterns together.
, Now that you've created your stunning paper flower garland, you can hang it up by draping it over trees or other outdoor furniture, or hanging it on nails or thumb-tacks inside your home. You can wrap the garland around a banister or the trunk of a tree.








