 There are roller coasters in Six Flags if you like intensity. Another theme park is Hershey Park, which isn't that crazy. Disney world is popular; you may want to go there. Choose your parks carefully. You may want to see if it has restaurants, the rides that suit you, souvenir stands, etc. You don't want to be bored at an amusement park, because usually if you're happy at a theme park then you will have the best time ever. You may want to ask your friends' opinion and facts about the park. Tell them to list the pros and cons of the park. Be sure to write it down.;
, If you know where it is, you might not need a map. But the benefit of getting a map is that if it shows a busy route, you can find another route to go to so you can get there earlier. Some sites that can help are Mapquest, Yahoo Maps, and Maps.com.
 Eat a good breakfast but not heavy as you want to be light on your feet. This way you will spend less time in lines in the park. Other things to bring are cameras, sunglasses, and extra towels. (Most corporate parks, such as Six Flags, Cedar Fair, and Disney, do not allow outside food and drink, unless it's water. Always check signs outside the park, or the park's website before you go.) However, those with diabetes are allowed to bring juice in case their blood sugar gets low.
 Pack up stuff you might need on your trip like money to spend on food. Also you might want suntan lotion if it gets too sunny. If the kids want to go to a little kids ride you don't like, you can read a book while they are riding. Make sure you have shoes that are comfortable. Theme parks are usually spread out all over the place, and they are huge.
 Use the map. If the park is far away then you should bring things to keep you and your kids and friends satisfied if you have them.
 It is best to get to the theme park early. If you do, you can find a nice parking space before everyone else takes up all the other spaces. If you're late, parking spaces are usually hard to find so you may have to wait around 40 minutes during busy times. Make sure you have something that won't make you bored while waiting.
 OR buy tickets in advance, you can save up to 25% off ticket prices if you buy ahead of time and you do not have to wait in line.
 Pick rides that you think are reliable. You may want to get a map of the park ahead of time so you can know your way around the park and avoid getting lost.
 Have fun. Make sure you stop and eat for a while, sit down if you are tired etc. Make sure you take bathroom breaks when you are around a bathroom. You need to stay happy in the park, not just enjoy the rides.

