 If you can stop eating chocolate for one day, you can do it for two days. Keep a tally and record how long you have been without the food you wish to stop eating, and ensure you increase how long you are without each time. (ex. if you go 4 days without chocolate, make sure you go 5 days the next time). In this way, all you need to do is start on something as small as half a day, and that's easy enough, right?;
, If you are living alone this is easiest. Just don't buy it! Don't carry spare cash for snacking when out, and don't even look at the section in the supermarket. This makes it so much easier. If you live with other people, just don't be around them when they start to eat tempting food. Easy!

, When you crave something that is out on the counter or near by, just put in away in the cabinet where you cannot see it.
 If you're trying to kick a habit, then there must be a reason. Use that reason to keep inspiring you to not give in.
 Do you feel better? Do you feel more energized? Are you losing weight? These good things will work as incentives to keep it up.
 You're more likely to add tempting unhealthy foods to the basket when you're hungry.
 You can even carry around alternatives to help if you get a craving. A low calorie or sugar free alternative is gum! Not only does it come in many flavors, but it can keep you preoccupied for hours. An apple is also handy to munch on to keep you busy - even better!

, This will just make you less hungry, and gives you plenty of energy that you may rely on your food addiction for.
 The food you eat in the morning will most likely be burned off by the end of the day, so eat a nice breakfast so that you don't get as hungry later in the day.
 Or, make a good friend stalk you for a day and make sure you keep in line. After you finally make one day out of some bizarre scheme (everyone can do it), start your tally. You'll be so happy with yourself that you may automatically go another day, but once you know you can, there's nothing to stop you.
 Go for a walk, play with your pet, etc. You'll forget about the craving.

