 You will often register with the local basketball association as a part of your certification, but do so if you aren’t already a member. If there are other school regions in the area that you can commute to, register with them as well.


Officiating games is the only way to develop a thorough understanding of the mechanics of officiating, so volunteer to referee as many games as possible.
These organizations provide resources and support for officials of most scholastic sports.
 An important part of being a member of a sports organization that provides you with an officiating certification is attending meetings. These meetings provide referees with an opportunity to discuss rule changes and other elements of officiating.Some organizations offer testing as a part of their meeting schedules. These tests will better prepare you to advance to the next level of officiating.
Attending these meetings gives you an opportunity to network with other officials, ask questions and help others with issues they may have.
 Once you have spent a good amount of time officiating at the high school level, you may choose to pursue officiating college level basketball games. The NCAA has a website allows you to register for an account and schedule yourself to take the officiating exam that is required of NCAA referees.In order to serve as a referee in the NCAA you will have to attend an officiating clinic that goes over many of the important elements of working as a referee in college basketball games.
You will then have to take an officiating exam at one of the scheduled dates, times and locations listed on their website.
As is the case for officiating lower level scholastic sports, you will have to pass a background check in order to officiate NCAA games.
 If you are serving as an official in college basketball games and still feel the urge to pursue larger venues, officiating in the NBA may be the right path for you.You can apply for an officiating position with the NBA on their official website: NBAOfficials.com.
It is expected that you have extensive experience refereeing in college games before applying to officiate in the NBA, though it is not necessarily a requirement.
If accepted, you will begin by officiating events with lower viewer bases like camps and WNBA games. Eventually you can work your way up to higher profile games.

