 Social media is the new word of mouth advertising. With Facebook recently hitting one billion users, many of whom log in three to fourteen times every day, the "Like" and "Share" buttons are quickly becoming a brands best friend to reaching a larger audience. Social media provides a more casual forum to share content more often with users who have already indicated interest in your business by joining or following your feed.


Another distinct advantage Facebook has over many other social media platforms is the accessibility and ease of sharing from mobile devices, which continues to drive increasing numbers of users to "check-in" at local businesses when finding a minute of boredom, waiting in line, or walking the street. To set up a company page on facebook:








Create a personal profile that will manage your company page
Then go to www.facebook.com/pages/create/
Fill out the information as complete as possible and make sure it matches to other places on the web your business is found
Upload your e-mail address book to connect with people who may already be facebook members
Create a unique facebook url to promote your page with.;
, Savvy consumers are investigating local businesses now more than ever through sites such as Yelp and Google+. These are likely qualified leads about to make a purchasing decision based upon your previous customers experiences, and your last chance to convince them that your company is a reputable, accessible and superior alternative to the competition. Incentives, online surveys and QR codes directing your customers to review sites are great low-cost ways to generate a wealth of positive online brand endorsement before you're scrambling to bury the one bad review that someone (inevitably) posts.


Create a printed brochure that you can hand your client at the end of a successful project directing them to places on the web to review your business.
Generate a QR code on printed materials directing customers to your review page. These are very effective as it is easier/quicker for people to review from their phone than having to log on from a computer.
Set up a free online survey to send your clients, then use these reviews for your website and other marketing materials

, Write a letter to your top ten clients asking for a personal endorsement; ask customers at the end of each appointment or delivery if they would endorse your brand with an online review (having an iPad handy is a smart move in this situation). You can also create a postcard or insert to be mailed out with each invoice or statement, directing customers on where to share their experiences on. You can then feature these testimonials on your website, post to social media, and include on print media to tell everyone how great your company is- without having to say a word.