 As stated above, people with anger issues often rely on anger as a first reaction to any source of stress or frustration. One useful method of controlling or coping with your anger can be deliberately delaying any reaction you have to a situation. This delay will give you time to compose yourself before outwardly expressing anger towards those around you. Many people use a method of counting to ten before they react to a stressful situation to ensure that they have had time to process the information they have just encountered and can offer an appropriate or measured response., If you are just now realizing that you are becoming angry too quickly or too often, there is a good chance that you are not a naturally angry person, but are just temporarily coping with a situation that is making you angry. Taking a vacation or some personal time off can contribute to lowering your overall stress level. Once you have taken this temporary leave, you can often come back to the situation that makes you angry with a new outlook and a greater level of composure. This should help to quell your expressions of anger., Sometimes, a person who often gets angry is simply reacting to consistently frustrating social or professional interactions. For example, you may be angry much of the time because you are working in a stress-filled situation or have surrounded yourself with people whose views, opinions or actions make you angry. If this is the case for you, it can be helpful to know that you are not an angry person, but have willingly put yourself in situations that make you angry.People are different and they have different thresholds of tolerance under various circumstances. If you work in a high-stress job and are consistently angry as a result, it can be beneficial to find a different line of work. If you are constantly upset or angry with the way your friends and family behave or voice their opinions, it may be time to separate yourself from those people and surround yourself with people who behave or think in manner that seems more appropriate or palatable to you., An important method to coping with anger is to realize that there is more to living than voicing your displeasure with frustrating situations all the time. Your life should be a pursuit of happiness. When you begin to get upset, take solace in the things that make you truly happy., A useful mechanism for coping with your anger is to reflect on how you would deal with your own reaction if you were someone else by putting yourself in the shoes of the person who had to react to your angry outburst. You may realize that your response was not appropriate, and that you may have wanted to handle the situation more positively., You may find engaging in physical activities, such as running, tennis, or yoga, help alleviate the frequency and level of anger you feel in social and professional settings. Expending your energy in other ways on a regular basis may make you less prone to angry or emphatic outbursts., Sometimes, getting angry can be the result of incessant miscommunication with others. If you work on cultivating better communication techniques, you may find that your day-to-day interactions with others is less frustrating, leading to fewer outbursts of anger., Meditation has been shown to have positive short-term effects on emotional processing. In addition to having an effect on physical relaxation and a sense of peacefulness, a Harvard study has shown that mindful meditation increased grey matter density in areas of the brain related to learning, memory, self-awareness, compassion, and introspection., If you find yourself in a situation that is frustrating, try using silly humor to lighten the mood. Making fun or lighthearted jokes can bring down your tension levels, as well as the tension levels of those around you, making your social interactions much less likely to escalate to a point where you feel the need to become angry.