 The way that you think about yourself affects your confidence levels. If you constantly say negative things about yourself, you will begin to believe them. These thoughts are often more damaging than the things that other people may say to you.


When you begin to feel anxious, sad, depressed, angry, or upset, stop and reflect on the thoughts you are currently having.You can also wear a rubber band around your wrist and snap the rubber band each time you have a negative thought., Instead of accepting the negative thoughts you have about yourself, challenge them. For example, If you ever tell yourself, "I can't do anything right," or "Nobody likes me," challenge those thoughts instead of believing that those things are true. Ask yourself some of the following questions to determine if your thoughts are true.Why do I feel the way you do?
What do I think about myself in this very moment?
What is the evidence for and against my thinking?
Can I find out if my thoughts are really true?
How else can I look at this situation?
Will this matter in 5 years?
Does this way of thinking help me achieve my goals?
Can I learn anything from this situation?

, Once you recognize a negative thought, you must replace it with a more positive, realistic thought. This may be difficult at first. However, the more you do it, the more positive your thoughts will become.Instead of saying, "I flunked my test. I am a complete failure," say, "I didn't do great on this test, but I can prepare better next time. I will ask my teacher for some extra help. I know I can do this."
Instead of saying, "That guy doesn't like me. I must be ugly or a loser, " say, "That hurts my feelings that he doesn't like me, but that doesn't mean that no one else likes me. I'm a great girl. I will be able to find someone else who is interested in me."

, You are probably harder on yourself than you are to your friends and family. Accept that you will not always get things right, and you will make mistakes. That is part of being human.If you make a mistake or go through a hard time, ask yourself what you would tell your friend. Now apply that same kindness and compassion to yourself.
For example, if you friend did poorly on a test or lost something important, would you tell your friend how stupid or forgetful they were? If your friend did not make the volleyball team, would you tell your friend that they were a loser and should have never tried out in the first place?
You would probably try to encourage your friend and do something fun to take their mind of off things. You might also give your friend some study tips or help them find the item that is lost.
 Positive self-affirmations are a proactive way you can fill your mind with positive thoughts. You can say them in your head, write them down, or say them out loud. Choose 3 to 5 affirmations and say them when you wake up in the morning and before you go to bed. Here are some affirmations you may want to try:"I love myself completely"
"I will embrace my flaws because nobody is perfect."
"I am confident, and I can achieve my goals."
"Beauty comes in many different shapes, sizes, and colors."
I am good enough."

