 Since Shihpoos can be stubborn, you should start training your Shihpoo as soon as you bring him home. If you wait too long, his stubbornness could add a frustrating challenge to your training.Crate training will help keep your Shihpoo out of trouble when you are not home. It will also increase the likelihood of him going to the bathroom outside, rather than in his crate or elsewhere in your home.Crate training should be a positive experience for your Shihpoo. At the end of training, he should see the crate as a place of comfort and safety, not punishment.;
, The typical Shihpoo weighs between 8 and 18 pounds (3.6 to 8.2 kg), so you will not need a large crate.Pick a crate size suitable for a Shih Tzu or Toy Poodle. It should be large enough for him to move around and be comfortable in, but not so large that he could create a bathroom area.


The ideal crate size for a Shihpoo is 24 x 18 inches (61 x 46 cm) or 24 x 24 inches (61 x 61 cm).Place the crate in an area of your home where there is a lot of human activity, such as the family room.You don’t want your Shihpoo feeling isolated when he is in the crate.
 Your Shihpoo may not want to explore the crate right away. To make it look more inviting, place some of his favorite toys inside. You could also place a comfortable blanket in the crate.If your Shihpoo is still reluctant to go in the crate, place some food near the crate. Then, work up to placing some tidbits of food inside the crate, and eventually feeding him his meals in the crate.Talk to your Shihpoo in a bright and encouraging voice as he explores his crate. You want his exploration to be a positive experience.Leave the crate door open so your Shihpoo can explore at his leisure without fear of you closing the door behind him.
It may take your Shihpoo a while to feel comfortable with the crate. Be patient with him and don’t force him inside of it.
 When your Shihpoo feels comfortable entering the crate on his own, begin leaving him in the crate with the door closed. He may not like this part, so start with closing the door for only about 1 minute. Close the door slowly so you don’t startle him.If he starts to whine, wait until he calms down before opening the door.


Try closing the crate door, leaving the room, then returning to the crate at random time intervals.Over several weeks to months, gradually work up to leaving your Shihpoo in the crate while you are away from home, and even overnight.Until they are 12 months old, puppies can typically hold their bladders for about 1 hour per month of age.If you have a Shihpoo puppy, don't leave him in the crate beyond the length of time he can hold his bladder.
When you let your Shihpoo out of the crate, always give him lots of praise and take him outside to eliminate.
 Socialization is a very important aspect of your Shihpoo’s training. It involves exposing him to new sights, sounds, and experiences so he can grow into a confident and well-rounded adult dog. If you have a Shihpoo puppy, begin socializing him when he is between 8 and 16 weeks old. After 16 weeks of age, a puppy who is not well socialized may be fearful of nearly everything in his environment., To socialize your Shihpoo, expose him to as many new experiences as possible when he is a puppy. Make sure these experiences are positive so he does not become fearful as he grows older. For example, when you introduce him to someone new, give this person a dog treat that they can give to your Shihpoo. If you introduce him to children, make sure they are well behaved and not rough with him.You can also have your Shihpoo walk on different surfaces (e.g., wet grass, metal manhole covers) so he becomes comfortable with different sensations on his paws.Take your Shihpoo with you to run errands. Also, let him hear typical indoor noises (e.g., vacuum cleaner, blender).If you have adopted an adult Shihpoo that is not well socialized, try to identify his weak socialization area, such as other pets or men with hats.Ask the animal shelter (or previous owner) about what areas of socialization he will need.
 Puppy kindergarten is a great way to socialize your Shihpoo puppy with other dogs and allow him to start learning basic obedience concepts, all while having fun. Consider observing a class or two before enrolling him, just so you can see how the trainer manages the dogs in the class.Some puppy kindergartens may require a puppy to be fully vaccinated before enrollment. If your puppy is not fully vaccinated, continue socializing at home and enroll him after he is fully vaccinated. Ask your veterinarian about your puppy’s vaccination status., Shihpoos have short attention spans, so long training sessions will not be effective for your Shihpoo.Short training sessions throughout the day that are frequent and repetitive are ideal.There is no set length of time for a training session. Young puppies (a few months old) may be able to pay attention for only a few minutes; older puppies (approaching 1 year old) and adults might be able to stay attentive for up to 20 minutes.Use toys and treats to keep the training sessions upbeat and exciting., Train your Shihpoo to sit, stay, heel, and come. If you are having trouble teaching your Shihpoo these commands on your own, consider enrolling him in an obedience class. Be mindful that it may be his stubbornness or short attention span, rather than a lack of understanding, that is making his training a challenge.


Do not repeat a command. This would teach your Shihpoo that he does not have to listen to you the first time you give a command.Teach only command at a time.Once your Shihpoo has mastered the basic commands, try teaching him more advanced commands and tricks, like rolling over or playing dead.
 Shihpoos do not respond well to yelling or harsh punishment. Positive reinforcement, including treats and verbal praise, works much better than harshness when training a Shihpoo.Since Shihpoos are so eager to please, the more positive reinforcement you give your Shihpoo, the more he will want to please you and do the right thing.

