 Your sense of touch will really help you to navigate household cleaning. After you’ve wiped down an area, take your fingers and lightly go over the same space, feeling for any signs of dirt or debris. To practice your cleaning pattern, you can also sprinkle some salt on a space, wipe it down, and then run your hand along it to see if you feel any remaining salt.You can also run your hands along surfaces to move objects out of the way while cleaning. This will often prevent you from knocking something over with your wiping motion.
 Develop a cleaning plan for splatter-prone areas, such as the area behind the trashcan and the backsplash surrounding your stove. These spaces are small enough that they may not require a cleaning pattern, but you should include a quick wipe down as part of your cleaning routine.How you clean can also depend on what exactly you are cooking. If you are making spaghetti, for example, you may need to spend some more time cleaning the splatter around the stove area.
 If you choose to use a cloth and spray bottle instead of wipes, then plan to dampen the cloth instead of applying the cleaner directly to surfaces. This allows you to control how much cleaner you actually use. It also ensures that you don’t leave any cleaner behind when you are done with an area., Walk around with your bare feet and slowly feel along the edges of any taped down rugs or cords. Try to determine if the tape has come loose. Then, get new tape and reapply it to any problem areas. This will help you to avoid tripping., Part of your cleaning routine should involve straightening any furniture that is out of place. Push any chairs back into place. Push any drawers back into place that are pulled out. Slide larger furniture pieces back into their original locations.Keeping your furniture on pads or on rollers will make it easier to tidy up.
 Take your time as you turn on the hot water to rinse everything, making sure to test the temperature. Wash the glasses to begin with and handle each piece of glass separately to avoid hitting them against one another. Finish the rinsing process with heavier items, such as pots or pans.Use your free hand to feel for open spaces in the dishwasher. Follow a standard loading pattern and place the glasses, dishes, and pans in the same location every time. This will also make unloading easier.

