 Before you consider opening a bagel shop, you'll want to make sure you've got the necessary experience. You should be comfortable with making, baking and selling bagels before going ahead and opening your own store. If you don't have the necessary skills, consider taking some classes to help you make your business a success.There are many bagel making courses available if you want to improve your recipes or techniques.
You should have some experience with managing a business or be ready to hire someone who does before opening your shop.
If you are opening a franchise, you'll need past experience doing so before proceeding.;
, Having a bit of help and a source of advice is always a good thing. Before you open up your bagel shop, it can be a good idea to look for a non-competitive business mentor in your area. Having a good mentor will allow you to benefit from their experience and knowledge.Make sure your mentor doesn't have ties to a local competing bagel shop.
Don't limit yourself to bagel shop owners as your mentors. It can be helpful to learn from anyone who has a successful business.
 There are three main ways you can start your bagel shop: begin from scratch, acquire an existing business or open up a franchise. Each will have their own strengths and weaknesses. Carefully consider each option to see what's right for your bagel shop.Opening your own store will require the greatest amount of work, but will allow for total control.
Buying an existing bagel shop can be a good way to build on an existing success.
Franchises will often have well established protocols that can help your bagel shop prosper.
 You'll want to consider what level of involvement your shop will have when it comes to producing bagels. You could have your shop produce the bagels from scratch, resulting in a bagel that is unique to that shop. You may also consider ordering ready-made bagel dough and simply baking the bagels at your shop. Either way, knowing which method you want for your shop can help you select the equipment and business space you'll need.Making bagels from scratch can give you total control over your recipe. However, handling every step of making your bagels will require more time and equipment.
Baking ready-made dough can cut down on costs, space requirements and and time spent making the bagel. However, you'll lose some control over the flavor and style of bagel.
 You'll want to think of a few different aspects when it comes to branding your company. The name of your company, its logo and its motto or slogan are all important aspects of branding that will you want to consider. You may also want to think about how and where you will showcase your branding. Take some time to come up with a brand and image that you want your business to have.You'll want to consider where you'll place your branding. Ordering cups and packaging with your logo and company name on it can be good ways to promote your brand.
Even the decorations in your shop can affect your brand. You'll want to consider how your shop looks and feels and make sure that it's in line with the image you want to cultivate.
 You won't want to open up a bagel shop without knowing your market. Carefully studying who lives near the shop and who is most likely to buy from it will allow you to know if your location and store will be successful. Do an in-depth study of the markets that will surround your bagel shop and think about how you might engage with them.You'll need to find out which group of people will be most likely to visit your shop.
Knowing your market will help you connect with customers.
You will want to know the projected growth rates for your market in the future.
You should realize the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and weaknesses of your business.
 If the area you're opening your bagel shop in has competition, you'll want to do a study of those competing businesses. Knowing what your competition's strengths and weaknesses are can help you adjust your own strategies and be successful against them. Your business plan should include a basic assessment of your local competition, their strengths and weaknesses and how you plan on countering them., Starting a business will require you to focus on the immediate future, setting the groundwork in place. However, it's important that you also plan ahead into the future. Without a clear plan for your business's growth, it can be difficult to properly direct your business as it moves forward. You should have clear plans for your business as it grows, giving it a direct course for the future.You'll want to consider areas for new shops to open up in.
You may need to expand the size of your bagel shop or search for a new space if the business grows.
 Location is a key element in your business plan. You'll want to carefully consider which location you want to use for your bagel shop. Having a good location will affect many different aspects of how well your business will do and what you need to do to make it a success. You should have a clear idea of where you want to start your shop in your business plan.For your business plan, it's a good idea to settle on one choice for your shop's location.
You may want to have backup locations in mind in case a space should become unavailable.
You'll want a location that allows customers to easily access your shop.
Areas with a lot of foot or car traffic may be more appealing than those without.
The location you select should have the right amount of space for your business.
You'll want your location to comfortably accommodate customers.
 While your bagel shop may come to enjoy promotion by word of mouth, having an active promotional plan in place can really help spread the word. You'll want to think about ways that you can reach your target market and let them know that your store is open and worth a visit. Make sure your business plan includes a basic overview of how you will reach out to your market.You'll want to consider what your advertisements will look like and what form of media you will use to send them out.
Advertising will take funding and should be included in your initial budget plans.
You could try running a give-away competition at your bagel shop.
You might offer loyalty cards that reward customers for frequently visiting your shop.
You could host local musicians or artists on certain days of the week to draw in customers.
 You will want to include a careful and detailed breakdown of your financial plan in your business report. This breakdown will detail your loans, how much you've put up as collateral and your projected income and expense levels for the upcoming year. Make sure you've accounted for everything your business will need to be a success and that your business plan will be a feasible one.You'll want to include functional costs like rent, equipment purchases and ingredients.
Consider the monthly expenses that will come with hiring and paying your staff.
You should included things like legal fees, accounting services or insurance costs in your budget.
Don't forget to factor in monthly bills from utilities.
 The exact permits you need to start your bagel shop will vary based on the location your shop is operating in. You'll need to check which local, state and federal permits and regulations your shop is subject to. Whichever permits you need, make sure that you obtain all of them. Opening up your shop without the right permits may result in legal trouble or even the closure of your business.
 Once you are ready to open up your store, you'll need to obtain your capital. There are many options available to you when seeking financing for your bagel shop. Whichever method you choose, you'll want to carefully negotiate the terms of any loans and make sure you find them agreeable before accepting them. It's also a good idea to apply for a loan well ahead of schedule as the process can sometimes be quite lengthy.Try working with banks you've already established a good relationship with.
Leave some room to negotiate with. Being flexible can help you secure the loan you need.
Having a solid business plan can be a big help when securing a loan.
Many small business associations will offer business loans to new companies.
Keep in mind, many loans will require you to make a large initial payment to secure the loan.
You may want to seek out investors who are willing to help start your business.
Personal loans can be an option when starting your business.
You might bootstrap your business by starting small and directing a majority of the profit towards growing the business.
 After obtaining your financing, you'll be able to use that funding to acquire a space for your business. It's a good idea to stick to your business plan and rent the space that you've detailed in it. Make sure the space still meets the needs of your business and that the terms of renting or buying it are still in line with your financial plan.Don't rent a space that is more than you need.
Make sure the length of the lease is one you are happy with.
Try negotiating for perks like garbage removal services or parking.
Look into your landlord's background and make sure they are someone you feel comfortable working with.
 Now that you have acquired the space for your business, it's time to set it up to your liking. Buy whatever equipment, decorations or technology that you need for your business and set it up however you need. Make sure everything is in place and operational before your grand opening.
 Even if your bagel shop is a small one, there is a good chance that you will need some extra help. Before you open up your shop, make sure you've got enough help to make things run smoothly. You'll want to send out advertisements highlighting the positions that are open and the qualifications those position require.You could try advertising open positions online, using big hiring websites.
You could work with a temp agency to find help.
If you have small or infrequent positions, you may try reaching out to independent contractors.
 Once you've opened the doors to your business, your focus will be on following the business plan and directing its growth. You'll want to continue advertising your business, managing the internal procedures and keeping an eye on new locations for either satellite kiosks or entire shops. Keep looking forward to help make your bagel shop a long lasting success.

