 A one hundredth birthday is a momentous occasion. While it is tempting to surprise the centenarian with a wonderful party, the guest of honor more than likely has a vision for his or her celebration of life. Ask the guest of honor to describe their ideal celebration and do your best to honor their wishes. During your meeting, consider asking the following questions:


Do they want a party?
Do they want a small gathering or a large party?
Where would they like to hold the event?
Should you only invite family members or extend invitations to friends and acquaintances?
What would they like to do at the party?
Would they prefer cards or donations to a favorite charity over gifts?, Every detail of the party should accommodate the guest of honor’s personal needs and desires, including the event’s time and duration. The event should begin at a time when the centenarian is at his or her best. If this is in the morning, plan a birthday brunch; if this is in the evening, host a dessert soiree. Ideally, the celebration should only last as long as the centenarian can stay at the party—if they have to leave sooner than expected on the day of, don’t panic.


Don’t schedule the party during the guest of honor’s normal rest time.
Plan the event around their schedule, not your schedule., One-hundredth birthday celebrations draw guests of all ages. This means you are responsible for feeding guests as young as 1 and as old as 100. When you plan the menu, account for the ages and dietary limitations of your guest.


Offer your guests a wide variety of food options.
If the centenarian wants a dinner party, asks guests to bring a dish to pass.
Don’t forget the birthday cake!, Guests of all ages will attend the one-hundredth-birthday celebration. As the host or hostess, it is your job to provide entertainment that appeals to a wide range of ages. You can achieve this by planning a variety of activities.


Set out paper and crayons for young guests. They can gift their masterpieces to the guest of honor at the end of the party.
Play a game that guests of all ages can enjoy, such as birthday party bingo.
Hold a trivia, bridge, bunko, or shuffleboard tournament.
Create word searches and crossword puzzles that feature clues about the guest of honor.
Ask guests to guess when and where pictures of the guest of honor were taken.
Watch your guest of honor’s favorite movie.
Host a sing-along to some of the centenarian’s favorite tunes.