 Don't start chatting with a girl on Facebook if you haven't updated your photo since the eighth grade. Before you start picking up a girl on Facebook, you should make sure that your photos are up-to-date and that you look attractive, or at least like a nice guy. Don't put up a ton of photos with you and a million different girls unless you want to look like a player, and don't have a hundred photos of yourself being drunk or acting goofy unless you think that will appeal to the girl.


Just go through your photos and ask yourself "Would the girl I'm trying to pick up be into this?" If the answer is no, then delete the photos.
Keep some "safe" photos of you hanging out with some girls to show that girls actually like hanging out with you; Just don't have any pictures where your doing anything too provocative with another lady -- or a few other ladies.;
, If you're trying to pick up, and get to know a girl through Facebook, then she needs to see that you're a legit guy. You should have a fair amount of Facebook friends, post interesting things on your wall, show that you're attending events,comment on people's photos, and have people comment on your links. Let the girl see that you're a fun guy and that other people actually like talking to you.


If you only have ten Facebook friends and your wall hasn't been updated for a year, she'll get suspicious.
Don't post too often. Only post just enough to be active. You don't want the girl thinking that Facebook is your life.
Don't let her see that you're hitting on many girls on Facebook, even if you are. Be slick and keep your flirty messaging hidden, limited to chatting, or have private messages.
 While you shouldn't pour your heart out on Facebook, the girl should be able to browse your profile and learn a few cool things about you. If you're into a certain band, post a link to one of their songs on your wall; if you love surfing, have a few photos of you and your buddies hitting the waves. Let her see that you have many cool interests outside of Facebook.

