 There are four different types of ultrasound platforms; these categories are differentiated by the imaging quality, software, and the function of the machine. When you are looking for a machine, you will look for a model that fits within one of these categories.General. This equipment is configured for multiple applications and is well suited for a general practitioner’s needs.
Vascular. These machines are designed to be used to view vascular configurations like deep vein thrombosis and the carotid artery. A surgeon or a cardiologist will likely purchase this type of machine.
Women’s health. These machines are designed for obstetricians and gynecologists.
Cardiac. These may also be called echocardiograph machines, and they are used to view the heart. This type of machine may be used in a cardiology practice.
 You should contact a few medical vendors that you trust and are familiar with. If you are unfamiliar with any vendors, ask others in your practice or other medical practitioners for recommendations. Let the vendor know that you are looking for a specific type of machine based on your budget, size requirements, and the type of medical functions you will be using the machine for.


Many reputable vendors are happy to loan your practice a machine for a week or a few days so you can see how you like it., The best way to find out if this is the right model for your product is to work with it. After the vendor has given you, or your ultrasound technician, a basic overview of the machine, begin to use the machine as you would after you purchased it. If you are planning to use this machine to conduct ultrasounds for pregnant women in your obstetrician practice, use this new machine with your patients.


If the machine doesn't meet your expectations, ask the vendor to recommend a new model for you to test.
If you are happy with the machine and it meets your needs and budget, you can purchase it.
 Warranty lengths and coverage will vary between manufacturers and whether you are buying the machine refurbished or new. At the minimum, you want to find a machine that has a one-year warranty that includes at least the replacement of one probe and battery during the year.The best warranties are between three and five years and include 24/7 customer support. You want to ensure that the manufacturer offers troubleshooting and has technicians that are able to service your machine in the event that it breaks.


You should also ask about the return policy offered by the manufacturer and the retailer. You should expect there to be a sixty-day return policy with full reimbursement at minimum.
 When you are comparing service contracts, you want to make sure that the vendor or manufacturer offers 24/7 support and that you are able to have a technician come to your office or hospital to inspect and perform maintenance on the machine as needed.


Depending on the medical vendor, you may have some leveraging power to negotiate the service portion of the sales contract. If you have a good relationship with your medical vendor and have purchased equipment from them in the past, you may be able to extend the length of your warranty and to expand the scope of your service coverage.

