 Look online to find if your helmet visor can be replaced for one that has pin lock. Pin lock is two pins on a visor and an insert that clips in. If you buy an insert from a shop they will often fit it for you. The insert prevents the visor fogging up. Helmets with more padding and removable liners are warmer and will last longer.


Check that the helmet fits well. Spend plenty of time trying on different helmets as different brands size up different. It might sound silly be even the way your hair is styled can affect your helmet's fit.;
, Some cheaper helmets lack on padding meaning, they have too many gaps for wind flow. Whilst Arai and Shoei are nice. They are expensive and other brands do a similar job. For example, Airmada. Find a store that sells big helmets and try on different helmets. Different helmet brands come up different sizes. As an example, someone could be an XL in a Shoei but in a Caberg, they could be an XXL. Try on all the helmets you can. Don't rush. If you intend to keep the helmet for some time, then removable pads are a serious consideration., If they don't have a pinlock visor, consider getting a new helmet. A pin lock visor is a visor with two plastic pins. Then, you buy a insert that goes between the pins. A motorbike shop will often fit for you. The insert can last a long time and will cost £20 to replace. Once installed properly, it is impossible to fog your visor at all even held over steam. In the winter, a pinlock visor keeps your visor clear and you don't have to open the visor to clear it. Nearly, all pinlock visors do not come with an insert, so check to make sure., Whilst not everyone likes them, a good balaclava will retain heat and block the cold. Knox hot hood is thin but very warm water resistant and wind proof one that is worth a look. Some shops will let you try them on and if so be sure to try it with your helmet on.
 Price is not the main point on a waterproof jacket as even expensive ones can leak. A jacket gloves and trousers are the three important elements so do your research. Look for one with a removable winter liner and vent zips. This will make a jacket an all year jacket and will save you buying two jackets. Many jackets get heavy when wet no matter the price. Exceptions are pro layer Gore-Tex which are bonded on the outside however they can be expensive but work great.


When it comes to brand Google the specific model your looking at and check all the reviews. Not all jackets are waterproof even the ones that claim they are. Take a phone with you to the store to read reviews as good stores carry lots of items. Deciding a budget in advance will help you narrow the field. Make sure you can move comfortably in your jacket. Don't put looks before safety either.
 Thermals add an important layer and retain much more heat than say a jumper plus they are a lot thinner and are a must for cold riding. Any thermals will make a massive difference to the cold; price may not be a factor.
 If you wear proper motorbike trousers you will find many leak straight away or over time. A top layer is a fraction of the cost and protects the expensive gear underneath. That said even a lot of over trousers leak ones to avoid are cheap walking ones. Flexothane trousers are very waterproof and also come as dungarees.


Get waterproof trousers. Don't get bike trousers or over trousers because they leak. Try Flexothane Classic Hivis Trousers (£15) and they will not leak for love. A good thing about those is that they are bright orange, great for being seen early winter mornings.
 Most gloves don't do it all. The best dry and warm option is muffs however they don’t look great but they will protect you no matter what. Another great option is lobster claw or mitts over gloves they are awesome warm and convert summer gloves into winter without spending a fortune and protect your gloves getting ruined in the winter. Most gloves get heavy when wet and take a long time to dry out. Look for gloves where the waterproof layer is bonded to the outside like knox and you will find they stay dry alot better.
 Various boots regardless of the cost still end up leaking. You need to check lots of reviews to find ones that don't. Again don't trust that they say they are waterproof. Dunlop riggers work well and are very cheap. Test your boots in a bath as some can be faulty.
 Whilst it is not clothing it is a super important item to carry in the winter and pretty useful most of the year. Winter weather is often nasty cold and sometimes dark and your phone is always charged right up till the moment you breakdown then its completely dead just when you need it the most.


Whichever one you buy take it to the pound store and buy a click lid food container and usb lead if req. Put sponge in any leftover gap to pad it out. Charge it up chuck it in the box and put it under your seat or back box and forget about it. The other option which is better but more bulky is a wind up charger type as it can never go flat but again protect it in something to stop it getting wrecked

, Riding around in your own personal, portable electric blanket certainly takes the chill out of winter riding. Research these products carefully and get advice to make sure anything you're considering will suit all your needs. Some small bikes may have an issue running heated items including grips so check first before you consider it.


Cutting into electrics should not be considered unless you know what you're doing. if in doubt pay for it to be fitted. Heated gear can be expensive but will deal with extreme weather. That said the above steps should cover you through the worst if your cold after that it means its snowing and you should consider leaving the bike at home

