 Minnesotans often claim the rest of the U.S. is playing the game all wrong, that Duck, Duck, Grey Duck is the original. Whether this is true or not remains to be definitively answered. But here’s how it works. Just like the “traditional” version, players sit in a circle facing inward. The picker, or “it,” walks around the circle, tapping on each player’s head. Only in the Minnesotan version, instead of just saying “duck,” you give the duck a color. So the picker would say “red duck,” “blue duck,” “green duck” and the like, in whatever order they want. When “grey duck” is called, the chase begins.Like the traditional game, if the picker gets to the grey duck’s spot first, the grey duck becomes the picker. If not, the picker picks again.
Some say this version is more challenging because the players sitting in the circle have to listen more carefully to what is being called – “blue duck” versus “grey duck” is more similar than “duck” and “goose,” for instance.
Also, according to a woman cited in a newspaper article, kids like to add to the suspense by drawing out the “Grrrrr” sound to keep players off guard as to whether they’re going to say green or grey., Here, the children squat in a circle facing inward, while the picker, or the “mailman,” holds a napkin or a piece of material. The children begin to sing as the mailman goes around the circle, dropping the napkin behind a player’s back. The singing doesn’t stop. When the child realizes the napkin is behind him or her, he chases after the mailman.


If the child catches the mailman, the mailman goes to the center of the circle and puts on a performance, such as telling a joke, doing a dance or singing a song; if he doesn’t catch the mailman, he becomes the mailman.
Also, if the mailman runs all the way around the circle before the child notices the napkin, the child has to sit in the middle until being replaced.
Lyrics to the song: “Drop, drop, drop the napkin. / Softly behind your friend's back. / Everybody hushes. / Quick, quick, get it!” Then repeat., The children sit in a circle facing inward, with one chosen as the Plumpsack, which is translated to mean policeman.The Plumpsack holds a handkerchief, walking around the circle as the children sing a song. Then the Plumpsack drops the handkerchief behind one of the children’s backs while they continue singing. In this variation, if any child looks behind his or her back and the handkerchief is not there, the child has to go to the middle of the circle. When the child who does have the handkerchief behind his or her back notices, the chase after the Plumpsack begins.


If the Plumpsack gets back to the spot first, the other child becomes the Plumpsack.
If the Plumpsack is caught, he or she goes to the middle and all the children sing, “One, two, three, into the rotten egg!”
Also, if the Plumpsack makes the full circle without the child noticing the handkerchief, the child goes to the middle of the circle and the children also sing “One, two, three, into the rotten egg!”Lyrics to the song: “Do not turn around. / Because the Plumpsack goes around! / Whoever turns around and laughs. / Gets a slap on the back. / Therefore: Do not turn around.” And repeat.There are similar variations across Europe and in parts of Asia and the Middle East, though the songs vary in context.

