 The cranberries will need to soak overnight in the sugar syrup before you can frost them, so if you’re making these for a holiday gathering, keep that in mind. You can make several batches in advance, if you prefer – frosted cranberries will stay fresh for two to three days if stored in an uncovered container.

Avoid storing in airtight containers, since this will make them soggy.Soaking the cranberries overnight in sugar syrup will sweeten them up. Otherwise, they will be too tart.;
, Place the cranberries in a colander and rinse them thoroughly with cold water. Place them in a large mixing bowl. Carefully pick through the cranberries and discard any bruised, damaged or mushy ones. Use only firm cranberries for this recipe.Once you've picked through all of them, set the bowl of cranberries aside.
 Add one cup of sugar and one cup of water to a pot and place it over medium heat. Warm the water until you see steam starting to rise from the pot. Use a whisk to stir the sugar water, which will help break up any remaining sugar crystals., Keep your eye on the pot. Do not bring the water to a boil. The cranberries might burst if the syrup is too hot. Stir the syrup with the whisk until the sugar has completely dissolved. Remove the pot from the heat., Carefully transfer the contents of the pot into the large mixing bowl, right over the cranberries. The cranberries will immediately float to the surface of the syrup. Place a smaller mixing bowl or a plate over the bowl to keep them submerged.You may want to test the syrup out on a few cranberries before pouring it over all of them. The cranberries will burst if the syrup is too hot.
 Leave the submerged cranberries in the bowl until the syrup has completely cooled. Once cooled, cover the bowl tightly with plastic wrap. Do not remove the plate first – wrap the whole thing up. Place the bowl in the refrigerator overnight., On the following day, remove the bowl from the refrigerator. Drain the cranberries in a colander. Reserve the syrup as it drains – don’t throw it away. You won’t need it for this particular recipe, but you can use this tasty simple syrup later on to sweeten holiday cocktails., Line a large shallow bowl with paper towels and pour the drained cranberries into it. Use additional paper towels to pat the berries dry.Keep patting them until all of the liquid is absorbed. The cranberries should feel tacky but not wet.If you leave any leftover liquid on the cranberries, the sugar will clump up when you try to roll them.
 Regular white sugar will work fine for this. However, consider using sugar that has a chunky texture, such as organic sugar cane or Turbinado. The larger sugar crystals will sparkle a little more than regular sugar. You can buy organic cane sugar or Turbinado in most grocery stores or in health food stores.
Cover a cookie sheet with parchment paper or foil right before you start rolling the cranberries.
 For best results, work in small batches of three or four cranberries at a time. Jiggle the berries around in the bowl until they are covered with sugar. Once they’re coated, place them on the covered sheet pan to dry.Continue working in batches until you’ve coated all of the berries with sugar. If you overcrowd the bowl with too many cranberries, the sugar will clump up and become unworkable. If the sugar does start to clump up, start over with a fresh bowl of sugar.
Continually add more sugar to the bowl as needed.
 The cranberries are ready when the sugar coating feels firm and slightly crusty. Place them in a Tupperware container. Leave the container uncovered, otherwise the cranberries will get soggy. Keep the container in a cool, dry place. Consume the frosted cranberries within two to three days.