 After the procedure, you will need to remain still for several hours. You will rest in a hospital bed in the recovery area or a hospital room. It is important to avoid moving around to prevent bleeding from the catheter insertion site.You will most likely be discharged within 24 hours of undergoing the angioplasty.If you have a heavy bandage over the insertion site, you may feel some discomfort. However, it is still critical to stay still and leave the bandage in place after the procedure, as this helps stop any bleeding. Do not remove any bandage unless instructed.;
, You will not be able to drive immediately following the procedure, so make sure that you ask a family member or a friend to take you home. Stop every hour and walk for about 5 to 10 minutes.


If you will be in the car for more than two hours, it is recommended that you stay in a hotel overnight.Wait at least one week after the procedure to fly.When you do fly, be sure to stand, stretch your legs, and walk in the aisle every hour., Keep your activity levels at a minimum for the first several days to one week following your angioplasty. You may feel tired and weak after the procedure, so it is important to rest to allow your body to heal. Plan to rest for the majority of the day, and only take short walks around your home., Most patients can resume normal activities and return to work within a week after the procedure, but it is important to gradually build up to them. Be sure to talk to your doctor about when it is safe for you to resume your normal levels of activity and return to work. The timeframes may vary from person to person., Do not engage in strenuous exercise, play sports, or lift heavy objects for at least 7 days following the procedure.Avoid lifting anything that is heavier than a gallon of milk.Try to avoid taking the stairs more than twice a day. When you do, walk up more slowly than usual., Your doctor may have prescribed new medications, like an anti-platelet medication, to use after the procedure. They may have also suggested that you take acetaminophen for discomfort. Follow your doctor’s recommendations and call the clinic if you have any questions regarding your medications or dosage. Do not stop taking your prescribed medications until your doctor tells you to do so.