 Children who are deaf or hard of hearing have multiple ways of communicating, and your child will want to do what works best for them. Ideally, your child should have more than one way of communicating so that they can fully access the meaning of texts.Children who are able to use a hearing aid may learn to speak. Since they won’t hear sounds perfectly, help them learn to sound out words.
Your child may learn to read lips, even if they also use a hearing aid.
Your child may decide to use sign language. If they do, it’s important that they are able to use it frequently.
You can also cue your child by showing them visual examples. For example, you could mimic pouring juice into a cup to ask them if they want juice.
Allow your child to make choices about how they want to communicate. Don’t force your child to do something because it works better for you.;
, If your child signs, learning to sign so that you can communicate with them will increase their learning potential. Sign language is structured differently than English, so children need immersion to be fully bilingual. It can be tempting to rely on lipreading, but your child’s signing skills will be stronger if you sign with them., Support your child’s language development by using visual aids, which can include physical items or pictures. Show your child reference items, and work with your child's teacher to boost their understanding of the cues.

For example, you could imitate eating to tell your child that it’s time for dinner.
You could also show your child cards with pictures on them. Your child could pick a breakfast item by looking at pictures.
Cued Speech is a system of teaching deaf or hard of hearing individuals to understand sounds through visuals., If your child uses a hearing aid or other amplification device, learn about the device to help them use it. Talk to your child’s audiologist about what your child needs and how to maintain the device. Read the enclosed paperwork and look the product up online.

Know how to change the batteries.
Help them remove ear wax from the hearing aid.
Some children may not be able to use an amplification device., Your child may be able to better follow the dialogue in movies and TV shows if they're able to see the words printed on the screen, even if they are using a device to help them access their residual hearing. Keep your television set on closed captioning, and make sure that any films you order have that feature., There's a strong Deaf community out there, comprised of people who are both deaf and hard of hearing. Many people who prefer to be identified as part of this culture prefer to have the word "Deaf" capitalized when it refers to them and their community (and lowercase only when it refers to the audiological condition of deafness).Look for opportunities for your child to interact with other individuals who identify as Deaf. If possible, connect your child with a mentor who is Deaf.

Reach out to local nonprofit organizations, or check local internet postings for meetup groups.
Participate alongside your child in becoming a part of Deaf culture., If your child uses a hearing aid, then it’s important that the aid works alongside other technology such as cell phones, tablets, or head phones. You can check the product’s hearing aid compatibility online before you purchase it., If your child has residual hearing, then an assistive listening device can help them hear what their teacher is saying. This device is more targeted than a hearing aid because it provides the teacher with a microphone that corresponds with a hearing device that the child wears. This helps the child hear only the voice they should be focused on.