 Create a soft barrier to prevent slipping off the edges of the slide if you wish to. Wrap foam pool noodles in the edges of the plastic and secure them with velcro to make the buffers.


Lay out pool noodles end to end on both long sides of your plastic, as well as the end if you want a stopper. The number of pool noodles will vary depending on your plastic length, but you can calculate based on a typical pool noodle length of 5 feet and a suggested 1 foot of space in between each noodle.
Wrap the edges of the plastic all the way around the pool noodles so that the plastic touches itself again. Place 2 inch pieces of velcro where the plastic overlaps, at the ends and middle of each pool noodle, to keep them wrapped securely.
Flip the whole slide over once all the pool noodles are secured in the plastic with velcro. This will create a smooth surface for sliding and prevent the velcro from coming undone., Use U-shaped garden staples to stake down the plastic for your slide. Push the staples through the plastic and into the ground at intervals along each long side of your slide to hold it in place. Make sure the plastic is pulled very taut before staking.


Cover each garden staple with a piece of duct tape to protect them from being stepped on or slid over. Use a bright color for the tape so that it’s highly visible.If you have enough material, fold over a small portion of your plastic once or twice at the top of the slide to double or quadruple it before staking it down. This will reinforce against tears at the beginning of the slide, which will get the most pull when sliders run and jump onto it., Place a garden hose at the top of your slide so that the water runs down the length of the plastic. Use a sprinkler or multiple water sources for a greater spread of water.


Use a sprayer attachment on your hose, or a full sprinkler, to create a spray or mist of water so that it covers the whole slide. Use several sprinklers if you have them.
You can also purchase a long sprinkler hose to run down the whole length of the slide to keep it wet.