 Your physical reactions to people and situations can be a powerful way to see what your intuition is telling you. When you are out in social situations (at parties, at work, on a date, etc.) do regular checks of how you feel physically. These regular checks should help you to stay tuned into your body and look for clues about the situation.As you go through your day, try asking yourself, “How do I feel? Where do I feel it? Is it a good feeling or a bad feeling?”

, If you are having a positive reaction to a situation or person, then you might notice that your body is exhibiting those signs. For example, you might notice that you are leaning in to talk to the person, smiling, making eye contact, and laughing. You might also notice that you feel calm and happy. These feelings would indicate that you are having a positive reaction.If you are having a positive reaction, then your intuition might be trying to tell you that the person or situation is a good one. For example, if you felt this way on a date, then your intuition might be telling you that the date is going well.
 Your body can also send you signals that indicate a negative reaction to a situation. For example, you might notice that your stomach is cramping, that you feel nauseous, or that you are crossing your arms or clenching your fists. You might also notice that you feel anxious, frightened, or sad. These reactions would indicate that you are having a negative reaction.If you are having a negative reaction, then your intuition might be telling you that the situation or person is a bad one. For example, if you feel this way every time you arrive at work, then your intuition might be telling you that it is time to look for a new job.
 After you have experienced an intuition, take some time to write about it. Describe what happened, how you felt, and what you did. Recording these responses may make you more aware of them in the future and make it easier to keep strengthening your intuition.For example, after meeting someone new, you might write down how your body and mind reacted to meeting that new person. Recording your feelings might also make it easier to access your intuition the next time you meet someone new.

