 Amphetamine use should be treated like a medical condition or illness.If at all possible, see a doctor to discuss your amphetamine use and talk about how best to overcome it. A medical doctor can help you decide which method is best for you. A doctor can also recommend treatment centers and other resources.


If you do not currently have a physician, contact your medical insurance company to find one. If you do not have medical insurance you can find a free or low-cost clinic in your area. Also, check with your local government for medical services or benefits for low-income families.
If you are prescribed amphetamines by your medical doctor or psychiatrist, discuss your issue with the doctor who prescribed it.
If you are using methamphetamine, an illegal substance, you can usually discuss this openly with your doctor without fear of legal issues due to doctor-patient-confidentiality laws. Make sure you ask the doctor about the limits of confidentiality (if you are a danger to yourself or others).
 Medications such as Naltrexone (Vivitrol), and Bupropion (Wellbutrin) have been implicated in the treatment and reduction of amphetamine use.Consult with your primary care doctor or psychiatrist.
 Treatment options such as Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) help to reduce or eliminate amphetamine use.CBT is a therapy modality that focuses on changing your thinking in order to change your feelings and behaviors.


Speak to a clinical psychologist (PsyD, PhD), marriage and family therapist (MFT), or other licensed clinician. You can typically get contact information for therapists via your medical insurance company.
 You’ll have two major options for eliminating your amphetamine use: you’ll either tapper down under the direction of a doctor, or seek a detox program. It is not recommended that you quit all at once (cold turkey). Whatever you chose, you will need to have a plan or a treatment program in place to support your recovery.


Think about the possibility of a detoxification program - an inpatient unit where therapist and medical professionals can evaluate you closely through the process of detoxification. Rehabilitation and detox treatment centers can be the best places to detoxify your system, but these solutions are not for everyone as they can be costly.
Consider looking for a support group in your area. These groups often meet at community centers and other locations to talk and offer mutual support. Find out what is available before you start detoxing, so that you’ll have a plan in place once things get tough.

