 If you’re planning to use the online service provided by the State of Ohio to apply for a birth certificate copy, have all of your documentation available as you fill out the online forms. This will ensure there are no delays in getting your copies.


The Ohio Department of Health’s online service does not offer expedited processing.You need the following information to file an online request: complete legal name of the child, complete date of birth, mother’s maiden name, city or county of birth, a valid credit card.The Ohio Department of Health’s online service accepts Visa and Mastercard., In order to apply for a birth certificate copy online, access the Ohio Department of Health’s website to begin and complete your application. The service has the advantage that you can use it any time you’re ready.


The Ohio Department of Health’s site for birth certificates is https://odhgateway.odh.ohio.gov/OrderBirthCertificates/OrderBirthCertificate.aspx

You can file your application 24 hours a day, 7 days a week., The website will ask you questions about your application for birth certificate copies. Follow these questions and any prompts for additional information or documentation until your application is complete and you receive a confirmation email.If you have any questions about the process, you can contact the Ohio Department of Health by phone at 614-466-2531 or by email at vitalstat@odh.ohio.gov.
 At the end of filing your request online, the Ohio Department of Health website will request your payment. The Ohio Department of Health only charges for the copy of the birth certificate, not any additional fees for using the website.The fee is $21.50 and additional copies cost $21.50. You can pay by Visa or Mastercard., After you’ve filed your application with the Ohio Department of Health’s website and paid the relevant fees, note any information relevant to your request including a confirmation number. You should receive your birth certificate in approximately three weeks.