 The person who files the motion is the “movant.” You will receive a copy of the movant’s motion, probably through the mail. Be sure to sit down and read it.


You won’t have much time to respond—usually two weeks or less. Accordingly, you need to block out sufficient time to research and draft the motion.;
, In federal court, this is Rule 19 of the federal Rules of Civil Procedure. There should also be an equivalent rule in your state’s civil procedure rules. Generally, a party must be added to the lawsuit if the following applies:The court can’t give complete relief to the existing parties without the absent party being joined.
The absent party claims an interest in the subject of the lawsuit, and disposing of the case may impair or impede the absent party’s right to protect that interest or leave them exposed to a substantial risk of multiple or inconsistent obligations.
 Rule 20 in federal court describes when a party may be permitted to join a lawsuit. The party isn’t indispensable—as in Rule 19—but the judge might nevertheless allow the party to join in the following circumstances:A party may join as a plaintiff if they have asserted a right jointly, severally, or in the alternative with respect to the same transaction or occurrence as the basis of your lawsuit, and there is a question of law or fact common to all of the plaintiffs in the action.
A party may join as a defendant if any right is asserted against them with respect to the same transaction or occurrence as the basis of your lawsuit, and any question of law or fact is common to all defendants.
 After reading the rules, you should have a better sense of what kinds of counterarguments you can make. For example, you can simply argue that the absent party doesn’t satisfy the rule for either mandatory or permissive joinder. In practice, this means arguing:


The judge can give you complete relief without adding the party. For example, someone might have defrauded you. The defendant then seeks to add his boss as a party because he claims he committed fraud at his boss’s direction. However, you don’t need the boss added to the lawsuit because the defendant is liable for his own actions and you can get complete relief against him.
The absent party doesn’t have a protectable legal interest in the dispute, as is required under Rule 19.
The absent party won’t be exposed to multiple or inconsistent court orders if not joined, as provided by Rule 19.
The absent party doesn’t share any common questions of law or fact with your lawsuit, as is required by Rule 20. For example, you might sue a doctor for malpractice when injured as a result of being subscribed certain medicines. A person cannot join your malpractice suit because the same doctor sexually harassed her. Although the defendant is the same, there are no common issues shared by the lawsuits.
 In its motion, the movant will probably refer to court opinions the movant believes support their arguments. You should pull a copy of all cases cited and read through them to see that they say what the movant claims.


You can do legal research at your local law library, which may be at your local court house or at a nearby law school.
You can also get many court opinions on Google. Go to Google Scholar and click on “Case law.” You can then type in the citation for each case into the search box., You should also begin doing legal research to find court opinions that support your own arguments. You can do research at a law library or using Google.


At Google scholar, you should select the state or federal courts you want to research. Then create search strings. For example, your case might involve someone who defrauded you. You could type “Rule 19 fraud.” If the absent party is the defendant’s boss, then type “Rule 19 fraud boss” as a search string.
Go through the results. Look for cases with similar factual circumstances. These are the best cases to bring to the judge’s attention.
 You might feel overwhelmed researching your motion. Also, you might not have any idea what kinds of arguments to make. If so, you should schedule a meeting with a lawyer to talk about your case.


To find a qualified lawyer, contact your state or local bar association and ask for a referral.Call the lawyer and briefly explain your situation. You can schedule a meeting with the lawyer, where you can discuss your motion in greater depth.
Ask ahead of time how much the lawyer charges.
 Most judges have rules that pertain specifically to their courtroom. These rules will contain detailed information about motions, such as the length, content, and form.You can typically get the rules by contacting the judge’s chambers or looking at the court’s website.Always follow the local rules. If anything in this article conflicts with your judge’s rules, then follow the judge’s requirements.
 A motion needs to begin with the caption. The caption contains the court’s name, the names of the parties, the case number, and the judge’s name. You can get this information from the movant’s motion.


You should also include the title to your motion. Look at the title the movant gave their motion. Then add the words “Opposition Motion” in front of that title. For example, your title could read something like “Plaintiff’s Opposition Motion to Defendant’s Motion to Join Additional Parties.”, Briefly summarize that the movant filed a motion to join other parties to the case. Then request that the court reject the motion., Make counterarguments for each argument made by the movant. If the movant argues joinder is appropriate under both Rule 19 and Rule 20, then raise counterarguments against both.


For example, you can write, “Joinder is improper because the motion does not satisfy the plain text of Rule 19(a) because there is no reason the court cannot accord ‘complete relief among existing parties.’” Then you can explain why the court can give you complete relief without the absent party joining., Briefly state that you request that the court deny the motion to join additional parties: “For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff respectfully requests that the Court deny Defendant’s motion to join additional parties to this action.”Insert your signature beneath the conclusion. Type “Respectfully submitted” and then include a signature block containing your name, address, telephone number, and email.
 You need to send the movant a copy of your motion, and you must certify that you have sent it before filing the motion. Type up your certificate of service on a separate piece of paper. Explain when you made service and how.


For example, you could write, “I hereby certify that on I caused to be served on Defendant by at the address listed below.” Then list the name and address of the movant’s attorney.
Include a signature block with your name, address, and telephone number., In federal court, many judges like parties to include a proposed order along with their motion. Read your local rules to see if an order is required. The rules might also state what must be included in the order.


Generally, the order should contain the caption information from the case. You should also include a title. Don’t type simply “Order.” Instead, relate the title of the order to the title of the movant’s motion. For example, “Order Denying Defendant’s Motion to Join Additional Parties” or something similar.
The body of the order should read: “Having considered Defendant’s Motion and finding no good cause, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Defendant’s Motion to Join Additional Parties is DENIED.” Then insert a line for the date and a signature line for the judge., You should make several copies of the motion. Be sure to send off your copy to the movant before filing. In federal court, you might file electronically or by filing a paper copy.


Always keep a copy for your records.
 To prepare for your argument, you should read all motions filed on this issue. After you file your motion in opposition, the movant might file a reply to your motion. This will give you a total of three motions to read. Read them all so that you fully understand the issues in dispute.


Also make sure to pull copies of all rules, statutes, and court opinions referred to in the motions. Make sure you understand what they stand for.
 You can prepare for a hearing by sitting in and listening to the judge run motion hearings.Pay attention to how much time the judge gives each side to make arguments and listen to the questions the judge asks.


Often, judges have online calendars you can check to see when motions are heard. Sit in the back of the courtroom with a notepad and a pen.
 When it comes time to argue the motion, you will go second. The movant goes first. You should listen quietly to their arguments. The movant shouldn’t make any argument that isn’t already contained in their motion. When it is your turn to speak, remember the following:


Speak clearly and loudly so that the judge can hear you.
Address the judge as “Your Honor.”If possible, respond to the movant’s arguments in the order they were made. However, if one of the movant’s arguments seemed particularly strong, then address that one first.
Listen quietly if the judge has a question. Try to answer to the best of your ability but don’t guess or misrepresent something.

