 Although you'll need to add egg yolks to get the paint-like texture, the chalk sticks you choose will determine the paint's colour. Because you'll be grinding them up, aim to use older and broken pieces of chalk. Getting multiple colours in your collection will give you a variety of colour to paint with.


Cheaper chalk will result in a smoother texture, but you won't get the same vibrant colours as you would with higher-end chalk material.
 Fill up a muffin slot with water for each colour of paint you're going to be using. Place a stick of chalk in each of these slots and let them sit for 15 minutes.


You can add extra sticks of chalk into the same tray slots if you want a richer colour, just so long as they're of the same colour.
 After they've soaked, they will be much easier to break apart and shouldn't put up much of a fight. Stir the mix when you're done to disperse the colour throughout each tray slot.


You can also mush the chalk together with your bare hands if the chalk sticks have grown soggy enough.
 In order for the egg paint to be truly non-toxic, you'll need to pasteurize them first. Crack the eggs you're making paint with and cook on high temperature for a couple of minutes. The yolk needs to reach a temperature of 138 degrees Fahrenheit.


Don't overcook them to the point of scrambling. If your eggs scramble, you won't be able to use them in your paint.
You can skip out on pasteurizing the eggs, but raw eggs will make children very sick if they're ingested. You can skip this if the children are old enough to know not to eat it.
, This will give the mix a thicker texture. Continue to add bits of yolk to the mix until there's a paint-like consistency to the mix.


The egg will provide a glossy finish once the paint dries.
 Once you've added your proper proportions to your mix, it's a good idea to give it a few minutes to properly settle. This will allow the mix time for the colours and yolky consistency to disperse properly.
 Once you've allowed the paint to sit, it should be ready to use. Leave the yolk in, but make sure that solid chunks of yolk aren't caught by your brush. You can paint directly out of the muffin tray.

