 Coupons can be found in a variety of different places, so keep an eye out for offers and give-aways which might include coupons. You might find them on the shelves, at the registers, or at the entrance. Look out for members of staff handing out coupons to customers as they enter or leave the store.


Always check your receipt when you leave the store.
Sometimes your receipt will act as a coupon and entitle you to a discount on your next shop.;
, Some of the best places to look for coupons are magazines and newspapers. Local newspapers in particular will often have coupons for your local stores. Weekend editions of newspapers can be the best bet, especially the larger Sunday edition.You can find coupons in a wide variety of magazines, but the coupons are likely to be related to the focus of the magazine.
For example, a magazine about homes and decoration is the best bet to find a coupon for a hardware or DIY store.
A magazine about health and fitness might have a coupon for sportswear.
 Online coupons, or "eCoupons," are increasingly popular and well-established. There are large websites entirely dedicated to couponing, which you will be able to find easily through a search engine. There is a broad range, so try to tailor your search to the specific type of coupon you are looking for.Online coupons are not accepted everywhere, so check the details before you try to use them.
Your favourite grocery or superstore may have digital or printable coupons, so be sure to check store websites directly.
As well as printable coupons, you will sometimes find online codes which you can use when you make a purchase online.
 You can sign up for coupons to be regularly sent to you as part of a loyalty of reward card scheme run by many major retailers. Sign up for a rewards card with your local grocery or drugstore. In addition to discounted prices, you'll receive coupons at the checkout.Certain stores monitor the products you buy and send you personalized coupons in the mail based on your purchasing history.
You can often also register your email address with the stores you frequent. When offers become available, you'll be alerted.
Many big stores and large chains have apps that will give you possibilities for more coupons and special offers.

