 When you walk into a room where a blind person is waiting, saying something right away will alert them to your presence. Being quiet until you’re right next to the person might make them feel as though you just snuck up out of nowhere, which isn’t comfortable for anyone.Say your name so they know who you are.
If the person offers a hand to shake, go ahead.;
, It might not be intuitive, but you should always say something when you're about to leave. Don't just assume the person will be able to hear you walking out. It's impolite to walk away without saying anything, since you’ll leave the person talking to air. This is frustrating and embarrassing.
 If it seems as though the person could use some assistance, the best thing to do is ask instead of just assuming they require your help. Just politely say, "would you like me to help?" If the answer is yes, ask what they'd like you to do. But if the answer is no, it's impolite to insist. Many blind people are perfectly capable of getting around without help.If they say they’d like assistance, do only what is asked, and no more. It’s common for well-meaning sighted people to “take over” and end up hurting more than they’ve helped.
In some situations, there's really no need to even ask. For example, if everyone's sitting around a table and the blind person is already seated, you don't need to walk up and ask if there's anything you can do. Be sensitive to the situation and don't make assumptions.
 Many people who don't have experience around the blind aren't sure how to address the blind person, so they instead address his or her companion. In a restaurant, for example, it's common for servers to ask the person seated next to a blind person if they would like more water, a menu, and so on. Blind people can hear just fine, and there's absolutely no reason not to address them as you would anyone else.
 It’s okay to use these common words when not using them would sound awkward. It could make a blind person more uncomfortable for you to talk to them in a way that's different from how you'd talk to other people.For example, you can say “It’s really nice to see you" or "It looks like rain tonight."
However, don’t use words like “look” and “see” when to do so would be impossible for the person. For example, if the person is about to collide with something, it’s more helpful to say “Stop!” instead of “Watch out!”

, Guide dogs are highly trained animals that enhance the lives and safety of blind people. Blind people rely on their guide dogs to navigate, and that's why you shouldn't call or pet one. If the dog becomes distracted, this could create a dangerous situation. Don’t do anything that could take up the dog’s attention. If the person invites you to pet the dog, its OK to do so, but don't touch the dog otherwise.
 Asking a lot of questions or making a big deal about someone being blind is impolite. Blind people have already answered these questions. Every day they encounter situations and places that cater to people who are sighted. You can help a blind person feel more comfortable by being sensitive to this and just talking with them in a normal way.


One common myth people often ask blind people about is whether they have a heightened sense of hearing or smell. Blind people have to rely on these senses more than sighted people do, but it's not true that they have super powers when it comes to hearing and smell, and it's rude to assume that.
The person may not want to talk about why they are blind. (For example, it could have been due to a scary accident that is very painful to remember.) If they bring it up, it's fine to keep asking more questions and continue the conversation, but don't call attention to it otherwise.
 Blind people memorize where the furniture is in homes, classrooms, offices and other places they frequently go to. Moving the furniture around could be confusing and possibly unsafe.


If you do move it, tell the person exactly how the layout of the room has changed.
Avoid leaving obstacles in the person’s path. Don’t leave doors open. Don’t have stacks of clutter on the floor.
 If the person has asked for assistance in walking from one place to another, offer your arm by touching their hand to the back of your arm, just above the elbow. This is a comfortable place for the person to hold your arm as you walk. When you start to move, walk a half step ahead, and at a moderate/slow pace.When you're guiding someone, you need to walk slower than you'd normally walk. Walking too fast could cause the person to trip.
If the person uses a guide dog or cane, walk on the opposite side.
 As you walk, talk about what you're encountering. If you come to a curb, say "curb up" or "curb down" to let the person know they need to step. Be very specific and describe things in terms of where they are. If a blind person asks you for directions, it’s not very helpful to point and say “over there.” Instead, describe how to get there by speaking in terms of distance.For example, say “The bodega is three blocks away. Turn left out the door, walk two blocks north, turn right, and you’ll find it at the end of the block on the right side of the street.
Describing directions in terms of landmarks isn’t very helpful to a non-local, either. Saying “it’s just past the gas station” won’t be useful to someone who isn’t familiar with the area.
Describe things in the person’s path. Alert them to the presence of low-hanging branches and other obstacles they won’t be able to see.
 The best way to do this is to pull out a chair and place the person’s hands on the back of it, so they can be seated. As you do so, describe the height of the chair and which way it's facing. Don’t steer someone backward into a chair, since they could lose balance. , Begin by saying whether the steps are leading up or down, and describe how steep they are and how long the staircase is. Then place the person’s hand on the railing. If you're guiding the person, take the steps first, and make sure the person has time to step up behind you along the way.
 As you approach the door, make sure the person is on the side with the hinge, and explain which way the door swings. Open the door and step through first. Place the person's hand on the doorknob, and let him or her close it after you've both passed through.
 As you approach the car, tell them which way the car is facing and which door is open.Place their hand on the car door. They will probably be able to open the door and get seated, but stand by in case your assistance is needed.
 If you have a friend or family member who has just become blind, the person may be struggling and frightened. They are probably spending a lot of time with doctors and therapists to make different life transitions. It's difficult to know what to say, but many blind people lead full, wonderful lives, with a rich school or work life and normal relationships.


If the person shares that they would like to talk about being blind, be an empathetic listener.
Learn about the best ways to assist a loved one who's blind, from helping the person develop a new organizational system to arranging the house in a way that's more accessible.
 Joining organizations for blind people is an essential way to make the transition from sighted to blind. It helps to talk with other people who have been through the same thing and who have a lot to teach what changes to make. Here are a few organizations devoted to helping blind people lead full and active lives:


The National Federation for the BlindAmerican Council of the BlindState-based organizations, which can be found here: http://www.blind.net/resources/organizations/organizations-for-the-blind.html


, Living life as a blind person has been made much easier due to modern inventions, policies and laws geared toward facilitating blind people's needs. If you know someone who is newly blind, help them find resources that will give him or her access to everything from equipment designed to help people read online to Social Security benefits to counseling, and so on.Help the person you know look into the following:


Learning Braille
Workplace rehabilitation
Social Security benefits
Laws (for example, only the blind may walk with a white cane)
Products and aids for reading and navigation
Acquiring a guide dog

