 Oftentimes, parents have specific arguments that they believe are proof of your lack of responsibility. It might be your messy room, or it might be fighting with a sibling. In any case, figure out what pushes your parents' buttons and address those issues.


Ask: "What can I do to show you I'm ready for a car? What can I do to make this happen?"

, A car is a major expense that your parents will likely have to decide on together. By asking both your parents, you show that you are aware that this is a major request and that you want to proceed honestly and openly. This can be a major asset, as it will promote honesty and openness in your parents as well.

"Mom, dad, I've been thinking a lot about a car lately. I know that it's a big expense, but it's looking more and more like I'm going to need one sooner than later. What do you think? How should I start preparing? Do you think you'll be able to help me with the cost?"

, You might notice that your parents are happiest in the morning, or maybe they are most agreeable on the weekend after work. Take note of the time of day your parents seem in the best mood, and use this time to ask respectfully about your car.
 Eating together helps promote social bonding which will make your parents more agreeable.You can further improve your chances by setting and clearing the table, as small acts of kindness can have powerful positive impact.
 Try to answer with specific solutions.

Specific solutions will make your responses easier for your parents to imagine, which can contribute to them saying, "Yes." Some questions to consider:

Parent: I'm worried about how you'll pay for insurance. We can help with the car, but we can't afford both that and the insurance.
Child: I've already put in applications at restaurants nearby. I was thinking I could work there part time before I get my car to save money for insurance, and then when I get my car I can drive to work to pay my bills.
Parent: We're concerned about you driving in snow.
Child: I found an affordable option for winter tires that have a high safety rating. If I saved up for those tires before winter and promise to only drive when I feel safe, would that make you feel better?

, Try to engage your parents as an adult. You can do this by being reasonable, by not manipulating the conversation, and by not reacting aggressively. By doing this, your parents are more likely to treat you as an adult, which will give your words more weight.

If you feel attacked or desperate, slow your breathing to calm yourself.It has been proven that re-framing your perspective can sustain your calmness when negotiating.Re-frame negative emotions with a positive approach. You can think of fear as a kind of anticipation, or frustration as desire.
 By doing more than is necessary, your parents will see that you are willing to do extra work for the sake of your car. Seeing your willingness to go the extra mile might make them more willing to help pay for your car.
 There's a time and a place for everything. Take stock of your surroundings before asking the big question. Do your parents look angry, busy, or overwhelmed? Are many people trying to get your parents' attention? Better save your question for another time.
 Join events, clubs, and extracurricular activities that require transport. The extra work of having to drive you around might make your parents more favorable to the prospect of getting you a car.
 One of the greatest worries parents have is safety.By making a new car your safest option, you will also make it more reasonable in the minds of your parents.


Mention you're considering buying a motorcycle and its unsafe reputation might win your parents over to the idea of buying a car.
Argue that you don't feel safe walking home late at night, if applicable.

