 Tightly wrapped bandages can reduce swelling and increase circulation, but can also risk worsening an injury that should not be compressed.Shoulder injuries that typically benefit from this treatment are those caused by repetitive stress such as weight lifting, golf swings, or volleyball serves, or mild injuries experienced while playing sports or falling.


If you’re unsure whether a different form of treatment may be more appropriate, see the “Knowing When to Get Professional Attention” section of this article.
Do not use a compression wrap on an injured person to try to stabilize the shoulder during transportation to the hospital.
If new pain or tingling occurs during the wrapping process, remove the wrap immediately and see a healthcare professional.
Use caution when applying compression to areas where there is severe peripheral artery disease or a severe infection. Also be aware of any allergies to certain materials, such as latex.;
, You’ll need a roll of compression bandage, bandage clips or pins, and a cloth long enough to serve as a sling.


Wash your hands with an antibacterial soap and clean water before touching the injury or any of the medical supplies.
Alternatively, you can purchase premade shoulder compression wraps.Many of these include built-in pockets for heating or icing implements.Try on a few to ensure you find one that comfortably fits.
 Position the end of the compression bandage on top of the injured shoulder, wrapping backwards around the armpit twice. Unroll the bandage as needed, making sure to keep the end of the bandage in place on their shoulder blade.As you complete the second wrap go down and across the back, beneath the other arm, and around the chest.
Make sure the bandage is snug but not so tight that the person cannot breathe.
 Wrap around the shoulder through the armpit again, and continue wrapping onto the bicep for added support. Ensure the wrap is snug enough to provide sufficient compression to stimulate the flow of blood to the area., Finish wrapping the bandage by pinning the wrap in place where the pins will be safe and secure. At this point, you also need to ensure you have not compressed the muscle tissue too much, as this may detrimentally reduce blood flow (the opposite of what you hope the wrap will achieve).Any numbness indicates that you’ve the wrapped the shoulder too tightly and need to re-wrap the shoulder a bit more loosely.
To ensure the compression bandage is not too tight, check the circulation of the affected arm by pinching a fingertip (including the nail in the pinch) for about two seconds. After about two more seconds, the nail of the pinched finger should return to its normal pinkish color.
If it takes more than two seconds for the pinched nail to turn back, the blood flow may be ineffective because of a tight compression bandage. Remove and reapply the compression bandage until it is snug but not too tight.
If there is any pain, it should start to go down after you apply the bandage. If there is an increase in pain, then redo the wrapping.

