 You may prefer the simplicity of selling locally. You do not have to worry about shipping fees and marketing yourself if you're selling your clothing to local outlets. Browse the market before choosing a place to sell your items.Look at local thrift stores and vintage stores. You can ask for advice on where to sell, and you may even get an offer for your clothing items.
You could also see if there are any small local auctions happening around your town. It may be a good idea to sell at a local auction, as bidders may compete with one another. This could result in you getting a fairly high price for an item.
 Before you sell an item locally, browse the local market. See what the typical going rate is for, say, a vintage dress or a vintage suit. You want to make sure, when you do choose to sell, that you get a good deal. Educate yourself going into any sale so you'll be able to use your knowledge to negotiate.
 Thrift stores and consignment stores often purchase old clothing for resale. However, be careful when selling at such places. You'll often end up selling your clothing for less than half the retail price. This is where educating yourself can come in handy. Always negotiate with the teller, showing him or her you know how much a piece is worth. While a store will never buy an item for its full retail price, you can work your way up to a higher percentage of the retail value., If there are any local fairs or flea markets coming into town, this can be a great place to sell. You'll be able to sell your items at their full retail value.


Research a fair beforehand to make sure you have the right audience. A craft fair may draw in buyers interested in vintage clothing. However, a fair designed for children is probably not the best option.
Look into the regulations at a given fair to figure out how to sign up and set up your booth. You'll need basic supplies, like a cash box, a table, and some chairs. You'll also need clothing hangers to display your vintage clothes.

