 Check the rifle on the ground is safe, the safety catch should be visible above the trigger when the rifle is right side up.;
, Pick up the rifle. Hold the pistol grip with your right hand, your right index finger should rest on the trigger guard, not the trigger. Your left hand should hold the handguard (big green bit with holes along the top at the front). The butt (the bit at the back) should be between your shoulder and your collar bone. Your cheek should be resting on the plastic just in front of the butt. Your elbows should be tucked in quite a lot and resting securely on the ground. Have a look through the sights.
 Check the bolt and chamber for any rounds or damage.(7 point check) When you are sure that the rifle is clear then with your left hand push the release catch to allow the working parts to move forward. Remove the safety and fire off the action with an aimed shot. Re-apply the safety catch.
 Keep hold of the pistol grip with your right hand but let go with your left. Use your left hand to pick up the magazine. Check that the round edge of the magazine is backwards, and that the bullets face forwards (pointy bit goes forward). Tap the magazine against the housing. Now push it into the black housing. Try to pull it out. If you can pull it out push it back in and wriggle it around. Better? Is it the right way round? Push down with the rifle if the magazine still refuses to go in.
 DO NOT HOLD THE COCKING HANDLE AS IT MOVES FORWARD! The with the side of your left hand tap the cocking handle 2 or 3 times to ensure that it is fully forward. Then ensure the SAFETY CATCH IS APPLIED. The weapon is now ready and LETHAL.
 Now line up the top of the foresight blade with the middle of the target, and make sure it all appears in the middle of the rear sight.
 Release the safety catch. Look down the sights. Get that target picture you saw earlier. Focus on the foresight blade. Breath in and out a few times. Index finger on trigger. Breathe in, breathe out - and squeeze that trigger gently.
 Yep - a bullet just left your rifle so fast that you could never see it without some amazing camera - so don't try to see it - keep absolutely still for a second or two - then slowly release the trigger. Continue firing. You don't need to touch the cocking handle.
 Unloading at the end is putting the safety catch on (left thumb) then taking off the magazine - like putting it on, but press the release catch on the housing and pull it out - check there aren't any rounds in that magazine before you put it down.
 At the back of the bolt slide is where the cases come out. Look forward, back and down. Look inside the magazine housing and then check forward, back and down again. Nothing? Its clear. Shiny brass? Give it a good shake and check again. Release the bolt forward using your left fingers on the square button on the left of the rifle.
 Aim. Fire. Click. No rounds so no bang. Safety on. Replace the dust cover (where the cases come out - this is spring loaded) slide forward slightly and let slide back with a bit of pressure so that it goes behind the small lip. Rear sight down (push forward).
 Check that the weapon is clear (7 point check). Put the left side of your rifle on your shoulder with your right hand on the pistol grip, index finger on the trigger guard and your left hand on the handguard. Ensure that the safety catch is on.
 Put the butt against your shoulder again, let the working parts go forward (release catch) then safety off and fire off the action with an aimed shot. Safety on. Dust cover on.
 Put the rifle down and stand up. Put it down right side up. So the cocking handle is not resting on the floor.
 When instructed by the Range Conducting Officer walk down the side of the range and once your target has been inspected, cover the holes with the paste and paper ready for the next shoot/shooter.

