 You may not think a tidy space is essential to having a home pampering day, but having a clean and orderly home will actually make you feel much more calm and relaxed. Take at least fifteen minutes to throw out any trash, tidy up your desk, kitchen, and bedroom, and to make sure everything is in its place. You don’t want to do a lick of work during your home pampering day, so you should make sure your home is in order when you wake up and prepare to spoil yourself.


Get rid of any sign of your work from your bedroom or whatever room you’ll be staying in. You want this day to be about you, not about finishing that report you’ve been stressing about.
Empty your dishwasher, water your plants, and do any household chores you can in the evening so you don’t have to think about a single one when you wake up.;
, You don’t want to be answering emails from work or helping your friends deal with drama during your home pampering day. This day will be all about you, and you can try to forget everyone else as much as you can. Make it clear that you’re taking the day off work and tell any friends who are used to hearing from you that you won’t be using your phone, either. If you’re active on social media, then you can even post about the fact that you’re taking a day off, so no one wants anything from you that day.


If you want to leave your phone on for emergencies or check it every few hours because you simply can’t live without it, then you can do that.
 If you want to have the most successful home pampering day possible, then you don’t want to spend a minute going to the store, checking items off a list, or gathering anything you need, unless that makes you feel more relaxed. While making too much of a plan can be stressful and can counteract the idea of a home pampering day, you should plan to have a few things ready so you can start making yourself feel relaxed the moment you wake up. Here are some things you may need:


Relaxing herbal teas
A face mask
Bubbles for a bubble bath
Scented candles
Cucumbers for your eyes
Your favorite foods
Fruit for a smoothie
Nail polish
Your favorite classic movie
Some iced tea or cucumber water

, The whole point of a home pampering day is that you relax and take care of your body. So, if you wanted to do a manicure and pedicure, take a warm bath, exfoliate your skin, and make a smoothie, along with doing a million other things to make yourself feel relaxed, you may actually be overwhelming yourself by trying to do too much. Instead, just do what you feel like doing when you wake up, and don’t feel pressured to stick to any schedule. If you feel too obligated to do too much, you won’t be able to relax.


Do what you feel like doing. If putting on a face mask feels like too much of an effort and you’d rather just lie in bed, then you should feel free to do that. Remember that this day is all about relaxing in the best way possible for yourself.
 Okay, so you probably don’t want to sleep in past noon and miss half of your home pampering day. That said, you should make sure that you get plenty of rest so that you wake up feeling healthy and refreshed. You don’t have to oversleep, but you should make sure you get between 7-9 hours of sleep, or whatever it is you normally get when you feel well-rested. This will help you start the day off on the right foot and will help you feel refreshed instead of groggy.


Sleeping in will make you feel instantly refreshed, but you should try to avoid hitting that snooze button too many times. The sleep that you fall into between snoozes actually won’t be deep enough to make you feel better, and you should work on waking up after a solid, relaxing sleep instead of forcing yourself to get up after a disturbed one.
Stretch your arms over your head, drink a full glass of room temperature water, and step outside for a few breaths of fresh air if you want to wake up on the right foot.
 Light some candles that are scented with either rose, jasmine, lavender, or another one of your favorite smells. Though you may think that lighting candles is for the nighttime, there’s nothing stopping you from lighting a scented candle the moment you wake up. The smell can make you feel soothed and refreshed, and there’s something naturally calming about candlelight that can make you feel at peace.


If you’re not gung-ho about lighting candles, opt for some incense instead. And if you’ve never been into candles or incense, don’t feel the pressure to light them just because you think it will make you feel more relaxed.
 Putting on some music in the background can also help you feel relaxed as you go about pampering yourself. Try to avoid talk radio, or loud Top 40 hits, and stick to music that will make you feel calm and relaxed. If you like Miles Davis, Enya, or any form of classical music, then you should softly play it throughout your day so you feel calmed and centered. You can also just set Pandora to your favorite relaxing station so you don’t have to worry about choosing anything.


That said, if you’re the kind of person who gets distracted by music, you can leave it off. Sometimes, there’s nothing more soothing than silence.
 Though letting in some natural light can help you feel rejuvenated and refreshed, you can also consider keeping the room darker than normal, so you don’t have too many lights distracting you or hurting your eyes. Soft, natural light, whether it’s from dim lamps or candles can be soothing, while bright lights can make you feel too alert to really be relaxed. Work on having enough light to see, but not so much that it makes you feel overstimulated.


You can stick to sunlight during the day and candlelight at night. Try to avoid using lamps or overhead lights as much as you can.
You can also try to remove any very brightly-colored items, such as bright yellow pillows, and stick to softer colors such as greens, browns, and deep blues so you feel more relaxed.
 It’s important to stay hydrated throughout your home pampering day. If you prepared a jug of ice water similar to the ones you find in a spa, then you’ll feel like even having a glass of water is a treat. You can add some slices of cucumbers, oranges, or limes to add an extra flavor to the water and make hydration feel like a special occasion. Make sure to drink at least 8-10 glasses of water a day so you feel healthy and refreshed.


If you don’t like citrus, you can try some sprigs of mint or even some sliced strawberries instead.
 When you get up, work on cleansing your face with your favorite facial cleanser. Just massage it into your skin for 15-30 seconds using the pads of your fingers. Then, rinse it off thoroughly. After that, you can exfoliate your skin with a gentle facial exfoliator; if you don’t have one, use a mixture of sugar and olive oil instead. Again, massage your skin for 15-30 seconds with the exfoliator, and then rinse it off.


You can even consider boiling water and then steaming your face to open up your pores afterward. To do this, just make a tent with a towel over your face, placing your face above the steaming water, and breathe it in for five minutes.
 Making your own hair mask can help strengthen and moisturize your hair while letting you stick to your budget. All you have to do is stir the ingredients together to make the mask, massage it into your damp hair and let it sit for 30 minutes, and then take a shower and shampoo and condition your hair as usual. Taking the time to really care for your hair is a great way to pamper yourself. Here are all the ingredients you need to make the hair mask right at home:½ cup honey
2 tbsp. olive oil
1 egg yolk
1 whole avocado

, Before your body gets wet, use a pumice stone to remove dead skin from your feet. Then, wash out your hair mask if you chose to apply one. After that, you can just shampoo and condition your hair as you normally would. You can take a bit more time with it this time, making an effort to really massage that shampoo and conditioner in and out of your hair. If you want to kick things up a notch, sing “Natural Woman” as you shampoo those locks!


Use your favorite soap or body wash to fully cleanse your skin. Take your time.
 If you prefer a bubble bath instead of a shower, you can skip on the shower, or even shower and then take a warm bath. Just fill the bathtub with warm water, adding bath crystals, bubble bath mix, or a bath bomb to make the water to your liking. Then, lower yourself into the bath one foot at a time, until you’re fully immersed, with just your head rising above the water. Make sure the water is warm enough to make you comfortable and relaxed, but not so hot that you’re getting overheated.


Once you’re in the bath, you can scrub yourself with a loofah to get rid of dead skin cells.
You can also light some candles and play some soft music for an added effect.
If you want to shave your legs, then make sure you apply body exfoliator to your legs and to massage them with flannel—this will open up the hair follicles and will make for a cleaner shave. Rinse the exfoliator off before you shave. You can use shaving cream, or even try olive oil, which some say will make for a closer shave.
 First, just towel yourself dry and then rub moisturizer or lotion all over your body. Then, wrap a nice, clean, fluffy robe around your body and splash your face with cold water to close your pores. Then, you can moisturize your face and put on the comfiest clothes you own; there’s no need to worry about looking good, as long as you feel good. This day is all about making yourself feel clean, healthy, beautiful, and relaxed, not about wearing cute clothes to impress all the people out there.


You can hang out in your comfortable robe for a little while, if it feels good. How often do you get to do that?

, A face mask can help treat dry or oily skin, reduce puffiness in the face, and can make your face look and feel better. All you have to do to use one is to gently massage it into your skin, so you increase the circulation in your face, and then let it sit for 10-15 minutes or however long the instructions say you should use the mask for. Whether you make a mask at home or buy a mask, it’s important you have the right mask for your skin type. Here are some ideas for different face masks you can make right at home:For dry skin, make a milk and honey face mask. Simply stir 4 tablespoons of powdered milk together along with 2 tablespoons of honey and 2 tablespoons of warm water. Then, apply it to your face, taking care to keep it away from your eyes and mouth, and place a damp washcloth over it for 10 minutes. Then, use the cloth to wipe your face.
For oily skin, you can try an egg mask. Just whip the whites of two eggs until they turn into a light foam. Spread the thin layer on your face and let it sit until it becomes firm. Then, rinse the mask away.
Use a green tea mask to counteract aging. Just dissolve one teaspoon of green tea powder into half a teaspoon of water and spread the paste across your face, letting it sit for 10 minutes.
Make a tomato face mask to exfoliate your skin. Just puree one ripe tomato along with a teaspoon of oatmeal and another teaspoon of lemon juice. Spread the mixture across your face and let it set for 20 minutes before rinsing it away.
 Cucumbers have a natural anti-inflammatory effect that will help reduce puffiness around your eyes. They also have a high water content, so they act as natural moisturizers. Just make sure you have a cucumber that you’ve kept in the fridge so that it feels nice and cool around your eyes and decreases the flow of blood to the space around your eyes, and cut two thin slices that you will place directly over your eyelids. Lie down for 10-15 minutes and wait for the cucumbers to work their magic.You can also use these cucumbers while you’re applying the face mask.
 One great way to pamper yourself is to give yourself an amazing manicure or pedicure. First, soak your fingertips and toes in a warm bath for a few minutes to let them relax. You can just use an ordinary warm bath, or mix in half a cup of lavender oil or honey to make your digits feel extra cared for. After that, work to remove any extra skin around your cuticles, file your nails down, and then paint them whatever color you’d like.


You can do the whole deal: file your nails, apply base coat, two coats of polish, and top coat for that long-lasting effect. Or you can just paint on your favorite color and not worry too much about having that perfect look.
A lot of girls don’t have a lot of time to paint or care for their nails, and taking time out of your day to pamper yourself can help you feel at ease.
Give yourself a nice hand and foot massage before you take out the nail polish. Your feet are probably sore from being on your feet all day and your hands may be sore from typing or just because. Take the time to really massage your palms, the pads of your feet, and the joints of your fingers and toes.
If you’re not real careful about painting outside your nails, then you can cover the outsides with Vaseline before you begin painting, so any excess paint comes off your skin more easily.
Give your nails at least ten minutes to dry and just lie down or listen to some relaxing music while you wait. A lot of girls don’t normally have the luxury of just sitting around and waiting for their nails to dry, so make the most of it on your home pampering day.
 Though you can have a treat or two during your home pampering day, you should also make an effort to have some healthy foods so your mind and body is feeling its best. Make sure you have some ripe fruit, such as mangoes, strawberries, or peaches around so you can make a tasty fruit salad or a fruit smoothie, and have a healthy breakfast of oatmeal or eggs and lean proteins to start the day off right. Make a healthy salad for lunch, and have a hearty dinner that isn’t too rich in fats or too spicy, and you’ll be feeling more at ease in no time.


Having some healthy snacks throughout the day will also make you feel great. Have some almonds, yogurt, celery and peanut butter, or grapes whenever you get a craving.
If you want to relax at the end of your home pampering day and enjoy a glass or two of red wine, then no one’s stopping you. Just make sure you stop drinking alcohol about 2-3 hours before your bedtime so you can have a restful sleep and wake up feeling refreshed.
 One thing you should do on your home pampering day is to drink a nice cup or two of herbal tea. Herbal tea generally does not contain caffeine so it won’t make you anxious and it has many restorative and soothing properties. Peppermint tea has been said to ease stomach aches, chamomile tea has been said to ease anxiety, and ginger tea has been said to improve your circulation.Have a cup in the morning and a cup in the evening, or even make iced tea out of it if it’s a warm day.


Though you shouldn’t completely quit your caffeine habit just for a day or you’ll suffer from withdrawal, you should try to have a little bit less caffeine than usual if it’s possible.
 Yoga can work wonders on your mind as well as your body. If you’re familiar with yoga or have even taken just a few beginner classes, then you should try to carve out at least 30 minutes out of your day to practice some yoga. You’ll be able to do some stretches that open up your body and to find some positions that strengthen your body and mind. Yoga makes you feel more self-possessed and can help you be grateful for the world around you.


You can even do yoga to a video if you feel lost on your own, though you should avoid watching too much television throughout your day.
Even a few poses, such as Child’s Pose, Crow Pose, or the Crescent Lunge can help you feel more in control of your mind and body.
When you do yoga, it’s important to focus on your breath. This can make you feel even more relaxed and like you’re truly taking care of yourself.
 Meditation is another great way to relax and take care of your mind and body. If you want to pamper yourself, then one of the best things you can do is to take some time out of your day to focus on your breathing and let stillness fall over you. Just have a comfortable seat and work on relaxing your body, one part at a time, while focusing on the breath rising in and out of your body. Work on trying not to think about anything else and pushing away any anxious or worried thoughts.


It can take practice to focus on your breath and to truly push away those negative thoughts, so don’t get frustrated with yourself if you can’t do it on the first attempt. Just try it for 10-15 minutes and see how much better you feel.
 Though you don’t want to commit to any heavy exercise on your home pampering day, just taking a walk for half an hour can make your mind and body feel more energized, happy, and relaxed. Being outside, getting some fresh air and sunshine, and feeling your body moving can help you feel more centered and more at one with your body. Plus, you don’t want to be cooped up in your house for the entire day, and if you get moving, you’ll feel like you’re doing your body justice.


Try not to think or worry about anything you have coming up. Instead, focus on being present and in the moment, and enjoy every tree you pass and every breath you take.
 A self-massage can be one of the best ways to pamper yourself and to make yourself feel better. Use your hands to ease the aches in your body, to improve your circulation, and to help push the tension out of your muscles and joints. You can do this when you get out of the shower or during any time of the day when you’re feeling a little sore and achy. Here are some great ways to give yourself a massage:


Use the thumb and fingers of one hand to gently massage the palm, forearm, and biceps of the other, and then switch and do the same for the other arm.
Use the fingers of both hands to massage circles into your upper back and your neck, and then use just the tips of your fingers to massage circles into the back and top of your head.
Sit down with your legs stretched out and massage your legs from the groin all the way down to your toes.

