 Whether you are aiming to lose weight or simply better your physical health, a fitness getaway can provide you with the necessary tools to stay or get fit. Choose a retreat with outdoor activities like hiking, rock climbing, skiing, and surfing. Or, go for a place with a more introspective exercise like yoga. Most health and fitness getaways include structured classes and guides to aid you in your fitness journey. Some even offer pre-planned meals to help you meet your goals., If you are looking for a mental break, aim for a retreat that includes meditation. Commonly placed in quiet, out-of-the-way areas, spiritual retreats encourage guests to find inner peace. Participate in activities like yoga, Tai Chi, and mental workshops that will help guide you in working through problems and settling your mind.Many of these retreats encourage disconnection from modern life and do not have televisions or internet.
 Try a myriad of beauty treatments and feel refreshed with a spa getaway. These retreats are about more than just massages, they’re designed to help you decompress and rejuvenate. Choose from activities like body wraps, specialty baths, exfoliating rubs, and other specialized treatments. Or have one of the many counselors help you choose a schedule that suits your needs.
 Decide how much time you are able to spend away. If you work, you may have to take vacation days or a long weekend. You may also have to give up a day or two to travel, so be sure you have enough time allotted for both getting to the retreat and staying there.


Most wellness getaways are between 3 days and two weeks. So it's best to schedule your getaway a month or two in advance.
 Decide if you are bringing friends or family with you. A wellness getaway doesn't have to be a solo trip. Take a friend or significant other to deepen your relationship and relax together. Or go as a family and find the quality time together you may feel like you're missing at home. Many retreats may even offer special packages for groups or parties.


Whoever you are taking is likely to have their own wants and needs in regards to the best location as well.
 Wellness getaways can cost anywhere between $200-$5,000. It all depends on where you're going, how long you're staying, and whether or not amenities like food are offered. For example, many retreats will provide guests with lodging and regular meals - especially ones involved with weight loss. However, you may be required to pay for a hotel, specialized classes, and airfare., Wellness getaways are more than just vacations. You are free (and encouraged) to do what you wish with your time, however, taking advantage of the activities offered will help you get more from the trip. Every retreat will have trained guides that can lead you in both relaxing and improving your mental and physical health. Try a variety of classes or activities that your retreat offers like yoga, meditation, weight loss, or guided hiking.


You don’t have to partake in everything. Pick and choose what you feel would help you most.
 There may be courses or activities offered at your chosen getaway that you find unnecessary. Rather than decide against them immediately, keep an open mind to trying new things. Though you might assume something is ridiculous at first or that you won’t be able to manage, you may be surprised in the end. A wellness getaway is all about improvement, so try putting yourself out there when you can.
 Plan ahead to finish any obligations - work-related or personal. It's important to not have any immediate responsibilities on your wellness getaway so you can fully relax. The more cut off you are from your everyday life the easier it will be to properly take a break and refresh.

