 If you aren't already there, navigate to the Tumblr post you want to reblog. You can reblog posts on your dashboard or posts found directly on someone's blog.


Make sure that you're logged into your own Tumblr account before continuing. You won't be able to reblog anything until you sign in, even if you can view the post without signing in.
 Locate the reblog icon, which looks like two rotating arrows. Hit the button to open the reblog post editor.The reblog post editor should look similar to the new text post editor, but the content of the selected blog post should be displayed above the text box.
 Click inside the "Add a caption" text box to bring up the plus (+) icon to the left of the editor. Hit this plus icon, then hit the camera icon in the resulting menu of additional options.


Once you hit the camera button, an "Open File" dialog box should pop up.
 Navigate through the directories and folders on your computer until you find the GIF file you want to post. Click on the file once to highlight it, then hit the "Open" button to begin the upload.


Double-clicking the GIF file without hitting the "Open" button will also start the upload.
You must save the GIF file to your computer before you can post it as a caption to a reblogged post.
 Tumblr should begin the upload as soon as you select and open the GIF file. Watch for the blue "Processing" bar to appear on screen.


Once the upload is complete, the GIF should appear inside the "Add a caption" text box of the reblog editor. The exact amount of processing time can vary, but it will usually be finished within a few seconds.
 You can edit the size of your GIF by switching from "Rich text" view to "HTML" view.


Locate the gear icon in the upper right corner of the editor, just above the original post you want to reblog. Hit this icon and find the "Text editor" field at the bottom of the resulting list. Change the current option to "HTML."
Type "width=###" after the file name of the GIF in your caption. Instead of typing ### though, you should type your desired pixel size.
You can view the newly resized GIF again by switching back into "Rich text" view.
 You can reblog the post as it is, with the GIF file being your only caption, but if you'd like to add text, too, you'll need to do so now.


You can type text into the "Add a caption" box before or after the uploaded GIF.
Also note that you can add tags to the "#tags" field, if desired. There is no "Title" field to worry about with a reblogged post, though.
 Once you're satisfied with the way everything looks, hit the "Reblog" button in the bottom right corner of the editor.


This step should finalize the post and make it public. Both the original post and your GIF caption should now be viewable from your Tumblr blog.

