 If you want to plan for leaving your job, you should enlist the help of a qualified financial adviser. Someone with expertise in investing can help you decide how much you need to save and can help you find the best ways to invest. If you want some help with finding a qualified financial adviser, read Hire a Financial Advisor or Select a Financial Advisor.
 Working with your financial adviser, you will want to do more than just place your earnings in a bank account. Simple savings accounts earn very low interest. You will do better to invest in bonds, stocks or other securities, in accordance with your adviser’s opinions.


Investing works best when you begin as early as possible. Your best ally when saving is time. Your interest compounds more effectively when you begin early.
If your focus is to be able to take a temporary leave at some time, then you may need to have your savings in a readily accessible account. Long-term IRA savings are good for retirement planning, but you may need to be able to withdraw money sooner. Work with your adviser to find the best investment or savings plans for your needs.
If you want to plan for a lengthy, temporary leave, such as for a maternity or family illness, you will want to have savings in some readily accessible account. A short-term bond or money market may be the best bet, or even a simple savings account that you earmark for such an emergency., Many people live their lives from month to month and use a great deal of their income. If you manage a budget this way, you will do fine from month to month, but you will greatly delay your savings plan. If your goal is to be able to leave work, you should begin by cutting expenses as much as possible.To begin cutting expenses, start by listing them all. Then review how you spend your money over a one- to three-month period and identify the expenses that you believe you can live without. Perhaps you can reduce the number of times that you go out to dinner. Maybe you can cut some entertainment expenses.Manage your utilities. Try to reduce some of your monthly expenses by reducing utility usage in your home. Manage the heat, turn off lights, and do what you can to save water. These sound like small steps, but over time they can all add up.
Cutting expenses is a powerful financial tool for any job leave, whether permanent/retirement or a temporary leave for illness, maternity or some other reason. You need to consider the absence from work as an overall change in your lifestyle., Part of setting your target, if you are anticipating leaving your current job, should be to have some savings available to spend on a search for a new one. You will need money for correspondence, printing resumes, travel, parking, and possibly one or two new interview suits. You should anticipate these costs, estimate the amount of money that you will need, and set this aside as part of your target savings.