 If you notice any signs of clingy behavior, for instance, when confronted with stressors, be careful not to accidentally praise the dog as this rewards the fearful behavior. Instead, ignore the shy behavior (so you don't reward it) and praise any "brave" actions by the dog such as taking a step closer or going to investigate.
 Triggers, specifically, are what we call those things that cause your dog to exhibit shy behavior.Examples of triggers include men, women, people with deep voices, people with beards, vacuum cleaner, bicycle etc. Triggers may not even be humans; they could be hair dryers or slick flooring or pretty much anything. Observe the dog's behavior and, if needed, keep a journal for a few days to figure out specifically what the trigger to shy behavior is.


In short, anything has the potential to be a trigger if the dog didn't encounter it during their socialization period an have a good experience with it.
 Without deliberately stressing the dog, observe at what distance from the feared object the dog starts to become uncomfortable with its presence. This is important because you will use distance from the object to help desensitize the dog to the object., The aim of counter conditioning is for the dog to relearn how to react to an object they fear or are suspicious of. This means teaching them to associate a pleasant experience (typically a treat or praise) when they are calm in the presence of the object.


Teach the response you want away from the stressor. A good example would be"Sit" or "Look" for eye contact.
Expose the dog to the stressor well within his tolerance, and ask for the trained behavior and reinforce. For instance, if he gets upset when a bearded man is walking on his side of the street, have a friend with a beard stand across the street and ask your dog to sit, then praise him and give him treats.
Slowly decrease distance from the dog, advancing when your dog is fully confident in doing the trained behavior.
This will become an automatic response after a period of time and you will notice he will voluntarily offer the behavior when he sees the stressor, distracting him and making the stressor into an opportunity for reinforcement instead of a predictor of bad things.Desensitization can go beyond simple exposure to the stressor to include motion and auditory desensitization (see below).
 Slowly add increasingly more motion to stressors. This adds a new dimension to the dog's ability to tolerate stressors.


Next, move the stressor while it is in close proximity to the dog. Combining movement and proximity intensifies desensitization.
For instance, if the dog is shy around a specific object, like a newspaper, let him become comfortable with its presence, perhaps by leaving a newspaper by his food bowl. When he is comfortable, you can then begin moving it around on the floor near him with your foot while he eats.
 Using the newspaper example, you could hide cellophane inside the newspaper, and, as you move it around with your foot, the sound of the cellophane crinkling inside adds noise. This, along with the proximity of the newspaper and you moving it around, can help desensitize the dog to the stressor, minimizing or even eradicating his shyness around the stressor.

