 What purpose do you want your garden to serve? Some gardens are functional, and produce fruit and vegetables you can use to feed your family or give away to neighbors. Others are more ornamental in purpose, serving to beautify your property and provide a pleasing sight to people passing by. If you're not sure what type of garden you want, consider the following options:


Vegetable gardens can include peppers, tomatoes, cabbages and lettuces, potatoes, squash, carrots, and many other vegetables. If a vegetable is able to grow in your region, you can find a way to grow it in your yard.
In flower gardens, different types of flowers may be strategically planted so that something is in bloom almost all year long. Some flower gardens are structured, with flowers planted in neat rows and patterns; others are wilder in appearance. Your personal style and yard type will determine what type of flower garden you might plant.

Herb gardens often complement both flower and vegetable gardens, since they tend to flower beautifully and also serve the functional purpose of adding flavor to your food. Herb gardens might include rosemary, thyme, dill, cilantro and a variety of other herbs you may want to use to make dried spices and teas.
In general, vegetable gardens have the highest soil and maintenance requirements. Flowers and herbs can withstand more neglect than vegetable plants.;
, Find out what grows well in your region garden zone by using this zone finder to determine what zone you are in, then research which plants do well in your area. As you find out more about your options, make a list of the plants you want to buy and the best time of year to plant them.


Some plants don't grow as well in certain zones. If you live in a place with mild winters and hot summers, you may have trouble growing plants that require a cold snap to grow properly.
Unless you plan to make your garden relatively large, try to choose plants that need similar growing conditions. Do they need the same soil type and sun exposure? If not, you may have to create a garden with several types of growing conditions, which can be complicated in a small garden.
Visit a farmers market or plant sale in the spring. Often, you can learn useful information from vendors and buy healthy plants that grow well in your area.
 Take a look around your yard to assess the where you want the garden to be located. The location you choose should both help the garden serve the function you want it to have and also be in a spot that is conducive to growing strong, healthy plants.


No matter what type of garden you're planting, most plants will grow better in rich, well-drained soil. Avoid spots in your yard where water seems to stand for awhile after a heavy rain, as this could indicate the soil there is too soggy or clay-based for healthy plant growth.
Most vegetables grow best with a lot of sunlight, so if you're planting a vegetable garden choose a spot that isn't shaded by trees or your house. Flowers are more versatile, and if you'd like a flower plot next to your house you can choose flowers that grow best in partial or full shade.
If your soil isn't high quality, you can make a raised bed and grow flowers or vegetables there. Raised beds are planting beds that are built on top of the ground within wood frames that are filled with soil.
If you don't have a yard, you can still have a garden. Plant flowers, herbs and certain vegetables in large pots on your patio. You can move them around according to the amount of sun the plants need.
 Draw an outline of your garden or yard space. Map out different options where you want to plant various items in the location you chose. Tailor the design to fit the needs of your plants, making sure the ones that need shade will be planted in shade, and the ones that need full sun are in an area that isn't cast in shadows during the day.


Take into account the space each plant will need, both at planting time and after it starts to mature. Make sure everything you want to plant will fit in your garden and have enough space to spread out.
Take the timing into account. Many plants need to be planted at different times in different zones. For example, if you live in a region with mild winters and hot summers, you may need to plant your flowers earlier than you would if you lived in a region with cold winters and shorter summers.
If you're planting a vegetable garden, design it so that it's convenient for you to walk into the garden and harvest vegetables as they ripen. You may want to make a path through the garden for this purpose.
Flower gardens should be designed with aesthetics in mind. Choose colors that look pretty together, and make patterns that are pleasing to the eye. Keep in mind when different flowers will begin to bloom.
Also take your lifestyle into account. Do you have children or pets who might run through the area? Is the garden within reach of your hose? Is it too close or too far away from your living space?

