 A viral cold, also called an upper respiratory infection, is a common cause for fever during pregnancy. Most of us have experienced a seasonal cold at some point in our lives but with a suppressed immune system during pregnancy, the risk of getting a cold is higher.Symptoms are usually mild and include fever (100 F or higher), chills, runny nose, sore throat, muscle aches, and cough.Unlike bacterial infections, viral illnesses cannot be treated with antibiotics and usually resolve after your own immune system fights off the virus.
Drink plenty of fluids and try the normal home remedies mentioned in the first section to reduce fever and make yourself more comfortable.If you do not feel better within 3-4 days or if your symptoms worsen, call your doctor or midwife.
 Similar to the common cold, the flu (influenza) is a viral illness that causes upper respiratory symptoms. However, the symptoms tend to be more severe compared with the cold.Symptoms of the flu include chills, fever (100 F or above), fatigue, headache, runny nose, cough, muscle aches, vomiting, and nausea.
If you believe you have the flu while pregnant, you need to seek medical attention immediately.
There is no specific treatment for the flu besides treating the symptoms. Your doctor may recommend antiviral medication to lessen the time of the illness and reduce the risk of complications.Many pregnant women do need to be treated with Tamiflu or amantadine if they are diagnosed with the flu because some flu strains are more lethal to pregnant women than the general population.
Stay home and get plenty of rest and fluids. Follow the steps in the first section to reduce fever and make yourself more comfortable., A possible cause for fever during pregnancy (and otherwise) is a UTI, which is a bacterial infection that affects your urinary tract system (the urethra, ureters, kidneys, and bladder).UTI happens when bacteria gain access to your urinary tract and cause infection.Symptoms of UTI include fever, urge to urinate, burning sensation when urinating, cloudy or red-brown-colored urine, and pelvic pain.UTI can be effectively treated with certain antibiotics and thus, it is important you contact your doctor if you have any symptoms.You may also want to try cranberry juice although this has not been scientifically proven to treat UTI.If not treated, you can risk complications to yourself (kidney infection) or to your baby, including low birth weight, preterm delivery, sepsis, respiratory failure, and death.
 If your fever is associated with vomiting and diarrhea, you may suffer from a stomach flu (gastroenteritis), which is most often caused by a virus.Symptoms of stomach flu include fever, diarrhea, abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting, muscle aches, and headache.There is no treatment for viral stomach flu but luckily majority of the cases resolve on their own. Drink plenty of fluids to avoid dehydration and take steps to reduce fever.
If you are unable to hold liquids down after 24 hours, become dehydrated, there is blood in your vomit, or if your fever is above 101 F, seek medical attention immediately.
The main complication of stomach flu is dehydration. If you become severely dehydrated, you may have contractions or even go into preterm labor. Thus, it is essential that you contact your doctor or go to the hospital if you experience severe diarrhea and vomiting and cannot keep any liquids inside., Pregnant women with weakened immune system have higher risk of getting a bacterial infection called listeriosis.This infection can be contracted from animals, food, or soil that are contaminated with the bacteria.
Symptoms include fever, chills, shivering, muscle aches, diarrhea, and fatigue.Listeriosis can be very dangerous to the baby and mother and if left untreated can cause miscarriage, stillbirth and premature birth.If you suspect listeriosis, contact your doctor immediately to receive antibiotic treatment.