 French women are known for indulging in the good things: cheese, butter, bread, chocolate, and wine. The difference between French women and women in other countries, however, is the way in which they indulge. Rich foods are eaten in small portions, and accompanied by healthy foods.An indulgence in chocolate, for instance, might be a square of chocolate at the close of each meal.
Butter may be used in a vegetable dish to add flavor.
 While French people do not eschew red meat entirely, it is far more common to witness a plate of fish or poultry than a large steak. When tailoring your diet to mimic French women’s diets, trim the red meat, and opt instead for healthier, leaner options.Leaner meats have the added benefit of being associated with lower body fat percentages.
 Red wine has long been discussed for its potential health benefits when accompanied by dinner each night, and French women take heed. Once again, however, an integral part of drinking red wine is making sure you are not bingeing on an entire bottle, but sipping eight or ten ounces with meals.The type of wine matters, as well; a cheap bottle of fruit-flavored wine from the local grocery store is not the same as a good bottle of red wine or rosé.
 Instead of looking for a budget version of your favorite treat, purchase the highest-quality food you can. For some, that will mean all-organic produce and meat products, while for others, that will mean sourcing grass-fed cheese and butter.Not all places will have high-quality foods readily available, but many do have farmer’s markets from which to purchase fresh produce. Take advantage of these offerings.
 French women do not plop down in front of the television or computer with dinner in hand. Instead, they sit at the table and eat their meals carefully and mindfully.This particular style of eating has also been linked to smaller waist sizes and greater health, while studies have shown that eating while distracted can result in weight gain and overeating.

