 Between doctor’s visits, it is important to monitor your health at home. You can purchase a glucose monitor at your local pharmacy to regularly check your blood sugar levels. Simply follow the provided instructions to prick you finger and test your blood. Perform this test as often as is advised by your doctor, or anytime you feel ill.Your doctor will give you individualized target blood sugar levels, and specific instructions on what to do if your results are not within those targets.
 This means your blood sugar levels are too high and you don't have enough insulin or your body isn't using insulin properly. It may be caused by not using enough insulin or the insulin being ineffective, eating too much or exercising too little, stress, or dawn phenomenon (a hormone surge that occurs around 4 or 5am). If you notice symptoms of hyperglycemia, check your urine for ketones. If they are not present, you may be able to lower your blood sugar levels through exercise. If ketones are present, however, do not exercise, as this will cause your blood sugar to rise higher and could lead to a diabetic coma. Symptoms of hyperglycemia include:High levels of sugar in the urine
Frequent urination
Increased thirst

, This is when your blood sugar levels drop too low and is also known as an insulin reaction, or insulin shock. You can treat this by consuming 15 – 20 grams of glucose or simple carbohydrates, such as 4 oz of fruit juice or 1 tablespoon of honey or sugar. Reactions to hypoglycemia vary by individual, so you will need to be attuned to your own signs and symptoms. Symptoms may include:

Shakiness
Nervousness or anxiety
Sweating, chills and clamminess
Irritability or impatience
Confusion, including delirium
Rapid/fast heartbeat
Lightheadedness or dizziness
Hunger and nausea
Sleepiness
Blurred/impaired vision
Tingling or numbness in the lips or tongue
Headaches
Weakness or fatigue
Anger, stubbornness, or sadness
Lack of coordination
Nightmares or crying out during sleep
Seizures
Unconsciousness

, Changes in your weight can mean changes (for better or worse) in your health. Sudden or extreme changes could be a symptom of something that should be checked out. A long, gradual increase could mean that you need to make some changes to your diet. Be sure to consult your doctor about a healthy weight for you.Place a scale in your bathroom.
Make a point of weighing yourself about once a week.
Track any significant changes. It can help to write this number down.
 “Diabetic eye disease” is a blanket term for a number of eye conditions related to diabetes. If you experience any kind of changes to your vision—such as blurred vision, loss of vision, difficulty discerning colors, double vision, or increased sensitivity to light—see your doctor right away. In particular, watch out for these conditions and corresponding symptoms:


Glaucoma – blurry/fuzzy vision or sudden sight loss.
Diabetic retinopathy – impaired color vision or dark/empty spots in your vision
Cataracts – blurred vision or difficulty seeing at night

