 Keep in mind that, as a CSI, you will be entrusted to handle evidence and possibly testify in court.Expect law enforcement agencies to favor applicants with a clean record. Anticipate a background check when you apply. Refrain from criminal behavior.Agencies will still consider applicants with less than spotless records. So don’t worry if you incur minor infractions, like parking tickets or noise complaints. Deal with them in a timely manner to demonstrate responsibility.
 Concentrate on sciences, including biology, chemistry, and physics.Take electives that focus on computers, since these are important tools in the CSI’s lab. Use less obvious courses, clubs, and activities to strengthen other skillsets that CSIs need to perform their jobs effectively. For instance:


Participate in theater or the debate club to become a confident public speaker.
Join the school paper to practice writing concise reports.
Take part in photography clubs or classes.
 Although educational requirements vary by agency, give yourself the most options possible by pursuing some level of higher learning. Aim for an associate’s, bachelor’s, or master’s degree from an accredited college or university. If possible, enroll in a school that offers degrees in criminal justice, forensic science, and/or crime scene investigations.If not, major in biology, chemistry, or a similar hard science.Some agencies may only require a high school diploma or general education diploma (GED).However, these agencies are more likely to be found in areas with very small populations and fewer CSI positions to fill.
 If you are unable or uninterested in pursuing a traditional degree through a two- or four-year school, consider alternate means. Research accredited online programs that offer certification in forensic science and/or crime scene investigation.Consider attending on-site training courses that do the same.Earn certification in less time than it would take to complete a more formal education. For reference, check out programs offered by:


Kaplan University
Keiser University
The National Forensic Academy
The National Forensic Science Technology Center
The National Institute of Justice
Salem International University

