 Some roads that are winding or on steep hillsides will have traffic pull-out spots where slow drivers can get off the road and allow other drivers to pass them. These pull-outs are usually in areas where there is not enough room for an actual passing lane. Use the pull-out if you have a tailgater or if you’re not able to keep up with the flow of traffic.Even if you’re driving the speed limit, you may still be driving slower than other cars on the road. Use the pull-out to be polite to other drivers and allow them to get around you and continue on to their destination unimpeded.
 Many drivers go slow because the road conditions call for it. Maybe the road is icy or wet, or really curvy, so you’ve slowed down. When the road straightens out, or becomes dry, don’t speed up if there is a car tailgating you. Speeding up on the straightaways and not allowing the tailgater to pass will likely make them mad., The fast lane is for passing. If you are not passing anyone, do not drive in the fast lane. People who are driving faster than you can come up behind quite quickly, especially if you aren’t paying attention to your rearview mirror.If a car comes up on your suddenly while you’re in the fast lane, don’t immediately pull into the middle or curb lane without first checking that the other driver isn’t also going to do this. Because they’ve encountered someone in their own lane, they may decide to pass you on the right.
 If you’re on a multi-lane road, regardless of which lane you’re in, you should avoid pacing the car in the other lane. This is especially important if you’re in the fast lane, as you should be overtaking the other car, not travelling at the same speed as them. However, if you’re in the slow lane and you have a tailgater, the fact that the car already in the fast lane is pacing you may be the reason your tailgater can’t get around you., In some situations a car that is tailgating you might flash their headlights. Normally this means they’re trying to pass you, but for whatever reason, you’re making it difficult. Pay attention to these flashes and move out of the way — don’t get upset., If you have a tailgater, make sure to signal your intentions to turn or slow down well in advance. Because of the lack of space behind you, that driver may need some extra time to adjust their speed when you turn or slow down.While it would technically be the fault of the driver behind you, if you got into an accident, it’s still your car that’s been hit and damaged.

