 You may have an editor assigning your topic, or you may be a freelancer choosing your own. Regardless, be familiar with the most common forms of sports articles and determine which best matches your task. There are five types with which to be most familiar:A “straight lede” (or “lead”) is a basic recap of a sporting event, providing the essentials on who played, who did what, and who won. They can be (but need not be) so formulaic that a computer can write them,and are most common today for youth-level, high school, and small college events that are not shown or covered on TV/radio/internet.
A “feature lede/lead” is more common for larger college and professional events where most of the readership already knows the score, but wants a more in-depth view of what happened and who made the difference in the result.
A “profile” focuses on a colorful character or key figure such as a coach, star quarterback, or journeyman backup catcher with a love for practical jokes.
A “season preview or wrap-up” either prepares the reader for the season to come or takes them on a tour of the highs and lows of the just-completed season. For instance, a baseball writer might file a preview during spring training and a best/worst summary after the end of the regular season (or playoffs).
A “column” is an opinion piece where the sportswriter gets to express his/her opinions on (mostly) sports (mostly) freely. Aspiring sportswriters are likely to have fewer opportunities to write opinion columns than old pros who have proven their mettle over the years.;
, Leaf through your local newspaper, favorite sports magazine, or go-to sports website and think about what makes certain articles stand out. How does the writer draw you in and make you feel like you were at the big game or in the locker room?


Search websites for classic and modern examples of exceptional sports writing., Sports fans are known for their passion and not necessarily for their patience.If you don’t know a sand wedge from a 5-iron or mention your admiration for “LaRon James’” passing skills, readers who know, love, and may have experience playing the sport covered will probably tune you out quickly.


When you’re starting out, if you have the choice, cover the sport you know best. Master writing effectively about it before moving on to less familiar sports.
 What would you want to know about this sporting event? Is the reader likely to already know the final score and who was the star of the game, or are you breaking the news? Write an article you would want to read as a fan of that sport.

