 If you spilled a secret or gossiped about your friend, own up to it. The sooner the truth is out in the open, the sooner you can apologize and start to repair your friendship. By confessing what you did, you will show your friend that you are remorseful, honest, and eager to make things right.For example, you might say something like, “Krista, I have something to tell you. I told Jennifer about that secret that you told me.”
This may seem to make things worse instead of better. And it might– at first! However, your friend will eventually realize that you are an honest and good friend who will be truthful and upfront in uncomfortable situations.;
, This can sometimes be a tricky thing to pinpoint, and an even harder thing to admit. Think long and hard about why you did whatever you did. Did you tell one of their secrets because you were mad at them for something? Were you trying to fit in with a crowd by talking poorly about them? Figure out why you betrayed their trust, and tell them.For example, you might say something like, “I didn’t mean to tell Jennifer what you said. It just came out.”
This doesn’t mean you should make excuses for your behavior. Rather, it just shows your friend that you recognize where you went wrong, and why.
 If they’re angry and refusing to speak with you, tell them that you understand why. If they’re upset, tell them you would be upset too in their shoes.Your friend needs to know that you completely acknowledge how they feel and are at their mercy.


For example, you might say something like, “You have every right to be angry at me and hurt by what I did.”
If you try to downplay their hurt feelings, you will only make them defensive. Even if you think they’re being dramatic or over-the-top, just bite your tongue if you truly want to earn your friend’s trust back.
 After you have explained what you did and why, you will need to make a sincere apology for your actions. Your apology does not need to be anything fancy. It can just be something simple and straightforward, but you may also want to let your friend know that you want to earn back his or her trust.


For example, you might say, “I am sorry for what I did and for how it has affected you. I want to try to regain your trust, and I hope you are willing to let me try."