 Currently, only a few states require short-term disability benefits: California, New York, New Jersey, Rhode Island, and Hawaii. The benefits differ depending on the state. In Hawaii, for example, employees can get up to 26 weeks of temporary disability benefits. In California, workers can get up to a year in benefits.The amount of the benefit differs by state. In California, benefits are 55% of the wages the employee earned in the year before applying for benefits. New York employees can receive 50% of their average wage (up to a cap).
Some of these states mandate that employers purchase private short-term disability for their employees from a private insurer. Do not be surprised if you have to file a claim with a private insurer.
 Each state also has different qualifying criteria. You must meet the criteria in order to qualify. To find your state’s requirements, you should check with your Department of Labor.


In Hawaii, for example, employees must have worked at least 20 hours a week for a minimum of 14 weeks. They also must have been paid at least $400 in wages per week., You should tell your employer that you need to apply for short-term disability benefits. Your employer should then provide you with the appropriate form to complete.You will probably need the help of your doctor and employer to complete the form.You should give yourself plenty of time to get all of the necessary information in order to submit the claim in a timely manner.
 After you have completed the application form, you should make a copy for your records and then mail the completed form to the appropriate office.The appropriate office may be your employer or the employer’s insurance carrier. In some states, you must return to the form to the state Department of Labor.Don’t wait. You must file a claim in a timely manner. In New Jersey, you have 30 days from the first day you became disabled in order to file.In California, you have 49 days., You may be contacted to provide additional information. You should respond as soon as possible so that there is no delay in processing your claim.


Otherwise, a determination should be quickly, depending on your state. In Hawaii, determinations are made within 90 days.Check with your state’s Department of Labor.

