 Developing your own love of astronomy is as important when teaching it in a homeschool environment as in a professional environment, if not more so. As a parent or guardian, you are closer to your children than any schoolteacher would be and will spend more time around them.
 A number of educational companies provide packages for teaching astronomy in homeschool settings. You can search for these companies online, then review their websites to decide which company's materials are suitable for teaching astronomy to your children.


Educational programs for teaching astronomy can be organized in one of two ways, either starting from a local perspective (Earth, moon, solar system) and working outward to larger entities (constellations, galaxies, and the universe) or starting with the "big picture" and working toward the nearby objects. You'll have to decide which approach you're more comfortable with.
Consider the age of your child when selecting astronomy materials. Astronomy education materials for young children should focus on the basics of what stars, planets, and moons are and how the solar system is arranged, while older children can deal with more complicated matters, such as how to calculate orbital periods and planetary diameters and masses.
Because many people choose to homeschool their children for religious reasons, a number of the available astronomy homeschool packages approach the subject from a religious perspective. In addition to reviewing these packages for content and scientific accuracy, you must also evaluate these packages as to whether any doctrines incorporated within the materials are compatible with your own religious beliefs.
 Take your children skywatching with you, with either a telescope or binoculars. Take them to planetarium shows and provide them with astronomy-related books and toys to further their interest. You can also tour such websites as those for the Hubble and Spitzer telescopes, at http://hubblesite.org/gallery/ and http://www.spitzer.caltech.edu/, respectively, or the NASA Astronomy Picture of the Day archives, at http://apod.nasa.gov/apod/archivepix.html.

