 For ceilings, specifically, use a thick-nap roller with an extension pole rather than a paint brush. These types of rollers will ensure a smooth layer of paint without bumps or bubbles. Additionally, you may need:


A ladder
A paint tray and liner
A wall brush for covering edges
Spackle and a putty knife for holes
Caulking and a caulking gun for cracks in corners

, Most ceilings are painted white because of their reflective qualities, making a room seem brighter and larger than it may really be. However, you may want to consider which particular shade of white you prefer; specifically, which one will go best with the color of your walls?


A standard bright white may play off of a richer wall hue more, causing too much of a distinction and ruining the taste of the room. Look for mellow shades of white or hues of eggshell if you feel that a bolder white might be too much of a contrast.
Flat paint is the best type of paint for ceilings because of its smooth viscosity. Flat paint will help hide any imperfections in the ceiling.
 Try to move as much of your furniture as possible out of the way of your work. This may not be possible if you live in an apartment or have extremely heavy and large couches, tables, beds and other pieces of furniture which may not be easily transportable to another room. If you find yourself in that scenario, drape plastic over all of your furniture to protect it from dripping paint.


Do not, however, use plastic on your floor, as it will bunch, crinkle and shift, hardly protecting it from paint. Instead, lay thick drop cloth evenly across your floor. Also be sure to properly protect your windows, sills and floorboards with plastic.
 If you're going to be painting your walls after you paint your ceiling, you won't have to do this, although preserving an even finish by taping may still be your best bet.
 Priming ensures that you'll only have to give the ceiling one coat of paint. A primer will help stick to the ceiling and absorb the coat of paint, like a sponge absorbing water.


For best results, use a primer with stain-blocker. Stain-blockers cover up unsightly stains on walls, such as watermarks, smoke, and nicotine, and keep them from bleeding through into the paint after the primer has been applied.

