 You can find a list of qualified doctors online at FAA.gov.;
, This typically runs between $7000 and $9000. Paying in advance for a rental plane usually gets you a significant discount at most schools or fixed-base operations.
 You can find a complete list on BeAPilot.com or ask at your local airport

, Different instructors have different personalities. Talk to them first and determine who fits you best. This is very important, because you are paying them a lot of money, and you don't want to learn from someone you don't like.
 Generally a block of two hours is the standard. Two to three times per week is recommended for best results. This time period will include a short discussion by the instructor concerning pre-flighting the airplane, the actual flight of about an hour, and a debrief period.
 This is a series of classroom training sessions covering flight rules. These typically run for 12 weeks in sessions of one-to-three hours per week. You can get ground-school training from your instructor or online or home study (books and videos).
 This is generally broken into three phases.


In the first phase you learn the basics of handling an airplane. You practice takeoffs, maneuvering, and landings. This phase is preparation for your first solo.
The second phase involves a combination of solo flights, an introduction to night flying, instrument flying, and more maneuvers. You are also introduced to navigation and communicating on the radio with air traffic controllers and tower operators.
The third phase involves solo cross-country flights and preparation for the check ride. The flight training curriculum involves 26 topics. The flight instructor will not move on to additional lessons until the student has demonstrated mastery of the previous lesson. Don't worry about learning everything right away. The minimum training time is 40 hours. Most student pilots take 55 to 60 hours to complete the course. At the completion of the course, the flight instructor will authorize you to take your check ride.
 This is given at most general-aviation airports. It consists of 60 multiple-choice questions. There are practice tests online for the private pilot's license. Use them.
 You will need to schedule this with your district's designated examiner. Your flight instructor can help you secure this appointment. The examiner will ask you a series of questions to test your knowledge and inspect your paperwork. He will then fly with you on a check ride. If you pass that step, the examiner will issue you a temporary pilot license until your permanent one comes in the mail.

