 You can use Google Calendars in conjunction with Gmail to create a digital tickler file that will remind you daily to check it. In order to do so, you will need a free Google account.
 If you want to make it a little easier to keep your tickler items and your regular calendar separate, creating a new calendar will let you add items that you can easily toggle on and off. It also allows you to set different reminder settings.


Click the boxed arrow icon next to "My calendars" in the left menu.
Select "Create new calendar"
Title the calendar something like "Tickler". You can give it a quick description if you'd like.
Click the Create Calendar button when finished.
Disable your main calendar when creating filling out your tickler events. This will make it easy to ensure that the event ends up on the correct calendar. You can toggle calendars by clicking the colored box next to the calendar's name in the left menu.
 For each item on your daily tickler, create a new all-day event on that day. To do so, switch to Weekly view and look for the thin bar at the top of the calendar underneath the dates.


Click the blank bar to open the New Event pop-up. Click the "Edit Event" link to open up the detailed event editor.
Enter in all the details of the tickler item. Enter in a title, any pertinent locations, a detailed description including any email addresses or websites that you may need. You can even copy and paste excerpts from documents you need.
Add a color code if you want to add an extra layer of visual organization.
Remove the Reminder if there is one, You will be setting up a different reminder system.
As with a physical tickler file, ensure that you put the item in on the day that you need to start it.
 Once you have all of your tasks entered into your calendar, you can set Google Calendars to send you a daily reminder email summarizing everything for that day. To do so, click the Gear icon in the upper-right corner and select Settings.


Click the Calendars tab and then click the "Reminders and notifications" link for your tickler calendar.
Check the "Daily agenda" box. This will send a list of all your tickler items for the day to your Gmail account at 5 AM every morning. You can then review this list as you start your day.
 As you gather more tickler items, make sure to file them on the appropriate days. Try to set aside a day or two a month to ensure that everything has been entered properly.


If you find yourself repeating certain items a lot, you can schedule them to repeat automatically so you don't need to keep adding them.

