 Tell your parents that you have something you want to discuss with them. Ask when would be a good time to sit down and talk.It’s a good idea to set aside some time so that your parents will be focused on talking to you. If you try to ask them about something as everyone is getting ready to leave in the morning, for example, you might find them flustered and distracted.
Calling a meeting also indicates to your parents that you take their permission seriously and that you understand it is important for them to be involved in your life. You want to show them you are mature enough to accept their input.
For example, you could mention you want to talk when they get home from work. “Do you think we could talk for a few minutes after dinner tonight? I want to ask your permission for something.” If they ask what for, you could be more specific: “I want to ask your permission to go to a party.” But tell them you’d rather give them all the information at once, when they are focused and ready to hear it.
 Give them a specific event you want to go to or activity you want to do.They will be more likely to say yes if you can give them details about one particular activity.


For example, you could say “Brian has an extra ticket to the baseball game on Friday night. Can I go with him?” Your parents will be more likely to approve this request than “Can I start going to games with my friends?”

, Your parents are going to have a lot of questions. It might be annoying, but getting irritated with them is not going to help your cause. Remember, you are trying to get them to agree to something!


Answer all their questions, even if they ask them several times. Don’t say, “I already told you!” Just repeat your answer politely.
Don’t get confrontational or defensive. A bad attitude is going to sour your chances to get what you want.For example, you might want to say, “I feel like you don’t trust me when you say I’m not allowed to stay out until ten o’clock,” instead of “You never let me stay out later! All my friends can stay out until 10:30!”

, Come prepared to your conversation with all the relevant information. Be prepared to answer the following questions:Who? Let your parents know who will be at this event and if there will be parents present. Give them contact information.
What? Tell them what specific event you are interested in attending, or what specific activity you want to do. Say “I want to go get coffee and see a movie with Brandon,” not “I want to go out with a friend.”
Where? Give the location of the event or activity, including a specific house address if needed.
When? Let them know the date and time of the event, and how long you’d expect to be gone.
How (much)? Be prepared to answer how you will get to the activity, and how much it will cost.
Why? This question might not come up. You should answer it anyway. And it might be more annoying to answer, but it will showcase your maturity if you answer it thoughtfully, not reluctantly. For example, you could say, “The reason why I really want to go the party on Saturday is because most of my friends are going to be there. We don’t get to hang out outside of school much because everyone is always busy with sports or jobs after school.”

