 You sales team should operate based on a sales plan that prescribes certain actions for each step of the sales cycle. Salespeople should know how to generate leads and what to do at each stage of customer interest before a sale. Then, the team should be skilled in driving referrals and repeat business after the sale. The sales plan should be designed to direct them at each of these stages., Sales leads are prospective customers that may be interested in your product or service and have provided contact information. You can improve your odds of earning a sale by starting from a larger pool of sales leads. Direct your salespeople to use a variety of methods to increase sales leads. Everything from simple cold calling to local networking can help you gain exposure for your product or service and reach a larger audience of potential customers.


You can also work through referrals by previous customers and by "influencers" to reach large groups of new customers.
Another option is to try affiliate marketing, which is working with another business that attracts similar customers, but not does directly compete with you, to promote each other's products or services., Your sales team should have a strategy in place to convert customer awareness into sales. Try creating an ideal timeline for the conversion process, including points of contact and the desired result of each. Work on figuring out the best way to get potential customer contact information and how to get your message to them through various channels.


Analyze the effectiveness of promotions, different contact methods, and direct solicitations on your conversion rate.
Focus on building a relationship and selling value, rather than just selling the customer as much as you can., The goal of your sales team, beyond increasing sales, should be to develop relationships with customers. Customers should think of your sales team members as trusted advisors in your industry that can help them choose the right product or service for their needs.


Train your salespeople to listen to customers in an effort to identify their problems and hesitations about buying.
They should be able to link those problems to the benefits offered by your product or service and address any hesitations the buyer might have.