 It stops water from getting through to the roof at the gaps between shingles, and at the notches between tabs. You can save a few bucks using pre-cut starter strips instead of using a whole shingle. It will also save you time in cutting off the unused portion of each shingle in the starter strip.






;
, Arrange the shingles so the ends and the tab notches do not lie directly above gaps in the shingle below. If the gaps lined up, water could get directly onto the roof sheathing and then seep in through a nail hole.
 One row would have nothing cut, the next row would have 6" cut off, then 12" cut off, and so on.
 Note how the first full shingle overhangs the edge by about 1/8". This makes the water drip away from the fascia (the vertical board at the edge of the roof) and helps reduce deterioration of the fascia.
 A pneumatic nail gun makes quick work out of nailing shingles, but it has some drawbacks. The main drawback of pneumatic roofing nailers is their inconsistency in nail depth. Sometimes the heads stick up a little and sometimes the heads tear into the shingle. Another frequent problem is that nails sometimes enter the roof at an angle, which makes the head stick up. Protruding nail heads can tear the shingle above them, and it stands to reason that they don't hold as well as properly nailed shingles. Hand driving roofing nails give a superior level of quality but may take much longer to complete the roof.
 Most roofing nail guns have an adjustable guide on the bottom. This allows accurate positioning of the shingle before nailing it. The same results could have been achieved with an "L"-shaped piece of wood to use as a positioning guide. It's kind of hard to see in this photo, but the adjustable guide is set against the lower edge of the previous row's shingle (in this case the first row) and the next shingle is rested against the nail gun's contact foot. This creates a uniform exposure every time. Notice the pattern of shingles as they are applied. This method of starting at a corner and working outwards and upwards can be a good way for two people to apply shingles and not be in each others way. One person works horizontally and the other works up the diagonal.










Lay the lower edge of the flange over the top of the lower shingles, and the upper edge is positioned underneath the upper shingles.
Cut the shingles to fit around the flange's dome.
Adhere the shingles adjacent to the flange with roofing tar.
Adhere the joint where the cut edges of the shingles meet the dome with roofing tar.
If the plumbing vent is close to the peak of the roof, lap the shingles over the peak of the roof.
Trim the shingles away from the ridge vent hole.
Attach he ridge cap shingles with two nails each.
Attach the plastic ridge vent with 3" roofing nails.
Position the ridge cap shingles over the ridge vent.
Nail the ridge cap at the two narrow bands molded into the plastic.
Adhere the loose corners of the first shingle with a dab of tar.













Finished.

