 Express the essence of who you are with the uniqueness of your body language, style of dressing, the swag of how you may walk or talk, always embrace your unique self because no one can replicate the original copy.;
, In a relationship individuals are drawn to one another by physical attraction. It is extremely important to be comfortable in your own skin and understand that attraction is rooted from within. Whatever you think or feel about yourself inwardly will manifest outwardly.
 The quality of clothing you wear is imperative. You must purchase clothing that suits your personality best. In addition, you must make sure the clothing you buy makes you feel good wearing it or else it will cause you to be uncomfortable. Feeling uncomfortable will affect the connection between you and your partner.
 In addition to physical appearance, health and fitness are also prime factors evaluated between two individuals seeking intimate relationships. Find a gym that’s most suitable for your needs as well as your schedule.
 Fitness and health are synonymous, both require professional or trained advice. When joining a gym make sure to inquire about a licensed or trained fitness person as well as a nutrient specialist to ensure a well-balanced regiment for your fitness and health goals.
 Sexual consistency and gratification between two individuals create a deeper connection that would either build a stronger bond or brake it. Talking to your partner and gaining understanding of their pleasures is vital. Encourage people to always approach the situation face on and begin by first asking your lover questions such as: “What pleases you?” or “what can you do differently to make sure that their climax is reached?

, Honest communication within a relationship is a valuable asset for numerous reasons. Couples who frequently communicate tend to have a higher success rate than those who do not. Continuously communicating with your partner will allow you to discuss and deal with things such as financial struggles, each other’s health status and even future plans (marriage, kids etc.). So aside from physical requirements, communication serves as the one of the most important contributions that one can bring to a relationship.
 Identifying roles will allow one to understand the responsibility that their partner holds. For example, if one individual in a relationship choose to be the “bread winner” and the other one makes the decision to stay home and watch the kids, there is a common understanding between both and the relationship continues to run smooth. Knowing and communicating your partner’s role will also provide you the opportunity to appreciate all what they do for the relationship.
 In same sex relationships there’s often discrepancies of roles. There are various categories that women and men identify with sexually and often the sexual roles are predicated upon the sexual role therefore defining the dominant or submissive counterpart.
 Discussing future financial stability is one of the most efficient things that a couple can do. A relationship filled with financial stress, can really have a strand on the two people’s personal standing with each other. This strand can lead to health issues, disputes and even failure in the relationship as a whole. That’s why taking a few moments to talk with your partner about finances (who’s working? Who’s responsible for which bill, etc.?) Is extremely valuable and can save your relationship from enduring some pretty horrific occurrences.
 It is very difficult to keep your partner stimulated solely using your intellect. Most relationships are built upon some form of sexual lust. When stimulating your partner you must engage the mind in self-evaluation, reflection, and transparency. Sparking deep thought on various topics with your partner will caused them to them to appreciate and value the relationship.
 In a relationship it is extremely pleasing to know and have a deep understanding of your mates belief system. When two people join together in commitment their beliefs play a major role in how they make decisions and treat people. If there’s any lack of understanding on the basis of religion or faith it could be detrimental to the relationship. In any relationship there should always be a standard of respect, and also an understanding of customs and culture.

