 Unlike most plants, gardenias are delicate and picky about their environment.








Gardenias thrive in partial shade, high humidity, and an even supply of moisture and nutrients.Though they can be grown indoors, the hot, dry air and gloomy winter days can send the gardenia into a downward spiral.
Ideal seasons to plant gardenias are during Spring or Fall, when there is the perfect amount of sun without too high a heat.Flower buds will fail to form if day temperatures are higher than 70 °F (21 °C), if night temperatures exceed 65 °F (18 °C), or if they fall below 60 °F (16 °C) at night.Keep in mind that gardenias cannot stand to winter outdoors. You must bring them inside for the winter.;
, pH is a measurement of how acidic the soil is, and too high an acidity will not sustain a gardenia root.









Acidity is measured on a scale from 0-14, with 0 being the most acidic and 14 being the most basic. Gardenias prefer acidic soil, so a pH level of 4.5 to 5.5 would be optimal since it is only moderately acidic.If necessary, add sulfur — a white powder that can be bought at most garden or home improvement stores — to help lower pH levels that are higher than 6.
The soil itself should also be rich and well-drained. Gardenias require plenty of nutrients but their roots may die if over-watered., Make sure the hole is 2-3 times wider, as you will pack it with dirt once the root ball is planted.









A root ball is the mass formed by the roots of a plant and the soil surrounding them.
If your soil is in poor condition, add a small amount of compost to the hole before laying the root ball down. Compost is organic fertilizer and will add nutrients that your soil may be deficient in.
Carefully choose where to plant the shrubs. By planting close to your house, you can enjoy the scent of the blooms from a deck or through an open window. But too close may mean that the soil pH may become too high for the plants to thrive.
Also keep in mind that gardenias need a lot of light, but can't tolerate heat. Perhaps opt to plant near a bedroom window rather than a kitchen window.
 Make sure the top of your gardenia’s root ball is above the surface. Fill the hole half full with soil and water it.









Doing this will help to settle the soil and eliminate air pockets. You want your gardenia's roots to fit snugly into the soil so that it can absorb plenty of water and nutrients.
If you intend on planting multiple gardenias, be sure that you leave 3–6 feet (0.9–1.8 m) between each root ball. The gardenia plant can grow anywhere from 2–8 feet (0.6–2.4 m) both tall and wide.Planting too closely can result in overcrowding or competition between roots for water and nutrients.
 Pack the soil gently around the root ball so that it is slightly loose. Water thoroughly.








