


Adding a pet to the family involves a commitment of years or even decades.;
,,


Consider the ages and activity levels of family members.
Dogs will require walking and exercise, training, feeding and grooming. Fish need other types of maintenance, such as aquarium cleaning and careful attention to temperature. Each type of pet will have unique needs to be considered.



Research typical veterinary, food, grooming and other expenses, which are generally far more than the initial cost of buying a pet or adopting one from a rescue group.
If you do not own your home or apartment, be sure that your landlord allows pets. Think about whether you are likely to move to a place in the future that may not allow pets.



Talk with other pet owners, read about pet care, visit pet adoption clinics and dog shows, cat shows or 4H shows.



If you know, for example, that you want a small dog, you may find a pet through the local shelter or humane society, through an Internet search of national pet-adoption agencies or through a breed-specific rescue group or a breeder.
A good breeder or rescue group is concerned about the welfare of the animal and of the family and will work to make sure that you adopt or buy a pet that is a good match. Find one that will accept the return of the animal if the placement or purchase is not successful for unforeseen reasons.



Obtain items such as food and water dishes, a cage, pet beds and toys, an aquarium and filters or whatever supplies are needed. Have these items on hand before you buy or adopt a pet.
Clarify what the responsibilities and schedules of all members of the household will be after you find a pet, such as feeding, litter box cleaning and dog walking.
Find and speak with a veterinarian who is experienced in caring for the type of pet you plan to get. Tell the vet that you are trying to find a pet and ask his or her advice on sources and preparations. Plan a visit to the vet for an initial appointment as soon as possible after you adopt or buy a pet and bring it home.

