 You can find these at most department and cosmetic supply stores.


There will probably be many different varieties of available. All other things being equal, hot waxing kits work tend to work best for the back because they can cover a larger area.Note: Waxing will leave your back red and sensitive, so start this method at least 24 hours before you want to show it off.
 This is usually easiest in the shower. This is an important step — the wax has a much easier time grabbing your hair if it is free of sweat and oil.


After showering, be sure to dry your back thoroughly.
 For most hot waxes, you'll need to heat the wax up (usually in the microwave). The temperature of the wax should be warm, but not painfully hot. Different products will have slightly different sets of instructions.
 Use the included waxing stick (or a clean spatula) to spread the wax in the direction of hair growth. Work in small patches of no more than a few inches around at once.
 While the wax is still hot, firmly press the paper or fabric strips into the wax. Let the strip sit for for a few moments to allow it to stick.
 Pull the strip in the against the direction of hair growth. This is the opposite of the direction you applied the wax. Use a quick, fluid motion. Don't go slowly — this will hurt.


To reduce pain, do not pull straight up or up at an angle. Keep the strip close to the body as you pull in a direction parallel to the skin and pull as quickly as possible.
 Continue until all of the hair on the back has been removed. This will take many applications. Don't be afraid to take breaks if the pain becomes too much. Future waxings tend to hurt less than the first.


If the pain is ever unbearable, stop — burning or injuring yourself isn't worth worrying about uneven back hair.
 After you finish your waxing, your back is likely to be a little red and irritated. In this state, it's more vulnerable to infections than normal. To reduce this risk, wash it with soap. An easy way to do this is to simply take a shower.