 The following terms are used by booksellers when selling any used book, including cookbooks, to let the buyer know the book's condition. The following information is quoted from Wikipedia:


As New is self-explanatory. It means that the book is in the state that it should have been in when it left the publisher. The is the equivalent of Mint condition in numismatics.
Fine (F or FN) is As New but allowing for the normal effects of time on an unused book that has been protected. A fine book shows no damage.
Very Good (VG) describes a book that is worn but intact. For many collectors this is the minimum acceptable condition for all but the rarest items.
Good (G) is not very good. It is used to describes the condition of an average used worn book that is complete.
Fair shows wear and tear but all the text pages and illustrations or maps are present. It may lack endpapers, half-title, and even the title page. This is a reading copy.;
, A single collection could feature books about Jello or Pillsbury Bake-Off Cookbooks. Start collecting Betty Crocker, cookbooks or perhaps Better Homes and Gardens cookbooks. Collect vintage British, French or Australian cookbooks if you wish. You don't have to focus on any one country, especially if the typical daily cuisine where you live is lacking in history or cultural context. You might want to collect the Fanny Merritt Farmer Boston Cooking School Cookbook, published in the late 1800s, as this was the first cookbook that offered standardized measurements.
 Whatever your niche, find it. It makes finding what you're looking for so much easier.
 Cookbooks from that time period reflected how women wanted more recognition. Cookbooks reflected a more scientific approach to cooking. That's when exact measurements came out. Sanitation and cleanliness facts were made available to home cooks in a way it hadn't before. How did they do that exactly? How did they get the information to the masses? In cookbooks of course! The majority of books that were published were authored by women for women readers. They were really the only type books that were semi controlled by women. They were the decision makers of the home and cookbooks were a great way to change how society as a whole thought.
 Cookbooks from the 1920's are known for their amazing illustrations and if you are lucky enough to find any with information regarding World War I they always desirable.


Cookbooks from the 1930's are gems for the obvious reasons. These women had to do it all, maintaining life as normally as possible, but with the drastic change in income. These are where some amazing stories and recipes can be found. Reading those cookbooks makes you humble and grateful!
Cookbooks from the 1940s are great! There are great dinner party and hostessing ones about from this time. If you can find some of the World War II related ones they're super fascinating to read. The rationing chapters that are usually added to the bigger name cookbooks can sneak through a dealers eyesight and can be picked up for a steal if you know what you're looking for. Usually very patriotic in illustrations and general theme. They're also valuable because of cross-collectability.
Cookbooks from the 1950s are great for retro lovers. With pictures of women in pearls standing over stoves and happy families around the breakfast table, they make you happy and smile just looking at them. Be prepared to read recipes for gelatin salads and Americanized chop suey.
 You also might decide to collect what you think is going to be popular in 20 to 30 years. That's a great way to ensure long term success and view your collection as more of an investment versus a hobby. They're a a lot of people who decide to sell an entire collection once it's complete. Some collections could be books collected over a 40 to 50 year time frame. Both ways are very profitable.
 There are so many informative articles that go into the history of what makes a book so valuable. Maybe it's the illustrations and cover art or it's the first printing of a recipe classic. Condition is a huge deal and always buy the best you can afford. Mistake printings can also contribute to a book's value just like baseball cards. There's always a reason to a books value and most of the time vendors don't do the research on all the books they have for sale, but you can walk in and know exactly what you're looking for and a know that your paying for something that is way under priced! It's a good feeling and oh so addicting!

, Just because a price guide said it was worth a certain price doesn't mean that's what it's going for. A book is worth only what someone is willing to pay for it, just remember that if you're thinking of selling later. Just because it's old doesn't mean it's valuable or rare.
 The same word of caution goes for looking up a books price online. There are scams going on on a certain search shopping site where the seller lists the book way overpriced and then lists it again at a more normal price to make theirs look like a steal. Find someone knowledgeable and transparent in prices and ask them questions., Sometimes you find books in the weirdest places. Estate sales are goldmines but get there early as the cookbooks could sell out fast.
, The Cookbook Collectors Newsletter and the Cookbook Collector are just two of the newsletter available. Search the web for more ideas., Grandma or other older relatives may have the vintage cookbook you desire.

