 Jessica has incredibly clear and healthy looking skin. Her secret? Proactiv! You've probably seen Jess appearing on all the Proactiv infomercials, complimenting the product and telling people how much it helped her clear up her acne. However, if you don't like Proactiv or want to save money, don't fret. Try a range of good quality affordable products, and select what works for you. Buy a cleanser and moisturizer. That is really all you need. You can buy other products if you like, such as acne cream or face toner, but those are not essential. Make sure you drink lots of water to keep your skin looking clean and fresh. Eat a diet rich in vitamins and minerals-including: nuts, fruits, vegetables, and oils. If you suffer from acne, try seeking the advise of your doctor or a Dermatologist. Make sure you always clean off makeup at the end of the day. Also, consider providing yourself a facial routine and be sure to wash your face at least twice a day!;
, You must have noticed that Jess has a Hollywood smile-her teeth are perfectly straight, pearly white and healthy. This is an essential if you want to look like Jess. Brush at least twice a day. Your tooth enamel is relatively thin, so if you scrub too hard, it will eventually wear away, leaving your teeth sensitive. Brush gently but thoroughly. Flossing helps remove plaque that your brush can't reach. Dairy products (unless you are allergic to dairy products or are one a dairy restrictive diet) can help you have strong, healthy teeth.
 Jess has changed her hair quite a bit, so there are a few styles to choose from. You can go blonde, with wavy, long, locks or a straight, medium length look. You can also try her brunette look and keep it long and wavy. Jess's hair always looks healthy and shiny, so make sure yours looks the same. Jess also wears her hair down a lot.
 Jess obviously likes her eyeliner. Make sure your eyes are always lined in black. Keep your lips glossed, and when wearing lipstick, find a red that suits you. Get a good skin concealer and foundation, and a natural-looking blush. Choose shades that match your skin.
 Fun dresses and skirts are good if you want to look like Jess-as well as jeans and t-shirts. Colors like white, yellow, some black, blue denim, purple and occasionally some forest greens and reds are good. You don't have to get expensive designer clothing-just pick stuff that you feel good in that Jess might wear. When dressing up, stick to a 2-3 colours that work well together. Keep jewelry simple and pretty. Silver Hoops and other dangly earrings, and delicate necklaces.

