 Some weather is unsuitable for driving, in particular rainy weather, because wet ground can cause a dune buggy to slip up. Check a weather forecast for the day you plan on driving, and check the sky when you get to your location.;
, The safest place to drive a dune buggy is in an are without many obstacles, particularly trees, that you can hit. Extremely dry areas are also a bad choice, because driving in such an area could bring up a lot of dust, and obscure the vision of the driver. If you don't own this land, you should get permission from the person who does before driving on it.
 A good, strong, well-fitting safety helmet should always be worn, and can be found at most sporting goods stores. If your dune buggy doesn't have a windshield, wear sunglasses to keep dust or other harmful items, such as stones, from hitting your eyes. Make sure that the buggy's safety harness is on you properly. You should loosen up the harness to get your arms through, and then tighten it to ensure you won't fly away in an accident.
 Make sure you are always driving at a safe speed. This does not necessarily mean that you cannot drive fast, but make sure your speed is reasonable enough as to keep control of the vehicle. Turning too fast can also be dangerous. When you are about to make a turn, ease up on the gas pedal, and begin to slowly turn the steering wheel in the direction you wish to go.
 Needless to say, when it starts to get dark, your eyes won't be as reliable as during daytime. Turning on the headlights at night is a smart move, in case there are any holes or rocks that you might have been driving around, or for spotting animals that come out during nighttime.
 Bring along a friend or family member who can help if there is an accident. It would be wise for the supervisor to have a cell phone. The supervisor should stand out of the way of the driver, while the driver should take care when driving in an area near the supervisor. The supervisor should also bring a flashlight if you stay until dark. You can take turns driving so no one is bored.

