 While there is no reason for you to spend fortune on supplements, health club memberships, different workouts, special equipment or even steroids, there is some financial investment needed for you to get in shape. However, it’s much lower than you think. One of the excuses people have for not even trying to get in shape is that they don't have enough money. Let’s look at this from the fat loss point of view. You don’t need to buy anything. Because fat loss is a matter of calories, you need to eat less, which means buying less food, which means spending less money. If you are little bit tied on money then the amount you save on food can be invested in a workout program and gym membership. And you don't really need to spend much on things like personal trainers and supplements. Just take a look at this. 12-20 week workout program that is designed to help you build the body shape you desire usually costs around $40 - $80, Gym Membership for 4 weeks usually costs from $30 to $60, Creatine monohydrate for 12 weeks costs around $19. Can you afford this? Besides it’s your body we are talking about. Usually you can find a way to make these investments possible. Unsubscribe from unnecessary TV programs. Save some money on food. There are many ways. Good looking body doesn't take a lot of money, it takes lot of focus and determination among other things.;
, Do you have a problem concentrating on what you want? Do you often multitask? Are you easily distracted? Train yourself to be laser focused on one thing at a time and preferably not the one you don’t want, but the one you desire instead. You may have heard: “You get what you focus on”. Whether it is what you want or not. So, make sure you are focusing on something you truly want. It’s not some positive thinking BS, this is real. Your mind is searching for what it is focused on, it tries to find a way to make it happen. You can imagine that you have a wide database of actions in your head and in the middle of it there is a big search engine, something like your own version of Google. And when you consciously focus on something, your subconscious mind types this term or phrase into your own Google search engine and starts searching for the right answer, action that it should take. You see it doesn’t care if it’s what you want or not if it’s bad for you or not, because it’s what you are focusing on. Look in the past, did you get more things you wanted or more things you focused on? You may be really focused on your goal and trying to do whatever you can, but no matter what your goal is you will face challenges and obstacles. If you are not ready to face them and determined to overcome them you will have a hard time achieving your goal. This is why mastering the skill of being able to focus on what you want is so important. If you give up once there is a little problem on your way, then why have you even started? Remember no matter what you want, you will be tested along the way. By others and mostly by yourself.
 If you go to the gym twice a month then you can stop paying for the membership, because going there is pointless, unless you go there just for fun. For big muscle growth you need to fulfill your lifestyle potential. You don’t have to become a gym rat or some weightlifting freak or even acquire the fitness lifestyle that professional bodybuilders have, but you have to go to the gym regularly. No excuse, unless you got a date with a supermodel or somebody close to you died. This is just another variable in the lifestyle potential equation. You may also see the consistency as your time. Which means that more time you have for the gym, more intensively you can train and more frequently you can go there. There is a difference between a guy who goes to the gym three times a week and between a guy who goes there six times a week. Which one do you think will develop his muscles more? Assuming other variables are the same. And which one are you? So, how much time are you willing and actually can dedicate to working out per session and how many sessions can you do per week?

, Many guys especially the young ones who want to lift as heavy as possible and as soon as possible, don't really care about their health and things like injury prevention. Well, guess what, if you injure yourself, you will be put off the gym for weeks or months, and sometimes even years. And from some injuries you may never recover. So, it’s really important to watch yourself. Master your weightlifting technique. Lift only what you can handle. Focus on the lift and not allow yourself any distraction. Lift heavy and push hard, but remember that strict form comes first. This will allow you to progress more, build more muscle, not feel tired after your workouts and prevent injuries.
 Not only you have to show up in the gym regularly, but you also have to do some hard work there. Developing muscles is a long run commitment, it takes dedication and effort. You cannot expect to get masculine by doing few light curls and presses per week. You have to challenge yourself, stimulate new levels of muscles growth and force your muscles to grow whenever possible. Just hanging around and doing whatever comes to the mind or doing what you feel like doing today is not an answer. Get a proper workout, follow it as it’s written and hit the gym hard. Lifting weights should be slightly uncomfortable and challenging. Get used to hard work. There is a great quote by Paula Abdul that sums it perfectly, “You have to become comfortable in the uncomfortable.”

, Stress has a significant impact on your health, happiness, energy and it even has a direct impact on your fat loss and muscle growth. Less stress is always better. Learn new ways of relaxing, try yoga or Thai chi. If you have a problematic job, try to find a new one, look for new opportunities. If you have troubles in your relationships and social life, find out how can you improve this area of your life. More stress free you will be the more energetic you will be. More energetic you will be the better body you can build.
 Pick a gym that is closest to your home, so you don't have to spend more time driving than you do weightlifting in a gym. Also it should be a place where you are interested in coming back, if there is unfriendly staff you may want to look somewhere else. You need to enjoy your workouts, so make sure you have chosen a gym you will like coming back to.
 For the best muscle growth you should preferably only eat, sleep and train. This is the ideal fitness lifestyle. However, this is not possible and it would also be pretty boring if you had this kind of fitness lifestyle. Not only that, but there is really no point in building a great looking body, if you can't even enjoy it. However, you still need to create good conditions for building a great looking body. Diet is a part of that. If your goal is to lose fat you need to eat below your energy expenditure levels (Basal Metabolic Rate + Daily activities). If you want to maintain your leanness you can eat little bit higher, but no beyond your energy expenditure level. It doesn't matter if you want to lose fat or build muscle, you need to have a balance diet. Get all the macro nutrients and micro nutrients your body needs. You don't need to be obsessed with it, just make sure you provide what your body requires on weekly basis.
 There are so many supplements out there nowadays. And most of them are just junk. Supplements are a billion dollar industry and supplement companies don't need to prove that what they claim their product does is actually true. In other words, the supplement might have a same effect on you as a placebo and they can still sell it and say it will help you put on 20 pounds of muscle. That is exactly how it is, most supplements do not work. However, there are few you can take. These are Creatine monohydrate, Omega 3P Fish oils, BCAA or protein. Protein intake should be around 80-100 grams a day and this need can be met by eating more protein rich food or supplementing with protein or BCAA supplements. If you don’t have enough money for testing supplements then buy only creatine monohydrate, which is so far the only supplement that has been scientifically proven to help with muscle building.Fish oil is great, because most of the people do not eat enough fish, especially if you don't live in seaside resort. But that's it, just creatine, protein and fish oil. Nothing special in here.
 Everybody can respond to training and you can always look better than you do now, no matter how old are you. If you are 50 and you are starting working out, it will be harder and you will never look like somebody your age who was working out since he was 15. But what is important is that you can still look better than you do now, so don't compare yourself to other people and start training and focusing on your transformation. You are neither too young neither too old to start lifting weights and improving your physique. Start today, because there is never a better day. It is just going to be worse. The longer you wait, the harder it will be to get yourself to the gym and get in shape.
 A good night sleep is a must, both in quality and length. You should sleep for about 8-9 hours if you are serious about building some significant muscle mass. Go to sleep before 11pm and try to wake the same time every day. You need to have a proper sleep in order to be productive, energetic during the day and not dizzy and tired. The most successful people on earth are those who have the most energy, so become one of them.

