 Trade associations and industry events can be an effective way to learn more about your field and get the inside scoop on current trends. However, you aren't likely to generate leads at trade association events, where everyone is competing for the same business contracts. If your goal is to increase sales, consider events where several different industries are represented.In addition to business-focused networking events, consider non-profit, social, cultural, and athletic events.;
, Potential business contacts will appreciate hearing about your business, but will be turned off by a sales pitch. Be prepared to share your company's mission with a concise description. To help people remember you, provide an interesting example of a current or recent project.Prepare your response ahead of time so that you don’t fumble with your words or make the description too lengthy.
 Before you attend the event, create a list of goals that you can focus on while you’re at the networking event. This will help you stay focused on the task at hand and remind you of why you’re going in the first place.

Some good examples might include finding a new job, making new contacts in a specific niche in your market, or expanding your business’ revenue by opening up new sales markets.
 A crucial aspect of any networking event is making contacts and giving out your business cards to those contacts. Showing up sans business cards can look unprofessional, and will decrease the likelihood of being contacted by the people you connect with at the networking event.Make sure to reorder your business cards when your supply is running low. You don’t want to realize you’re out of new cards as you are heading out the door for a networking event.
Try to bring at least 20 business cards with you to each event. You wouldn’t want to run out before the event is over!

, Even if your daily work environment is casual, jeans and other casual clothing are often not acceptable for networking events. When in doubt, call the event organizer and ask about suggested attire.For men, slacks with a button-up shirt and a blazer should work for most events. A tie is probably not necessary, but it never hurts to go that extra mile.
For women, a work-appropriate pantsuit or a mid-length dress with pumps and hose would be suitable for a networking event.
 When you meet a new contact, you should introduce yourself by stating your name and giving a brief description of your affiliation with the event. Try to continue the conversation by asking questions of the new person and listening when they speak. Maintain an air of professionalism during the introduction.

Try something like, “ Hi, I’m Ben. I work in marketing at XYZ Telecommunications.”

, Making eye contact is crucial when meeting new people. It conveys confidence and likability, which is part of the good first impression you want to make. It also lets people know that you are engaged, interested, and listening to what they say.When you meet a new person at a networking event, make eye contact with them as you introduce yourself, shake hands, and continue the conversation.
 At events like this, it’s important to seem friendly and approachable. Otherwise, you might walk away with zero extra contacts. Keep a smile on your face and be sure to ask questions about the other person. This will make you appear more sincere and likeable.

Avoid lugging around a huge portfolio of your work with you, as this makes you seem less approachable.
 When you meet a new person, don’t stick with them for the rest of the night. This might be tempting, especially if you’re attending the event alone, but you don’t want to overstay your welcome. Once you have finished your conversation and exchanged business cards, move on to another contact.This will give you (and the person you’re talking to) a chance to make more contacts, meet more people, and be more successful overall at the event.
Even if you really hit it off with someone, move on to another contact so you can network as effectively as possible. You can always return to those contacts that seem especially beneficial. You don’t want to appear as if you are hogging one person’s attention for the entire event.
 You can strike up a new conversation with another event attendee by simply introducing yourself. Give the highlights of your professional situation, but try to devote a bit of time to asking questions about the other person. People love to talk about themselves, so this will seem very engaging to the other person.Spend about five to ten minutes with each new contact, and try talking to as many people as possible.
 After you've made some connections, hand out your business cards and ask for theirs in return. This exchange is important in developing reciprocal relationships in the future.Keep these cards in a rolodex or some other place for safe keeping. You never know when you may need to refer back to an old contact’s business card.
 For contacts that you find particularly beneficial, don’t wait too long after the event to contact them with a follow up. You don’t want them to have a hard time remembering your conversation.If you don’t have something to discuss at the moment, you could just send a short email saying you enjoyed meeting them, and giving a brief recap of your discussion.
Try something like this: “Hi, Greg. This is James from the trade convention. I wanted to send a quick note to tell you that it was a pleasure meeting you. I really enjoyed our conversation about my company’s accounting software, and I look forward to the possibility of a future collaboration.”

