 These magnets are made of flat-backed glass marbles, like the type you might put in a vase. The magnets are small, but colorful. Here's a list of what you will need to make such a magnet:


Clear, glass gem/vase filler
Backing (photo, colored paper, fabric, etc)
Glossy Mod Podge
Paintbrush or foam brush
Round magnet
Hot glue or industrial strength glue

, They are usually flat on one side, and slightly domed on the other. You can find them in the vase filler or floral section of an arts and crafts store. Look for something that is at least 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) in diameter. This will allow you to see more of your design.


You might also see them labeled as vase fillers, cabochons, marbles, and glass stones.
 Soak a cotton ball with some rubbing alcohol and wipe the flat side of the gem. This will get rid of any dirt or oils that might prevent the glue from sticking.
 You can use almost anything you want as your backing, such as colored paper or a photo. You can even use nail polish. If you want to use a letter or an image, place your glass gem over it. You will be able to see how much of your letter or image will show through the gem. Here are some ideas of what you can use:


Photos
Pages from old books
Old maps
Scrapbook paper or wrapping paper
Newspaper or magazine pages
Patterned fabric
Nail polish

, You can use a large hole punch to cut out a perfect circle, if you can find one that is the same size as your gem. Most glass gems, however, won't be perfectly round, so it might be better to trace them.
 Most glass gems are beveled on the bottom, so you might want to cut just inside the line that you drew., Apply it using a paintbrush or a foam brush. Make sure that it is even, and that the entire back of the gem is covered. You can also use another clear-drying liquid glue.


If you are using nail polish, you don't need to apply any Mod Podge. Simply brush on a few coats of nail polish onto the back of your stone.
 Smooth it out using your fingers, starting from the center and working outward This will get rid of any air bubbles and wrinkles.
 Make sure that you go a little bit over the edges of your backing. This will seal it to your gem.If you used nail polish, consider brushing on a top coat onto the back to seal it.
 A good indicator is when it turns clear, but it is better to let it dry overnight. This will also allow the Mod Podge to cure and make it less tacky or sticky.
 You can use hot glue or an industrial strength glue. Place a thin layer of glue onto the magnet, then press the magnet down into the back of the gem.
 Hot glue will set within a few seconds, but industrial strength glues will need a much longer drying and curing time. If you are using an industrial strength glue, refer to the label for a specific drying and curing time. Just because something looks and feels dry does not mean that it is fully cured and ready to be used.

