 Editing can be a lonely job. You spend a lot of time with a manuscript, especially if it’s a lengthy book, and being able to work independently is a valuable skill. Your author shouldn’t give you direction on how to complete the editing. In fact, the author is expecting the opposite: he is expecting you to give him direction on how to improve the writing., A good editor will have a conversation with the author to make sure she is completing the editing that the author is looking for. For example, your author may be looking for quick copyediting, but if you are rewriting large sections of the work and suggesting entirely new directions for the writing, you’re not on the same page. Some different types of editing include:


Developmental editing: This type of editor works with the author to develop ideas or to shape a manuscript into a publishable work.Line editing: This form of editing looks at language, creative content and style of writing. The line editor will not look for errors. Instead, the editor examines how the writer communicates with the reader.Copyediting: Copyediting involves correcting errors, looks for inconsistencies, and prepares a style sheet. Copyediting can be light, medium, or heavy, depending on how much work needs to be done on the manuscript. Most of the editing is cleanup work, although heavier copyediting may involve more substantial rewrites., When you take on a client, ensure that you can devote adequate time to editing the project. Editing can be a time-consuming process, and there may be several back-and-forth sessions with the author as you share your feedback. If you’re rushed or you can’t see a project through to the end, you won’t give your best effort to editing the manuscript.
 The manuscript is the most important part of the author-editor relationship. Being a good editor means that you will suppress your ego in favor of the manuscript. You don’t need to assert your authority over details and finely crafted sentences., Once you’ve edited a manuscript, return the manuscript to the author and then talk in person or over the phone with her. Give her your overall thoughts and impressions, and then spend time going through the full manuscript to explain your edits.


Give your author a chance to respond to your edits. Listen carefully to how she explains herself. This will give you a better sense of what she’s trying to accomplish in the manuscript.

