 The OSBU was established to help small businesses locate and obtain GSA contracts. You may visit the OSBU online at http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/105221 or contact them by telephone at 1-855-OSBUGSA (672-8472).;
, You may locate training programs near you by selecting your GSA regional office on the map at http://www.gsa.gov/portal/event/getRegions. The OSBU offers


In-person training designed to teach you how to locate and procure a government contract
Online training designed to teach you how to locate and procure a government contract
A mentor-protégé program that facilitates partnerships between small, disadvantaged businesses and seasoned GSA contractors.
 From the GSA website, you can locate and read about current and upcoming GSA contracts and opportunities throughout the federal government. Tools provided include:A Google-like search engine, which allows users to search the procurement database for contracts by keyword
A more advanced search engine, which allows users to select the type of contract, the location of the contract, the set-aside code, and even the agency offering the contract
Search engines for specific contract types, such as set-aside programs and green initiatives

, Set-aside opportunities provide specific socio-economic businesses with their fair share of government contracts. To determine if your business falls within one of the designated socio-economic categories, visit the Small Business Association’s (“SBA”) Small Business Certifications and Audiences webpage at http://www.sba.gov/category/navigation-structure/contracting/working-with-government/small-business-certifications-audiences. Businesses that qualify for set asides include:


Businesses owned by women
Businesses owned by veterans
Businesses owned by minorities

, The OSBU maintains a network of support for small businesses. The fastest way to receive counseling and support services information for your local area is to complete a request for information form at http://www.gsa.gov/portal/category/101355. Common services include assistance with:


Marketing
Disputes
Other challenges businesses may encounter while attempting to procure a GSA contract

, The GSA will give you step-by-step instructions for registering with the GSA to receive government contracts. Before obtaining any government contract, providers must complete specific registration requirements. Common requirements include:Completion of programs offered by the GSA
Submission of various financial statements
Submission of proof of experience in the field
Submission of pricing lists
Submission of labor descriptions

, If you have a question specific to your business and you cannot find the answer elsewhere, you may ask the GSA directly at http://www.gsa.gov/portal/category/101355.

