 Consider incorporating a 30-day fitness challenge into your routine. It’s a terrific way to supplement your regular workout regimen. Most challenges only take 20 to 30 minutes a day to complete; however, you’ll be considerably more active than you usually are. The reason 30-day fitness regimens typically have good results is because they entail 5 SMART principles, which means they are time-bound, specific, achievable, relevant and measurable.Think about doing a plank, kettlebell swing, or pushup challenge. The choice is yours based on what part of the body you wish to train the most. Keep in mind, however, that a 30-day fitness challenge is not meant to replace your normal routine. In theory, you’re supposed to still maintain what you’re doing regularly. You will probably be a little sore at first but, by the end, you should be moving right along with both routines, not to mention in much better shape.
Here’s an example of how to incorporate the SMART principles using kettlebells:
Specific - I’m going to do a 30-day fitness challenge incorporating kettlebell swings.
Measurable - I will do 500 swings 20 times within 30 days in order to reach 10,000 swings total.
Achievable - I will reach my goal by breaking them down into 5 rounds each with sets of 10, 15, 25 and 50 repetitions.
Relevant - I wish to build the core part of my body, and this is one of the best ways to do it.
Time-bound - My goal is to reach 10,000 swings within 30 days.Consider training for either a 5K or for a smaller event. This has become a huge sport with almost too many benefits to list here. Signing up for one will help you stay in shape, get your competitive juices flowing, hone your discipline, and you’ll meet lots of people. If you haven’t run in one before or you’re a little out of shape, consider participating in a shorter run, or only do the walk portion of the event. You should be able to find a 5K event where you live. If not, find out where a race is being held, train every day or every other day for 30 days, and go there.
 Volunteering gives you new skills while putting into practice ones you’ve already developed. It’s also a great way to meet new people, and you’ll be participating in worthwhile activities with other like-minded people. Further, you’ll be helping to make change in an area you’re passionate about.Think about volunteering with kids. There are lots of areas you can delve into here. You can participate in a youth group, be a mentor, help out in juvenile detention, or work with one of the big scouting organizations. This could be a ideal direction to go in if you’re planning on becoming a youth worker or a teacher.Offer your time at a local animal shelter. If you want instant gratification, do this. There is nothing like a scrawny puppy with big eyes looking up at you as your putting food in his bowl to make you feel good. You could also work in fund-raising – an area that’s highly needed in animal rescue work, train to be a vet’s assistant, or work in the field picking up stray cats and dogs. Just like the rewards, the choices are endless.
 Your family and friends will probably like this new hobby of yours a lot. You can make yummy jams, tasty pickles, or become a cupcake aficionado. Once you’ve got the recipes down, think about entering your scrumptious creations in a local taste contest or one of the fairs in your area.


You can also make homemade beer. If you can boil water, you can brew beer – even premium, at the fraction of the cost of commercial beer. Home brewing beer has come a long way since it was first legalized in 1979. (A one-person household can make 100 gallons a year and a family household can make 200 gallons.) Over the years, the techniques have been refined and the variety and quality of supplies and brewing ingredients that are available practically ensure great results. These days home brewing has reached a state of high science. But, you don't have to practice at that high a level to make a tasty beer.Brewing is an inexact and forgiving science, which allows for experimentation.
To learn, just look online or in your local book store. Each will describe a different procedure for fermenting and brewing and will include recipes unlike the rest. Interestingly, most of them produce terrific results.
Finding the ingredients and equipment for home brewing is not the big challenge it used to be. Chances are good even that there’s a beer-making store where you live. If not, you can get everything you need by mail.
 This fascinating topic is called genealogy. There are plenty of courses available online on how to chart yours (or other people’s) family history. It can take time to do it properly, but when it’s finished, it’s a keepsake your whole family will appreciate. It also makes a great gift for one or more of your relatives. There isn’t a limit in how far back you can go.Keep in mind you need to be fairly detailed oriented and have a detective-type mind to be able to do a thorough and accurate genealogy report.
Begin recording what you already know about your family. Start with yourself and enter as much information as possible. Preserve important stories and family information by developing a family tree generation by generation. Record marriage and death dates, names, birth dates, and other facts that you know.

