 Tanning outside or in a tanning bed can help you achieve a sun-kissed glow, but it is not the healthiest option. Tanning causes skin damage, which can speed up the process of aging and cause skin cancer. Doctors do not recommend tanning, and you should only do it if you are fully aware of the dangers. If you do decide to tan, make sure to prepare your skin, use sunscreen, moisturize, and take every precaution possible to minimize damage.Consult with your doctor to learn more about the dangers of tanning.
 Exfoliate and moisturize your skin before tanning. You should exfoliate because the sun only tans the top layer of skin, and it is best to start with a fresh layer of skin that won’t flake off quickly. To exfoliate, you can use a loofah, exfoliating creams, or a body scrub. Once you have exfoliated, moisturize with a hypoallergenic moisturizer to soothe the skin and prevent flaking.Exfoliate twice a week.
Moisturize everyday.
 Oil will help the tanning process. You can use suntan oil that has sunscreen in it, or apply sunscreen after the suntan oil has settled. Use a liberal amount of oil all over your body. Rub it in using circular motions. If your oil doesn’t have sunscreen in it, wait ten minutes before applying sunscreen.Reapply the sunscreen every thirty minutes you are out in the sun.
Use at least SPF 15.
 The sun’s rays are strongest during the hours or 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. So, your chances of an overall tan are higher. If you don’t want to tan when the sun is harshest, tan in the early morning or late afternoon. Use a reflective blanket to maximize your tan. If you don’t want to maximize your tan, wear a hat and sunglasses and lie on a white towel.If it is not sunny and warm in your area, it is an option to use a tanning bed. This, however, is not advised. You increase your risk of skin damage and skin cancer with a tanning bed.
 Tanning for longer than one or two hours increases your risk of sunburn. Start by lying on your back for twenty minutes and then switch onto your stomach. After that, you can choose to stop tanning or repeat the process.Sunburn doesn’t appear until about two hours after sun exposure. Don’t stay out in the sun longer just because your skin doesn’t appear immediately darker.
 Repeat the exfoliation and moisturizing product directly after you tan. This will prevent flaking and dehydration of the skin that can happen after a tanning session. You should also apply aloe to your skin if you see signs of a sunburn.