 Stand in front of your mirror and say "I'm beautiful, smart and sassy" five times out loud while looking at yourself (even if you hear your parents laughing, or your brother says you look like a loser doing this). You have to understand that you are beautiful (because every woman is in their own way) - and you've gotta feel like a starlet before you can act like one!;
, A lot of the time, having confidence in your appearance comes with knowing that you've done all you can to make yourself look as good as possible. Do you have to be super-skinny to look beautiful? No! But a little effort can make you feel truckloads better about yourself (and people always notice a person's energy and vitality), so stop moping and get moving! You can play Dance Dance Revolution if you have it - or join a dance class. (Salsa or belly dancing, anyone?) You can go jogging around your neighborhood while listening to tunes on your MP3 player, or even join a gym with some girlfriends. It also pays to eat healthier. In the cafeteria, instead of a greasy piece of pizza, grab healthier food such as a turkey burger. Instead of soda, grab fruit juice or mineral water. For snacks, ditch those chips and try delicious (and way healthier) fruits. Those little changes can make big differences to the way you feel and see yourself!

, Nothing says more about a girl's self-worth than how she looks after her skin. Regular cleansing and moisturizing should be the cornerstones of any girl's skincare regime - and weekly exfoliation and masks don't hurt, either. Always wear some kind of sunblock (at least SPF 15 and one that blocks both UVA and UVB rays) to prevent uneven pigmentation and freckles/sunspots. Never trade your beautiful skin for a bronzed hue done via a solarium - alabaster-white or porcelain skin is just as gorgeous as darker shades of caramel and olive, only in different ways!

, let's get to the more exciting parts:

, Sexy underwear makes a woman feel, well, sexy. It's a fact that all starlets are aware of. Well, nobody would notice them unless you are in school and you are changing in the locker room, but it does help to boost a woman's self-confidence. (Most of us can do with a little extra something!) Imagine flirting with your hot coworker whilst wearing a pair of ivory granny knickers. Not exactly a great confidence-booster. On the other hand, if you're wearing a pair of slinky, lacy black hipsters by Victoria's Secret.... see the difference?, When it comes to makeup, starlets often wear sheer, natural makeup that play up their best features. If you are unsure, makeup counters at good department stores often offer sound advice - and you can even ask for a demonstration! Can't be bothered? One can never go wrong with a little foundation to smooth out your skin tone; curled lashes; mascara; eyeliner on the top lash line; clear or pink lip gloss, and a touch of blush on the apples of your cheekbones. (Of course, make sure that the foundation matches your skin tone - you don't want a ghostly face or an orange one now, do you?)

, Many people love French manicures, because they go with everything. However, long French nails can look tacky - and if you closely examine fashion magazines, you'll see that celebrities often forgo these, and instead prefer short nails in red, black, pink or nude. Starlets are working girls, you gotta remember. You don't want people to think you're a do-nothing who just primps and preens herself all day long, so lose the flimsy nails and get a manicure that's cute and practical - totally worthy of a starlet! (Check the tips section for a general guide to doing your own nails.)

, The key here is to play up what you've got. Curly hair can be played up to your advantage - and as long as you keep those frizzies away, it can be hot! The same can be said for poker-straight hair and kinky waves. Whatever your natural hair texture and colour, make sure you a) get haircuts that complement your face shape and hair texture, b) take good care of your hair by using mild shampoos and the occasional hair mask or conditioner, and c) get regular trims to keep split-ends at bay, and your hairstyle looking healthy and fresh. A tip: there are a large variety of hair products to add volume, shine and whatnot - but whatever you do, don't overdo it! It will make weigh your hair down and make it look more like a sad mop than a mane of glossy, flick-worthy locks, which is what we are aiming for.
 Red-carpet looks don't have to be expensive, or even particularly trendy. A wardrobe worthy of a red-carpet event is comprised of clothes, shoes and accessories that a) suit your body type and look good on you, b) reflect the kind of person you want to portray yourself to be, and c) make you feel like a star. Starlets always have to-die-for clothes (which are, a lot of the time, designer brands), but we have to remember that these girls have personal stylists - not to mention that they score many of those designer clothes for FREE. Since we're not Hollywood stars, we have to make do with what we've got. If you're on a budget, try going to Forever 21, Target, H&M, or if you are young, then Aeropostale and Old Navy. All of those stores mentioned above have very fashionable (and pretty good quality) clothing, shoes and accessories. Be creative, and be yourself!

, A true starlet needs a statement bag - and it doesn't need to be Hermes or Fendi! You can buy inexpensive (and adorable!) bags from stores like JCPenney and Dillard's, but you can virtually buy cute handbags from almost any store depending on your own personal style. Don't get caught up in the hype and buy cheap knock-offs if you can't afford the real thing. Starlets would rather cart around a no-label bag than one of those. And if you need an incentive, remember this - the production of fake designer items often involve child labor, so the cute Louis Vuitton knockoff hanging on the shelf may actually have been pieced together by a five year-old. Sad, much?

, How to act like a starlet? Read on., No matter how glammed up you get, there's always something about swearing that messes up the perfect picture just a little. Lose the swearing! It's tacky and downgrades other people's opinion of you. If you have to swear, reserve it for when you're not in public, and don't yell it out for everyone in the vicinity to hear.
 Starlets don't judge other people, because they've been judged enough by people to know it's unfair to do that to others. Don't be prejudiced against others, and try to be genuinely kind to everyone you come across even if they don't deserve it. (Within reason - sometimes you need to stand up for yourself or for other people.) It's not easy - but being a starlet means you have to learn to control your emotions and project a classy image even if it's not always convenient.
 Some celebrities may make drugs, sleeping around, alcohol, wild-partying and cigarettes look glamorous and very 'in', but this is as far from the truth as you can get. If anything, it makes you look cheap and nasty - not to mention it wrecks havoc on your skin, body, mind and soul! True starlets stick to their values, and would never do something just because everyone says it's cool. They lead the crowd, they don't follow it!

, Guys may like the dumb-blonde act, but starlets never do anything just to please guys! Intelligence is a virtue, and don't let anything convince you otherwise. Beauty and brains? A match made in heaven!

, Starlets don't always party or go to nightclubs. (Or at least, that's not all that they do.) True starlets, those who are worthy of carrying the name, help other people. They volunteer; donate their money to charity; attract media attention to the places and people that need them; actively fight for or support good causes. That's what makes them shine, not those super-expensive dresses! Well, if they can make a difference, then why can't you? You don't have to start a foundation. There are some easy things you can do, like donate your hair for charity (for more information, go to locksoflove.com), buy cosmetics from animal-friendly lines such as Hard Candy and Bonne Bell, support our troops (give $25 to USO and a soldier will get a prepaid phone card to call his/her family in the US - more info @ uso.org), donate canned foods to your local food bank, things like that. There are heaps of ways to help and make a change, so take the first step and do it!

, Have you noticed that starlets are always confident? They don't care about what their anti-fans or those crazed Hollywood gossip blogs and magazines have to say about them, and they don't care if anyone gives them mean comments about their looks. Don't hide behind your hair. Show your beautiful face! Hold your chin up high (but not TOO high), and sit up straight. Pull your shoulders back and walk like you're worth a million dollars, because you are. Believe in yourself and your abilities. Be confident. If you are not confident, then fake it. When others start believing it, you will too!

