 Before school starts, make sure you're ready. Stock up on good quality school supplies. Start with a binder. Your binder reflects your personality, so get a good, durable one. Fit the supplies nicely with your binder. Buy supplies that match your style (plaid, striped, solid, marble, themed, whatever). Make sure all your supplies match and don't clash.

If you don't have a list of school supplies yet, bring a pen and some paper along. Also bring a book along in case your teachers want a silent period, so you have something to do.



 

;
, Appearance wise, go for your own style. A bubbly look is by far the most popular, and if you're a girl, start with nails. Most schools allow nail color, so try a splattered look, a marbled look, an M&M design, or Michelle Phan's waterlily nails. If you have a uniform, find loopholes by trying different hair accessories, necklaces, earrings, or scarves. If you don't have a uniform, try to match your clothes to your nails and accessories., Try to look neat but cool at same time. If you don't know the dress code yet, be sensible . Think logically about what you probably wouldn't be allowed to wear, like mini skirts or really short shorts. Be well-groomed with neat hair and nails, and brush your teeth. Before the first day, try to get a manicure and a pedicure. You can do your own at home as well, but try to pick out a softer, school appropriate color.
 Try to memorize or write down where your classes are so you won't be late in the future. If you carry a binder, put your schedule in the clear pocket.
 Walk into school with your head held high, smile on your face, walk with nice even steps, at an appropriate pace, and look like you're ready for school to start.

When you first walk in, be confident and act like you belong, but don't be cocky, rude or arrogant. Never the best start.
 Even if none of your friends are in the class, try to socialize with people you think could be potential friends. If you don't like someone, try to be nice. You don't want to start a rivalry with someone on the first day of school.
 This sets people at ease and helps them to warm to you.
,, As soon as you enter your tutor room (registration room/home room) take a seat straight away - it would be best to sit close to or in front. That way you show that you are interested in what you're learning.
 Listen closely to everything they say and write down things like classroom, homework policy, and testing expectations. If they ask any questions, try to raise your hand so that your teacher will remember you as someone who participates in class.
 Be respectful when others are talking.
 Show your strengths to your friends and classmates. If you are a good singer, pick out some fabulous songs during holidays and sing them to your friends on the first day of school.


Don't overdo it. For example, if you force your classmates to listen to your songs they will get bored. Don't sing for them if they don't want to hear it or they may avoid you.
Do not be arrogant, your awesome talents may not be appreciated if you come on too strong. Do not be rude or you may make enemies.

