 Mosquitoes lay their eggs in stagnant water, so the first step to reducing the number of mosquitoes on your property is to eliminate as much stagnant water from your property as possible.Remove any unnecessary basins you may have in your yard, including wheel barrows, buckets, and temporary swimming pools. If these items must remain outside, turn them upside down when not in use.
Clear your gutters frequently. They often get clogged with leaves and other debris, which can hold small amounts of water.
Even leaves on your lawn can provide enough water for mosquito larvae, so be sure to rake them up promptly.
Add topsoil to low areas that tend to accumulate water. In extreme cases, you may need to regrade your yard to improve drainage.
If any of your trees have rotted areas where water accumulates, fill the holes with mortar.;
, Sometimes it is not possible to eliminate all standing water. If you have a bird bath or a pond, for example, you can treat the water with larvicides that you can purchase at most gardening or home improvement stores. Most of these products contain either methoprene or Bacillus thuringiensis israelensis, neither of which are believed to be toxic to humans, pets, fish, or birds when used appropriately.Read the directions carefully to determine how often you must reapply the larvicide. Protection can last for a month or more, but it depends on the amount of water being treated.
If you have a swimming pool, be sure to treat the water that accumulates on the cover during the off-season.
 If you have sources of water that cannot be treated, be sure to dump the water out and refill it every few days in order to interrupt the mosquito life cycle. Adult mosquitoes can emerge in less than two weeks after eggs are laid, so never let the water sit for longer than that.If you have items such as outdoor tarps that accumulate small amounts of water, tend to them regularly to ensure that water never stands for more than a few days at a time.
 If you are aware of possible mosquito breeding grounds that are not on your property, you should report them to the appropriate agency.


Many cities and counties have vector control agencies, which are responsible for controlling the populations of disease-spreading pests. If your area does not have such an agency, report the issue to your local public health department.
Whether the area is on public land or private property, the appropriate agency in your area may be able to take steps to remedy the problem.

