 There are two types of soil:


Dry soil - It can be identified if the soil is sandy and has cracks in it.
Clay soil - If the soil is sticky and muddy then it is clay soil.;
, Is the plant younger, or a newly grown, or an older one. Younger plants can be at most 4-5 years of age. Then they are categorised as older plants.
 This varies from species to species, so look online or in gardening books.
 If the plants are grown in dry soil, it would need more amount of water and clay soil obviously needs less amount of water as it has more moisture.
 Remember that different kinds and ages of plants have different requirements. Younger ones typically need less water than older ones, while newly planted ones need only small amount of water.
 This gives the plant time to absorb the water and get ready to handle heat, cold, or just the energy it takes to produce chlorophyll, grow, and move nutrients around.If you water in the late afternoon or evening, the problem is that the plant is now wet and the air temperature is cool. Those are the best conditions for mildews, molds, and all kinds of disease problems. Keep life simple, water in the morning.


Watering in the middle of a very hot day isn't a good idea either, since the water can evaporate before it does any good, and can actually heat up too much and damage your plants.
 Roots require more water than leaves. In fact roots only require water. As said earlier wet leaves will lead to diseases.
 Watering fast is like giving just 20% of water to plants rest all waste.Water slower. Doing this water will remain around roots as a result it  will get more water. Watering fast may generate a great flow, causing erosion and leading to most of the water flowing away anyway.
 It measures how many centimetre the rain falls in that area so you would be able to give plants the desired quantity of water.
 Sprinklers are very effective. They give water to plants at the proper time, and you don't have to worry about doing it with a hose or watering can. It is similar to drop-by-drop method (irrigation method used in farming).
 Applied slowly, water gradually soaks to the roots, rather than running off or evaporating. It will save you time and reduce the amount of water that's wasted.
 Don't use water that contains bleach or powerful household cleaning products, which could damage plants.

