 You might not have an idea of what it means to be fashionable. If you're unsure what constitutes a fashionable style, spend some time learning about fashion itself. You can do this by seeking out advice from friends and evaluating your own personality.


If you're unfamiliar with fashion, reading up on the latest styles might not be helpful. You may have difficulty understanding language and terminology. Instead of reading, ask a fashionable friend to take you on a shopping trip. Allow him or her to help you pick fashionable outfits that flatter your body type.Good fashion sense starts with your personality. Ideally, your choice in fashion should express something about you as a person. Try jotting down a list of personality traits and passions you would like to see conveyed by your wardrobe.Try to pay attention to the design of clothing you try on and buy in stores. Who is the designer? What is his or her reputation in the fashion world? Why did he or she put a pocket on a particular place in a coat or pair of jeans? Why use two kinds of fabric instead of one? Try to do some research regarding these questions when you get home. Google the designer and read up on his or her artistic and professional goals.;
, If you want to be more fashionable, one great way to stay up-to-date on the latest trends and styles is to follow a variety of fashion blogs. These websites can give you inspiration on how to become more fashionable.


Bookmark at least 3 fashion blogs or websites. Browse the sites a couple times a week and look for updates on fashion trends and styles.Instagram can also be a great resource if you want to be more fashionable. Follow Instagram bloggers whose style you admire. You can also try searching hashtags like #ootd (outfit of the day) for inspiration for new styles.
 Trends come and go, but certain items will always be fashionable. Stock up on the basics and, from there, mix and match with accessories and other clothing items.


If you're a female, a little black dress will always be in style. Look for a basic black dress that is flattering on your body type. A knee-length black skirt is also a consistently fashionable option for women.A black blazer, black trousers or dress pants, dark denim jeans, and a white button-down shirt are items that are always fashionable on both men and women. You can mix and match these with a variety of different clothing items to create many outfits.A beige trench coat is a great look for winter and fall for both men and women. Cardigans are also nice for the colder months. Try to have both a white and black cardigan so you can match it with a variety of outfits.For accessories, a pair of black pumps and a black leather bag are great options for women. They are consistently considered fashionable and will go with a variety of outfits.Pears and diamond studs are good, traditional jewelry options and tend to go with a lot of different outfits., Fashion is highly versatile. At any given moments, a variety of different types of style are in season. Choose styles that you feel comfortable in and that match your personal taste.


It's important to be fashionable in a way that speaks to you. If you prefer a more minimalist style, choose items that go with that theme. If you prefer more vibrant, patterned clothing items, choose fashionable items in that theme.
You'll also notice your clothing items will start to blend together if you let your tastes dictate your style. Your clothing and accessory choices will be linked by your personal taste. If you choose a shirt that doesn't seem to go with anything, chances are you'll eventually buy a set of pants in the same style., Before making any new purchases, review what you have. You may be able to create new outfits using a combination of new and old items. You should also throw away or donate items you're unlikely to wear again as they're needlessly taking up closet space.


What do you have and what do you lack? What fits your vision of your new, fashionable style? If you have a variety of cardigans, but no cute blouses or shirts to go under them, then focus on buying tops when you go shopping. Do you have a lot of casual pants but no dress pants or form-fitting pants? Place focus on buying trendier jeans and dress pants when you go out shopping.Pay attention to the condition of current clothing choices. Clothing with holes or that is stretched out is not fashionable. Considering tossing anything that's damaged beyond repair.Try on clothing you haven't worn for awhile. As bodies change over time, you may find some of your clothes are too big or too small. Donate anything that no longer fits.You should also consider getting rid of clothing items that no longer fit. If you have clothing you used to wear to clubs, for example, and are no longer much of a partier than maybe it's time to get rid of these items., While it makes sense to shop in stores as you can try outfits on, you may be able to get away with buying some items online. If you know your size fairly well, you may find great deals online. However, if you're unsure of your size you may want to go into a store. Returning an item you bought online can get expensive. You can also buy accessories, like purses and sunglasses, online for cheaper prices., Trends do tend to fade out quickly. However, it can be fun to follow some trends that you have genuine interest in. Choose trends that you feel work with your personal style. As trends fade quickly, don't overspend on trendy items as they do not need to withstand longterm use.


It can be fun to follow some trends, but keep in mind they tend to fade out quickly. If you feel personally drawn to a particular trend, follow it if you want. For example, if leggings look great on you feel free to buy a pair. However, don't spend a ton of money on a pair of leggings as they're likely to become less fashionable with time. Instead, go for a cheaper pair. While they'll likely wear down quicker, chances are this particular fashion item won't be a timeless addition to a fashionable wardrobe.Instead, spend more money on items, like the ones listed above, that have been consistently fashionable for years. You can incorporate these items into your existing wardrobe as trends change for years to come.Follow trends you can easily incorporate into your current wardrobe. If pale pink is one of the colors of the season and you have mostly red accessories, you might want to sit this one out. If another, more neutral shade, is also in style invest in a pair of pants or a vest in that color over pink., Classic accessories can help your wardrobe stand out. Invest in nice accessories to compliment our clothing choices.


Nice scarves, jewelry, watches, sunglasses, and other accessories can help your wardrobe shine. Look for clearance sales on accessories in your favorite stores., Having a nice scent associated with your presence can make you appear more fashionable. Try to develop a classy scent using perfume or scented lotion.


For men, choose a cologne that you use consistently. Look for a fragrance that blends with your natural odor. You can also combine or layer products to create a unique scent.Make sure you don't use too much cologne, however, as this can be off-putting.
For women, scented lotion, perfume, shampoo, and conditioner all carry distinct scents. Choose a brand that is pleasant but not overpowering. Too much perfume or scent can be irritating to others.
 Your grooming habits can also help you become more fashionable. Focus on your hair, shaving habits, and make-up.


If you're a man, shave on a regular basis. Keep your hair trimmed and brushed.
If you're female, neutral make-up is sometimes more flattering that dramatic colors. Stick to tones that match your skin. If you paint your nails, do so carefully. Make sure you avoid smearing the polish and redo the nails as needed when you notice the color fading or chipping., Being fashionable goes beyond clothing and make-up. You should also strive to create a fun and fashionable home environment.


Line drawers in your home with scented, patterned paper. This can be a fun way to make your home cute and fashionable.If you work in an office, consider bringing in personal business cards and pens. This can be a fun way to add flare to your personal style., A fun way to live a fashionable lifestyle is attending fashion exhibits. Watch for fashion related exhibits at local art galleries. Make a day trip to a big city if a big fashion exhibit is coming into town. This can help you stay up-to-date on trends while having a sense of the history behind fashion., Instead of using store bought cards or e-cards, invest in a personal stationary. Send people handwritten notes for birthdays and holidays. This can be a fun way to be fashionable and help the people around you feel valued., See a barber or hairdresser on a regular basis to work on your personal style. A nice hair style can help you stay fashion forward.


For men, a reliable barber can help you work on your personal style. He or she can choose a haircut that's flattering for your facial features. A barber can also give you advice on hair products to use.For women, going to a hair salon once every couple of months can help you maintain a flattering hairstyle. Talk to your stylist and what cuts and styles would look best on you. Ask him or her about what products to use as well.
 Having a tailor you trust can help you stay fashionable. You can have clothing items altered or repaired to fit your style and taste. It may be somewhat pricey, but if you're paying for tailor service on high-quality items they'll end up lasting you a long time., High quality clothing should be washed with some care. Proper laundering can help your clothes last longer.


Separate clothing items before washing based on color, especially dark colored cloth. For example, reds should be washed separately from blues.Wear clothes a few times before washing them. This helps maintain color and shape. Allow expensive items to air dry after washing. It's a good idea to invest in a drying rack.If you notice stains in clothing, work on blotting them out rather than rubbing. This will stop the stains from spreading.