 Water will help flush the toxins out of your body. These toxins may cause common skin problems, such as acne and dullness. Drinking more water will help clarify and brighten your skin.
 Some people will do fine on as little as six hours of sleep, while others may need up to eight. Sleep is important, not only because it allows your mind and body to rest, but also because it gives your skin enough time to repair and replenish itself. Not enough sleep may also lead to excessive stress, which in turn may lead to problems, such as breakouts, acne, wrinkles, and under-eye bags.
 Exercise helps increase blood flow, which in turn helps keep skin healthy and youthful. Exercise can also help reduce stress, which studies have shown has an impact on skin issues, such as acne. You don't necessarily have to join a sports team or enroll in a gym class. It could be as simple as going for a long walk or jog a few times a week., Too much junk food, fats, and carbohydrates may lead to problems, such as acne and dullness. The rights foods, however, can help your skin appear brighter and more youthful. Here's a list of things you should try to include in your diet, and why:Vitamin C helps brighten skin and heal blemishes. You can find it in the following: blackcurrants, blueberries, broccoli, guava, kiwi fruits, oranges, papaya, strawberries, and sweet potatoes.
Vitamin E promotes skin growth and youthfulness. You can find it in the following: almonds, avocado, hazelnuts, pine nuts, and sunflower/corn oils.
Good fats are found in avocado, fish, nuts, and seeds. They act as a natural moisturizer and leave your skin feeling supple.
Selenium reduces the chances of cancer, sum damage, and age spots. You can find it in fish, shellfish, eggs, wheat germ, tomatoes, and broccoli.
Omega-3 acids are essential to good health, but can't be produced by the body. They help prevent inflammation. You can find it in things like flaxseed oil, linseeds, walnut oil, and rapeseed oil.
Zinc can be found in fish, lean red meat, whole grains, poultry, nuts, seeds, and shellfish. It helps soften skin and repair any damage.
 Stress can make skin extra sensitive and more prone to getting acne. Try to give yourself enough time to complete your errands. This might mean breaking up your to-do list and saving some tasks for the following week. Try to pace yourself more and don't force yourself to take on more work than you can handle. Also, be sure to set aside some time for hobbies and other relaxing activities., Studies have shone that smoking may increase the appearances of wrinkles. If you currently smoke, this is something you may want to consider.