 Shop at thrift stores, Hollister, Urban Outfitters, and Forever 21. Outfit example: A cute floral tank top, a pair of denim short-shorts, pink flip-flops, and a fun necklace.


Don't pair short-shorts, a tank top, and high heels; this doesn't make you look sweet.
Pair skinny jeans with pink or black converses, and cute tank-tops. If you wear a uniform, add a cute watch or hair accessory.;
, Have a couple expensive pieces in your collection (like one Tiffany necklace, and one gold ring), but don't wear them every day. Buy cheaper, but good quality stuff. They sell cute, cheap, jewellery at Urban Outfitters, Icing by Claires, and Forever21.
 Use shampoo, conditioner, and heat protectant. Don't curl or straighten it every day, and get it trimmed often for a clean look. Try to wear your hair natural. If you have bangs, either slip them to the side, or wear them right, but don't have them sticking all over the place. Avoid ponytails, unless it's a high ponytail with a cute headband or a low side ponytail with a flower.


Wash your face using a mild soap. After that, use a toner, and a moisturizer.
 Use black eyeliner on the outside of your eye, and a light white or pink eye shadow. Use winged-out mascara, and touch it all over with a little clear lip gloss. There are darker looks for the nighttime, but this is an everyday look, and it's pretty cute and basic. Use a light powder concealer evenly. Then use a little golden bronzer over the apple of your cheek, and finally use a light powder blush.
 The cashier, the bus driver, teachers, friends, boys, and even enemies. Love is free, so share it!

, Don't go making out and French kissing all over the place, but a playful kiss or holding hands is okay.
 Say "That's mean." or "Why would you say that?" or "If you are mean to everybody, you can't expect them to be nice to you!" Don't get angry; stay calm and state your opinion.
 Study, stay organized, and work hard on all your projects.
 Don't spend it all at once or waste it on pointless little items.
 Smile at boys and ask them questions - don't make it all about yourself.


If you don't know if he likes you or not, use an old trick. If he calls you gorgeous, or hot, or smart, play it cool, and say "Back at ya'," or "Thank you". Text your crush little smiley faces, and spray your scent of perfume on all the notes you give him. Kiss marks are okay, but there is a fine line between "flirty" and "overt." Be flirty.
Don't flirt with guys that are over about four older than you. You don't see ten-year-olds going out with 13-year-olds. Stay your age to about two or three years older, but don't go places alone with much older guys, especially if you are under 16.
 Unhealthy tired zombies just aren't cute!

