 Your child may not respond to treatments for a migraine. If this is the case, you should seek prompt medical attention. This can help determine underlying causes and get proper treatment for your child. Call the doctor as soon as possible if a migraine doesn’t respond to treatment or your child has any of the following symptoms:Constant pain that may get worse
Sudden, severe onset of a migraine without other symptoms
Symptoms that occur early in the morning
Excessive vomiting
Changes in vision
Balance problems
Weakness
Changes in behavior

, Give your child’s pediatrician all of the information you have about their symptoms. These vital clues can help the doctor better diagnose your child’s migraines. It can also help the doctor figure out the best treatment for your child. Your child's pediatrician may decide to refer you to a specialist in neurology or pain management. Discuss any treatment options the doctor suggests so that you can weigh the benefits and drawbacks of them for your child. Some of the treatment options your child’s pediatrician may consider are:Keeping a migraine diary.
Taking specific anti-migraine medications such as sumatriptan (Imigran).
Using prescription anti-nausea (emetic), anti-inflammatory, sedatives, and/or pain relief medications such as pizotifen.
Trying preventative drugs including anti-convulsants, anti-depressants, antihistamines, and/or medications that relax blood vessels, such as beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers.
 If your child’s migraines don’t respond to conventional treatment, talk to their pediatrician about alternative therapies. Things like biofeedback and behavioral therapy may help ease or prevent migraines.Some therapies your child’s pediatrician may suggest include:


Biofeedback, a relaxation technique that can teach your child how to monitor and control certain physical responses that can cause migraines
Cognitive behavioral therapy, which can teach your child how behaviors and thoughts affect their perception of pain
Acupuncture, in which a practitioner puts thin, disposable needles into several areas of the skin at specific points

