 This is the practice of being fully present in each moment and being aware of your senses, thoughts, and feelings. When you’re mindful, it will be easier for you to recognize the signs of emotional burnout early and take steps to avoid it.


Be fully present by only doing one thing at a time. Avoid multitasking. For example, don’t work while you’re having your lunch. Focus on eating.
Check in with yourself throughout the day to evaluate how you’re feeling and what you’re thinking. You might ask yourself, “How do I feel about this situation? What do I think about it?”

, There are signs that your body may give you that let you know you may be experiencing a lot of stress and may be on the verge of burning out.One of these signs is an increase in irritability. If you notice that you’re getting frustrated or angry easier or more often than normal, you should recognize that it might be emotional burnout.


For example, pay attention to whether you’re snapping at co-workers, family, or friends for no reason.
Or, for instance, notice if you’re cranky during the week, but more relaxed on your off days.
 It’s normal to feel a bit tired after a productive work day. But, one sign of emotional burnout and high stress is feeling extra tired, or tired when you know you’ve had enough rest.Be aware of your energy level and take note if it seems to be dipping for no reason.


For instance, do you feel drowsy in the middle of the day even though you got eight hours of sleep the night before?
Or, for example, do you find yourself feeling like you just don’t have the energy to go to work or completely drained at the end of the day?

, Although some people simply aren’t as social as others, one indicator of emotional burnout is feeling unconnected to the people around you.Pay attention to signs that you’re withdrawing from normal activities or that you’re feeling detached from people you’re usually close to.


For example, take note of thoughts like, “No one understands what it’s like” or “I’m all alone in this.”
Or, for instance, if you feel like you can’t connect with any of your co-workers so you avoid company get-togethers it may be a sign of feeling isolated.
 You have probably experienced a time or two when you aren’t getting as much done as you would like to. Maybe you have other responsibilities or special circumstances that are interrupting your workflow. But, if you notice that you aren’t getting as much done as you used to or need to, it may be a sign that you’re approaching an emotional burnout.For example, if you generally turn in your weekly reports on time, but now find that no matter how long you spend on them, you can’t get them in on time, you may be burning out.

