 While there are a lot of crafting ideas and instructions around, finding the right one can be a bit like finding a needle in a haystack.


Look online,in books,and magazines.Ask friends if they have instructions for designs.

Make sure your friends are at roughly the same skill level as you are.


Double-check on whether your friends are using their design- you don't want to look like a copy cat.
Make a shortlist of about five different designs that you like.
 When picking the card that you'd like to make for your teacher, think about different aspects, not just the final product:


Think about what your card should express: does the design capture it? Do you want a funny, a sentimental or a happy card?
Look at the difficulty level- is it something you can do by yourself?
Be honest with yourself and ask for help if it looks too hard.
 After you've picked your card, it's time to get to the next step in the planning phase.


Read the instructions carefully, and if possible, compare with pictures or videos. See if there are tips and helpful hints in the instructions that you can use.
Write the list noting how much of what material you need.
 Once you have a list together, assemble your materials- see what you have and get the materials you still need.


Take stock of what you already have- sometimes you can use old items you don't need anymore. For example, you could use old crayola stumps to form your teacher's initials on the card.Go to an arts and crafts store to buy what you need - often the sales people have great ideas and can help, too!

, This can be a bit of a tedious step, but in order to get the design and the card right, be extra diligent when it comes to following the instructions.


Read every step carefully to make sure you know what to do.
Take notes after you've completed your step- this can help you in the future.
Ask someone for help if you are unsure of how you should do something.
 This is one of the most important parts of the card- it verbalizes your appreciation, and underlines the visual message of the card.


Write from the heart and be specific: What makes your teacher so special?
Think about different ways of expressing your gratitude- a haiku for example, or if it's for your French teacher, try it en français!

, This is the last step, so make sure your delivery is perfect!


Deliver the card after school- before school starts, teachers often have a lot of prep-work- you don't want to interrupt!
Approach your teacher after class.
Smile and say: "This is for you, I made it!"
Send your card to school in the mail in a big, brightly colored envelope if you are shy or don't have time to deliver it in person. This will make your teacher feel extra special.

