 The first sentence of the précis must include the name of the author, the genre, the title of the work, and the publication date. Follow this information with a rhetorically accurate verb and a "that" clause introducing the thesis.


In most cases, you only need to introduce the author by his or her full name. If you need to include certain facts about the author's life in order to accurately summarize the content of the piece, you may also follow the name with a brief clause describing that information. Doing so is rarely necessary, though.
The genre refers to the original piece's primary classification: article, essay, novel, poem, short story, play, etc.
Write the original publication date in parenthesis and include it directly after the title of the original piece.
A rhetorically accurate verb must describe the sort of action the author takes. Examples of such verbs include "assert," "argue," "prove," "disprove," and "explain."
Note that the author may or may not directly state the thesis within the original work, in which case, you'll need to interpret it yourself. The thesis should be a concise summary of the author's primary point or claim.

Example: John Doe's article, "How to Write a Précis" (2015), asserts that individuals can learn how to write a rhetorical précis.;
, The second sentence must provide readers with a brief explanation of how the author develops the thesis.Focus on the rhetorical method used by the original author rather than the exact details he or she offers. Avoid restating specific details from the work.
Authors have several ways of supporting a thesis. They may provide several separate arguments or one long chain of linked arguments. They may also elaborate on the thesis by simply defining the key concepts involved.

Example: Doe makes this argument by outlining the structure of the précis, describing the most effective writing process, and providing additional considerations regarding the form of précis text.
 The third sentence should summarize the original author's purpose in writing the piece. Use an "in order to" clause to draw attention to this purpose and its desired effect.


The purpose of the piece is not the same as its thesis, even though the former may reflect the latter. Instead, try viewing it as an explanation of the author's motive in writing the piece.
When writing this sentence, state the author's purpose, followed by the "in order to" phrase, followed by the intended effect on the reader.

Example: Doe's purpose is instruct readers on how to write a précis in order to allow them to do so when the need arises in their own lives.
 The fourth and final sentence of the précis should state the original author's intended audience and explain the author's position or relationship with that audience.


The author rarely states his or her intended audience, so you'll need to determine the identity of that audience based on the language of the work, the references used, and any other knowledge you have about the original author.

Example: Considering the language used in the article and the nature of the topic, Doe primarily writes for an audience of students other academically-minded individuals.
 Read through the original work multiple times, taking notes on any key ideas as you read. Repeat as needed until you feel comfortable with your understanding of the work.


Skim through the text before reading through it. Mentally divide the work into sections based on headings, subheadings, and shifts in the discussion.
Look for any unfamiliar terms while skimming, too. Look up anything you don't know using a dictionary, encyclopedia, or similar resource.
After skimming the work, read through it more carefully, taking careful notes as you go along. Pay attention to the tone and purpose of the work, and label sections that are too detailed or too confusing. Disregard the detailed points while writing and clarify the confusing points before progressing further.
You may need to read through the work two to five times, depending on how familiar or unfamiliar the information seems. Continue as needed until you feel confident about how well you understand the text.
Each time you re-read the work, compare it with your existing notes and any summaries you've written, including summaries of the thesis and separate sections. Verify that your written explanations match your current understanding of the text., Use your notes to write a brief summary for each section or paragraph, restricting the length to one or two sentences.


Each sentence summary should only include the key point and pieces of evidence. Avoid including minor details, regardless of how interesting those minor details seem to you.Try to summarize each section without needing to return to the text itself. Between your notes and your own understanding of the original piece, you should be able to explain the main point of each section on your own. Summarizing without returning to the text should also make it easier to write the ideas in your own words.
 Identify the author's thesis, whether directly or indirectly stated. Rewrite this thesis in your own words without changing its overall meaning.


Use the summary sentences you wrote to help clarify the author's thesis. The thesis statement should encompass all of the author's key points and provide a clear idea of what the original work conveys overall.
While determining the author's thesis, reflect on his or her purpose, as well. Ask yourself what argument the author makes and what the author hopes to convey in making that argument. Make a note of this purpose in a separate sentence.
 String together the thesis, supporting evidence, and other key information in your own words. Follow the basic outline described in this article.


Depending on how well you crafted your thesis statement summary, you might be able to include it word-for-word in your précis.
When following the standard four-sentence structure, you'll need to trim down your summaries of the supporting evidence into one detailed yet concise sentence. Focus on the type of evidence used rather than the actual specifics.
 Read through your précis. It should clearly express the original meaning of the text while retaining the same basic tone and proportions of the original work.


Verify that your précis follows the basic précis structure. It must also be grammatically sound, coherent, and accurate.
 In most cases, a précis summarizes the reading within one paragraph varying in length between 100 and 200 words. Use the four-sentence structure outlined in this article when writing a précis of that length.


In some instances, however, your instructor may want you to write a longer summary in précis form. Find out the exact length before you begin writing—usually, it will be approximately one-fifth to one-sixth the length of the original piece.When writing a longer précis, you should still include all of the information indicated within the four-point structure. You'll need to expand each supporting point of evidence into its own brief paragraph, however, while keeping the rest of the information within the introduction. Restate the thesis in your concluding paragraph along with a one-sentence description of the previously-stated supporting evidence.
 The term "précis" literally means "cut short" in Old French, and as that meaning suggests, the information you provide in the précis should be brief and to the point.


When writing a four-sentence précis, the text should fall within 100 to 200 words. For a long-form précis, the text should still fit within two single-spaced pages.
 Write the précis in present tense and maintain that tense throughout the paragraph. You should also use active voice instead of passive voice.


For instance, you should write "John Doe argues" instead of "John Doe argued."
Apply all actions to the author or authoring organization instead of the inanimate text. In other words, you should write "John Doe states" instead of writing "the article states."

, Ideally, you should not include any direct quotation within the précis. Summarize the original text and related information in your own words.


In rare instances, you may need to quote a specialized term. You'll need to follow the quotation with an appropriate citation according to the style guide you're currently following (MLA, APA, or Chicago).
 Even though you should use your own words when writing the précis, you should not evaluate the text, hint at your own opinion of it, or build your own argument from it.


Remember that the précis is nothing more than a type of summary, so it should only describe what the author of the original work claims. It is not your duty to support or deny this claim.

