 When feeding multiple cats, competition can be fierce if every cat doesn't have its own dish to eat from. Separate dishes allow each cat to have their own space and their own food to focus on, instead of focusing on defending against another cat.Make sure that the food bowls are as identical as possible. You do not want to create competition for a food dish that is easier to eat out of or is slightly bigger.In most cases, when you first set out multiple food dishes the cats will naturally gravitate to one of their own. Once they have basically picked their bowls, make them stick to them to establish their territories.
 In many cases, a cat in a multi-cat household will want to be in a position while eating where it can see any other cats coming towards it. If you place food dishes against a wall, the cat will naturally be forced to have its back to the wall. This may add to its anxiety and not allow it to relax during eating.

Placing your cat's bowl even a foot away from the wall should allow it to sit in any place around the bowl that it feels is best.
 When feeding cats in a multiple cat household, you need to space them away from each other. This may mean that you place food dishes in separate corners of the same room or you place feeding stations in completely separate rooms.Giving all your cats space from other cats will allow them to better focus on their food instead of turf wars or food competition.
It is ideal if your cats cannot see each other during meal time. This add tremendously to your cat's ability to focus on food instead of the other cats.
 If your cats eat different food, it is important that you feed them in different spaces. This will help you to keep each cat eating the food that it is supposed to eat and it will prevent fights over whatever food your cats consider the tastiest.

It may be that one of your cats eats different food and your other cats eat the same food. If this is the case, only the cat with different food needs to be isolated during meal time.
Cats that are eating different food need to be kept separate until all cats in the household are done eating. The will remove the temptation to sneak a bite from the bowl of the last cat eating.

