 Air-dry clay can get messy, it's a good idea to protect the table you will be working on. You can simply spread out some newspaper or a cheap, plastic tablecloth. If your project is very small, you can even work on a tray or baking sheet. This will make cleaning up much easier.


This method will work for stone clay, natural clay, and paper clay.;
, Most air-dry clays come in big blocks. You likely won't need the entire block, so just cut off a small amount and wrap the rest of the clay back up in its packaging. This way, the rest of clay won't dry out.


Most air-dry clays will come wrapped in plastic. If yours came in a tub, simply put the lid back on.
Is it better to cut off less clay than you think you might need. A little bit goes a long way, and you can always cut more clay off later.
 If you are going to make ball-shaped beads, cut the clay up into small, evenly-sized cubes. It will be easier to shape them later on. If you are going to make tube or disc-shaped beads, roll your clay out into a tube; try to make it between the thickness of a pencil and your finger.


Make the clay cubes between the size of a pea and a blueberry. Larger, grape-sized beads may take too long to dry.
If your clay is difficult to work with, dip your fingers into a cup of water and smooth them over the clay. The water will help soften it.
 If you are making round beads, roll the cubes between your palms. If you are making tube or disc-shaped beads, cut the clay roll to the length you need using a sharp knife.


For discs, try to make them about ¼ inch (0.64 centimeters) thick.
For tubes, try to make them between ½ and one inch (1.27 and 2.54 centimeters) thick. You can leave the cut edges as they are or taper them using your fingers.
 Dip your finger in water and run it over the bead's surface until it is smooth. Keep doing this until you get the texture you want. Remember, once the clay dries, it will be very difficult to change or repair it.
 Use a tapestry needle for smaller beads, and a toothpick for larger beads. Be careful not to smooth the beads.


If you made tube-shaped beads, poke the hole from top to bottom—the flat parts, not the curved.
If you made disk-shaped beads, poke the hole from the side—the narrow edge part. This way, when you string the beads, they will look like circles.
 How long it takes will depend on how warm or humid it is. It will also depend on how large your beads are; larger/thicker beads will take longer to dry. Most beads will need about a day to dry fully. The clay will lighten in color as it dries. For example, most grayish clays will turn white when they dry, and red/brown clays will turn a lighter shade.
 Stick them back onto the needle/toothpick, and place the needle/toothpick between two level objects. This will allow the beads to hang freely and allow you to paint them from all sides. If you wish to add designs to your beads, paint the beads a solid color first, let the paint dry, then add your designs. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Dots
Stripes
Simple flowers
Swirls

, This will not only give the beads a nice finish, it will also protect the paint. You can spray the beads with an acrylic sealer, or paint them with a clear acrylic sealer. For a glazed look, choose something with a glossy or high-gloss finish. For a natural look, choose a matte, semi-matte, or satin finish.
 You can string them onto beading cord or elastic, and wear them as jewelry. You can also use them to make key chains, charms, and bookmark dangles.

