 Black tea is a caffeinated tea with a robust earthy flavor that pairs well with a variety of fruit juices. Additionally, some people believe that black tea can reduce cholesterol levels and help alleviate digestive problems., Green tea has fresh flavors that blend wonderfully with lemon juice. This tea also has a high caffeine content, and is believed to prevent some cancers, encourage your body to burn fat, and curb your appetite., White tea is delicately aromatic and contains less caffeine than black or green tea. This tea also has antioxidant properties that are believed to slow aging, improve the quality of your skin, and prevent some cancers., Oolong tea has a bold roasted flavor that is enhanced by lemon flavors. Some people use this tea to treat obesity, alleviate the symptoms of diabetes, and calm skin allergies. Additionally, this tea may reduce the risk of tooth decay., Herbal teas are made from a variety of spices and flowers. These teas are caffeine-free and boast a wide range of homeopathic uses. When purchasing an herbal tea, choose a flavor that will pair well with lemon. For example:


Chamomile tea is commonly used as a sleep aid. This tea has bright flavors that blend wonderfully with lemon.
Cinnamon tea can sooth an upset stomach and stabilize blood sugar. However, some people don’t like the combination of cinnamon and lemon.
Ginger tea alleviates nausea and can lower your cholesterol. This tea is excellent with lemon juice., Some people believe that loose leaf tea is of a higher quality than bagged tea. However, when you use loose leaf tea, you must also use an infuser to keep all of the leaves in one place. If you purchase bags of tea, you don’t need to use an infuser.


A tea infuser is a small metal or plastic device that allows the tea leaves to steep without releasing them into the tea.
 Fill a medium sized saucepan with four cups of fresh water. Place the saucepan on your stove over medium-high heat and allow it to come to a boil.


Water is boiling when there are large active bubbles rising rapidly to the surface., Remove the boiling water from the heat. Next, add eight tea bags to the hot water. If you’re using loose leaf tea, add four tablespoons or eight grams of tea to a tea infuser before submerging it in the water.If your tea infuser is small, you may have to use more than one.


Follow the manufacturer instructions when using tea infusers.
 Cover the saucepan with a lid and allow the tea to steep. Each type of tea needs a certain amount of steeping time to allow the unique flavors to develop. Once the tea is done steeping, pull out any tea bags by the string or remove tea infusers with tongs.


White tea should steep for 30-60 seconds.
Green tea needs 1-3 minutes of steeping time.
Allow black tea to steep for 3-5 minutes.
Oolong tea should steep for 3-5 minutes.
Let herbal tea steep for 5-7 minutes., Once you’ve removed the tea leaves or bags, pour one cup (225 grams) of white sugar into your tea mixture. Use a long spoon to stir the mixture until the sugar has completely dissolved.If you have simple syrup, you can substitute about 1.5 cups of syrup for 1 cup of sugar.
You can also use brown sugar, but this will make the tea taste slightly earthier.
 The juiciest lemon flavors come from freshly squeezed lemon juice. Use your hands or a juicer to collect about a cup of lemon juice, usually using 3-4 lemons.If you don’t want to squeeze your own lemon juice, you can purchase it from your local grocery store.
 Leave the syrup on your stove for fifteen or twenty minutes to allow it to cool down. Stir it occasionally to help it cool faster. Once the syrup is warm instead of hot, you can use it to make tea.
 Choose a sturdy container that can hold a gallon of water (3.7 liters). Any plastic containers should have thick sides that won’t warp when the warm syrup is poured in. If you’re using a glass container, allow the syrup to cool to room temperature before using it or the container may crack., Add about four cups (946 milliliters) of fresh water to the gallon container, diluting the syrup. Use a long spoon to stir the mixture until the syrup has been completely incorporated into the water.For a strong, sweet flavor, use slightly less water to dilute the mixture.
For a light, refreshing flavor, use slightly more water in the mixture.
 Fill a tall glass with ice. Next, pour the warm tea mixture over the ice. The ice will quickly cool the tea. For a more intense tea flavor, use ice cubes made of the tea mixture.


If desired, garnish the glass with a lemon wedge or a sprig of mint.
 Cover the tea with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator. If the tea mixture is still warm, let it cool completely before refrigerating it. This will stop the tea from becoming cloudy while it chills.Drink the tea within 2-3 days. If you let it sit longer, the flavors won’t be as pure.

