 Client delays arise because they may change their minds, give instructions too late or are slow in approving drawings. They tend to overlook the fact that these delays push back the start for E&M contractors and that the contractor is powerless to avoid these delays. Main contractor delays usually involve construction work being completed late, causing subsequent stages to fall behind schedule. In some cases, delays are the result of mismanagement and a lack of coordination. Last but not least, the E&M contractor himself may cause delays, for example by under-resourcing the project in the early stages or by not completing design drawings and getting them approved on time.;
, Clients can have selective memories. When they make design changes, issue late instructions, or are slow in approving designs, they need to realise that there is a cumulative effect. Delays cost money, typically the contractor's money. Make the client aware of the effect their actions have on the completion of project stages. Say something like, "Mr Client, I am happy to implement these changes, but I need to point out that we need to reorder equipment and get approvals, both of which will take time." Put it in writing, and have the client acknowledge receipt.
 When there is a fixed deadline (for example, a sports complex has to be opened on a certain date) there is a "point of no more changes." Too often the sub-contractor is held accountable as the "last man standing." Don't get caught in this position.
 Make sure delays outside your control are recognised and documented. Such delays can impact you financially and need to be recorded and the financial impact dealt with by the responsible party. You should not have to bear the cost of other peoples' delays, nor should you be blamed for them.
 Typical examples include starting late, submitting drawings late, and making mistakes in your drawings. Where your team is at fault, you will have to we have to absorb the costs and try to make good the delays. When you are honest about errors, people will more readily accept your claims when problems arise that are not your fault.
 Whatever the cause of the delay, you must try to recover your position. After all, if a critical date is missed, it may not matter to the client who is at fault.

