 When the temperature is low, crappie hang out in deeper waters. Since many fisherman pack up the tacklebox when it's cold outside, winter fishing can be a great time to catch the biggest crappie of the year. Be patient and spend time toward the center of the lake, where the water is deepest.


When it's windy and cold outside, don't hang out near the banks or in areas where the wind is broken. It may be more comfortable there, but you're more likely to catch fish if you venture into deeper waters.Crappy are more sluggish during the winter, and slower to bite, so you'll have to spend more time out there before you catch one.
 When crappie spawn in the spring, they're quite easy to catch in shallow waters. Fish near brush piles and wood structures that are closer to shore.Look for areas where streams meet the lake, since this is where female crappie enter the lake to lay their eggs.Springtime floods often lead to better crappie fishing, since the congregate around other fish that are spawning. Springtime is considered by many anglers as the best time of year to catch crappie, followed by fall, summer and lastly winter., To escape the summer heat crappie move to deeper and cooler water at about 8 to 25 feet. It can be hard to locate them in the summer and a fish finder helps significantly. However, good ole trial and error is another good method. Once you figure out at what depth they're at, anchor down and start catching some crappie., When the water is muddy, it can be hard for crappy to see the lure. Crappie find their food by sight, not smell, so they may never bite if the water is too muddy. Look for a place where it's clearer and use a big, bright lure., Crappie in different areas have different habits. They may be attracted to a certain type of jig color, or they may be biting a certain type of bait you're not using. Before you head out in your boat, go to the tackle shop and ask other people what's working for them that day. Chances are, it'll work for you, too. 