 You can purchase most of these things from a dollar store and a craft store:


Pint-sized clear Mason jar(s) with lid(s) (wide-mouthed jars are recommended)
Polyester fiber fill (toy stuffing)
Moss (a variety pack in different colors would be ideal)Twine or hemp cord in a color (or colors) of your choosing
Electric tea light (must be electric)
Scissors
Fabric to cover jar lid (optional)

, This is not a project you want to do on carpet or a lacy tablecloth, as bits of moss will get everywhere and the polyester filling will pick up any crumbs, lint or other debris.
 Have a few clumps of polyester filling and moss in front of you, plus your open mason jar(s), with the lid(s) nearby. You’ll also want to have your electric tea light ready.
 To do this, simply grab some filling and place it inside your Mason jar. The jar will need to be well packed with filling, but you’ll need some space right in the middle to place your electric tea light.
 The bottom of the Mason jar will be the top of your lantern. To make sure it’s well covered with moss, sprinkle some into the jar before adding your polyester filling.
 Decide on what moss, or combination of moss, you’ll use inside the lantern, and then place it on the polyester filling. There are a couple of ways that you can do this:


Remove the polyester filling from the Mason jar and roll it around in the moss, then add additional moss and hold it on to the filling as you lower the filling into the Mason jar. From there, you can use your fingers to place any additional moss between the filling and wall of the jar, until you’re happy with how it looks.
Keep the filling in the jar and, holding the jar on its side, use your fingers to gently place bits of moss between the filling and the wall of the jar, until you’re happy with how it looks.
Note that you only need to place the moss on the outer layer of filling. You’ll only be able to see the moss that shows through the glass walls of the Mason jar, so don’t worry about putting moss anywhere except for between the filling and the jar’s walls.
 Avoid the temptation to completely cover the walls of your Mason jar in moss. Too much moss will block the light from the electric candle.


More moss may look nicer when the lights are on, but when the lights are off, the filling will simply look like a twinkling fairy light behind a lovely forest pattern.
 Use your fingers to carve out a core inside the lantern. This is where your tea light will sit. Be sure to leave enough filling that it firmly holds the moss against the walls of the jar.


Carving out a hole slightly larger than the tea light will work fine.
It may take some experimentation to see what’s perfect. After trying the lantern out, if you want the light to shine through more vibrantly, you can remove a bit more filling.
 You’ll want the “flame” to be facing the bottom of the jar, which will be the top of your lantern.


Add a small amount of filling to the jar once the electric tea light is in. This will help hold it in place and keep it from jiggling around.
 Once you place the lid on the jar, turn it upside down so that the jar is sitting on its lid. Everything should stay in place. If it doesn’t, add more filling.


At this point you can also test the lantern by turning on the electric tea light and making any adjustments you want to make in order to get the look you desire.
 Once the lantern is done, wrap some twine around around the neck of the jar (just below the ridges that you screw the lid on to) and tie it in a bow.


If you don’t like the way the lid looks bare, you can glue some fabric on the lid and wrap that in twine instead.
It’s recommended to use a neutral or earthy shade of twine to match the natural mossy colors of the lantern.
 It’s not much to look at in the day, but it’s lovely in the dark. Follow these instructions to switch the lantern on and off:


Stand it up (lid up), open the lid, remove the piece of filling that holds the electric tea light in place, switch on or off the tea light, then replace the filling and the lid.

