 Sometimes, people simply don’t know what to do and are actively looking for guidance. Still, talking with them might allow them to formulate ideas of their own.The point is, always be sure someone wants advice on their relationship before blurting your thoughts out.


One way to avoid giving distracting or unnecessary advice is to ask questions.
A great one to start with is, “Do you have any ideas about how to address _______?”

, Concerns about sex, communication, and financial decision-making are especially common. Though simply a statement of fact, this point can provide comfort in knowing that other people in other relationships go through the same thing., A great piece of advice is a gentle suggestion that they communicate in a new, potentially more clear way with their partner.Offer to role play with them, even, and begin with sentences like, “I wanted to talk with you about what each of our expectations and contributions are regarding ________.”
Recommend the use of “I” statements, both as a method of communicating, and reflecting.
A classic reminder to employ is “If I don’t speak up, I can’t expect other people to know what I want.”

, In the interest of rekindling affection and admiration, have them sit down and write down a few things they appreciate about their partner.Tell them to include examples of how their partner demonstrates the characteristics on the list.
Encourage your friend or loved one to share the list with their partner. This might help kick-start a positive and loving conversation, during which others important discussions can happen too.
 In a committed relationship, simple, everyday interactions matter immensely. If there are concerns about romance dwindling, recommend a few tips to help lovers stay in tune with one another.Though it may seem silly, point out that couple who store up positive sentiments towards one another will be more ready to deal with incidences of stress or conflict.
Remind them to tell their partner that they value their relationship, especially in unexpected moments.
 People often worry about how and whether they or their partner has changed, or might be changing, or will change. Remind your friend or loved one that people do grow and change, and that they grow and change together.Remind your friend or loved one, “You’re a team; you and your partner should change and grow together!”
Advocate for cooperative decision-making and sharing of common ground.
Neither side of a relationship should control everything; encourage your friend or loved one to pursue the middle ground whenever possible.

