 You don’t have to travel to the other side of the globe to be a humanitarian. You can start by affecting change in your own neighborhood. Look at the community around you and try to identify humanitarian issues that you can help address. It could be helping the homeless or the hungry, volunteering at an after school program, or picking up litter.Look for things that you feel like you could help to improve.
If there is a lower income community in your area, think about what types of things you could do that could improve their standard of living.;
, There are homeless shelters and food banks in many larger communities that are always looking for volunteer help. Shelters for victims of abuse are also fairly common and need help organizing and executing fundraising and day to day operations. You can offer your time to these organizations as a way to pursue local humanitarian work.Look for a cause that you feel strongly about and volunteer your time at a local organization to help.
Humanitarian work can be done anywhere in the world, including your own neighborhood.
Try using websites like http://www.idealist.com to find local organizations that need volunteers.
 You can help humanitarian causes by getting the company that you work for involved. Organize a can drive at work, or start a collection of clothing to help the area’s under privileged. Many companies will not only authorize you to pursue humanitarian efforts at work, they may even encourage it because it improves perception of the organization in the community.Make sure to speak to your manager for permission before starting a program at work.
Reach out to local shelters and humanitarian organizations to see what is in high demand that you can attempt to help with.
 One of the biggest challenges facing humanitarian organizations all over the world is funding. You can help by engaging your friends and family on social media and encouraging them to donate to humanitarian causes. This is one aspect of humanitarian work you can do from home that can have a global reach.You can share content posted by your favorite humanitarian organizations.
Posting your own message about important causes with links to donate may help your message to reach people.
 Volunteering your time, skills, or resources here and there can be extremely rewarding, but consistency can help your efforts to compound. Instead of volunteering at a single event, or helping to raise funds one time, volunteer with consistency for local organizations that need your help. In order to be truly effective, humanitarian efforts must include both short terms and long term plans.Consistent humanitarian work can help you to develop a relationship with the people in your community that you are helping, which can be more rewarding for you both.
Every bit of your work counts. Over time, a few hours out of your Sunday afternoons can compound into a significant change for the people in your area.

