 Many schools with uniforms do not allow direct modification of the uniforms, but will allow accessories and small additions. If you are unsure of what exactly you can and cannot do, check with the office beforehand.;
, Personality is the biggest factor in how you'd like to change your uniform. Pick your style and stick with it.
 Tasteful pins are a good non-permanent addition to your jacket or sweater. Adding new buttons to your jackets and shirts is a small but individual touch. Adding colorful ribbon to the edges of your clothing (or the top of your socks) is also a small but effective way to alter your uniform. Iron-on patches are great, but only if they are allowed. If you are not sure about permanently affixing something to your uniform, use safety pins and pin the patches on.
 This is probably the easiest way to change up a boring look. Adding things like hair clips, clip in extensions, jewelry, makeup, nail polish, and socks can change the whole look of an outfit.
 Make some out of bright duct tape, find beads, search through your house or art class for anything that's cool.
 This is where you can go crazy, if your school allows additions. A bright pink trench coat? Why not! Bright blue leggings? Go for it! If you don't have shoes that you are assigned, choose shoes that really show off who you are. Preppy folks can wear moccasins or Mary Jane shoes, punky/emo students look great in converse high tops or plaid slip-ons. Backpacks are another great way to show off your personal style.
, Sew labels, logos or patches onto the bag to improve a standard school bag.
 Let them tell you what's wrong and then fix it if you have to. If it looks good, teachers won't write you up they will actually commend you on your style. If they give you detention carefully show them your loophole and get off with a warning.
 Although you cannot change the school uniform policy, you can change how you interpret it. There are a variety of blazers, slacks, skirts and button down shirts out there. Find one that you feel comfortable in, but still complies with school policy.
 If the colors are blue, white and black, but you have been wearing a white shirt, blue skirt and black shoes every day of your school life, go wild! If you have no money and your parents are tightening their purse strings, customize your clothes. On a white shirt sew on black and blue felt patches and make a black, white and blue felt tie by braiding yarn and tying it like a tie!

, Cool socks , shoes, undershirts, and belts can look great on guys. Part your hair differently, or gel it too.
 Just check it washes out first!

,
Long hair should be tied up high up or let down with a headband for a preppy look.
The tomboy short hair should be with a headband or clip. Also nice if plain.
,, Always stand straight for better clothing posture.
 Iron your clothes

, This will keep your skin looking its best and your spirits high.
 You're not there to be a fashion statement, remember to study hard.

