 Every long relationship involves conflict at some point. Staying calm will allow you to really hear the other person’s concerns. It will also make them more likely to listen to you, as well as help you avoid saying anything you’d regret., Sometimes the problem is what the fight starts out about, and sometimes it’s merely a symptom of a larger issue. It can be as simple as miscommunication, or as large as difference in world view. Figuring out what the problem is, though, will put you on the path to resolving it., This is especially important when dealing with conflict. A falling out can be what causes best friends to end their relationship. Listen with your friend’s best interest at heart, as well as your own. This will help you move toward resolution. Sometimes, simply saying, "I hear you" or "I understand" can be enough to make them feel heard. Other times, it's useful to ask questions that summarize their concerns like "So when you say that what I said hurt your feelings, you didn't know that I meant the best?", When you begin all statements in a conflict with “you,” such as “You did this” or “You were the one,” etc., you set a tone of blaming right from the start. Using “I” statements allows you to express your feelings in a conflict without immediately jumping to blame. For instance, you can say, “I felt that what you said hurt me deeply” instead of "You said that to hurt me.", This is incredibly important in maintaining any relationship. If you begin to blame everything on your friend in a conflict, you will be distancing yourself from them. And they will feel like you don’t have their best interest at heart. If you know what you did helped lead to the problem, admit it.When taking responsibility, it's important not to give a half-hearted apology. Just as with politicians who never admit wrong, it's easy to see through an apology. Instead of saying, "I'm sorry that you were offended by what was said," say, "I'm sorry that I hurt you." It's harder than copping out of an apology, but ultimately it will help keep the friendship strong., Don’t try to win. Winning means that someone loses, and that’s not a great place for any relationship to be. Learning to compromise on an issue will help too, as it can help you see where you and your friend’s interests align.Avoid saying things like "I told you so," or "You see, I'm right." Instead say, "I'm glad we worked this out.", Trained mediators can help you resolve conflict. Professional therapists might give you insight into why a problem or conflict arises, as well as your role in the conflict.There are now even friendship counseling options available.Asking a friend to seek counseling with you can be a difficult step. Ask them what they think might be helpful first, and explain what you hope to get out of therapy. Doing so will make them see that you don't see therapy as a cop-out but as a way to deepen and repair your relationship.