 You don’t have to ditch all your t-shirts, but consider polos and other collared shirts when trying to look classier.


The polo can be troublesome due to trends of overly bright primary colored polos, popped collars, and shapeless cuts. But a well-fitting polo with a more muted color or sparse pattern can actually feel a lot like your t-shirt.
Cotton, knit, and woven button down shirts are a staple as well. This type of shirt has many uses and pairs well with plenty of clothes. Add a tie if you feel like dressing up or are meeting with someone. Then take the tie off and throw on a sweater before meeting up for a study date.
 Your university sweatshirt is great for showing school spirit at sporting events. But upgrade to the sweater for a classier look. Cardigans are perfect for adding a nice layer to your top. Button it up over your button-down when it’s time to get down to business or wear it open over a t-shirt on the weekend when hanging out with your friends.
Crewneck sweaters are a great alternative if you’re missing your sweatshirts. Not all, but many crewnecks will be thinner and more form fitting.
Shawl collars are a great way to dress up your look without having to wear a collared shirt underneath.
Generally, darker sweaters are considered more formal and lighter colors more casual.
 When it comes to dressing well, your denim shouldn’t be conspicuous. Light colored denim or jeans with holes and rips will quickly draw attention to the wrong areas of your body. A pair of dark denim jeans works just as well with a blazer and dress shoes as with sneakers and a t-shirt.


Dark denim which fits you well and shows off your legs without drawing too much attention can be the most valuable item in your wardrobe.
Many workplaces allow employees to wear clean dark jeans as part of the workday uniform.
Mid-rise jeans will help you to look proportional and give your legs a longer, slimmer look.
Skinny jeans or really baggy jeans can also draw the wrong kind of attention to your legs. A slim straight cut is universal, whether it’s time to be professional, or let loose with your friends on the weekend.
Invest in a pair of jeans that fit you well and don’t lean toward one style trend too much. A slim straight cut will always be in style and give you the most versatility.
A dark pair of jeans is also very versatile as the dark blue will pair with most colors from black to brown.
In addition to dark denim, black or gray jeans are also good colors as these pair with a lot of colors too.
 A reliable pair of jeans is great, but sometimes an occasion calls for something else. Having a variety of options is useful for when you feel like changing your look or you need to dress it up for an occasion.


Chinos, wool pants, and even flannel (not pajama pants) can give you a classy upgrade to your style. These pants also provide you with a whole new combination of looks to build.
Like with jeans, grab a pair that has a high enough rise so the pants sit around your waist. A higher rise will make your legs look longer and give you a well put together appearance.
If you’re on the taller side with long legs, you can get a lower rise to help proportion your body. The overall goal is to have roughly a 1:1 ratio of top and bottom.
When choosing a pair of dressier pants notice if the pants are pleated. Pleats are the folds of fabrics in the front of the pants. Pleated pants can offer more movement than flat front pants, but aren’t always in style. However, a well fitting pair might take you from casual to classy.
 You probably do a fair amount of walking most days going from classes to activities around campus. While canvas sneakers go with most looks, upgrade your footwear to something more supportive and stylish. Casual leather shoes like loafers add class and can be quite comfortable. You don’t have to shell out a lot of money for a pair either. Sites like www.asos.com have a great selection of varying prices. Suede and nubuck loafers are a great staple that pair with anything from a suit to a sweater and shorts.
Oxfords are a classic and perfect for when it’s time to get down to business. Simple black Oxfords can be worn at your internship, a job interview, or on a date.
Brogues are a similar type of shoe to the Oxford but have a punch hole design which adds a smart looking touch. A brown pair of Brogues is a great alternative to black Oxfords. These shoes pair well with any pant from dark denim to tan chinos.
Lace-up boots, Chukkas, Desert Boots, and the like are great when you need something stylish in more severe weather. A good pair of boots is a classic look that adds more class to any outfit. Be careful and get a pair that go well with your pants. If your boots are too high and bulky for your slim pants your feet will look big and clunky.
Sneakers go through a rotation of being in and out of vogue. But solid colored sneakers made of canvas or leather will give you a casual, vintage edge to your look. White sneakers have risen in popularity because you can wear a pair with just about anything. For the most part, you don’t want a pair that’s ripped up or extremely dirty. And your skate shoes from high school aren’t the same as a nice pair of Converse, Nike, New Balance, or Vans if you want to retain some of that old school skate look.

