 Try to make it so that your team has at least 2 people. If you have a team, your teammate(s) have more guns, so you won't have to completely rely on your Barricade, because your teammate(s) will also be shooting. Also, with a teammate, you can use your teammate's guns instead of your Barricade.;
, The Barricade shoots differently than other Nerf guns, and you will need to know how to aim it if you are going to use it in battle. Aim down the sights slightly higher than you want to shoot, increasing the height the farther you are from your target. Also, put the wind-speed into account. Because of the fact that Nerf darts are foam, the wind will easily blow them off-target. If the wind is blowing from the right, aim the gun slightly to the left, and vice versa.


Also, put the recoil of the Barricade into account. The Barricade is a semi-automatic weapon, and it will have recoil when you shoot it one shot after the other. One way to reduce the recoil would be to hold your breath when you are shooting it. Another way is to hold it with two hands when you are shooting it. Another way to reduce the recoil is to shoot slowly. When you shoot one shot after the other, there will be a whole lot of recoil. If you shoot slowly, there won't be as much. Do all three of those things to reduce the recoil, and you will be aiming like a professional.
 A Barricade was designed to be used while running, because of it's ability to be shot quickly and being lightweight. The Barricade is also very loud, and should not be used for stealth, although it can be modified. The Barricade is also quite small, so run around with it, and you are guaranteed success.
 If you want the darts to stick to walls, and your enemy, then use the suction darts. If you want the dart to make a sound when it is shot, and you want to get the attention of the enemy so that they stop attacking a teammate, then use the whistler darts. You can also use a mix of suction darts and whistler darts.
 Consider using a bandolier kit. The Barricade holds only 10 darts at one time, and they easily run out because of the fact that the gun is semi-automatic, and is usually shot with speed.
 The main disadvantage about the Barricade, is that it is unnecessarily loud. In order to turn the gun on, you have to deal with the loud humming/buzzing noise. A way to use this to your advantage, is to try to get the enemies' attention on you, and away from your teammates. While you fend off your enemies, your teammates can flank your enemies, and/or go to their base and steal ammo. Another disadvantage about the Barricade is that it isn't clip-fed, so you have to put darts inside one by one. There is a couple of clever ways to use this to your advantage. One way is that you can put one or two darts inside the gun, and then surrender to an enemy that is alone. The darts will not be seen by the enemy, and he will be caught off guard. When he comes to take the gun from you, shoot his chest twice, and he will die. Another way to use this to your advantage is to sit in one area, and to shoot enemies that come by. This is called camping. You will need many darts beside you, because after every shot, you will put one dart inside the gun. You will not run out of ammunition until all of your darts run out. You can't do this with a gun that is clip-fed, though, and that is what is unique about the Barricade.


When you sit there, you should put a shoulder-stock on the gun, so that you can shoot more accurately.

