 Sadness is a normal reaction to many life events and ongoing situations. You may feel sad when you experience loss, when your feelings get hurt, or when things don't go your way. Understanding the source of your sadness can help you begin to process the feeling and deal with it in a healthy way. Here are some common reasons people experience sadness:


Loss of a friendship or another close relationship
Death of a loved one, or separation from a loved one
Bullying
Low self-esteem

Hearing about a tragedy

, Being sad doesn't feel good, so it's tempting to try to push the feeling away instead of taking a closer look. However, identifying the feeling of sadness will help you isolate it from your other emotions. Looking sadness square in the face will help you notice when the feeling starts and ends, making it easier to handle.You might experience sadness as a physical sensation. Maybe your arms and legs feel heavy or you have an uncomfortable feeling in the pit of your stomach. You might feel lethargic, too.
It can help to picture sadness as an image. You've probably heard people describe feeling a "wave of sadness." Try picturing sadness in your own way. It could be a towering wave or a deep, dark pool. If you're not sure what it is, it might help to draw a picture of how sadness makes you feel.
 Recognize when sadness comes, and allow yourself accept the feeling instead of pushing it away. If it's a wave, let it wash over you without resisting. Think about what's making you sad and realize that your feelings are valid.A normal bout of sadness can last just a few minutes or much longer, depending on the reason why you're sad.
As you process the sadness, recognize when it comes to a natural end. Pay attention to when you feel a little lighter, and you're able to turn your attention to a new emotion.
 Next time you feel sadness, recognize that it's an emotion that will come and go, just like other emotions. It can help to have a plan for what you'll do during and after the bout of sadness, so you know this is something you can handle.When you start to feel sad, you may want to go to a certain place where you have some privacy. There, you can call up the image of sadness that you constructed - a wave, a pool, or whatever image you came up with. Let yourself feel sad.
Plan to do something else when the sadness starts to recede. You might want to call a friend, go for a walk, or do something else to help you move past the sadness.
 When sadness doesn't go away and make room for other emotions, it could be a sign that you are depressed. Depression is when you have a low, sad mood that lasts longer than two weeks and interferes with your life.With depression, just processing your sadness won't be enough to manage your feelings in a positive way. Making lifestyle changes and seeking professional help are the best ways to manage depression. If you have depression, you may have one or more of the following symptoms:


Feelings of sadness and anxiety
Feelings of worthlessness or low self-esteem
Negative thought patterns and feelings of hopelessness
Low energy level
Changes in appetite and weight
Changes in sleep patterns
Suicidal thoughts

