 For example, if you have chosen a Rubber Ducky theme, you will need to collect rubber ducky designs for your umbrellas.;
, The ribbon that you use to decorate the umbrellas should match or complement your shower colors. Two colors should be sufficient.
 A white umbrella works well, but you may also choose a pastel color as long as the color complements the shower theme and the decorations. Choose the appropriate size of umbrella for your presentation and whether you have a particular preference for the type of handle it has.
 The picture should be wide enough to cover 2/3 of the umbrella panel’s edge and tall enough to cover 1/3 of the umbrella panel’s height. An image that is too small will not be visible from a distance.
 You will need one image for half of the total number of panels. If your umbrella has 8 panels, then you will need 4 images.
 Keep the steam function turned off.
 You can keep the umbrella closed. Simply flatten the panel over the board as much as you would flatten a section of a shirt before ironing it.



The applique should be placed with the image against the fabric and the transfer paper facing upward.
Place the bottom of the applique 1/4” from the bottom edge of the umbrella panel.
Center the applique between the 2 sides of the panel.
 This will ensure that the image doesn’t bleed onto the ironing board cover.
 Iron slowly without scorching the transfer paper.
,,,, The edges of the ribbon should hang down, with one side of the ribbon crossing the other side at a 45-degree angle.
 The glue should go where the ribbons intersect at the bottom of the loop.
,


Flatten the ribbon onto a table or work surface.
Create 2 loops in the center of the ribbon. Pinch the bottom of one loop with your right hand and the bottom of the other loop with your left hand.
Pull the left loop behind and around the base of the right loop.
Push the top end of the left loop through the loop that you just created.
Pull tightly, allowing the ends to dangle down. Make sure that each loop is evenly sized. The loops should look like mirror images of one another.
 The glue should go at the ribbon’s intersection but on the surface of the top ribbon rather than in between.
, You can either cut the ends at an angle or use pinking shears. Make sure to use sharp scissors so that you don’t fray the edges of the ribbon.
,,, Now, your umbrella panels should have one applique panel, followed by a ribbon panel. The alternating pattern should continue around the umbrella.
 You can choose miniature pacifiers, baby shoes or whatever matches the theme of your shower.



The ribbon should match your applique and double-layer ribbon.
The ribbon should be wide enough to cover the supports and the edge easily but not so wide that it obscures your applique design. The applique and the edging ribbon should gently overlap at the bottom of the image.
, Start at the top of the umbrella and pipe the glue downward along one of the supports.
,,,, You can start at any point along the edge.
,, Allow the final end of the ribbon to overlap the front end by about 2”.
,, Pinch the ribbon with your non-dominant hand and use your dominant hand to pull the ribbon between your thumb and index finger. The amount of ribbon that hangs below your thumb will be the dangling end of the bow.
 This first loop will determine the diameter of your ribbon and should be at least 6” from left to right. Pinch the end of the large loop between the thumb and forefinger of your non-dominant hand with the other length of ribbon.
 Again, pinch the end of the loop between the thumb and forefinger of your non-dominant hand.
 Ideally, you should make at least 5 loops that gradually decrease in size.
, You should have loops in both the foreground and the background of your ribbon for a layered look., You can use either florist’s wire or hot glue, depending on the way that the top of the umbrella is constructed. Use florist’s wire if the umbrella has a protruding piece on top, and use hot glue if the top is flat.