


Consult the owner's manual for the car navigation system. Find the listed free memory space of the car navigation system. Note that the owner's manual of the car navigation system may list total memory space. The total memory space is not important to determine because the operating system of the car navigation system will occupy much of that space. The amount of free memory space available in the car navigation system is the relevant number to calculate.
Determine the amount of free memory space that has already been taken by previously installed maps. Each map application should indicate the amount of free memory space in the car navigation system that it will occupy. Subtract each application's memory space from the original free memory space of the car navigation system to determine how much memory is available to store new maps.
Select the maps that you wish to install in the car navigation system. Information will be provided by the map application vendors regarding how much memory space the map or maps will occupy in the car navigation system. If the map memory requirements exceed the available free memory space in your car navigation system, then an optional memory module is needed.;
, Consult the owner's manual of the car navigation system to see what type of memory devices can be physically accepted by the car navigation system. These will be devices of the physically more compact type, such as SD, SDHD and micro SD.
 Optional storage devices come in a variety of memory storage sizes. Choose a memory storage module that will contain the memory needs of your selected maps, or will augment the remaining available free memory space in the car navigation system so it has sufficient memory storage for additional maps.
 Memory module vendors can be found on the Internet. You are not required to use memory modules supplied by the manufacturer of your car navigation system. Any memory module that is compatible with your car navigation system will work.


Price your memory module before buying. The prices will range widely depending on the area covered by the maps. A map of the United States would probably be around $50. Maps covering the majority of the world could be up to about $300. If you plan to buy blank memory devices and program them yourself, blank devices are available at more retail electronics stores with prices ranging from $25 to $40, depending on the type and size of the memory device.

