 Texture, smell, or taste can all be problems for the picky eater, so you need to figure out which of these is the cause of pickiness. By identifying the source of pickiness, one can develop helpful solutions; if the texture is a problem, one might try switching from raw to cooked or vice versa.For example, if your teenager doesn't like carrots because they are too crunchy, you could try roasting or steaming them so that they're softer.
For example, if someone doesn't like vegetables with bitter flavors, you could try directing them towards sweeter vegetables such as winter squash or sweet potatoes.;
, Using a small notebook or a specialized computer application, start a food journal in order to keep track of your child's response to new foods and their level of nutritional intake.Since picky eating can result in nutritional deficiencies,it is important to keep a regular record of what your child is consuming and where there is a deficiency such as not enough protein or iron.


There are numerous applications now available for food journalling or logging. These applications have been developed for a wide variety of purposes, so it is important to review the application and make sure it is easy to use.If the application looks overwhelming, you can always use the old fashioned pen and paper notebook.
 Threats are another root cause of picky eating because they increase the anxiety around eating, which makes picky eating worse. For example, parents who threaten their children with negative consequences for not eating tend to make the picky eating worse., Resist any attempt to bribe the picky eater since this can easily lead to increased social anxiety around the dinner table.For instance, don't reward children with desert because this can lead to an excessive preference for sweet foods., Since eating can be less enjoyable for picky eaters,one should make every effort to reduce their anxiety about food and eating with a relaxing atmosphere. It can help to create a casual atmosphere around the dinner table while also avoiding engagement with television or other media while eating.Light candles at the dinner table. A few candles at the dinner table can help create that relaxing atmosphere you want for your family.Turn off the television. Television commercials often contain unhealthy messages about food, and have been shown to wet the appetite for snacks and other calorie dense but low nutrient foods.Although you may not be able to avoid television advertising entirely, at least turn it off during mealtime.
Ask children to turn off games and ipads. By making sure games and ipads are off during mealtime, the family can focus on the experience of eating a healthy dinner., Parents need to work together to support healthy eating habits amongst children.Lack of spousal support for healthy eating has been associated with unhealthy relationships to food amongst children.Work together to model healthy eating practices. Parents can model the kind of relationship to food that they would like to see in their children. Children will copy the behaviour of parents, so you can shape your child's relationship to food by modelling the kind of healthy relationship to food and eating that you would like to see in your children.

