 Slow down and enjoy what you’re eating. It helps to treat this like an exercise: concentrate on your food as you chew, mentally thinking about its texture and flavor. Otherwise, you may be missing out on crucial stimulus and the more subtle flavors in your meals., Unless you’ve always been a foodie, you might find that eating is a bit boring. Many of us have the TV playing in the background while we eat, or worse, eat at our desk during work. These distractions make your digestive system 30 to 40 percent less efficient when it’s time to break down food.You’re missing out on flavors you should be enjoying, and also making it more likely that your meal will cause gas, bloating and constipation. Make sure you do the following when eating:


No electronics. Keep the TV off and don’t eat at the computer.
Get comfortable. Sit down at a table, and make sure you are comfortable as this will encourage you to take your time when you eat.
 Don’t reach for the ketchup or BBQ sauce as soon as it’s time to eat. Over-complicating your meals by adding condiments robs you of the chance to savor a food’s texture and flavors. While an appropriate sauce can complement a food’s natural taste, you shouldn’t be slathering all your meals with condiments, as it desensitizes your taste buds.
 Salt and sugar can overstimulate your taste buds when ingested in high enough quantities, leaving them desensitized to other flavors.Many processed foods, be they chips, cereal or ketchup, have an abundance of both these substances. Make an active effort to limit the presence of processed foods in your diet and your taste buds will start regaining their sensitivity. As you do this, keep the following in mind:


While technically processed foods, meat and dairy products are processed for safety reasons. Don’t feel the need to avoid them.Try to avoid foods that come bagged or boxed, such as cookies, chips or cereal.
Avoid frozen foods, even frozen fruits and vegetables. They are less preferable than their fresh counterparts.

