 See if you can find a map of the arena and become familiar with it. It will be very hard to do so in the low light environment.;
, Most indoor arenas are in a low-light environment. Wear dark colored clothing, minimizing bright logos or things that will stand out in the darkness. Remember, black-lights will make whites and other light colors glow. Wear all black; it helps blend in and hide!

, Each facility operates under different conditions and equipment. They also calculate scoring differently. With some scoring methods, you gain more points for hitting someone else than you lose for getting hit, so it's better to use an offensive strategy, over a defensive one.
 Get a feel for how firmly you need to pull the trigger and how you can hold it comfortably. Test your laser for drift. Do this by firing at a wall and moving your laser backwards. if the dot moves significantly, you will need to compensate for the "crooked sight" since most equipment tags with an invisible laser that fires perfectly straight.
 Once suited up, try to get into the arena as early as possible to adjust to the low light. If you have a chance to shoot your enemies right away as they enter the arena, take it.
 In the arena, find yourself a good position to start off with. Something covered or protected, not out in the open. Avoid clustering around others if possible (some arena require you to start at a base or station).


If you do start at a base or station, don't be the first or the last to leave. Leaving first poses the risk of not knowing where the enemy is. By leaving last, the enemy may have found your base or the good spots may have been taken.
 Depending on how the laser tag venue handles scoring, it may be better to play an offensive strategy; in other words, it's worth risking getting hit if you can hit multiple enemies. However, you can still be smart about how you defend yourself. By starting out hidden you can get a feel for the other players. Look for somewhere you can protect yourself from the enemy while still see what is going on and fire on them.


Look for positions that cover your back and give you a view over some area - preferably not very wide, but deep.
 Most laser uniforms have lights on them somewhere. When you see the lights coming toward you, quickly aim and start shooting! You will take the person by surprise!

, These vary from outfit to outfit but may include the gun, chest, waist, earpiece. Larger zones are your better bet.


Depending on the gun design, you may find it helpful to make sweeping motions across the enemy's chest area as you fire repeatedly. This can increase your chance of triggering one of their several chest sensors, compared to aiming directly just at one.
 Don't be afraid to shoot. If you can hit an enemy, it's generally worth risking getting hit, particularly in a team game. If you see a group of enemy team members all gathered together, take them down. They might hit you, but if you're quick and have good aim, you can hit at least one enemy, if not more, before you get hit. A 1-to-1 hit ratio is not a bad outcome necessarily, and if you can beat that, you'll be earning points.
 Don't just stand there; use the time when your sensors are deactivated to get out of the way. If you need to recharge your gun, head there immediately. Tell any teammate where the enemy is to return fire. Good communication is key to a team victory!


If the same enemy repeats attacking you (spawn killing), get a group of your team to take them down, or see a referee if they are violating the rules.
 If you aren't, then you can snipe at the other team without taking to many hits. If you find a good location and can take out several enemies while they're attacking one another, that's ideal. Consider corner spots where you can cover any back sensors with the wall.
 Example: Tell one group to give you covering fire while another group flanks them.


You can try to ambush enemies if you got a good amount of teammates and you take them by surprise. However, it requires a lot of skill and experience.
 After the game, review your score and talk with your teammates to see what you can improve on. A debriefing can be very helpful for improvement.

