 When you interview, be proactive and ask for a menu to take with you. Study it on your own to become familiar with the food available. Chain restaurants have great training programs that guide you through the menu and kitchen; bars and smaller places expect you to learn on your own.
 Punctuality is important for any job, especially one you've just started. Restaurants are particularly fast-paced during peak hours, however, and you'll make a good impression if you're ready to work on the dot or even a little in advance., Even if you have worked as a waitress before, you should pay attention to the details of your new job. Each restaurant does things slightly differently, and paying attention during training will let you do your job more smoothly.It also never hurts to be respectful to your boss and coworkers, of course, rather than blowing them off with phrases such as "I know this already."

, If you've never worked in a busy restaurant before, you could be surprised by how fast-paced and exhausting the work is. Do your best to keep up to the pace of the other waitstaff. As you grow more accustomed to the job, you'll have a somewhat easier time. At the beginning, you may need to push yourself., You'll start at the bottom of the totem pole, but you won't work your way up by complaining. Clean tables and work unpleasant hours if you are asked to, and remember that you'll have more choice once you're more established., Waiting tables can feel a little cutthroat, as some waitstaff will blame you personally if they think you contributed to a bad customer experience (and therefore a bad tip).Know that you'll receive less criticism once you learn the ropes, and try to smile and not let it get to you.


This is definitely not true of every restaurant. Don't be scared off from applying to a waiting job before you know the atmosphere of the establishment.
 Especially in the beginning, you want management and coworkers to know you are reliable. Once you know you can handle an extra shift, volunteer to cover a gap in the schedule so you stand out to your new boss.
 Show an interest in learning specific skills or restaurant practices. Always ask how to do something if you are afraid of making a mistake. People know you're new, and you should be able to find at least one person who appreciates when you ask questions.


This does not mean you should question your job. "What time do I get off?" or "Do I have to do this?" are common phrases that will irritate your coworkers and employer.

