 Research your care receiver’s condition and become more aware of their specific needs. Knowing all you can about their health will improve your ability to offer care, which will lower stress and worry.Search online for illnesses or conditions, and look for disease-specific organizations, such as the American Cancer Society (https://www.cancer.org), American Heart Association (http://www.heart.org/HEARTORG), or the Alzheimer’s Association (http://www.alz.org/). They can offer both medical information and support resources.
 If you don’t already, go to your care receiver’s doctor appointments to learn more about their needs. Ask their doctors to show you caregiving techniques and tips.Doctors can help you understand your loved one’s condition, how it might advance, and what observations to report back to them. They can also give you detailed information about prescribed medications and any related drug or dietary interactions.
Ask your loved one’s doctor, physical therapist, or other available medical professional to show you how to lift, dress, feed, and provide other forms of care.
 Making your care receiver’s space more accessible can help them maintain a degree of independence. A safer space can also help prevent injuries, making caregiving less stressful.Put grab bars in your care receiver’s bathroom, bedroom, and other areas as needed.
Put a non-slip seat in the bathtub or shower, and add non-slip floor treads in the tub, bathroom, hallways, and other areas of the house.
Buy easy grip can openers, utensils, and other accessible household items for your care receiver to use.
 Accept the fact that you cannot do everything, and that you can only do your best. Understand that no one is perfect and no caregiver can accomplish everything without some help from their family, friends, or community. Remember that there is help available if you ask, and don’t ever feel bad about needing to ask for help.Do your best not to overcommit yourself. Be confident and assertive if you have to say no when you’re asked to do something and you know you don’t have the time.
As you accept your limits, try to focus on positives: you’re doing your best and you’re offering care, kindness, and love., When caring for someone who’s disabled, sick, or aging, it’s important to accept their condition. It’s easy and common to set up unrealistic recovery goals or to expect your care receiver to improve when they have a progressive disease like Alzheimer’s or Parkinson’s. Do your best to accept the circumstances and avoid thinking that a worsening condition reflects on your care.It’s okay to be afraid, overwhelmed, frustrated, and feel other powerful emotions. You are not alone and there are ways to get help giving care and emotional support.
Understand and be realistic about your loved one’s condition, but stay positive and concentrate on the difference you’re making in their life.