 Although many people go for the regular white baking potatoes, using a sweet potato can help increase the overall nutrition of your potato dishes.


These bright orange spuds tip the scales with over 100% over your daily recommended intake of Vitamin A.
Sweet potatoes are also higher in Vitamin B6, thiamin, niacin, riboflavin, and the carotenoid group of antioxidants. Plus, they're lower on the glycemic index compared to white potatoes.Don't like the sweet flavor of the sweet potato? Try purple potatoes. These brightly colored potatoes also have more nutritional benefits. They're high in the antioxidant group called anthocyanins which are known to be cancer fighting compounds.;
, Baked potatoes are actually quite healthy — especially when they don't contain a bunch of toppings. Be mindful of what you put on your baked potato to make them a healthy addition to your meal.


One trick you can do is to rub the outside of the potato skins with a little bit of olive oil before baking. This makes the skins crispy when they're served. You want to eat the skins of the potato, as this is where many of the nutrients (especially fiber) are.When topping your baked potato, there a couple of swaps you can do to keep the calories more moderate. Try using plain yogurt or greek yogurt instead of sour cream, a drizzle of heart-healthy olive oil instead or butter, and use smaller amounts of cheese.
You can add some more flavor by topping your potato with some minced scallions, chives or adding a sprinkling of ground pepper or smoked paprika.
 Mashed potatoes are one of the best potato dishes. However, they're typically very high in calories due to the cream and butter that is typically used to make them.Instead of full fat cream that's typically used for mashed potatoes, consider using 2% milk or fat-free half and half. You still add some creaminess to your potatoes but with fewer calories.
You can also add little bit of yogurt to add creaminess and a little tang. Butter is OK, but only add a tablespoon per serving or two to help keep the fat at a moderate level.
You may also want to consider adding roasted garlic. You can roast a whole head and squeeze the nutty, creamy cloves and mash them into the potatoes. This adds a ton of flavor and nuttiness with very little added calories.
Another way to decrease the calories and carbs in traditional mashed potatoes is by swapping out half of your potatoes for steamed cauliflower.
 French fries are another popular potato dish. But because they're deep fried, they can rack up calories.Try making french fries at home. You can bake or roast them with very little added fat which can help you control the calories. Plus, you can lightly coat them in heart healthy olive oil.
You can either make traditional fries by slicing a potato in thin strips or you could make potato wedges by slicing a potato into thicker wedge like pieces.
Coat your fries or wedges in a little olive oil, salt, pepper and any other spices you'd like. Bake or roast until cooked through and crispy.
 Crispy, crunchy and salty, potato chips are a delicious snack. But like french fries, these are typically fried and coated in a lot of salt.


Making your own potato chips at home can help you control not only the fat and calories, but also the total sodium. Like fries, you can also toss in olive oil for some heart healthy fats.
Slice potatoes very thin. You can use a knife or a mandolin for easy prep. Toss them with some olive oil and bake until crispy and slightly golden brown.
Once your potato chips are fully baked, sprinkle lightly with salt or other spices you enjoy.
For a fun twist, you can slice up both regular white potatoes, sweet potatoes and even purple potatoes for a colorful snack.
 Whether you're having a twice baked or a stuffed baked potato, be careful with the ingredients you choose. These stuffed spuds can top the scales with calories.Instead of filling potatoes with sour cream, cheese, bacon bits or other high-calorie toppings, consider switching your toppings and ingredients to something a little more nutritious.
Try loading up your stuffed potato with vegetables for a low calorie, high fiber addition. You can try tossing broccoli with low fat cheese, sautéed peppers and onions, steamed asparagus and ham, or spinach and artichokes.

