 What KIND of club are you actually going to? Clubs these days serve ( even if they don't say it outright ) for a type of person or scene. Of course, clubs are there to be enjoyed by anyone and everyone who want to go, but keep in mind what kind of environment and backdrop they are exhibiting. Is it a gentlemen's club, an emo club, a hipster club? These factors are important for your comfort and enjoyment.;
, Remember it's always good to stand out but you must feel comfortable and confident otherwise you stick out like a sore thumb. Going clubbing is a really good way to illustrate yourself to the people around you. If People don't like it, then f*** them, it's your night and it belongs to you. Dress codes are common at clubs these days. Flip flops, and jeans aren't always prohibited but may be frowned upon.
 Yes even to the bouncers who are one of the most important people to not cross the lines with.
 Remember, being easy going and acting interested will take you far. You're out and there are so many different types of people within a small radius, become immersed in these different arrays of people and listen to their stories *Note : Don't believe anything a drunk person tells you, and be aware of sleazy men trying to con you into sleeping with them

, Most likely the people behind you are too busy chatting away with someone they have met or whatnot. Going clubbing isn't cheap and it is wise to take a sizable amount of money that will accommodate your needs such as drinks, taxicab, entry etc. The bartenders are busy working people and if they don't get to you in a short time, be patient. If you piss them off, you'll end up sober for the entire night and it won't be good.
 I'm not going to put it lightly, bad dancing equates to embarrassment, hushed laughter and mockery from behind. However if you don't care about being humiliated and really feel the need to dance, then blatantly go for it. Sometimes something so bad can translate into something admirable and so good.
 This works for your advantage but also hinders it.
, This is your chance to have a good night and be someone else. Forget your life and know that you are actually a popular and entertaining socialite inside. You have everything you need to make people drawn to you tonight, use it to your advantage!!

