 Keep your calorie intake down while filling yourself up at the same time with these healthy snacks and sides. To feel the most full with the fewest calories, choose those that have the highest water content (and thus the fewest calories). These include:Cantaloupe, celery, cucumber, green pepper, iceberg lettuce, spinach, strawberries, and watermelon (90-92% water).Oranges, pineapples, and raspberries (80-87% water).;
, Make that full-feeling last even longer once you’re done eating. Stick to foods that are rich in fiber, which takes a while to digest.Fiber-rich foods with few calories include fruits and vegetables; beans; nuts and seeds; whole grains.Since these foods are pretty much the core of vegan diets, buy vegan cookbooks to learn how to combine these into a variety of soups, salads, stews, and more.
 Proteins are often served as the centerpiece of meals (think meat), but just one serving can pack a lot of calories depending on what type you choose. So make smart choices. Stick to sources like:Fish and poultry
Beans, lentils, nuts, and seedsFruits and vegetables

, These contain prebiotics, which actually feed the healthy bacteria living in your digestive system instead of you. So reap the benefit of feeling fuller for longer with food that you won’t actually digest. Great sources for these starches are:Cold pasta (cooked, then chilled)Cold potatoes (cooked, then chilled)
Lentils
Raw oats
Underripe bananas

, When preparing carbohydrates, avoid refined grains. The refining process can strip away grains’ fiber content, which means the same amount won’t feel as filling. So stick to whole-grain products when choosing:Breads
Pastas
Rice
Oatmeal
Cereal

, Lowering your calorie-intake doesn't necessarily mean that you have to stick exclusively to foods with the absolute lowest number of calories. However, if you have precise goals when it comes your daily goals, do the math. Look up the exact number of calories contained in the specific low-calorie foods you choose, as well as any high-calorie food that you treat yourself to. Online resources include:


http://www.thecaloriecounter.com/
https://whatscookingamerica.net/NutritionalChart.htm
https://www.fitwatch.com/caloriecounter

