 Save these instructions and any associated warranty information for future use.;
,


Place the air conditioner near both a window and an electrical outlet.
Ensure that the air conditioner will not be a tripping hazard, and that the airflow will not be obstructed by furniture, plants, etc.
 Almost all portable air conditioners come with a window adaptor kit that will work, however in some cases the kit is missing or not right for the window, and you will have to improvise a bit.


For the unit to function well, the gaps between the window adapter for the vent hose and the sides of the window must be sealed off.
Measure your window opening to determine if the window adapter kit can be expanded or trimmed to fit correctly.
If the window adapter kit that came with your portable unit is missing or does not adequately fit your window, take careful measurements of the opening you need to accommodate and have a piece of Plexiglas cut to size at your local hardware store.
You can also use a piece of plywood, or even cardboard, to fill the gap. These options are less attractive, but will work in a pinch.
 This may be a single hose with connectors already attached, or you may have to first attach an exhaust connector to the unit, and then attach the hose to the connector. Follow the directions that came with your unit.


Connect the window connection bracket or adapter to the other end of the exhaust hose, if it is not already attached.
Run the exhaust hose to the window, and place the window connection bracket or adapter into the open window.
 Adjust the included window kit sliders or panels until they completely fill the gap between the window connection bracket and the sides of the window.


If you are using a piece of Plexiglas, simply slide it in the windowsill next to (or above) the exhaust hose window connection, and hold it in place until the window is closed.
Close the window so that it fits snugly against the exhaust hose window connection, and holds everything firmly in place.
In some cases, it may be necessary to use duct tape to seal the gaps around the exhaust hose window connection, and hold the window kit firmly in place.
 It should now be ready to use!

