 The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has banned the use of artificial coloring in foods labeled as “organic.” Organic fruits, vegetables, and meats should not contain fake flavoring, and any color enhancement in organic versions of foods like yogurt or cereal has to come from natural ingredients.Familiarize yourself with food standards in your country so you know what to look for.
 The best part about cooking at home is that you know exactly what you are putting into your meals. If you purchase only fresh, organic ingredients, then you’ll end up with fresh, organic meals free from additives. It may seem daunting to check every label of every food and spice you use, but once you stock your kitchen with natural ingredients this will become second nature.
 “Processed foods” are more than those that are frozen, pre-packaged, or sold in the snack aisle – processed foods are any that have been changed from their original, natural state somehow.Some of the most common processed foods are breakfast cereals, canned vegetables, soda, microwavable meals, potato chips, many meat products like bacon and sausage, and inorganic cheeses.Not all processed foods are unhealthy, but they are more likely to contain additives – you probably can’t avoid processed foods entirely, but pay extra attention to ingredients labels.
 No matter what, check the ingredients list for additives. Don’t let marketing and branding fool you.
 Meats that you can purchase prepackaged from your grocery store, and even many meats that are sliced for you in a grocer’s deli, contain preservatives and possibly artificial colors and flavoring. Steer clear of pre-packaged and cured meats.


Some deli meat companies like Boar’s Head offer low-sodium, gluten-free, and vegetarian-friendly options. Ask your butcher for their preferred, all-natural meat selections. Also consider buying organic chicken, turkey, or ham and cooking and slicing it at home.
 Many people try to prevent diabetes and stay healthy by replacing sugar with artificial sweeteners, but these can be just as unhealthy in different ways.Use natural sweeteners like raw honey, agave nectar, Stevia, maple syrup, blackstrap molasses, and coconut or date sugar.There are many companies, brands, and types of fake sweeteners, so skip the following:


Products like Sunett and Sweet One, which contain ace-K or acesulfame potassium.
Aspartame products like Equal and NutraSweet, and the similar Neotame.
Sweet’N Low, which contains Saccharin.
Sucralose, found in Splenda.
 Most frostings for cakes and pastries contain artificial coloring to achieve their festive appearance. Buy organic frosting or those that use natural dyes, or obtain pure no-additive frosting and make your own food coloring.Pick up some fresh produce to juice or puree, or even spices, to add natural color to your foods:Red and pink: beets, cranberry juice, pomegranate juice, raspberries, strawberries, paprika, roasted red peppers.
Yellow and orange: mango, carrot, turmeric, curry, saffron.
Blue and purple: red grapes, blueberries.
Green: Basil, mint, spinach, avocado.

