 Jocks are generally more likely to be aggressive than their peers.

Aggression is not an entirely negative trait, and can have much more to do with direct expression than bullying others. Develop your ability to boldly speak your mind, while also showing respect to others.

The sports you play will teach you what healthy aggression feels and looks like.
Generally speaking, aggression is not wrong. However, like bullying, if you direct it at the weak and/or innocent, you can expect punishment, judgment and unhappiness within yourself.
 Clothing made specifically for athletes is always a good choice for anyone wanting to be a jock. If you join a sports team, wearing team jerseys and apparel is a stylish choice. This will increase your appearance as an athlete.


Hoodies, t-shirts, pullover jackets, and jerseys are stylistic norms that can fill an entire week of jock outfits. Be sure to pair them with jeans and tennis shoes. Do not tuck in your shirts; this is similar to “nerd” looks.
Letterman jackets are the pinnacle of jock style because they show you have achieved a level of accomplishment within your chosen sport.
 When you're not playing, practicing, or studying, spend time enjoying the sports you love. Pick a team or player(s) to support, and follow them through a whole season. Gather at your home, friends' homes, or even restaurants and sports bars to watch games communally. Plan ahead of time so people have time to gather any supplies they need.


Purchase jerseys and other paraphernalia of the team you support to show your pride.
Organize a potluck where everyone who wants to watch a game brings one snack or dish for everyone to eat.
Find tickets and go to a see a professional game to experience the fervor and excitement of a live match.
Also watch sports analysis programs on networks like ESPN, FSN, and major network broadcasts of sports events to develop your understanding of the game.
 Organize a group of friends/athletes/people interested in sports to create a fantasy league together. Learn to pick players based on consistent productivity and skill; develop a wider understanding of the professional leagues of whatever sport you enjoy. This will encourage your tactical understanding of the game and give you a feel of what it's like to be a coach.


While it is illegal to bet on real games, betting on fantasy sports is legal in the US because it is a game of skill.If you are a minor, make sure to consult your parent/guardian before betting anything.
 Much of the conversation between athletes can be about specific players, their talents, weaknesses, and even their social lives as revealed in the media. Read sports websites, watch sports programs on TV, and follow the careers of your favorite athletes and teams.


Watching/reading interviews of talented athletes may give you a clue about the character traits that help someone become a top level jock.

