 You can do this with the Writer's Guild of America and/or the U.S. Copyright Office. Many writers choose to do both.


The Writer's Guild of America has offices in New York and Los Angeles. It offers a screenplay registration service that helps protect your copyright by establishing a date of authorship. As of May 2014, the cost of registering a screenplay is $20 for non-members.
The U.S. Copyright Office offers registration so you can establish a public record of your copyright. This will allow you to sue someone in court for infringement. You may want to register it before you start sending your script out.;
, Query letters should give the buyer an idea of what your screenplay is about and a brief introduction of yourself.


Include a one or two sentence pitch of your screenplay, called a logline. You should memorize it in case you have the opportunity to pitch your script verbally. Your logline should inspire people to want to read your script.
 The goal of the synopsis is to get the reader to request your entire screenplay. Your first synopsis should be no more than 1 to 3 pages unless a longer one is requested.
 Try structuring or making the format in a way that one page of your screenplay shows one minute of the screen time.


While in shooting, the "shooting scripts" are used in which the scenes are numbered according to the screenplay and directions for every scene is given individually. But while writing a "speculative screenplay" no such directions are given. The standard font for writing a screenplay is 12 point, 10 pitch Courier.



Study the listings in market directories. These list contact information for thousands of producers and agents and may give information on what kinds of scripts they're looking for.
Trade publications carry ads by producers looking for screenplays.
Browse Internet websites that cater to screenwriters for information on producers and agents looking for screenplays as well as contests you can enter.
 Customize your letter with the name, title and address of the person you're sending your query to.


Send your query to agents and ask them to represent you. The most common way that producers receive and read new screenplays is through submissions from agents. Unfortunately, it can be very hard for new screenwriters to get agents.
Query independent producers seeking scripts. Independent producers don't work for major film studios. They are more likely to read a script sent to them unsolicited.
Contact producers working for major film studios. Most will send your screenplay back with a letter stating that they do not accept unsolicited submissions. However, you may find someone willing to read your screenplay if you make enough phone calls and send enough emails and letters.
 Prizes in competitions can range from a cash to a full movie deal. Even if you don't win the competition, your script will be read by industry professionals who may put you in touch with a producer interested in buying it.

