 Skype supports the installation of third-party apps that can add a lot of useful functions. Since Skype does not come installed with support for recording calls, you will need to download an app to make it happen. You can access the app library by clicking the Tools menu, hovering over Apps, and selecting Get Apps.The Skype shop will open in a new web browser window.
Search for “recorder” in the Search field, or scroll down and select one of the Call Recording categories.
There are two general options for call recording software: audio only or audio and video. If you need to record video calls, be sure to grab a video recorder.
Many of the more fully-featured apps require a purchase, but you can find basic audio and video recorders for free. Be sure to read the reviews and features before making your selection.
Always check the Requirements tab before installing an App. Many apps do not work with older versions of Mac OS X or with Linux.
You can get Skype recording programs from sources other than the Skype shop. Search for "Skype recording software" and find a program that suits your needs. The installation instructions should be similar to those listed here.;
, Once you have found the app you want, click the “Get it now” button. You will be taken to the developer’s website, where you can download the app file. Once the download is finished, open the file to begin the installation.


Each app’s installation process is different, but you can generally just leave the settings at default. Be wary of apps that want to install toolbars for your web browser, as these can be a pain to remove.
Most apps will require you to register and enter in your Skype username. If you don’t enter the username correctly, then the app will not work.
Once the installation is finished, Skype will ask you to authorize access for the app. If you don’t allow access, the app will not be able to record anything.
 Depending on the app, you may be storing your recordings locally on your computer, or uploading them to a cloud storage service. You can also adjust the quality of the recorded files.


Most recording apps will allow you to set the location of your stored video and audio files. Create an easy to access folder on your computer if you plan on using the files regularly.
Audio and video quality can usually be adjusted in the app’s Settings menu. Higher quality files will take up more storage space than lower quality ones, so experiment with the settings until you find a good balance of size versus quality.
 Most apps require you to click a Record button to start the saving process. You can do this after a call has already been started, and you will begin recording from the moment you click the button. Click the Record button again to stop the recording.


Some apps will begin recording automatically when a call is initiated. Check with the specific app’s documentation for details.
Most free apps have a limitation on the length of the call that you can record.
 In many countries, recording a call without the consent of the other person is illegal. Always make sure that you notify the other person that you are recording. If they refuse, stop your recording or end the call.