 It's a gray app that contains gears (⚙️) and is typically located on your home screen.;
, It's at the top of the menu.If another Apple ID is currently signed in and you wish to create a different one, tap that user's Apple ID and then tap Sign Out at the bottom of the Apple ID menu. Follow the prompts to sign out.
If you are running an older version of iOS, instead tap iCloud and then tap Create a new Apple ID.
 It's below the password field.
, Scroll the month, day, and year fields at the bottom of the screen to enter your birthday.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.
 Type them in their respective fields.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.



To use an existing email address, tap Use your current email address.
To create a new iCloud email address, tap Get a free iCloud email address and follow the on-screen prompts.
 This will be your Apple ID.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.
 Type it into the labeled fields.


Your password must have at least 8 characters (including a number and an uppercase and lowercase letter) with no spaces. It also shouldn't have three consecutive characters (ggg), be your Apple ID, or a previous password you've used in the last year.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.
 If it's not auto-filled for you, tap on the field next to "Country" and tap the country associated with your phone number.
 If it's not auto-filled, tap the field next to "Number" and type in your phone number.
 Tap either Text Message or Phone Call to indicate how you'd like Apple to verify your phone number.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.


A verification code will be sent to you by text message or via phone call.
 Enter the six-digit verification code you received and tap Next.


If you received the code via text, your iPhone may recognize it and autofill it for you.
 If you prefer to have them sent to you by email, tap Send by Email at the top of the screen.
 It's in the lower-right corner of the screen.
 If you're not automatically signed into iCloud, enter the email you used to create your Apple ID and password into the labeled fields.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.


The screen will intermittently display the message "Signing into iCloud" as it accesses your data during the sign-in process.
 This is the unlock code you established for your device when you set it up.
 If you'd like any calendars, reminders, contacts, notes, or other data already stored on your iPhone to be merged with your iCloud account, tap Merge; if not, tap Don't Merge.


You've now created an Apple ID and signed into your iPhone with it.

