 In the event of an emergency, some plans allow participants to receive early distributions from a 401(k) plan without being subject to the standard 10% early withdrawal penalty (in some circumstances). This is known as a hardship withdrawal. It is important to note that taxes will still be due on any early distribution, and it is necessary to prove that the emergency situation is valid. Criteria for qualification include:You or a member of your immediate family has exceptionally high medical expenses.
You are buying a principal home.
You are paying college tuition for yourself or family.
You need the money to stay out of foreclosure.
You need it for the cost of a funeral.
If there are necessary home improvements to be made on your principal home.
 In some retirement packages, there are a limited number of specific criteria which allow you to take money out of your 401(k) without having to pay the 10% penalty. Note that if you do not meet these criteria and are not 59.5 or older, you will be required to pay the penalty. The criteria for exemption include:Becoming totally disabled.
Are in debt for medical expenses that exceed 7.5% of your adjusted gross income.
Are court-ordered to give the money to a divorced spouse, a child, or a dependent.
Are fired in the year you turn 55, or later.
 If you qualify for the above-described criteria, you need to provide your employer with financial proof of your hardship, this could include any financial documentation or bills that the employer requires to properly verify hardship. Absolute necessity is a key component of being eligible for this sort of withdrawal.


Note that there is an exception to needing to provide financial documentation. This is in the event that your employer uses a "self-certification" method of taking hardship withdrawals. Under this approach, if you fall under the above criteria, you are not required to provide any additional documentation. In cases of self-certification, you are prohibited from making new contributions to the 401(k) plan for six months, also foregoing any employer matching funds. Hardship distributions cannot be paid back and can dramatically affect the ending balance of the account at retirement. Contact your employer to inquire about this option.Not every employer makes hardship withdrawal provisions in their retirement package, so it's important to check the specific requirements and regulations with your financial institution and your employer before you move forward.
Usually, you'll need to contact your plan administrator or your HR department at work to get these specific questions answered, or be directed to the proper channel., Some employers allow non-hardship withdrawals in the form of fund rollovers. This takes money from your 401(k) and redistributes it to another account, such as an IRA, without a tax penalty. Once the money is rolled over, you might have fewer restrictions for withdrawing due to fewer administrative constraints.

