 Before you start posting your place on Couchsurfing, get the opinion first of the family or friends you live with. Once they agree with your grand plan to put up guests, initiate them on what to expect.


You don’t want to deal with surprise of the bad kind once your couchsurfers are already at the door. There’s no worse welcome than being unwelcome.;
, Sharing your personal space with other people is seldom easy, especially if you’re a neat freak or have allergies and whatnot. Make it less stressful for everyone involved by clearly outlining the dos and don’ts for your guests. Post these rules to your Couchsurfing profile to inform potential couchsurfers in advance.


Include information such as the gender/s of house guests you’re willing to take in, if pets are allowed, and how many couchsurfers are one too many. Be as specific as you can get. Such information is always useful and makes for a mutually happy stay.
 This means no misrepresentation of yourself and no fake house photos on your Couchsurfing profile. It is always better to set and manage expectations before you and your couchsurfer agree on the terms.


Do not fake interests just to sound, well, interesting. Remember, your couchsurfers won’t just by staying in your house—they will be spending time with you too.
 Even though you’re not a hotel or a public lodging, keep your place nice and neat. Dust off furniture, vacuum carpets, sweep the floor, prepare clean sheets, and relegate anything that looks like trash to the trash bin. Clean up preferably a day before your guest arrives and not any later.


Lock away in a secure place items and personal belongings that you don’t want surfers to use.
 Greet your guests once they arrive, and try to be genuinely happy to see them, and ask them about their trip. Show them their rooms and politely revisit the house rules just in case they’ve forgotten in the flurry of things. Direct them to the utility areas in your house such as the bathroom, toilet, and kitchen that they may use.


Be considerate even if it’s your house. If you have personal habits that are not really for public viewing, rein them in for a couple of days or so until freedom reigns again (i.e., after guests are gone).
Remember, your hospitality may be what represents your country to your guests. Send them off with smiles on their faces and happy stories to share back home. You will be helping your country’s tourist industry!

