 Having to wait for something can be irritating, but if you want to live in the moment, you will need to learn how to think about waiting as a good thing. Instead of becoming impatient when you have to wait for something, practice being grateful for the extra time to notice your surroundings. Treat the extra time as a break and appreciate the time.For example, if you have to wait in a long line to purchase your morning coffee, take that time to observe your surroundings. As you do so, think about what you are grateful for in that moment.
 You can learn to be more present by taking time to home in on how you are feeling in one part of your body, such as the soles of your feet. As you repeat the practice of shifting your consciousness to one part of your body, you will learn to be more aware of the present moment.


If you find that you are having a hard time being present, close your eyes and focus all of your attention on the soles of your feet. As you do so, think about how the soles of your feet feel against your shoes or on the ground. Notice the curve of your arch, the back of your heel, and the bottoms of your toes., Living in the moment can be a challenge if you are in a bad mood or just feeling a little down, but smiling and laughing can make you feel better even you force yourself to smile and laugh.If you find that you are not focused on the present because you feel unhappy, force yourself to smile and laugh a bit. Even if you put on a fake smile and laugh in a goofy way, you should start to feel better right away.
 Being grateful helps to bring you to the present moment because you are thinking about what has made you grateful and how that has affected you in the here and now. Gratitude can also help you to remember good things in life or gifts.Practice being thankful for who you are, how you are feeling in the moment, and for loved ones such as friends, family, or pets.


Throughout the day, take a moment to remember something you are thankful for. You can speak or even write down your gratitude to reinforce it. For example, you might say or write, “I am so thankful the sun is out today; it’s beautiful!” or “I am so thankful for my caring family; they make me feel so special.”

, Performing random acts of kindness can help you to live in the moment by refocusing your attention on what’s happening in front of you. Look for small things that you can do to demonstrate kindness to others. The kind acts that you perform will help you to slow down and notice your surroundings.For example, you could offer a compliment to a stranger such as, “I love your dress! It is so beautiful.” Look for ways to show kindness in whatever situation you are in. Even something as simple as smiling and nodding at people throughout the day might help to brighten someone’s day and keep you focused on the present.

