 As we grow older, we tend to want to hang on to youthful behaviors. Everyone goes through periods of conflict between the desire to be carefree and just have fun, and being mature and responsible. Let’s face it-often being mature and serious is the less immediately pleasant way of living life. However, being more serious in life involves realizing that the long term benefits of being responsible and taking care of business outweigh hedonistic pleasures.


Wake everyday with the intention of being mature.
Be aware each morning that some of the decisions ahead in your day will involve foregoing fun in favor of accomplishment.
 If you want to be serious, be aware of how your everyday behavior reflects that. You are how you act, so making the effort to be serious and mature in your actions throughout the day, even the small things, is important to truly being serious.
 One of the most important part of being mature is having the ability to control your emotions, rather than them controlling you. Consider your feelings carefully before acting on them. Act, don’t react. When you behave with maturity, you’re using the rational and reasoning side of yourself rather than the animalistic, instinctual side.
When someone speaks to you, especially in moments of conflict, pause and consider your reply with a cool head before responding. What first pops into your head isn’t always the best thing to say. Think before you speak.
Apply that to actions especially. Actions speak louder than words, so be especially aware of how your actions reflect on your level of maturity. Do you act only after cooly thinking out your course, or do you react without consider the consequences?

, Part of being mature is recognizing that you have worth. It’s often easier to beat oneself up over mistakes than to learn from them. If you want to be more mature and live a more serious life, make the effort to respect yourself and value yourself.


Treat your body with respect. Eat well, and get plenty of exercise and sleep.
Keep friends who value you, get rid of people who don’t. Friends will respect you and understand that you are special for being you. Everyone crosses paths with people who do not do those things. You have no obligation to keep them around. Part of maturity is making the tough decisions about who we associate with.

