 Aside from improving your physical well-being and confidence, dancing will help you loosen up your creative muscles. Turn up your favorite song and start moving that body.


You have the freedom to experiment with new moves without the same self-consciousness you might have dancing in public.;
, In a world of bills and advertisements, people love receiving handwritten mail, but the benefits of writing a letter don’t stop there. Studies show that expressive writing can actually help you have a more positive view of the world. You can write to someone far away or someone you see every day. Writing gives you the opportunity to express yourself in a way that you might not be able to in day-to-day conversation. Want to let someone know that you really love her? Want to share the struggle you’ve been having with a big decision, such as your next career move or where you want to go to college? Writing a letter will not only help you create a more intimate bond with the receiver; it will also help you to process some of these thoughts.
If you express yourself better through images than with words, why not draw a picture to send someone? Who doesn’t like receiving a piece of art created just for them?

, Coloring is in right now, no matter what your age. More and more people are discovering the benefits of dusting off the Crayolas. You can purchase adult coloring books at bookstores and craft stores, but you can also find thousands of free coloring pages online. , Pinterest can be a graveyard for do-it-yourself crafts. Rifle through your boards for a project you’ve been meaning to do.


Create wall art using your wedding day flowersor make some homemade beeswax candles.Bake a loaf of homemade bread or choose another Pinterest recipe. Nothing tastes as good as bread fresh out of the oven, but it’s a long process, so people tend to pick up a loaf from the store. Since you have the night to yourself, why not try it out? Garlic-rosemary bread sounds—and smells—like a dream. , Alone time is a great opportunity for self-discovery, away from all the noise of other people’s hopes for and expectations of you. 