 It is best practice to exfoliate your skin and shave/wax the day before your appointment to ensure an even tan. You can use a water based exfoliant, a coarse salt or sugar based scrub, loofah, or washcloth to accomplish this.


You should never use an oil-based scrub because it will prevent the spray tan solution from evenly applying to your skin. Make sure to shave or wax at least 24-48 hours before your scheduled appointment in order to allow the pores to close. This prevents a dotted, uneven tan.;
, Make sure you remove these items before your appointment as these will create barriers between the skin and the spray tan solution resulting in an uneven tan.


Many salons will provide wipes with which you can remove makeup or deodorant if you happen to arrive to your appointment straight from work or another function.
 Bring loose fitting, dark clothing and flip flops or slide-ons to your appointment to wear after your spray tan. Tight fitting clothing and shoes might rub off the spray solution. Also bring a hairnet or cap to protect your hair.


Although most spray solutions are water soluble and will come out in the wash, it is best to wear darker clothing that will prevent any visible staining.
Do not wear socks with sneakers, slide-ons, or ballet flats immediately after your appointment. Socks can cause indentations on your skin that will be reflected in your spray tan. Pack appropriate rain gear to wear after your appointment if bad weather is in the forecast since rain can ruin the evenness of the tan.
 If you choose to spray tan with clothing on pack undergarments that you do not mind ruining since the solution may rub off on them. Keep in mind that whatever garment you wear during the session will be reflected in your tan lines.


Before choosing what undergarments you bring, think about what you might wear during the next week. For example, if you are getting married and wearing a strapless dress, you would not want to wear a bra with straps during the session.
Salons will often provide paper garments for you to wear should you choose not to bring your own.
 This will ensure that you have adequate time to remove makeup, deodorant, clothing, and jewelry without being rushed.
 If you have perspired during your ride over to the salon, you should either pack or ask for a towel with which you can wipe down any sweaty parts of your body. This will help reduce blotches and streaks when the spray tan solution is applied.
 If you are spray tanning for a specific occasion or event, you can do a test trial before the big day in order to make sure the tan will turn out how you imagined.


Spray tans generally last 7-10 days so, for example, if you want your tan to last longer for an upcoming event, you may want to have a darker spray to ensure longevity.
 If you have dry skin patches, wounds, or allergies your technician should be made aware so they can give you advice on how to deal with these areas.


Areas of dry skin may fade more quickly following your appointment. You can apply self-tanner to these areas to even out your tan.
If you have open wounds, you should refrain from spray tanning until they have healed.
 To help make sure your technician understands the shade of tan you would like it is helpful to bring along a photograph to demonstrate exactly how you want to look.


Consider bringing a picture of yourself with a tan you once had or a celebrity with the coloring that you desire., It is common to spray tan in either of these ways, so there is no need to feel shy if you prefer no tan lines.
 The technician will have you apply lotion to certain areas before the spray tan and will direct you as to how to stand and when to turn. Be sure to ask for clarifications or repetitions if you are unsure of the process since miscommunication could lead to an uneven tan. A spray tan session should only last about 5-10 minutes.


Either you or your technician will apply lotion or petroleum jelly to certain parts of the body where you do not want the spray solution to accumulate. These areas include nail beds, the spaces between toes, and elbows.The technician will usually begin spraying the front of the body from the top down. They will tell you when to turn so they can spray your backside. Be prepared that the spray tan solution will often be quite cold.
Be mindful of the technician’s instructions on how to stand and when to lift arms as their commands will help prevent any uneven coloring.
 This process usually takes about 10-20 minutes and can be sped up with special drying machines. After you are dry, put on your loose fitting, dark clothing and shoes. It is best not to wear a bra or anything else that may rub and disturb the tan solution.


Some technicians and salons will help aid the drying process with a machine.
Do not carry a clutch or heavy purse or backpack on your shoulders as this will cause unnecessary contact with your skin that could result in the spray tan solution smearing or rubbing off.
 You will want to clear your schedule for these 8 hours to be at home where you can relax in a comfortable, private environment.


Sometimes the spray tan solution will be darker before you wash it off so the technician can see where they have sprayed. If this is the case, you might not want to have to go back to work or a public place before showering.
Lay a dark sheet over your couch or bed during these 8 hours to avoid any residue from getting on your furniture.
Relax by watching television, reading, or another quiet activity while you wait for the spray tan to set. Avoid any activities that might cause excessive rubbing or smearing of the spray tan solution on your skin.
 Following 8 hours of no showering or excessive sweating, you can now take a shower carefully. Take a warm, quick shower in order to prevent any loss of tan coloring.


When showering, do not use hot water or take unnecessarily long baths since these will cause the tan to fade more quickly.
Do not exfoliate your skin excessively as this will cause the tan to fade.
After showering, gently pat your skin dry.
 Following your shower, you should use caution and properly moisturize with lotion in order to increase the longevity of your tan.


Use a lotion that is free of fragrance to moisturize.
Your spray tan salon may have a speciality spray lotion available for purchase that does not disturb your tan through friction of application.
 Chlorine in swimming pools will diminish the length of your tan so try to reduce pool time. Hot tubs are particularly dangerous as the combination of hot water and chlorine is detrimental to spray tans., If choosing to exercise, it is best to wait at least two full days before taking on workouts that will involve heavy sweating. However, be warned that sweating does cause the color of the tan to disappear faster so you may desire to moderate the intensity of your workouts.For example, you may choose to do a gentle yoga workout instead of an intense run.
 Some spa activities might react poorly with your spray tan and cause the color to break down. These include massages, scrubs, masks, manicures and pedicures, or microdermabrasion.Receive any spa treatments at least 24-48 hours before a spray tan appointment if you anticipate wanting these services in the week after receiving your spray tan.
Stay away from any products containing retinols or alcohol.
 Because certain areas of the body, such as feet or hands, might lose their coloring more quickly than others, you can extend the life of your spray tan by using a makeup sponge to apply a gradual self-tanner lotion to these problem areas.