 Symptoms often appear a day or so after exposure to the trigger, and the rash will cover the area of skin that was in direct contact with the triggering agent. If you avoid further contact with the triggering agent, your contact dermatitis will usually resolve on its own in two to four weeks following exposure. Common causes of contact dermatitis include:


Soap, cosmetics, nail polish, hair dyes, deodorant, or other personal care products
Poison Ivy
Bleach
Nickel in jewelry and/or buckles
Certain medical creams such as topical antibiotics
Formaldehyde
A recent tattoo and/or black henna
Perfume
Sunscreen
Rubbing alcohol;
, Before applying any topical treatments, be sure to first wash the area with warm (not hot) water and a gentle soap. This will ensure you remove any remaining traces of the possible trigger for your rash.
 These can be purchased at your local pharmacy or drugstore.


Calamine lotion has also been shown to provide relief in cases of contact dermatitis., If you find soap aggravating, minimize your use of soap while your rash recovers. Consider opting for a more mild cleanser, and use it sparingly until your rash improves.


Also avoid other cosmetics and personal hygiene products that trigger your contact dermatitis.
If you are looking to replace cosmetics that you have noticed irritate your dermatitis, look for ones with a label that says "hypoallergenic" as these are less likely to trigger contact dermatitis. You may also want to consider switching to organic skin products.
Even if you have been using the same products for years, sometimes formulas can change and a new additive might be causing new symptoms.
 They may help to remove the crusts and diminish the itchiness and irritation.


Apply the compress for 15 to 30 minutes.
If the contact dermatitis rash is widespread over your body (such as affecting both legs, both arms, or your trunk), one of the easiest solutions is to wear a wet piece of clothing.
For instance, you may wear wet long johns with dry pants overtop, so that the moisture remains in contact with the affected areas of skin.
The piece of clothing that you get wet will of course depend upon the area of your body that is affected.
Change wet garments at least every eight hours.Use them as needed to soothe and ease symptoms.
 Oatmeal baths can help to decrease itchiness and to reduce inflammation, so they can be especially helpful in cases of contact dermatitis.
 As a result, it is not a treatment that doctors advise. Oral antihistamines, however, can help calm your symptoms, especially in allergic contact dermatitis.
 In the United States, Hydrocortisone cream is available over-the-counter in a strength of 1%; however, prescription steroid creams are available at higher strengths, and are thus more effective.


Note that steroid creams are most effective when you cover the area of the rash after applying the cream. This ensures that the cream remains on the location of interest, and is able to have an effective medicinal effect.
Examples of coverings you can use over top of the steroid cream include a plastic wrap, petroleum jelly, or a dressing such as Telfa.
 Examples include Tacrolimus/Protopic and Pimecrolimus/Elidel (both are calcineurin inhibitors).


These are not available over-the-counter, and must be prescribed by your physician.
These are rarely given except for in very severe cases of contact dermatitis, as there is an FDA warning about a possible link between these immune-stimulating creams and ointments and certain types of cancer.
 It is not advisable to take oral corticosteroids for long periods of time due to the numerous side effects; however, used over the course of a few days, they may greatly help to get your rash under control.


An example of an oral corticosteroid is Prednisone.
 If your rash does become infected, your doctor will need to prescribe you a course of antibiotics to help combat the infection. It is important that you finish the full course of antibiotics, and do not miss any of the pills, even if your symptoms begin to resolve within a few days (as failure to do so could lead to the infection returning). Signs that your rash may be infected include:


You develop a fever
Pus begins to ooze from your rash
You develop fluid-filled blisters (as these may contain infectious material)
Your skin becomes warm and red

, This means the distribution of the rash/reaction will be where your skin was in direct contact with the triggering substance or object. For instance, it may be where your skin brushed up against poison ivy, or where a certain triggering metal from a piece of jewelry was in contact with your skin. Signs and symptoms to be on the lookout for include:


Reddening of the skin
Bumps on the skin (most often red in color)
Dry, cracked, or scaly skin
Swelling over the affected area
Painful, tender skin over the affected area
Sometimes a burning sensation of the skin over the affected area
Sometimes blisters that may ooze fluid and subsequently crust over (in more severe cases)

, There are two types of contact dermatitis, irritant and allergic, plus a number of different conditions that may resemble contact dermatitis. Irritant dermatitis is caused by something that physically, mechanically, or chemically, which disrupts the skin barrier. Allergic dermatitis is caused by something that triggers an auto-immune reaction. Allergic reactions do not show up immediately after exposure — it may be 12 to 48 hours before you react, or it may take repeated exposures (sometimes over a period of years) for a rash to appear. There are many things that can cause a reaction, so it may be difficult at first to figure out what is causing the rash., If you look at the specific area of skin that is affected, you may be able to trace back the cause of your contact dermatitis. Think about objects or substances that have been in contact with the affected area of your body recently, that are unusual or "outside the norm" for you. It is possible that any of these things could be the offending agent.


Note that contact dermatitis often gets worse with time — that is, the more times you are exposed to the offending substance, the worse your rash/reaction will be.
This is because it is an "adaptive immune response," meaning that your immune system stores the "memory" of the triggering agent and reacts more aggressively each time you are exposed to the triggering agent.
 Also, if the rash affects your face or genitals it is key to see a physician for evaluation and treatment. Finally, if your rash shows no improvement after two to three weeks following exposure to the triggering agent, seek medical help by booking an appointment with your family doctor.

