 In other words, even if a family member (such as one of your parents) has had colon cancer, this usually does not imply an increased risk for you. If two people in the same family get colon cancer, it is most often coincidence (and not genetics) given that colon cancer is the third most common cancer. However, there are some more rare genetic cases of colon cancer that account for about 5% of the total cases. These include FAP (familial adenomatous polyposis) and Lynch Syndrome (also known as HNPCC).


Consult your doctor if you think you may be at heightened genetic risk of colon cancer.
If it is confirmed that you do fall into this category, you will be eligible for colon cancer screening at a younger age, and more frequently.
The exact age that screening will start, as well as the frequency, will vary from case to case.
Your doctor will provide you with the relevant information if you are found to have an increased genetic risk.
Patients with FAP should begin early colon cancer screening with flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy at around 10 to 12 years of age. This should continue on into their 30’s and 40’s because of the high risk of cancer.
For patients who have Lynch Syndrome or HNPP, screening should begin around 20 to 25 years of age, or five years younger than the earliest age of colorectal cancer diagnosis within the family.
 Depending upon how long you have had it for, as well as the severity of your disease (whether it impacts your whole colon, or just part of it), you are likely at a slightly increased risk of developing colon cancer. Again, you may be eligible for earlier and/or more frequent colon cancer screening tests. Your doctor will guide you as it varies from case to case.
 For these people, screening will be especially important. However, the good news is that all of the risk factors here are modifiable, meaning that you can minimize or eliminate them from your lifestyle, which in turn will decrease your chances of developing colon cancer down the road.
 Signs and symptoms to be aware of, and to report to your doctor, include:


A change in your stools and/or bowel habits, including diarrhea, constipation, and/or narrower stools.
Bleeding from your rectum or blood in your stool.
Unexplained weight loss and/or unusual fatigue/anemia.
Ongoing abdominal comfort (such as cramps, gas, or persistent abdominal pain).
 This helps to detect (and screen for) any possible recurrences down the road. It will likely be combined with other screening modalities in order to give you the best possible chance of catching any potential relapses as early as possible.

