 More advanced roleplays will not accept one-liners (posts that consist of only one line) and they will expect a lot of writing from you. If you dislike writing, advanced roleplays are not for you. Your paragraphs should also consist of good quality and excellent vocabulary that everyone will understand. In fact, it is better to have a few sentences that ooze of excellent quality, than a few paragraphs that make other roleplayers want to scream!


Make your posts longer and more interesting to read with descriptions, dialogue, word choice, and correct conventions.
If are able to, describe everything from your character’s view. If your character meets another character, describe it. If your character enters a building, describe it. If your character eats something, describe its taste. Your description should consist of strong words that make the reader want to continue – anything to make your post longer and more interesting to read!

, People don’t want to just read a whole bunch of descriptions! If your character bumps into someone, apologize. If your character walks into a restaurant, don’t just simply write that your character ordered some food – have your character ask for the food himself/herself! For bonus, add some extra sentences that reflects your character’s personality (for example: “Milkshake, please,” Ginger sniffed, her manicured fingernails impatiently tapping on the counter. The air circling around her reeked of her designer perfume, causing some customers to cover their noses.).
 Have a variety of other words to depict the scene in the roleplay. Refrain from repeating words in your posts, especially in sentences. If you find that you have trouble with thinking of different words, try using a thesaurus.
 Grammar, punctuation, and spelling are extremely important in roleplays – you cannot stress that enough! If you have many misspelled words, run-on sentences, and grammar problems in your posts, you will get kicked out of any roleplay you attempt to join. Mistakes happen to the best of us, but you've got to check over every word, run your post through Microsoft Word – whatever it takes to minimize your mistakes.


If your sentence looks too long, add a comma. If it looks like it has too many commas, add a period in there.
 Reading is a huge part of roleplaying! If you avoid reading other people’s posts, you won’t know what is going on in the roleplay! In order to have excellent posts that qualify for advanced roleplayers, you’ll need to read to know what is appropriate and not appropriate to put in your post.
 If your character does a solo act and refuse to speak to any other characters, you will most likely be left behind while the others travel onto the action! If you do interact with other characters, you will most likely be included in all the action.
 Although this role will take some time to work for, if you make enough excellent posts, your character will most likely be the star! However, refrain from shoving others out of the way in order to receive the spotlight, or your character will become unpopular. Don’t make your character do too many kind acts either, or you will be labeled as a Mary or Marty Sue!

