 The most important step in creating a Spider-Man costume is deciding which one you will make. You can do this by surfing the web (pun intended), playing Spidey related games, toys or from the original comic book source.
 Once you have settled upon the suit and are dead certain that's the one you want to make you can now buy your materials. The suit is first priority but you can learn how to make that by reading How to Make a Spider Man Costume. You can usually pick up the required items from your local craft shop or any other shop that will sell them. Failing that, the other option is to purchase them online., Some eyes are different shapes to others so you need to properly research the suit you are making so as to know what shape you must make. Usually if you type in what you're after (e.g. "Scarlet Spider Lense Template") you will get the right designs however if you are unable to, simply search a good image of the chosen suit and either;

resize and then print the image off or
resize and trace straight from the computer onto paper pressing very gently or
sketch the design yourself

, Now you have your template, cut it out and draw around it onto card. Make sure when you cut it out you cut out the inside so you get the border of the lense. Draw around this template twice to make lenses for both eyes., This may be tricky to do depending on the colour, black won't show but some other colours will and white will stand out clearly. Draw around the card template as it's the strongest again twice and cut those out., Once you have cut out the card borders it's time to get gluing. Choose a corner of the fabric to use, apply hot glue to one side of the card border and stick it down onto the fabric. Do the same with the other border but applying glue on the other side and stick it down about 2-3cm away from the other., Flip the fabric over and apply hot glue to the fabric following the card border showing through then stick your foam/felt border onto that., Cut the fabric in squares around the glued lense borders then cut the excess fabric off., Now you have your completed lenses you can now glue them onto the face of your suit.