


In this case, the assessment questions being a) how does the person speak now, and b) how does this impact communication and conversation?
Select a team of highly observant people. These may include friends of the person, teachers, parents, support people and others.
Have them record raw data on how the person speaks and how the person manages a conversation.
If there are any incidental notes, include them separately from the data.;
,


Use the analysis of the data to form team goals for teaching as well as for the individual.
If the person wants people in life, and is not sure why he or she feels alone, this is a good motivator for learning to speak differently. If the person does not want to change, the teaching is extremely difficult and perhaps unethical.



Dance includes taking turns, paused, change in tempo and the conveyance of mood.
This is very culturally specific. For example, in Spanish in many countries, to ask a question the voice drops to a lower pitch at the end of the sentence. In English,we raise our pitch at the end, so do the exact opposite.



Pairing of both practice and using musical inflections on a scripted line work very effectively.
Teach the symbols for inflection, such as a crescendo mark meaning to raise voice volume, and an upward arrow meaning to increase pitch.
Each mark must be explained to the individual, not solely in terms of what it means to do, but also how that impacts the meaning of speech.
Once learned, try stating or playing a tape of speech, and asking the person to interpret certain changes in inflection.



This may have unlock a good deal of receptive communication decoding for the individual. Before the teaching, all of this non-concrete information may have been completely lost on the individual.
You also have given this individual a chance to both express more clearly through speech, as well as have a greater opportunity at socialization.
,


The plan will include goals for the individual as well as who will teach what, in what form and when.



We do this to enhance our meaning, or simply because it is culturally the norm.
To teach cadence, often an underscore in a scripted line, already one where inflection has been achieved, to vary the speed of different words or parts of the statement.
This underscore is generally very clear by underscoring with lines and dots. A dot would mean a staccato, short use of a word.
A line would indicate a slower, more drawn out version of the word.
You can be creative, such as a half line followed by a dot under the same word may mean to draw out the beginning and then cut of the word abruptly.



Provide meaning to the various shifts on meanings of words due to the use of cadence.



Provide both examples of the sound of the phrase, as well as by providing feedback.



In all matters of speech, adding the elements of competition and fun will make this process more attractive for younger learners.
 Even though younger learners may have less interest, the mechanics are important to know and to use.


The younger the learner, the less they may even want others in their lives.
 This may help to drive up some interest.
 Suddenly, the importance of conversation will also increase for the individual.


With sudden increases in hormones, the person will more likely want companions of both sexes.
The older the person gets, the more the interest will be in the area of the person who's sexual self is attractive based on instinct and sex drive.



This will better assist the person with well rounded conversational skills with both males and females.
Showing new interest in others is a sign of hormonal activity.
Additionally, watch for any signs of nearing puberty.
Increase in facial or other body hair, acne, changes in mood and anxiety, increased sweating are just a few indicators.



Combine only one of the other two parts when you begin to integrate the parts.
Do the combination in stages. For example, add only a few underscores to the musical-like markings above the given phrase.
,


Do this only when the first two are integrated and in full use by the student/person.
Add the third part even more slowly.
Do not forget the enormity of the amount of information being taught and combined.
Reward the person for each step of each component.
A great reward is setting up a situation in which the person can use the new tool.



Periodically introducing a review lesson is very helpful.
If the team notices deterioration, return to active teaching.



They are easier to retain than to relearn after a loss of the skill.
 Set them up in a way in which the skills are called for and can be reassessed.
