 Writing a letter to a congressperson is one of the most time honored ways for constituents to interact with their representatives. Unfortunately, it is also one of the least effective in terms of individual impact. Much like voting itself, the impact of letter writing is in the aggregate. Since polls are expensive, elected officials often use letters as a gauge of public support or antipathy for a particular issue.The format of writing a letter to your congressperson isn’t much different from any other letter. You’ll put the address in the top left corner and begin with the formal salutation “Dear Congresswoman Byrnes…” From there, simply tackle the issue in a logical manner. Begin with an introduction of yourself, move on to a statement of the problem and who it affects, and your preferred resolution. Try and keep it limited to one issue per letter, and of course, be polite.You’ll probably get a response of some kind from your representative. These are often form letters, but not always. If your concern is unusual, important, or just well thought out, you may very well get a personal letter. Representatives like to show their constituents that they’re paying attention to them (called “constituent service”), and making sure constituents get an acknowledgement of their concern is an important way to do that. Should you get a response, follow it up with a brief thank you letter. It’s an unusual enough step that it would make you stand out., Similarly to letter writing, a single phone call is unlikely to have an enormous impact on policy. Phone-calls are more likely to inform your representative or senator of what the local opinion on a particular issue is. It can make a difference, but only in the aggregate.You’re very unlikely to speak with your actual representative when you call; it would be surprising if you did. You’ll more likely than not speak with a member of their staff instead, who will pass along the messages—in the aggregate—to your congressperson.
 If you’re not a big donor or a well-connected member of an important interest group, it might be hard to get face time with your local representative. One way to overcome those types of barriers is by creating relationships with staff at local congressional offices. Each district has at least one (and oftentimes more), so it shouldn’t be too difficult to find one. You could find an address on your congressperson’s personal or governmental website.This is particularly effective if you employ it as a tactic in conjunction with calling and writing. If you object to the planned closure of a local post office, doing all three isn’t a bad way to get some attention on the issue. As always, there’s strength in numbers, and if you can get some of your neighbors and other affected parties to write and call along with you, all the better.
 The fact is, the Federal government is a large entity dealing with complex and important problems. Each congressional district contains over 700,000 people, and your concerns might be a drop in the bucket.Sometimes the best way to get your elected leaders to listen to you is by joining with a group sharing your concerns.This applies both to you as an individual and your group as an entity. Larger organizations have more sway, and members (especially important members) of organizations might find it easier to get the attention of legislators on even unrelated matters.
“Group” can mean almost anything in this context. All kinds of groups engage in political action in some form, including labor unions, chamber of commerce, trade associations, and issue organizations like the Sierra Club or NARAL.
 Money talks to us all, but it is the mother’s milk of politics. Representatives and senators spend at least three or four hours a day (and often more) fundraising.The quickest way to get a congressperson to start calling you instead of the other way around is to cut them a check.


You might be surprised to find out how little you have to spend to get on a legislators’ radar. Individual contribution limits are only $2,700 per person per candidate, so a $300-$500 check is not an insubstantial contribution.In fact, it’s a contribution that’s virtually guaranteed to get you a call from your congressperson.

