 Open the Photoshop software from your system tray menu or Programs menu. After the interface is opened, go to “File” available at the top left corner. Click on it to get a drop-down menu. From the drop-down menu, select “Open.” This will open a file explorer. Use this to navigate through your files and folders until you find the image you want to straighten.


Click the image once you find it, and then click “Open”, located at the bottom right of the dialog box.;
, Once you have opened the image, check out the vertical toolbar on the left side. This toolbar contains a set of icons in two rows. From here, select the Measure tool, which is the ruler scale icon just below the eyedropper icon.
 After selecting the Measure tool, click at any point on the image, then go to a corner of the image. From the corner, hold the right button of the mouse and drag it along the image lengthwise, releasing the mouse when you reach the other corner. By doing this, you are just dragging a line across the image to measure its level. If the image contains a roof, fence, horizon, shelf, edge, or any other linear object, just drag along it, which should be horizontally perfect.
 When you use the Measure tool, a value is noted in the software, letting it know how your image is skewed, crooked, or rotated. To straighten the image, click the “Image” option at the top of the screen, beside “Edit.” From the drop-down menu that appears, select “Rotate Canvas.” You will get a side menu with various options.


Click “Arbitrary” from the options. This will give you a dialog box with a value already in it. This is the exact value that is noted by using the Measure tool. Now click “OK.” By clicking “OK,” you are rotating the image with canvas expanding with the background on the corners.
 If there are any undesirable background on the corners after expansion, you can trim it from the the image using the Crop tool. Select the Crop tool from the left toolbar, which is represented by the corner-handled rectangular box.

