 A list will help you stick to your budget and eliminate impulse buying. It will also help you to remember what to buy, so that you can avoid buying the wrong thing, and having to return it. Plan to refer to this list multiple times throughout your entire time Black Friday shopping.;
, Note the time you need to arrive if the store has special sale hours. Usually, the store hours are either listed on their website, or in their Black Friday ad.


Organize your list by store or by sale hours, even if you are shopping on the Internet.
 These usually provide the most information on deals if you're shopping in store, but if you're shopping online, these usually don't give you much information about online deals, unless they are the same as the in store deals.


Visit the websites of your favorite stores or purchase newspapers and magazines to read about special deals for Black Friday.
Compare prices of the same products between different retail stores to find the best deals and savings.
Read up on each company's Black Friday policies regarding refunds, returns and price-matching before venturing out into the crowds. This will also prevent any hassle, because nothing is worse than having to return something because it was the wrong item, and then having to pay an expensive full price for the correct one.
 This is usually only used at some stores on Black Friday, so if you plan to take advantage of this, be sure to find out if the store(s) you will be going to plan to use this system.


Retail stores will hand out tickets to people waiting in line for popular sales items. The number of tickets will correspond with the exact quantity of the product.
Determine the exact items you want from each store so you can grab the tickets you need.
Take your ticket to the designated area in the store to collect your product.
Bring identification for verification purposes to stores that limit one sale item per customer.
 Often, stores have their own apps that may show their Black Friday deals.


Visit Facebook pages or Twitter feeds that include the keywords "Black Friday" to find specific deals. Applications are also available for your iPhone or Android device such as "ShopSavvy" or "Black Friday Survival Guide" that will deliver Black Friday deals and updates to your phone.
 Documentation will help avoid confusion or disputes that may arise from instances such as incorrect pricing.
 Cash is the best option, unless your credit cards or department store cards will earn you rewards or cash back on purchases.
 Make sure you check the weather before deciding what to wear, as this may help extend your shopping time, because if it's too hot or cold, you may become too uncomfortable and need to leave earlier than planned.


Wear comfortable shoes. Black Friday shopping may require you to do lots of walking or standing in long lines. Typically, all shoes are decent, but avoid flip flops and crocs, as these shoes may become too uncomfortable after awhile.
The safest way to dress is in warm clothing or in layers. Some stores may have long lines that require you to stand outdoors. Shed clothing layers later in the day if it gets too hot.
 Snacks and drinks will keep your energy and hydration levels up throughout the day, preventing you from feeling sick, tired or dizzy. However, be sure that stores allow outside food and drinks, as some may make you throw outside food and drinks away before you go into the store.
 Hold each other's places in long lines if restroom breaks are needed, or split up briefly to take advantage of deals that may occur at the same time.
 Black Friday shopping online will eliminate having to stand in line or deal with any crowds. Some companies may offer free shipping or exclusive online deals on Black Friday.

