 Some drugs have a stimulatory effect on appetite. These are usually a treatment of last resort in kittens for several reasons. First, many of the drugs are human medications, so breaking the tablets down to provide a small enough dose is extremely difficult. Second, young kittens do not have fully developed hepatic and renal function. These organs are not yet operating to maximum capacity to break drugs down, and so the kitten is potentially more vulnerable to overdose toxicity than an adult cat. Lastly, these drugs have been known to cause unpleasant side effects even in smaller doses.When your kitten is not eating because of a health problem, it is important to diagnose the underlying problem rather than mask the signs.
 A qualified animal care professional should make the decision on which drug to prescribe your kitten, if any. The most common options are described below so you can ask a veterinarian about them, and understand the general function and dosage.
 This is a human medication from the tricyclic antidepressant group. No information is available as to why, but it is noted that it has a stimulatory effect on appetite in cats. The smallest tablet size available is 15 mg, and the dose per cat is 3.5mg, equivalent to a quarter of a tablet. For a small kitten weighing less than a kg (2.2 lb) it is extremely difficult to calculate a proper dose, and you end up giving a small crumb of a tablet. This dose can be repeated once every three days.
 This is another human medication. It is an antihistamine and a serotonin re-uptake inhibitor. Again, the mechanism is not understood, but this medication stimulates appetite in cats. The dose is 0.1 – 0.5mg/kg given by mouth two or three times daily. The smallest tablet size is 4 mg, and so (just as for mirtazapine) it is extremely difficult to cut the tablet accurately into small enough pieces. As an example, a 1 kg (2.2 lb) kitten require one eighth of a 4 mg pill, and it should be kept in mind that many kittens do not reach 1 kg (2.2 lb) until they are 3 months old.
 Some cats have an idiosyncratic reaction such that a one-off dose of intravenous diazepam makes them very hungry. This only works by IV, and in small kittens it can be very difficult to find a vein large enough to catheterize. The dose is 0.5-1.0 mg/kg given once only, intravenously. Thus a 1 kg (2.2 lb) kitten requires 0.2ml of a vial of 5mg/ml emulsion of injectable diazepam.


This is a treatment of last resort because it is also associated with an unpredictable side effect that causes liver failure.
 Vitamin B plays an important role in maintaining appetite. If the level of Vitamin B, specifically cobalamin, falls too low in the bowel wall, or in the blood stream, then the kitten's appetite can fail. This is easily rectified by four, weekly subcutaneous injections of a multi B vit injection. A typical dose is 0.25 milliliters (0.0085  fl oz) given by subcutaneous injection once every four weeks.
 A side effect of steroid is appetite stimulation. In most cases of sick kittens this option would not be used because steroids also suppress the immune system, which could weaken the kitten's ability to fight off infection. If however, the kitten is protected with antibiotics, and the vet assesses that steroid is unlikely to worsen the existing infection, then a one-off dose of steroid to kick start the appetite may be appropriate. The dose range is wide, ranging from 0.01 – 4 mg/kg of dexamethasone, but a conservatively low dose is advisable for the purpose of appetite stimulation. Thus a 1 kg (2.2 kg) kitten requires 0.5mg of dexamethasone, which in a formulation containing 2mg/ml equates to 0.25ml by intramuscular injection.

