 There is no specific way to diagnose leptospirosis because there are so many variations of the disease. Diagnosis is done on suspicion of the disease. For example, the vet will consider the geographical area and the exposure of the dog to likely contaminated environments. The vet will also consider the dog’s symptoms.A dog with a fever of unknown origin, with acute kidney or liver failure, and likely exposure should be suspected of having leptospirosis.
There are blood tests that can be done to check for a few variations, but these are not commonly available in the veterinary clinic. Blood test results may show signs of infection or kidney or liver damage. Urine testing may also show kidney damage or infection.
 Treatment is usually supportive care and antibiotics. Supportive care can include IV fluids to help with kidney or liver damage or to rehydrate a dog that is vomiting or having diarrhea. Anti-vomiting medication and medication to control diarrhea can also be used.


The most commonly used antibiotic is doxycycline, which is used for at least two weeks. Only your veterinarian can prescribe antibiotics., Leptospirosis is caused by bacteria called leptospires.There are a number of varieties of leptospirosis, and which one your dog may be exposed to depends upon your geographical location.The bacteria travel via the bloodstream and lymphatic system throughout the body. They grow until the body’s immune system fights them.If the body is unable to fight the bacteria, the bacteria will replicate in many body organs for three to 20 days before circulating in the blood. Eventually, the spirochetes are excreted from the body via the urine to be spread to other animals, including dogs and possibly humans., The disease is most common in warm climates with high annual rainfall and in rural areas where dogs are more likely to come into contact with wildlife and livestock which have contaminated the environment and water with their urine.Dogs can also contract it in urban areas with heavy rat populations or by coming in contact with raw sewage in an urban environment.Dogs become infected by either drinking contaminated water or by the spirochetes entering the body through mucous membranes, cuts, or abrasions.
Bites from an infected animal or consuming flesh of infected animals can also spread this disease.
Children are at the highest risk for humans to contract leptospirosis from their pets.