 Your first step in creating a photo mug is to find a mug you would like to customize. You can use any mug that you would like. However, you might want to consider the color, texture and shape of the mug. Generally, smooth mugs with a regular shape will work best. Mugs with a solid color that match the colors in your photo will also work better.


Mugs with a bumpy or rough surface may be difficult to attach an image to.
Mugs with unusual shapes can warp an image.;
, Once you've selected a mug that you want to customize, you can pick out one of your favorite photos to use. You can choose any photo you'd like to print out and apply to your mug. Have fun picking out a picture that you think would be a good fit.It's likely that your photo will need to be in a digital format to allow for easy printing.
Your photo will need to be printed out.
 Before you print your photo out and apply it to the mug, you should check the print size of the image. You will want to make sure that the image will fit in the area of the mug you've selected. Any image that is too big or too small may end up making your mug look differently than you had planned.


It can be useful to measure the planned image space on your mug before printing.
Before you print, most printers will give you a “print preview”. This will likely tell you the dimensions of the printed image.
If the image is too large or small, you will have to resize the image.
 Now that you have an image ready to print, you should load up your printer with transfer paper. Transfer paper is special printing paper that will allow you to permanently stick the image onto your mug. Make sure your printer is loaded with transfer paper and not regular paper before printing.Transfer paper can be easily purchased on-line.
Large chain stores will likely have transfer paper in stock. Check in the craft or printing paper sections.
 Some transfer printing papers are already coated with an outside seal. However, if your transfer paper is not, you will need to apply a clear acrylic coat to the image once it has been printed. This will help make the image last longer and will make your mug dishwasher safe.You can find clear acrylic coating in most hardware or home improvement stores.
Large chain stores will likely carry acrylic coating.
Make sure you fully coat the entire image you are using.
Allow the coating plenty of time to dry before continuing. The amount of time it takes for your acrylic coating to dry will vary depending on the type you've used. Some take only a few minutes, while others take hours.
 After your coating has dried, you can cut the image out, trimming away the rest of the paper sheet. Once the image is the size and shape you want, you will need to soak it in water for a few minutes. This will prepare the image for application to the mug. Fill a small bowl up with water.
Put the images you want to apply into the water after you've cut them out.
Make sure the images are fully submerged.
The images will need to soak for around one minute before you can apply them to the mug.
 Once your image has soaked in water, it is ready to be applied to the mug. Take the image out of the water, remove any backing from the paper, and stick it on the mug. You can make some adjustments to the positioning of the image before it dries, so don't worry about getting it perfect at first.Once you have the image where you want it, allow it plenty of time to dry.
Some images will take longer to dry than others, depending on the type of transfer paper you used.
Read the instructions on your transfer paper to learn exactly how long your mug needs to dry.
 After the image has dried in place, you'll want to wash the mug before using it. This will clean away any residue from the application process. Once your mug is clean, you can start using it and enjoying your newly decorated mug.