 As such, agencies require collectors to have either an associate’s or a bachelor’s degree. Preferred degrees are Accounting and Business, but if your degree is in another field, you can supplement it by taking additional classes.Although companies will accept a wide range of degrees, most agencies are looking for someone with an Accounting or Business degree.
If you have another type of degree, it would be helpful to take an Accounting or Business class so that you can include that on your resume.
If you have already left college, try taking the class at a local community college or a continuing education center. Classes are typically inexpensive and can be taken for no credit.
 In addition to having a college degree, agencies often require two years or more of experience in the debt collection field.


Starting as a consumer debt collector is an easy way to gain experience. Since they only require a high school diploma, you can even work in the field while you’re earning your college degree.
If you'd like to be a commercial debt collector directly out of college, consider applying for a consumer debt collector position prior to entering your junior year. By the time you graduate with a four-year degree, you will have had two years of experience in the debt collection field.
Do an online search for "consumer debt collector jobs near me." Indeed.com, Monster.com and Careerbuilder.com are all good sites to search as well. Look for jobs that are either part-time or allow you to work from home and apply.
 Since you will be interacting with customers on a regular basis and recording information for the agency, you will need to have proficiency in most Microsoft programs.


If you aren’t familiar or as comfortable with one of the programs, sign up for a course at your local continuing education center or community college.
If it's not already on your computer, you can purchase the Microsoft office suite at any major retail store. Try playing around with the various programs to increase your knowledge of the various programs.
 Include pertinent information such as your name, address, telephone number and email address. List your education first, followed by your work experience. Most importantly, find an example of a job you'd like to apply to and customize your resume to that particular job.


Look online at one of the job sites, such as Monster, Careerbuilder or Indeed. Do a search for "commercial debt jobs." Click on any of the listings and scroll down to the "Qualifications" section.
Write descriptions under each of your work experiences, which tie into the job posting. For example, if the qualification is, "ability to multi-task," make sure to include a sentence about how you handled multitasking at your previous job.
Don't exaggerate your qualifications. If something is listed that you haven't done before, don't lie about it.
Highlight your Microsoft skills at the bottom of your resume, but be honest. If you’re not comfortable using one of the programs, don’t list it on your resume.
Make sure to also highlight math and accounting skills on your resume, as commercial debt collectors often need to resolve billing disputes.
 One of the best ways to quickly send out your resume to a number of different companies is to use online resources such as Monster, Careerbuilder or Indeed.


Type up a cover letter ahead of time, which briefly describes your previous work experiences and/or education.
The cover letter should also include your personal, contact information and should contain four main parts - the introduction, the first paragraph, second paragraph and conclusion.Use the first and second paragraphs to detail past work experiences, which are relevant to the position you are applying for.
You can often use the same resume to apply to multiple positions, but be sure to customize the introduction of your cover letter, to include the name of the company you're applying to.

