 You and your partner may have already engaged in significantly intimate behavior. However, you now no longer desire to continue intimate engagement at that level. Recognize that you have the right to have a change of heart; past intimacy does not give your partner the right to expect or demand that you continue doing so.


If your partner tries to pressure you into continuing to be physically intimate because of his or her needs, remember the importance of not to putting someone else’s needs over your own. Doing so only benefits your partner and not you., Your partner is likely to be disappointed to learn that the two of you won’t be physically intimate. Provide your partner the opportunity to share how they feel. Try to listen with compassion to demonstrate that their feelings are valid. However, be sure you are honest about your needs and the reasons of what led to your decision.


For example, perhaps you’ve now decided that you want to hold off on having sex until you are engaged. You could say, “I’ve done some thinking about our relationship, and even though I’ve enjoyed having sex with you, I recognize that it no longer feels like the right thing for me to do until we’re in a more serious relationship.”

, Sexual intimacy has a broad definition and extends beyond just sexual intercourse. What you and someone else considers to be acceptable and unacceptable levels of sexual intimacy can be very different.Make sure you are clear with your partner on the type of intimacy you are currently comfortable with.


Are you comfortable with just kissing and hugging, or are you willing to engage in even more intimate behavior without going all the way? Communicate this openly with your partner. For example, you might say, “I really enjoy cuddling with you when we are on the couch. I want us to continue doing that.”

, Intimacy in a relationship isn’t just sexual. Relationships are also made up of emotional, experiential, and intellectual intimacy. Be sure to communicate your intimacy desires in these areas as well.Let your partner know how important it is for the two of you to share your innermost thoughts and feelings. Tell him or her how often you would like to enjoy various dating experiences together like bike riding, going to the movies, etc. Assure your partner that you enjoy when the two of you discuss your ideas and values about life and other topics of interest., Over the past three or four decades, the term “Defining the Relationship” or DTR has grown popular.Oftentimes when someone slows down a relationship, it can create confusion about the relationship status. You can clear up any potential confusion for you and your partner by clearly defining your relationship.


Ask your partner, “Are we just friends, or are we something more? Are we dating exclusively, or are we free to see others? How committed are we to each other?”