 Sometimes, relationships are just wrong and cannot be saved. For your sake, and for the sake of your mental health, try hard to recognize as early as possible whether or not this relationship is worth working on. Remember that it’s unlikely that your abuser will change.Don’t allow yourself to cling to the relationship because you are scared of letting go. Remind yourself of all the pain this person has caused, and that it is better for you to cut it off. It may be hard to imagine your life without the relationship, but you deserve to be treated with more respect.
Don’t ever let abuse go on or make excuses for your partner’s behavior.
 Recognize that abusers rarely change, and it’s likely the abuse with escalate with time, and can turn into physical violence.With this in mind, prioritize your safety. You may respond to threats differently if you fear violence, such as avoiding them or not fighting back. While not defending yourself may be difficult or hurt you, remember that you are prioritizing your safety until you can make you next move.


If you are in immediate danger and fear for your safety or well-being, call the Emergency Services and immediately get to safety.
If your home feels unsafe, go to a sibling’s home, a friend’s home, or somewhere where you feel safe.
Prioritize your child’s safety. If you have a child or children, protect them. Send them somewhere safe like a friend’s house.
 You may need to call for help, call police, or deal with an emergency situation regarding your safety. Have a phone charged and ready at all times to ensure your safety.Program your speed dial to anyone you may need to call in an emergency, including friends, family, or police.
 When planning an escape, think about any risks that may be present. If you leave with children, for example, make sure your partner will not go after them or try to harm them. You may even want to escape to a different location than your children if you are concerned about both your and their safety. Go to someplace that is safe and that you will be protected from your partner. This may include a friend’s house, your parent’s or sibling’s home, or a shelter.Always be careful when leaving an abusive relationship, even one that's "just" emotionally abusive. You can get help in establishing a safety plan by calling the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-SAFE (7233).
Ask for help from a friend or family member who may be able to help you escape quickly. This person can help you gather your things, watch the kids, or act as your getaway person to leave quickly.
Many shelters accommodate children and pets.
 Once you have successfully escaped the relationship, don’t allow your partner into your life on any terms. He or she may try to sweet talk you, apologize, or say that things have changed. Remember that it’s more than likely that the behavior will start up again, even if your partner promises that it will never happen again. Allow yourself to heal on your own terms, without your partner.Delete this person’s phone number and remove any ties you have on social media. You may even want to change your own phone number.
Don’t try to show your partner that you’re better off without him or her. Allow healing to be personal, just for you.
 Remind yourself that the abuse was not your fault. Nobody deserves to be abused in any capacity, and nothing you did made you deserve to be treated like that. Find ways to be happy. Write in your journal, go for a walk, and engage in activities you find fun, like hiking drawing., Find a mental health professional who can help you work through the situation. A therapist can help you with the emotional side of leaving, and help you cope with any feelings of depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress, or anger. A therapist can help you cope with the situation and work through the challenging emotions you may have.


To learn more about seeing a therapist, check out How to Tell if You Need to See a Therapist.

