 Designate which furniture and items are no longer wanted. You could sell these in a yard sale or donate them for someone else to enjoy.


Remove modern things that are no longer functional, wanted or in good condition. While you will still need some modern things, such as your music player or a docking station, you can change enough things in the room for it to look vintage.;
, There are lots of places to rummage through and other places to check online to find affordable vintage items. Some suggestions include:


Check out auctions sites such as eBay. These will have vintage sections, such as for vintage linens, vintage furniture and vintage décor, etc. You can use the term "vintage" with any item you are looking to use. Check the condition, the price and the shipping cost, remembering that it's usually best to pick up furniture from local sellers (take your parents along with you).
Look in thrift stores, charity shops or opportunity shops. These stores usually have a variety of items and some of these may be just what you're after. Enjoy the shopping experience––it will be eclectic but entertaining.
Go to yard sales, garage sales, or look for freebie giveaways. These are great ways of finding very cheap items. Always check the quality and be wary of stains, rips and missing parts. Check furniture for signs of insect infestation. If something looks a bit off, smells bad or has bad vibes, don't get it.
Ask friends and family. You never know what people have stashed away in their attics or basements that they no longer want; they may be willing to give you things for free. Spread the word that you're making over your room in the vintage style and opportunities may just crop up.
 If you're allowed to give the walls a makeover, you could add vintage-style wallpaper or paper banners, or repaint the room a new color, matched to the vintage era that interests you.


It's a good idea to borrow a book on the vintage era you like, to get the color and design ideas as accurate as possible.
 If it's okay with your parents, and you can find some nice vintage curtains, this will help to give your room an instant vintage feel.


Another alternative, if you can sew, is to make curtains of your own using vintage style fabric.
 The bed can be made to look vintage in a variety of ways. Here are a few ideas for inspiration:


Change the bed cover. Use a lovely old quilt or one made using old-time fabrics. Or, you could purchase an old crocheted or knitted bed cover.
Find sheets with vintage prints on them, such as florals and pastels. Neutrals are good too, as they won't clash with the bed cover.
Choose old-fashioned cushions and pillows to decorate the bed with.
Throws are a nice vintage idea, or afghan blankets.


Keep your mattress new. Vintage mattresses are likely to be a bit lumpy and may harbor pests.
 There are lots of possibilities for vintage pieces and accessories, some of which is about reinventing things to serve a new purpose. Some ideas for vintage décor includes:


Add floral lampshades
Make a display (and storage) row of vintage tins from chocolates, candies, cookies, etc.
Hang up old pictures or photographs
Find old advertising items, such as posters and toys
Use vintage jewelry to add a touch of nostalgia; hang it around the mirror, leave it on the dressing table
Use old figurines and china ware for display and for keeping things in
Purchase a vintage lamp or two. (Just ask your parents to check that the electrics are safe.)

, For example, while changing your bed might be too pricey and out of the question, a new bedside table, a small wardrobe or a chest of drawers might be doable. By having just a few key pieces, you can help give the impression that the whole room is vintage.
 Although not vintage, they do help to set off the eclectic and fun atmosphere you've created for your room. Plus, they're just lovely to have.

Fabric bunting or garlands are nice too. A row of triangular flags made from old world fabric or blankets can be just the thing to add a sense of vintage to the room.

