 Most vets argue that extra weight on your dog’s frame can lead to stress and pressure on his joints, especially his hip joints. A poor diet, lacking in nutrition, can also lead to poor bone growth and other joint and cartilage abnormalities in puppies and adult dogs. Manage your dog’s weight to prevent obesity and avoid putting unnecessary stress on his joints.Look for high quality commercial dog food that is preserved with vitamin E or another natural preservative. These products will have no chemicals and contain high-quality meat instead of meat byproducts. You may have to pay more for higher quality dog food that is full of good sources of protein, carbohydrates, and fat. But it will be worth it if it keeps your dog healthy and ensures he does not end up overweight.You should also look at your dog’s current physical state. Does he look bloated or overly round in his middle area? Research has proven that dogs who are kept very lean during their early, puppy years may have a reduced risk of developing hip problems. Keeping your dog thin and active can help prevent any issues associated with obesity.;
, You should ensure your dog is getting enough vitamins and minerals by giving him antioxidant vitamins C and E. You can also give him Perna supplements. These supplements contain 57 nutrients and are good for strengthening your dog’s joints.


Speak to your vet about the right supplements for your dog and the proper dosage for each supplement before you give any supplements to your dog. Often, supplements are crushed into your dog’s food so they are easy for him to consume.
 Your vet can help you develop a diet for your dog that can help to reduce his weight, or help him keep weight off. Many large breeds are susceptible to overeating, so your vet may be able to offer advice on how to better control your dog’s diet.


Your dog may also have certain allergies or other conditions that may be causing obesity. Ask your vet to check for other health issues that may be affecting your dog’s weight.
 Over-exercising your dog when he is young can lead to bone and joint issues that may lead to the development of hip dysplasia. Gentle, low impact exercises can be beneficial for puppies, but avoid letting your pup run, leap, or jump until he is physically mature.High impact sports like jumping and leaping can be hard on your puppy’s developing joints, so avoid doing these activities with your puppy until he is fully developed.
 Keep your dog active to help him stay physically fit with moderate exercise like running, walking, and swimming. Dogs with large, strong leg muscle mass may be less likely to develop hip dysplasia than dogs with a smaller muscle mass., Activities that might apply too much force on your dog’s joints, such as jumping for a Frisbee or leaping for a ball, can lead to development of hip issues. Consistent walking, running, and swimming can help your dog build muscle strength without putting too much stress on his body., Your dog may not show signs of hip dysplasia until he is between four month and one year old. There is a spectrum of symptoms, from no symptoms at all to wobbling, weaving, or an unsteady gait. Your dog may also bunny hop when he runs, or be averse to strenuous exercise or activity.


If you suspect your dog might have hip dysplasia, it’s best to bring him to your vet for testing. The earlier you get the diagnosis, the sooner you can treat your dog’s condition and help to manage any pain or discomfort he may be experiencing.
 Your vet will examine and touch your dog’s hips to feel for any looseness in the joints or any pain reactions from your dog when she flexes or extends his hip joints.


X-rays will help your vet confirm your dog has hip dysplasia and determine how serious his condition is.
 There are several different surgical procedures available to correct your dog’s hip dysplasia. However, the surgery recommended for your dog will depend on his age, weight, and size. Your vet may recommend two different surgical options:


Triple Pelvic Osteotomy, which is used on young puppies.
Total Hip Replacement is recommended for dogs with degenerative arthritis or chronic hip dysplasia.

