 TSA guidelines specifically allow you to carry your child's diabetes supplies and medications through airport security checkpoints.However, passing through security will be more efficient if medications are labeled in their own containers and placed in a clear plastic bag. Declare the items and remove them from your carry-on for screening. Screening by X-ray does not harm insulin or other medications.
To ensure that your child's diabetes is handled discretely at the Security Checkpoint, consider printing out and bringing an optional TSA Disability Notification Card., If no meal is available, be sure to bring a healthy meal for your child that he/she can eat on board.


If meals are offered on your flight, advise the airline at least 24 hours in advance of the flight to check whether a diabetic meal can be arranged.
Be sure to carry a fast-acting source of glucose, as well as snacks like nutrition bars, so you can quickly boost your child's blood sugar if it should dip during travel.
 If you expect that your child will need to go to the restroom to check his/her blood sugar during the flight, you should ask for an aisle seat. This will allow them to quickly get to the restroom without disturbing other passengers.


On long flights, check your child's blood sugar every 2 hours.
 When traveling long distances eastward, your day will shorten. On the other hand, traveling westward will lengthen your day. This can create problems with your child's normal schedule for taking insulin and other medications.


To combat this, it may be useful to keep track of medications and meals by keeping your watch on your home time zone until you have settled at your destination.
If your child uses an insulin pump, you may need to adjust the clock on their pump to the usual mealtime when your child eats, and to their usual bedtime if he or she goes to sleep. Once you arrive at your destination, you can set it to the local time.
Your medical provider can give you more detailed advice about planning insulin doses when crossing time zones.
 Each day of your trip should be thoroughly planned out so you know exactly what you are doing each day and whether there are any measures you need to take to ensure your child has access to all tourist attractions and activities.


Prepare for visits to special events, secured sites, concerts, and amusement parks. Check about policies for visitors who are diabetic. Call ahead to inquire about security that prohibits backpacks, storage cases, or food and drink and be prepared with a letter from the medical provider that documents your child's diabetes.
Inquire at amusement parks to see if “special assistance passes” are offered for diabetics and their families to allow you to avoid long lines and wait times., Before you go anywhere, think about what type of food will be available throughout the day and consider whether adjustments to your child's usual diet will be necessary.


Excitement, heat, and being off-schedule can lead to low blood sugar so be prepared with plenty of water and snacks.
Make reservations for meals if eating out to avoid long wait times.

