 Like all forms of advertising, writing a successful real estate classified ad requires an in-depth understanding of your intended audience. You will want to craft your ad such that you can reach potential buyers or renters, as well as their agents and brokers, and convince them to contact you. Start by identifying exactly who you want to respond to your ad. For real estate, this will boil down to the group of people who are interested in your property and who can afford it.


This, in turn, will depend on the type of property you are selling. For example, for an urban property in an up-and-coming part of town, you might focus on young professionals.
If the property is expensive, you might specifically focus your efforts on wealthy young professionals.
The more you can focus in on your target demographic, the more easily you will be able to craft your ad to appeal to them.;
, Once you've narrowed-down your target audience, you can begin figuring out which publications or websites they are most likely to use. The two most popular options for all audiences are newspaper classified ads and internet ads on websites like Craigslist, Zillow, and others. Younger homebuyers or renters may be more inclined to look online, whereas older ones may stick to the newspaper.


For a niche audience, you may also have luck with magazine ads. Just remember that your ad will not be in front of readers for at least 30 to 60 days in most cases.You should also consider local newsletters and weekly magazines, especially if they have large classified sections., Another useful tactic in selecting the right publication and planning your ad is to study the publication's classified section. Look for where your competitors are advertising. If you don't see them in a particular classified section, the publication may not be worth advertising in. In any case, make sure the publication has a large classified section, as this can be indicative of reader interest in classified ads.


Contact the publication and ask for a free media kit. You will likely receive a free copy of the publication that you can use for research, along with ad data and pricing.
When you have the publication, look through the classified ads already there. Which ones catch your eye? What is it about their pictures, headline, or information that interests you? Make a list of these qualities so that you can apply them to your own ad., Depending on the publication or website, there will be a number of classified categories available. For example, there may be separate categories for rentals or homes for sale, or perhaps there are separate categories based on location, price, or another metric. In any case, be sure to choose the right category for your ad. Be as specific as possible so that your ad is targeted directly at your intended audience., Your audience will see many ads, so you want a headline that will stand out. Use words that will appeal to your audience. Focus on including information most important to a potential buyers. For example, if you have an expensive home you are selling, a good headline might be "Luxury Home in Gated Community." This indicates a higher price range and exclusivity of a gated community.


Consider also including information such as that the property is move-in ready or open for viewings today. Alternately, you could include the bed/bath count as a simple number, such as 2/2.
If you anticipate that nearby locations, like schools, a downtown area, or parks are important to buyers, include that in the headline. For example, you could modify the previous headline to "Luxury Home, Short Walk to Downtown.", You will likely need to keep your ad short, so make every word count. List bonus features and benefits such as a remodeled kitchen, a pool in the backyard, a good school district and fresh paint. Then, be descriptive and sell those features. For example, instead of saying "3 bedroom home with yard," try "3 spacious bedrooms on a corner lot." Instead of just saying "fireplace," say "fireplace in a cozy den."


You can also soften the blow of negative aspects with careful phrasing. For example, a home that needs some repairs is not a "fixer-upper," but instead "needs some TLC" or is "a handyman special."
Include any special architectural elements, amenities, or nearby points of interest as well., Readers will want to know immediately if the property meets their needs. Include general information such as the number of bedrooms, number of bathrooms, and square footage. If you are unsure of the exact square footage, use words like "spacious" or "cozy" to describe the size of the property. Most importantly, always remember to include the list price. In most cases, this is what potential buyers will want to see first., You want your readers to do something after they read the ad, so make sure you are clear about what that is. Provide a sense of urgency. For example, write "won't last long" when you advertise a good price. Print details about any open houses or scheduled visits. Invite people to visit the property by leaving the address as well as the date and time they are welcome to see it.


A call to action might take the form of something like "Register here for a viewing" or "Call now to get introductory pricing."

, This might be the selling agent's name or the property manager's information. Leave a phone number if you want people to call you or your agent. You can put your office number or cell phone number in the ad, or set up a recorded hotline that people can call for additional information. Include an email address or website if you want people to contact you electronically.
 Pictures will enhance your ad. If you have the budget to buy extra ad space, try to include one or two photos of the exterior and interior. Buyers are usually most interested in a simple shot of the front of the property, so make sure yours is professional-looking. If you lack the skill or camera quality to get this type of photo, the cost of hiring a professional photographer might be worth it.Consider using a virtual tour. This is helpful when your classified ad is online and able to link to other sites.
 Link to applicable maps and directions when you are writing an online classified ad. You can, and should, also link out to your website. From there, you can track traffic from this ad to your site using a tool like Google Analytics., Your classified ad should create desire for the real estate you are advertising. Use emotional words, including "scenic, lavish, charming, comfortable and cozy." These words make the reader feel something positive about the property described in the ad. Avoid over-used and meaningless words like great, nice, and clean. These will do nothing to create a picture of the property in your readers' minds.


Emotion appeals may also be tied to location. For example, if you are near the beach, include the distance to it in minutes. This will make people imagine their frequent, quick trips to the beach from this property., Potential buyers of any type have a problem that they believe that a new purchase will solve. For real estate, this might be their poor location, overpriced rent, or shoddy quality of their current accommodations. Promise to solve these potential buyers' problems in your ads. For example, try something like, "Looking for cheap housing near the downtown area? Look no further!". Focus on how the move will help your potential buyers lead a better or easier life., Whether you are using a free site such as Craigslist, an online newspaper, or the Multiple Listing Service (MLS), keywords are important to drive traffic to your ad when people search the internet. Include key words related to your listing that you think buyers will search. These will cover the same bases as most of your listing information should, such as the size of the home, a descriptor of quality like luxury or affordable, and nearby amenities.
 Once you've written your ad, check the word count. Even if you're not limited to a certain size, you'll need to focus what you've written to make it more easily digestible. Cut out any words or sentences that don't add value to your overall message. If possible, shorten your phrases to their simplest parts. For example, instead of writing "This affordable apartment is located downtown," try "Save money! Live downtown!".


You can also abbreviate words if necessary, like Bed for bedroom or 2/2 for 2 beds/2 baths. Just make sure that your abbreviations are easily understandable and commonly-used. Avoid using any industry jargon that the average reader would not know.