 There are many ideas to consider:


Different flavors of popcorn—tie in small cellophane bags with ribbon.
Individual packages of fruit or applesauce—even pudding is a better alternative than candy. These are usually sold in packs of six or four. Just break them up and give an individual pack to each child.
Little packets of organic raisins (sultanas)—but see dentist's concerns below.
Granola (muesli) bars (but watch their sugar content also).
Low-sugar, trans fat-free cookies from health food stores. If these are not wrapped individually, wrap large cookies in cellophane and tape together; make little cellophane bundles of smaller cookies.
Bundle little pretzels in cellophane.
Cheese sticks and wrapped cheese (like Babybel); try cheese cubes for parties.
Small apples and mandarin oranges are possible, but be aware that many parents are wary of fruit due to scares about pins etc. being inserted into them. You could investigate packaged sliced apples in clear wrapping as a compromise. Or make a fruit bowl at home just for your own kids and play games like apple bobbing.

Nuts ‘n bolts—vary seasoning to suit little palates.
Instant spiced apple mix or hot chocolate mix.
Fruit bars—there are many pure fruit bars available now. The thin ones are especially good value and will slip into many treat bags as a filler.
Individual homemade fruit sweetened cookies.
If it's a warm night, fruit juice ice treats might be a good choice, especially for a party.
Plain dark chocolate is better than candy. Make sure it has no cream filling or high sugar content. Some claim chocolate even helps to prevent tooth decay. It has certainly been proven that the antioxidants in dark chocolate are healthy. Purchase small pieces in little packets or package small pieces in cellophane.;
, Instead of candy, look in dollar stores, party stores, toy stores, etc., for cheap, fun playthings. Buy in bulk if possible and repackage into little treat bags. Look for small games that are given out as party treats, but beware giving out tiny toys to tiny tots. Here are some possibilities to look for:


Halloween pencils, pens, erasers
Stickers with Halloween themes
Magic tricks
Joke, puzzle or maze books
Plastic or rubber animals or figurines
Balloons, party whistles
Miniature cars and dolls
Comic books from the quarter-bin at your local comic shop
Cards (playing, baseball etc)
Miniature jigsaw puzzles

, If you have a set amount of children at a Halloween party, you might like to consider giving each child an entry coupon instead of candy. Unless you're bankrolling your neighborhood's Halloween though, you won't be able to use this idea for kids who come to the door!

, Kids can still have all the fun and haunting, but serve healthier food like pizza, dips and pita pieces, and fresh fruit. Focus on the games more than the food and give good non-food prizes. As an added bonus, you know where the kids are. If it's for older kids, expect a lot of loud and scary sounds, very corny jokes and unexpected ghostly antics. Put breakables away in a safe place.
 Maybe this sounds corny, but it is a healthy reminder to kids getting so much candy that brushing their teeth is really important. If you're lucky, you might find Halloween themed toothbrushes. You will probably have more luck with this idea if you give out a treat or toy in addition to the toothbrush. If not, be prepared for being "tricked."

, Turn your front yard or porch into a wonderland that kids will marvel at. Use light and sound to greatest effect. Tell visiting kids that the display is their treat. It had better be good though, or you’ll be in for a trick!


This idea can also backfire, as kids usually expect houses decorated for Halloween to give out treats and your big attractive display may have them anticipating a big candy reward. Best bet: decorate like crazy, and give out light treats.
 Instead of banning sugary snacks altogether, try allowing a limited amount or making rules beforehand about how many treats your kids can have each day.


If you're hosting a party, kids may feel deprived if they don't get to go trick-or-treating and you won't give them any candy at all. In addition to healthy treats, fun party games, and spooky decorations, make a small amount of traditional candy available. (It will probably still be less than they'd get if they actually went out.)
Give each child a goody bag with some small toys, a mix of healthy and sugary treats, and a fun toothbrush. For very young children, see if you can find a small book about brushing your teeth to make the toothbrush seem like a better gift.
 Try not to make too big a deal out of the candy. A little candy is better than a long, sad memory of being totally denied treats at Halloween. Talk sensibly with them about diet, health and good eating habits at all times, not just at Halloween, so that they grow to understand the relationship between eating and body health.


Help them to learn that some indulgence on special occasions is okay, as long as they don't consume too much and they accept that treats belong only to very special occasions. Kids are perfect at understanding and your continued support and good example are what they need the most.

