 If the tree is too tall, you won't be able to fit a star or an angel on it. Don't forget to account for the height of your stand and the area in which you plan to put your tree. You will want it indoors because many come with lights.
 Some people prefer short fat trees, others long, skinny trees, still others prefer the "perfect" cone shaped tree. Most people prefer fat trees or "perfectly" shaped trees. This is not always possible. If you get a tree that is to big find a bigger space where you can still see your tree.
 Place it in the room where you'd like to set it up. You can use an artificial Christmas tree in almost any room except for where there could be an open fire nearby, such as a kitchen or another room where a fire could erupt at any point via a cigarette or other type of fire-creator/lighter.
 Clean away any pieces of furniture that sit in that particular area and vacuum the area to kill all the dust mites and spider webs that may have accumulated there.
 Some stands come already in one piece, while others require a little assembly. If the Christmas tree stand comes in multiple pieces, you'll need to attach piece by piece, making sure they are all facing downward the same way in the radial direction. Typically, these pieces/legs slide onto the main base easily, as long as they're facing the right direction.
 Most newer trees come in two or three sections, ready to be easily connected.


Start with the bottom piece, slotting the bottom of the pole into the top of the base.
Then tackle the second and third sections, one by one.
For each level, you'll see a connection point in the interior of the tops and bottoms of each section, where two poles slot into one another. The instructions on the box for your particular tree can also offer further help.
With pre-lit trees, you'll have to connect the pole and the electrical cord for each tree piece.
, Most artificial Christmas trees are stored "bunched up" and can look sparse when unpacked. Push some of the branches into a more-realistic looking place instead of having them be tightly folded up.


If the branches are the wire variety, bend them into the desired position, spreading out the branches and angling them slightly up, ready for decorations.

