 Some women find that their breasts appear smaller than they actually are when they have a slumped or slouched posture. For an instant boost to your bust line, simply straighten up! Stand up straight, hold your head high, and draw your shoulders back. Keep your neck straight up-and-down; don't let it slide forward. Push your chest out gently as you stand and walk. Now, take a look in the mirror. You may be surprised what a difference this simple trick has made!;
, One often-ignored way to make your breasts appear bigger is simply by wearing clothing that accentuates your natural curves. For instance, any sort of shirt with puffy, frilly, or ruffled material in the chest area can give the illusion that your breasts are larger than they actually are. The same effect can be achieved with well-worn scarves.


Another good bet is to wear shirts with horizontal-striped patterns on the chest. For the same reason that people worried about their weight like to avoid wearing these types of clothing, people looking to enhance the size of their chest may want to use these volume-adding patterns.
 Wearing a bra that is either too small or too large can leave your breasts appearing smaller than they actually are. Make sure you don't wear a big bra just to make your breast bigger, but wear a bra that allows your breast to lift. On top of this, poorly-sized bras can be just plain uncomfortable! Ideally, bras should support and lift the breasts, not flatten them or allow them to hang loosely. If you think that you may be wearing the wrong bra size, ask for a fitting the next time you go lingerie shopping. Some women who spend years using one size of bra find that after a re-fitting they look (and feel) measurably better.
 A good padded bra can add noticeable volume to your bust while also making your breasts look perkier. Push-up bras, on the other hand, can add lots of "lift" to your breasts, giving the appearance of a larger, fuller bust. Using these types of bras is a great quick-fix for outfits that go from looking good to great with a slightly larger chest.


Though some sources may recommend it, in general, it's a bad idea to wear multiple bras, regardless of the type of bras being used. Though this can make your breasts look a little bigger if it's applied to correctly, it can be awfully uncomfortable and will probably have you spending lots of time adjusting yourself throughout the day.
 If you are concerned with your breast size, you may want to avoid wearing thin, lacy bras. These bras may look tremendous on lingerie store mannequins, but on real people, they can prove unflattering. Because they can provide little in the way of padding or lift, these types of bras can leave your bust size lacking. Instead, opt for a padded bra or a push-up bra to make the most of your natural size.


You'll also want to avoid extra-tight bras like sports bras (unless of course, you're exercising), as they tend to flatten your chest rather than accentuating it. This is great if you're looking to have a hassle-free work out, but not so good if you're trying to maximize your curves.
 This middle-school trick can make your breasts look bigger, but it should be seen as an absolute last resort. Using tissue or cloth to artificially add size to your breasts can be quite uncomfortable, especially if this extra material causes you to sweat or irritates your skin. If your extra padding shifts, it can even give your breasts an uneven or lumpy appearance. Also, there's always the chance that, despite your best preparations, your padding falls out or slides up your chest and becomes visible. Because of this, you'll want to avoid stuffing your bra unless you feel that you positively have to.

