 Some people believe it's best to leave a blister as it is until it heals because the skin over the blister is like a natural band-aid that provides a barrier against infection. Draining a blister increases the risk of infection, especially if you have a chronic condition like diabetes, HIV, cancer, or heart disease.If you can avoid draining it, the best way to let a blister heal is by applying a moleskin pad to it and leaving it undisturbed.


Use a doughnut-shaped moleskin pad. This will leave the area directly over the blister open so it can breathe and heal.Moleskin pads reduce friction to the surface of the blister, allowing it to heal on its own.
Change the padding daily, and keep the area clean.;
, A bandage will provide similar protection as a moleskin pad, but will completely cover the blister (instead of leaving the top area open). A simple adhesive bandage will do, and it should help keep the skin intact while also reducing some of the friction.A bandage is more protective, but may not reduce friction as well as a moleskin pad.
You can use clean gauze and medical tape to cover larger blisters.Change the bandaging every day, and keep the area clean.
 Blister plasters are not actually made of plaster. Instead, the blister plaster acts as a second layer of skin, and protects the blister even when your skin is wet.Rub the blister plaster gently between your hands (provided your hands are clean). This can help improve the blister plaster's ability to stick to your skin.
Apply the plaster taut over the skin, covering the entire blister. This will help reduce pain while allowing the blister to heal.
Change the plaster daily, and keep the area clean.
 If you can keep the blister covered and it is not causing you any problems, it's best to let it heal on its own. However, if the blister is swollen, filled with fluid, and making it difficult to row or perform other tasks, then you may want to consider lancing and draining the blister in a sterile procedure.Only you will be able to accurately assess how functional your blister is.
If you are unsure of how to proceed, or do not feel capable of safely draining the blister in a sterile manner, talk to your doctor about how to treat or manage the blister.

