 Henna is a plant-based powder that has been used for centuries to dye hair, skin, nails, and much more. Although the powder is green, henna will naturally dye your hair a reddish-orange.Mix about three tablespoons (45 grams) of henna powder with enough boiling water to form a thick paste. Then, let the mixture sit in a cool, dark place for about 12 hours.


When the mixture is ready, put on disposable gloves and apply it to your hair with a tint brush. Pile your hair on top of your head and wrap it in plastic wrap. Let sit for at least one hour, and for as long as four hours for a more intense color.Rinse with water and a gentle conditioner when your time is up.
 You can also use tea made from certain herbs and flowers to give your hair a reddish tint. Use half a cup (about 72 grams) of flowers and herbs for every cup (eight ounces) of water. Some of the best herbs and flowers to use for red hair include calendula (marigold) flowers,hibiscus, and rose hips.Steep the herbs in the water until it has cooled to room temperature. Transfer to a spray bottle and apply as before. Wrap your hair in plastic and rinse with water after an hour. Repeat weekly.
 Open a fresh can of tomato juice. Reserve about two cups (16 ounces) of juice and refrigerate the rest for other uses. Either dip your fingers into the juice and then massage the juice into your hair and roots, or apply the juice to your hair with a tint brush.


When all your hair is saturated, pile it on top of your head or twist your hair up and secure it with a clip or bobby pins. Cover your hair with a shower cap or plastic. Let it sit for 30 minutes, and then rinse thoroughly with lukewarm water.Repeat weekly for best results.
 Just like tomato juice can be used to give hair a reddish tint, so too can beet and carrot juice be used to create deeper and more purple tones in your hair.Mix together a half-cup (four ounces) each of beet and carrot juices. Put on gloves, wrap a towel around your neck and shoulders, and use a tint brush to apply the juice to your hair.
When your hair is saturated, pile it on top of your head, cover it with plastic, and let it sit for an hour.
Rinse with clean water. Repeat the process on a weekly basis.
For an even more purple tone, substitute red cabbage juice for the carrot juice.

