 Jealousy between siblings is inevitable, as they will have conflicting needs and a natural worry about being treated unfairly. Explain to them that their needs are different, and that not everything can be "equal," because their strong needs will appear at different times and need different treatment.


Give your children space and time that is just for them. If you can give your children separate rooms, do. Let your child pursue activities they love. Older siblings should have time alone or with friends without having to always include a younger sibling.
Demonstrate that the individuality of each child matters. Devote family time to things that one child enjoys and another child doesn't. Spend one-on-one time with each child when you can.
For example, if one child enjoys biking and the other does not, make time for your biker to take a spin in the park. If you have two children who need supervision at all times, get a sitter or split duties with your partner or a family friend.
 If your children often fight over whose turn it is to use a family-owned item, such as a laptop or game, make a schedule showing when each child can claim it. Similarly, if your children demonstrate jealousy of your attention, make one-on-one dates with each of them in which you participate in an activity of their choice.
 Teach your children to state their own emotions in a straightforward, assertive way, rather than acting out or blaming others for how they feel.Explain to your children that when a sentence begins with "you," it might make matters worse. Instead, teach your kids to start sentences with "I" and explain how they are feeling. If your child expresses that he or she feels jealous, then try to find out more.


For example, if one of your kids expresses jealousy towards an older sibling, then you might ask, “Why do you feel jealous?” You might learn that your child feels jealous because he or she thinks the sibling is more loved or more talented. This will give you an opportunity reassure and encourage your child.
If one of your kids expresses jealousy about a sibling’s talents, then encourage your child to think about his or her own talents instead of making comparisons to the sibling. If your child feels like he or she does not have any talents, then encourage your child to take up a new hobby to start taking pride in him or herself again.