 One of the easiest things to journal about may be your social or romantic life. Ultimately, you’ll have very little trouble starting an entry about something you feel strongly or passionately about. Think about starting entries on:


Your love interests. Write about someone you have a crush on, someone you just broke up with, or someone you’re in a relationship with.
Write about things you did or are planning to do with friends. For example, if you and your friends have a big party planned, write about it.;
, Perhaps the most therapeutic subject to write about is your deep personal thoughts. These might be thoughts you don’t want to share with someone else, but might feel comfortable writing in a journal. Start entries on:


Your hopes and dreams for the future. For example, write about your vision for your life in the future.
Personal doubts. For example, reflect on doubts you have in yourself or in your own abilities. If you think you’re a clumsy person, write a little on the topic. It might help you gain more confidence.
Individual fears. For instance, write about your fear of death, fear of loneliness, or fear of never loving someone., A great way to get started journaling is by using it as an opportunity to write about your professional life. This should be a relatively easy journal entry to start, as you’ll have plenty to talk about. Write about:


Where you want to be in five, ten, or twenty years.
Big projects going on at work.
Frustrations you have with coworkers or management.
Ideas you have for how to do your job better or to make your business more efficient.
A business you might want to start in your spare time., When deciding what to write about, you'll need to keep your audience in mind. This is important, as you may be writing for a wide variety of reasons. Some potential audiences include:


A therapist. If you're writing for a therapist, you may want to focus on issues you discuss with them. For example, if you have anxiety disorder, write about the anxiety you experience on a daily basis.
Family. If you're writing for your children in the future, focus on subjects that might interest them, like family events or family history.
You in the future. For example, focus on events that you want to remember in the future, like a great day you spent with your significant other., Perhaps the most important thing to remember is that its okay to write about anything you want. Ultimately, journaling is your opportunity to explore your thoughts, aspirations, and more.


Don't stop yourself from writing something because you think someone will judge you.
If you're nervous someone may read your private thoughts, use a journal with a lock on it. You can also journal on your computer and require a password to access it.