

To assist rafters in choosing an appropriate trip, there is an international scale that ranks rapids based on difficulty. Whitewater rapids vary in range from Class I (very gentle water) through Class VI (high risk and for extremely experienced rafters only). You should limit yourself to rapids classes based on the needs of the least experienced rafter in your group.



 


Meet age and size requirements. Some rivers and trip providers have age and weight requirements for rafting. These requirements vary by whitewater rafting outfitter, by river, and even by season.






Many whitewater rafting outfitters recommend that rafters have swimming ability. While you will be required to wear a life jacket, make sure that you choose a trip that is appropriate for your swimming ability in case you fall out of the boat while navigating rapids.





;
,

In the summer, whitewater rafting trips can help you cool off. In the autumn, you may want to take a slower trip and enjoy seeing or photographing fall foliage. In the spring, you can enjoy spring flowers. Also in the spring, melting snow runoff can increase the rapids class on some rivers.






Like with many attractions, prices for whitewater rafting trips vary by season. Trips are generally more expensive in the summertime.
 If you're looking for adrenaline rush, choose a trip with a higher rapids class. If you want to enjoy nature, choose a trip with the sites you want to see. Some whitewater rapids trips offer multiple-day trips with rustic camping or scheduled stops at cabins overnight.
 Some rafting trips may be a day trip for you, while others would require travel and lodging. Do you own personal floatation devices and other equipment or do you need to rent them? Do you want a guided rafting trip or do you want to brave it alone? Would you like food provided as part of the trip? Will you want to purchase photos, t-shirt, and other souvenirs? You should consider the answers to all of these questions when planning a budget for your whitewater rafting trip.

