 This method is used by many actors who are able identify so strongly with the sad situation they are portraying that they cry with tears that seem to flow from true emotions. You can emulate this technique by simply thinking of something very sad, so sad that it makes tears spring to your eyes. It's different for every person, but here are a few examples:


The death of someone quite close to you.
A really bad breakup
Something you aren't able to talk about with people
Being bullied
A Sad Moment You have been through.
A horrible event that happened.
The death of a pet or something close to you.
Old sad memories or someone you really miss.
The thought of summer ending and the next school year beginning.;
, In order for this to work, you have to really focus on the sad thought and temporarily convince yourself that it's true. Think of the inevitability of this event occurring; if it hasn't yet, it will. All good things come to an end, and life is as sad as it is happy. Focus, focus, until you feel tears begin to flood your eyelids.


Crinkle your brow and frown. Composing your face with the sad expression it takes on when you naturally cry will cause you to feel sadder.
Droop your head down a bit. This will give you the appearance of being sad, but since your face is obscured, you'll have a bit of time to get the tears going without your face being so closely scrutinized. You don't want people to see your face go from blank to bawling in an instant - they'll be suspicious.
 Don't open your eyes yet; wait until you've got a good collection of tears under your closed lids. A slight dribble of water could be mistaken for sweat instead of tears. Continue dwelling on the sad thought.
 You'll know the method worked when you feel your throat constrict and have the urge to let the tears flow. Open your eyes so that they stream down your cheeks. Remember to keep the expression on your face downcast and sad. Try to hold onto the thought for as long as you need to, until you're finished crying. Don't get too carried away, though - the point is to fake cry, not get completely overcome with emotion! Stay in control.

