 It is best to have your basic socks, underwear, but you don't have 20 different outfits. The days of the high school wardrobe are done; now it is cool to dress like a slob. About four or five outfits will be good. Hoodies are great things to bring. You look great and fully dressed. Girls (but not all girls) may like to have more clothes just to look girly but keep it basic as well.;
, Pack a few casseroles and put them in the microwave. Try canned food that doesn't make a mess or a pizza that you can share with your roommates. You don't need to be a gourmet chef to survive. Try to get a meal plan and eat at your school as much as possible. You can also learn how to cook basic meals such as soup, Spam, eggs, hot dogs, etc.
 They are there mainly for a place to live. If you hit it off, great, but if you don't, you can just walk around them. Your roommates are a great way to meet new people in college; it gets the ball rolling. But if you don't like your roommates friends, that's OK. There are many other people out there you can meet.
 They could be great friends.
 You should be spending more time at the school, work, or other activities such as shopping. Go to class and study at the school. You can meet more people there too.
 Set aside one day of week to clean the apartment. Be sure to vacuum the floors, empty the garbage, do laundry, etc. Wash dishes and make your bed daily.
 Some are more outgoing than other and some like some time for themselves. Show respect for the differences in TV shows, music, etc. Have headphones if you are listening to music and other media your roommates may not like.
 Then you can watch whatever you want if you don't agree what your roommates are watching. This is becoming less necessary with the advent of online streaming services and computer movie players, but don't expect unlimited TV access if you don't have a TV. A Smart TV is a good investment because it gives you a wide variety of movies and TV shows on demand at a low price.
 You are there to study; not too play around. Bring one or two special things from home, and let the rest stay at home. It is time to get out and meet new people as well as study.
 Student apartments are treated like real apartments. That means you need to pay your rent, your Internet, phone, and cable bills, or the service will be taken away. Try to make a compromise with your roommates on who gets everything paid for. The bundle packages are great for cable.
 You signed the agreement you might have to follow the rules and regulations of your apartment.
 She is here to help you when you need it.
 You pretty much have to make your own fun and meet your own people. Don't be afraid to introduce yourself to the neighbors.

