 Your family doctor will have a rheumatologist with whom they regularly work and may be able to give you a list of rheumatologists to choose from. This list will be a good place to start your search, since it will likely contain rheumatologists with whom your doctor has a good working relationship., If you have friends or family who have been treated by a rheumatologist recently, you may want to ask them about their experience. If your friends or family members had a good experience at a rheumatologist recently, you may want to get a referral from them.


Chat with a friend about rheumatologists. You could start by asking them, "what has been your experience with rheumatologists?"
Try asking your siblings or parents if they have found a good rheumatologist. You might ask them, "have you found a rheumatologist who is personable and knowledgeable?"

, Life is hectic enough without having to fit your rheumatology appointment into the middle of your already busy day. Find a rheumatologist who can book you an appointment that works for your current work and family schedule., If you have a muscle, joint, or bone condition requiring treatment, life is hard enough without driving long distances for a doctor. It is best to find a rheumatologist who is accessible to your current residence.Try doing a Google search or using Yelp to find a rheumatologist in your area.
Look in your local phone directory to find rheumatologists in your area.
 Phone your insurance provider and ask them if they cover any of the rheumatologists on your list. If they only cover one or two, you can quickly shorten your list of possible rheumatologists.
 If you feel you would be more comfortable speaking with a rheumatologist of a specific gender, you may want to limit your search to rheumatologists who identify with this particular gender., Doctors and health organizations use patient satisfaction surveys as a way of monitoring and improving their performance.By reviewing patient satisfaction surveys for the rheumatologist you are considering, you can get a sense of whether prior patients have had positive or negative experiences.You can find patient satisfaction information on review websites such as Health Grades., Find out whether the rheumatologists on your list have a history of malpractice. There is no foolproof way of doing a background check on a doctor. However, you can search for the doctors on your list on state medical board websites or order a background check for a fee.Search on the state medical board website. You should be able to find information on any disciplinary actions or associated feeds. If the state medical board does not list information online, you can give them a call and ask about the rheumatologist..
Ask the doctor’s office to show you the rheumatologists education and professional credentials.
 If you have compiled a list of rheumatologists, you may want to search the names on this list on the American Board of Internal Medicine. Rheumatologists typically get certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine, so you can search online to make sure they are properly certified.You can simply enter their first and last name and then press search.Visit the American Board of Internal Medicine website at www.abim.org.
 Since a rheumatologist is someone you may have to continue visiting for a long period of time, especially for chronic conditions, it is important to find a doctor with a good personality. Find a doctor with good personality traits such as honesty, relatability, and gentleness.You may want to consider whether you find it easy to converse and relate to your rheumatologist.
Get a feel for the honesty of your rheumatologist. You want someone who is forthright about your condition and treatment options.
 Rheumatologists often have specialized training or experience in a particular area of the field such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus.. It is good to have a rheumatologist who has experience treating your particular condition, so ask about their area of specialization.


You could ask: What aspect of rheumatology are you most passionate about?
If you are getting treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, you could ask: Have you been treating rheumatoid arthritis for a long time? What is your experience with treating this condition?

, You want to find a rheumatologist who is knowledgeable in the field.To informally assess their knowledge of the field, you could ask them about recent research and trials.


Consider inquiring: Do you know of any clinical trials on rheumatoid arthritis?
Ask them a question about current research: What were the most innovative studies in the field of rheumatology this year?
Ask them: What current research do you find exciting in the field of rheumatology?

, It is important to find a rheumatologist with whom you can easily communicate.It is important to find a rheumatologist who listens to your needs and communicates in a clear manner. As you begin speaking with a rheumatologist, consider whether they listen attentively to you, explain your medical situation in clear terms, and show a genuine concern for your well-being., It is good to have a rheumatologist who is well connected to other practitioners of internal medicine. Ask your potential rheumatologist about their connections to allied medical practitioners., After getting referrals and speaking to potential rheumatologists, you will eventually need to decide on a particular rheumatologist. If you have a hard time with the decision, you could write down your list of candidates and rank them in relation to key criteria. Your key criteria may include accessibility (i.e., location and hours), communication style, knowledgeability, and area of specialization.
 For example, you could review your list of rheumatologists and give them a rating from zero (poor) to ten (exceptional) on each of your key criteria. Once you have finished rating them, add up their scores for individual criteria (e.g., knowledgeability) to make an overall score. If you have rated five key criteria on a scale from zero to ten, the maximum score for each rheumatologist would be fifty points.
 If one rheumatologist scores highest in overall score, consider choosing this rheumatologist. If there is a tie between two rheumatologists for overall score, consider talking to both of them again and choosing the rheumatologist who seems most attentive to your overall health care needs.
 Once you have decided on a rheumatologist, you should promptly make an appointment so you can get treated for your medical condition.

