 You might feel a bit silly the first time you attempt happy baby pose, but the relaxing massage it gives to your spine and your hips makes it all worth it. This gentle pose can be practiced at any time and will help further open your hips.Lie on your back and hug your knees to your chest. Lift your feet and reach up to grab them with your hands. You can place your hands on the inside or outside edges of your feet, or take ahold of your arches and give yourself a little foot massage at the same time.
Open your knees wide as you pull down on your feet. Ideally your thighs will be parallel alongside your torso, but you should only go as deeply into this stretch as you can without discomfort.
Hold this pose as long as you like, breathing into the stretch and connecting with your breath.
 The runner's lunge pose opens your outer hips and glutes in the same way shin hugs do, as well as targeting your inner hips and core. You can enter runner's lunge from all fours.On an exhale, crunch your right knee into your chest and set your foot down on the mat in between your hands. Bend your knee at a 90 degree angle with the knee directly over your ankle. At the same time, roll up on the toes of your left leg, extending it behind you.
Stay in this position with your hands on the floor, breathing deeply for two to four breaths. Be conscious of your back – keep it as neutral and flat as possible, and avoid leaning on your front leg. Make sure your shoulder blades are tucked down your back and your shoulders aren't hunched.
 From the runner's lunge, you can move directly into low lunge. This gentle pose stretches and opens your hip flexors, giving you more stability in your shin hugs. Start in runner's lunge, then press your hips forward and slowly lift your torso.You can bring your palms together in front of your chest, or extend your arms overhead, palms together. Make sure your shoulders aren't crunched. Find your center of balance and breathe. Hold the pose for 5 to 10 breaths, then release and do the other side.
 From low lunge, you can move directly into crescent lunge. This pose is a slightly more intense stretch for your hip flexors than low lunge, and requires a bit more balance.From low lunge, simply straighten your back leg and raise onto the ball of your foot. Your leg should be a straight line, with your front leg at a right angle, knee stacked over ankle.
Hold the pose for 5 to 10 breaths, breathing deeply, then return to low lunge and switch sides.
 Half-pigeon is a more intense stretch that will significantly open your hips and provide a good stretch in your outer thighs. You can transition into this pose directly from the runner's lunge pose.From runner's lunge, walk or slide your front foot over to the opposite hand. Lean forward slightly and lower your front shin and thigh to the floor, being careful to maintain your weight balance.
You may want to wiggle around a little to distribute your weight evenly and get comfortable with the stretch. This is an intense stretch, so don't go any more deeply into it than you can without pain or discomfort.
You can stay sitting up, and you're in half pigeon. You might want to press your palms together in front of your chest. You also can fold forward for a deeper stretch in your inner thighs and groin with reclining pigeon.
Hold the position for 5 to 10 breaths, then release and repeat with the opposite leg.
 The reclined variation of thread-the-needle pose targets your outer thighs and glutes to stretch those muscles that support your hips. Start by lying flat on the floor and lift your legs so they are perpendicular to the floor with your knees bent at right angles. Your shins should be parallel to the floor.Curl your left foot around so that your left ankle sits just below your right knee. This creates a "four" shape with your left leg, which is why this position is also called the "figure four."
Hold the position for 10 to 20 breath cycles, breathing deeply. Then release and repeat the pose with your right leg creating the "four" shape.

