 Set a moment aside to tell your first child that you are having another baby. Explain that it is going to be a wonderful time and that your child will have a sibling to play with or spend time with. Tell your child that your second baby will be so lucky to have a big brother or sister. You want to instill a sense of excitement, responsibility, and anticipation in your first child.

For instance, say something like, "In a few months you are going to have a new sister or brother to play with! They are going to look up to you because you're going to be their big brother, and you're going to teach them lots of things.";
, Include your firstborn in the process of preparing for your second baby by getting their help with the nursery. Contributing to the setup of the nursery will let your child feel pride rather than jealousy over the baby’s quarters. Have your child help by:Asking for their input about color and decorations in the room (e.g. help choosing a mobile)
Having them paint or draw a picture that you will frame and hang in the room
Getting them to complete simple tasks like laying a blanket in the baby’s crib, setting up stuffed animals, or testing the mobile

, The gift should be something that marks their more grown-up position in the family, but also something that they will be excited to receive (e.g. a bicycle). Time giving the gift as closely as possible to the arrival of the baby to create a positive association., If you intend to have grandparents, other family members, friends, or babysitters help care for your firstborn after the birth of the second, allow for some bonding time beforehand. Invite them over for supper or along for other fun activities (e.g. visiting a zoo) to let your child feel more familiar with them. Set up brief excursions that you don’t attend. This will allow your child to get comfortable with being away from you, and with spending time with their future babysitters.For instance, have a prospective babysitter take your child out on a short trip for ice cream.
 To help your child understand what will be happening in the family, read books or stories geared towards their age group about becoming a big sibling. Making time to read with your child will both prepare them for their new role, and encourage bonding time with them. Visit your local library or book store to find books that your child will enjoy.