 Alprazolam, also known as Xanax (its brand name), is a medication known as a benzodiazepine. This medication is used to treat anxiety disorders, panic attacks and other related psychiatric disorders. Alprazolam and other benzodiazepines increase the action of a neurotransmitter, or chemical messenger in the brain, called GABA. The long-term use of alprazolam may cause dependence or addiction. If you abruptly discontinue using it, you may experience to severe withdrawal symptoms as your brain chemistry tries to rebalance itself. Stopping benzodiazepines like Alprazolam has the potential to cause a life-threatening withdrawal syndrome.


In some cases, unsupervised withdrawal from alprazolam may result in death.
 Familiarize yourself with the symptoms of benzodiazepine withdrawal before you start tapering alprazolam. This can help ease any mental anguish caused by not knowing what to expect and/or being taken by surprise by your withdrawal. Tapering off (slowly reducing your dose) under a doctor's care will reduce withdrawal symptoms. When you withdraw from alprazolam, you may experience any combination of symptoms and in varying severities. These symptoms may include:


Anxiety
Irritability
Agitation
Insomnia
Panic
Depression
Headache
Nausea
Fatigue
Blurred vision
Aches and pains

, Severe alprazolam withdrawal symptoms include hallucinations, delirium and seizures. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately.
 Alprazolam withdrawal symptoms begin approximately six hours after taking the last dosage. The symptoms typically peak anywhere between 24 and 72 hours. They can last two to four weeks.Remember, until you have completed a successful benzodiazepine taper, your body will be in a constant mild withdrawal state. This is why a slow taper is highly recommended.
 Generally speaking, tapering off Alprazolam should be as slow as you feel comfortable with. If you taper more slowly, your symptoms should be less severe. Keep in mind that a slower taper results in far fewer withdrawal symptoms. The goal is to complete the tapering without prolonged withdrawal side effects, not to finish as quickly as possible to only suffer side effects and less repaired GABA receptors that will influence the healing process. The longer you are on a sedative-hypnotic like alprazolam, the longer it will take for your brain to return to normal once you stop.


The estimated time frame for tapering is between six and 18 months and varies upon dose rates, age, general health, stress factors and time of use. Regardless of your doctor-recommended taper schedule, it should be:Slow and gradual.
Scheduled: The doctor will ask you to take a dose at a certain time rather than “as needed.”
Adjusted to your symptoms of withdrawal or rebound of anxiety or disease.
Monitored weekly to monthly, depending on your situation.

