 It’s always easiest to move bulbs when you know where they are, so gardeners usually try to transplant bulb plants when some of the plant is still visible above the ground.


After flowering, the plant will focus on drawing in nourishment to sustain it over the winter.
For this reason, you must avoid cutting green foliage as this deprives the plant of the ability to nourish itself and store energy from sunlight to see it through the winter.;
, It’s always best to transplant bulbs in the fall after the foliage has withered away and is yellow.


You can also move bulbs in the springtime but remember never to cut or damage any green shoots.
If you move them in the spring take especial care not to damage the growing roots at this time.
 The trick with digging up bulbs is to avoid damaging the main bulb and to preserve as much of the root structure as possible.


This can be pretty hard to do.
Gentle handling is always necessary when moving bulbs from place to place.
 When you plant a bulb, you should always do so at a depth of several times the height of the bulb. So when it comes to digging them up, that will give you an idea of how deep you need to dig to avoid damaging the bulb with your spade.


Three times the height of the bulb is the usual depth for planting.
Also, bulbs often wriggle deeper into the ground over time, which may add to the depth they were initially planted at.
For example, larger bulbs such as tulips or daffodils will usually be planted to a depth of about 8 inches (20.3 cm). It’s best to assume they are at 12 inches (30.5 cm) depth to be on the safe side.
 Bulb plants reproduce by dividing the original ‘parent’ bulb into several ‘daughter’ bulbs, known as ‘offsets’. This happens over a period of years.


If you observe that your bulb has formed a clump of smaller bulbs, gently separate these with your fingers.
The new bulbs can be planted separately and is a good way of increasing your bulb stock.
This will also help avoid damaging neighboring bulbs by pulling apart their roots.
 Bulbs are usually fairly easy plants to grow, but they will appreciate well-drained soil and a sunny site. Avoid planting bulbs any place where puddles form and don’t easily disperse after rainfall.


Try squeezing a handful of damp earth.
If it forms a sticky mass when squeezed, rather than crumbling, then your garden soil may be clay-heavy.
If this is the case, it’s a good idea to incorporate lots of organic matter or grit into the soil to improve drainage.
Do this well ahead of replanting the transplanted bulbs.
Regardless of soil type, bulbs will appreciate plenty of organic matter such as a well-rotted manure being incorporated at planting time.

