 When you are sued, you will receive a copy of a document called the “complaint.” This document starts the lawsuit.You should read it closely. It will explain why you are being sued for alienation of affection and what remedy the person suing you (the “plaintiff”) wants. Typically, someone will hand deliver the complaint to you.


Pay particular attention to the “summons,” which you will also receive with the complaint. This document should tell you how much time you have to respond to the lawsuit.;
, Alienation of affection lawsuits are often called “homewrecker” lawsuits, and you may think that only someone who had an affair with a married person can be sued. However, anyone who interfered with the marriage could potentially face a lawsuit. Possible defendants include:parents
in-laws
therapists
clergy
lovers

, Fewer than 10 states allow someone to sue for alienation of affection, and the number is decreasing every year. If your state doesn’t allow the claim, then you have an excellent defense. The handful of states that still recognize alienation of affection include:Hawaii
Mississippi
New Mexico
North Carolina (possibly)
South Dakota
Utah

, To bring an alienation of affection lawsuit, the person suing you must have been in a marriage where there was at least some love.If the marriage had broken down already, then they can’t blame you for the marriage’s collapse. You should find evidence that the marriage wasn’t happy.Speak to the spouse who left. He or she might tell you why they left the marriage. If it had nothing to do with you, then you can have the spouse testify on your behalf at trial.
Also talk to the former couple’s family and friends. They might have been aware of problems in the marriage for a long time.
 In order to be successfully sued for alienation of affection, you must have acted “maliciously.” This means that you committed a wrongful act without excuse or justification.


For example, having sexual intercourse almost always qualifies as malicious, unless you didn’t know the person was married.However, the plaintiff might not have accused you of having intercourse. For example, you might be the plaintiff’s mother-in-law, who is accused of breaking up the marriage through constant criticism. You should analyze whether a reasonable person would consider your actions malicious.
 You can defeat an alienation of affection lawsuit by showing your action was innocent or that you weren’t the reason the marriage broke down. In addition, there are other defenses which you might have, including the following:


The plaintiff consented to the conduct. For example, a married couple might have had an open marriage. If the plaintiff gave permission for his or her spouse to have an affair, then they can’t turn around and sue you.The couple was already separated by the time you interfered with the marriage. In North Carolina, for example, if the couple has separated with the intent of remaining separated, then you can’t be sued if you interfered in the marriage after that date., You should schedule a consultation with a qualified family law attorney who can help you review the complaint and plan a defense. You can find a family law attorney by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.You should also think about hiring the attorney to defend you. If you do, then he or she can handle all aspects of the lawsuit, including drafting and filing documents with the court. Ask how much the attorney charges per hour.
If money is tight, then ask if the attorney offers “unbundled” legal services. Under this arrangement, you can ask the attorney to do certain tasks but handle most of the lawsuit yourself. For example, you could hire the attorney to look over your court documents or to coach you. Unbundled legal services can keep your legal costs down.
 You have to respond to the complaint, and one way is to file a “motion to dismiss.” With this motion, you ask the judge to dismiss the lawsuit for some reason. One common reason is that the lawsuit isn’t based on a valid legal claim.You can file this motion if the plaintiff sues you in a state that doesn’t recognize alienation of affection. For example, if you are sued in Tennessee, then you can have an alienation of affection case dismissed.
Even if you live in one of the states that still recognizes alienation of affection, you should try to get the case dismissed. In North Carolina, for example, a judge recently ruled that alienation of affection is a “relic” and should no longer be recognized in the state.You can ask the judge in your case to make the same ruling.
You can make other arguments in a motion to dismiss. See Draft a Motion to Dismiss for more information.
 Another type of response is an “answer.” In the answer, you respond to each allegation made in the complaint. You must admit, deny, or claim insufficient knowledge to admit or deny each allegation. Many courts have printed, fill-in-the-blank answer forms you can use.Check with the court clerk.


You also can raise affirmative defenses in your answer. A common affirmative defense is that the plaintiff waited too long to sue. In North Carolina, for example, a plaintiff has three years to bring a lawsuit from the date the marriage broke down because of the interference., Make several copies of your response and take the copies and original to the court clerk. Go to the court where the lawsuit was filed. Ask the clerk if you can file the original.You may have to pay a fee to file your response. Ask the clerk how much the fee is. Also check ahead of time to find out acceptable methods of payment.
 You have to give the plaintiff a copy of your response. If he or she has a lawyer, then serve the copy on the lawyer.Generally, you can serve your copy in the following manner:


Hire someone to serve it. You can often hire a process server, who you can find in the phone book or online. They typically charge $45-75 per service.Have someone 18 or older make hand delivery. This person can’t be a party to the lawsuit. However, you could have someone like a neighbor make delivery.
Mail the response. In some courts it is acceptable to mail papers. Mail it certified mail, return receipt requested.
 If you filed an answer, then the plaintiff probably won’t respond. However, if you filed a motion to dismiss, then you can expect the plaintiff to file a response.You should read it carefully.


For example, you might have argued that your state shouldn’t recognize alienation of affection any more. The plaintiffs’ attorney will draft a motion explaining why the state should continue to do so.
 The judge will probably want to hold a hearing on any motion to dismiss.You can prepare by reading all of the motions and creating a list of bullet points. You will argue only the law. This isn’t the point in the lawsuit to argue about facts.


This might be your first time in front of a judge, so you could be nervous. You can prepare for your hearing by sitting in on a hearing. Check the judge’s calendar (which may be online) to see when he or she holds hearings. You can sit in the back with a notepad and check what kinds of questions the judge asks and how much time each party gets to talk.
The day of your hearing, remember to speak in a loud, confident voice. Also don’t interrupt the judge when he or she asks questions. Answer any question as directly as you can.
If you win the motion, the judge will dismiss the case. Depending on why the case is dismissed, the plaintiff might be able to re-file it.
 A common part of any lawsuit is the “discovery” phase. In this stage, you and the plaintiff exchange information. Courts in the U.S. have extensive discovery so that there are no surprises at trial. You can get information using the following discovery techniques:


Request the production of documents. You can get a copy of any relevant document from the plaintiff. For example, you might request copies of phone records which show that the ex-spouse was in contact with you.
Serve written questions. These are called “interrogatories.” The plaintiff must answer them under oath. One question you can ask is the date of separation. In North Carolina, your conduct must have occurred before the plaintiff and their spouse separated.For example, if you slept with a man after he separated from his wife, then you have a strong defense.
 Another discovery technique is a “deposition.” In a deposition, you ask a witness questions face-to-face. The witness has to answer under oath, and a court reporter typically takes down each question and answer. As the defendant, you will probably be deposed by the plaintiff.


See Prepare for a Deposition for information on how to handle being deposed.
 You also get to ask witnesses to sit for a deposition. The purpose is to get helpful information for your defense. You should consider deposing the following witnesses:


The plaintiff. Try to get him or her to admit that the marriage had gone sour long before you had arrived on the scene. Also probe how much damage he or she has suffered. Generally, a plaintiff can get compensation for emotional distress, loss of reputation, loss of financial support, and other damages.However, you can question just how much harm he or she has suffered.
The plaintiff’s ex-spouse. You should also get the plaintiff’s ex-spouse to admit why the marriage fell apart. Also get him or her to admit that you weren’t the reason. This will be powerful evidence for your defense.
Other helpful witnesses. The plaintiff’s ex might actually have had an affair with someone else. You should try to identify this person and also depose him or her. They could be the real reason the marriage fell apart.
 After discovery ends, you can file a “motion for summary judgment.” In this motion, you argue that trial is unnecessary because there are no meaningful factual disputes and the law is clearly on your side.Because this kind of motion is complicated, you should have your lawyer draft it.


A meaningful factual dispute is something that would make a difference in the lawsuit. For example, a dispute about who proposed marriage to who is probably not meaningful in an alienation of affection lawsuit.
However, a disagreement about whether the marriage was happy is a meaningful dispute. For example, the plaintiff might claim the marriage was wonderful until you started sleeping with her husband. The plaintiff’s ex-husband might claim the marriage had completely broken down before you showed up. In this situation, a jury will have to decide who is telling the truth.
 You can always settle a dispute, which is not the ideal resolution. However, settlement will make the lawsuit disappear. In a settlement, you generally agree to pay some money compensation. In return, the plaintiff voluntarily dismisses the lawsuit.


You can also participate in mediation. In mediation, you and the plaintiff meet with a “mediator,” who is skilled at getting each side to listen to the other. Mediation is a good option if neither side has a lawyer.
 Before the trial can begin, you will need to pick a jury (if either party requested a jury). Jury selection is called “voir dire.” As part of this process, the judge calls up a panel of potential jurors to sit at the front of the courtroom where the judge asks them questions.


You also might be able to ask questions. You should find out whether a juror has been divorced or ever been married. You might want to exclude a juror who has been divorced.
You can ask the judge to dismiss a juror “for cause” if you think they can’t be unbiased. You also will probably have a certain number “peremptory” challenges, which you can use to dismiss a potential juror without having to give a reason.
 The purpose of the opening statement is to give the jury an outline of what the evidence will be. The opening statement isn’t evidence itself. Instead, it’s a sneak peek into what you think the witnesses will testify to.As the defendant, you will present an opening statement second, after the plaintiff has delivered one.
 The plaintiff can present his or her case first. You will have the opportunity to ask witnesses questions during cross-examination.


See Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself for more information.
 You will probably have to testify at trial. The focus will be on your actions and your motivations. You might be nervous, which is perfectly normal. However, remember the following tips to be a successful witness:Sit up straight. Look at the attorney who is asking you questions. When you answer, look at the jury.
Don’t guess. If you don’t know the answer, then say so.
Always ask the attorney to clarify a question you don’t understand. Take a moment to think about your answer before replying.
Tell the truth. It is against the law to lie, so you aren’t doing yourself any favors by being less than 100% honest.
 You also can have witnesses testify. For example, you may want to have people testify if they were friends of the married couple. They can testify that they saw the couple fighting before you ever met the plaintiff’s spouse. This evidence helps show that the marriage wasn’t happy.


Remember that witnesses can only testify as to information they personally know. They can’t testify to gossip., After all evidence has been submitted, each side gets to make a closing argument. Your goal is to get the jury to adopt an interpretation of the evidence that is favorable to you.For example, you might have been a nagging mother-in-law. In this case, you want the jury to decide you didn’t criticize with malicious intent to break up the marriage.
If you had an affair with a married person, your goal might be to convince the jury that you didn’t know the person was married when you slept together.
 The judge will read the jury its instructions and then allow them to retire for deliberations. The jury has to decide not only whether you are responsible for the breakup of the marriage but also how much money will compensate the plaintiff (if you are responsible).
 If you lose, you might want to appeal. In an appeal, a higher court reviews the trial transcripts and looks for an error the judge made. If the error was serious enough, then the appellate court might set aside the verdict.You should move fast if you want to appeal. States don’t give you much time to file your Notice of Appeal—30 days or less, typically.
An appeal is a good time to ask a court to find that your state will no longer recognize alienation of affection as a valid lawsuit. Although a trial court judge might hesitate to change the law, an appellate court might not hesitate.

