 The only mailing address available to the public is the address of his company, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. He is the company's chairman, president, and CEO.


Mail your letter to:Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
3555 Farnam Street
Suite 1440
Omaha, NE 68131


Address Warren Buffett in the greeting of your actual letter. He will not open the letter directly, but staff members who may open and read your letter first will at least know that you intend to reach Mr. Buffett directly.;
, While Warren Buffett does not have a personal e-mail address and reportedly does not check the e-mail address provided for Berkshire Hathaway, there is some chance that a message sent to the Berkshire Hathaway e-mail address may reach him if the content is significant enough.


The e-mail address is: berkshire@berkshirehathaway.com
Note that there is a disclaimer on the website directly stating that the personnel at the corporate office is unable to provide a direct response to e-mail messages.
The e-mail address should be used primarily for inquiries or comments related to the Berkshire Hathaway Inc. website. Only use it as a means of contacting Warren Buffett as a last resort; try sending a letter via regular mail first, if at all possible.
 When you write to Mr. Buffett using the Berkshire Hathaway contact information, your letter may not actually reach him. He receives approximately 250 to 300 letters each day, all of which must go through various staff members before they arrive at his desk.


Unsolicited mail rarely receives a reply. This includes personal mail, charitable gift requests, and most investment proposals.
If you are making a charitable gift request, contact Buffett through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. He is a primary trustee for the foundation and works with the Gates to develop charitable giving strategies.
 The only way you might have your letter read and replied to is if you write an investment proposal that meets all the investment criteria set by Warren Buffett in his annual letter to shareholders.


You can find the letter to shareholders here: http://www.berkshirehathaway.com/letters/letters.html

While the acquisition criteria can change from year to year, oftentimes, business representatives must adhere to the following standards when they write:The acquisition must be a large purchase.
The business must have demonstrated consistent earning power.
The business must earn good returns on equity with little to no debt.
The management must already be in place.
The business must be simple.
The proposal must come with an offering price.
 There is no public phone number or fax number for either Warren Buffett or Berkshire Hathaway Inc.

