 You don’t ask your straight friends about their kinks and fetishes, because it’s none of your business and shouldn’t affect the way you think of or treat them. Whether or not you “get” what a person does in the bedroom with other consenting adults shouldn’t influence whether you feel you understand her as a human being. Sex is a very small part of what being LGBT means to most LGBT people, and you shouldn’t fixate on it.
 It is an all-too-common misconception that gay people are a danger to children. Fortunately, this belief is waning; in 1970, a national poll found that 70% of Americans saw gay people as dangerous to youth, while in 1999 only 19% of heterosexual men and 10% of heterosexual women held such beliefs. Gay and lesbian people are people who are attracted to and/or form sexual and/or romantic relationships with adults of their same gender; many child molesters, on the other hand, are not oriented toward a particular gender so much as a particular age. In a 1978 study of 175 men convicted of child molestation, none of them identified as gay. A similar study in 1992 found that only 2 perpetrators of child sexual abuse out of the 269 surveyed were gay. Many studies along these lines have been conducted, and all have failed to find any correlation between being gay and committing child abuse., Many people who harbor homophobic views do so on religious grounds. There are, however, a number of religions and religious sects that are accepting of LGBT+ people. These include the United Church of Christ, Unitarian Universalists, Quakers, and Reform and Conservative Judaism. For other groups, such as Buddhists, Hindus, Sikhs, Lutherans, Presbyterians, Methodists, and Episcopalians, it is still a matter of debate, with some followers in favor of acceptance, and others against it. Even within faiths such as Catholicism, Islam, and Orthodox Judaism, one can find individual believers who interpret their faith in various ways. Your faith is your business, and you are free to believe what you want. This should not, however, lead you to treat people with disrespect or cruelty. Leave judging to God.
 This process does not happen overnight, and even with the best of intentions you may still find yourself uncomfortable with or confused by gay people. This will change with time if you continue to work at it. In the meantime, however, the most important thing is to treat gay and lesbian people with respect and dignity. If you do this regularly, you will probably find your understanding of gay and lesbian people evolves naturally.

