 Before examining or caring for your boil, always wash your hands extremely well. Next, cover the boil with a bandage or with some gauze. This can help protect the skin from outside irritants or irritation. If a bandage would just fall off or keep coming off due to the location of the bandage, such as the inner thigh, you can also leave the boil uncovered.


When dealing with boils, never try to squeeze it. You should also never use any sharp instrument like a needle or pin to cut or pop the boil. This increases the risk of the spread of infection.If the boil comes to a head and drains on its own, gently wipe away the pus that oozes out with a tissue. Then cover the wound with a bandage so it can heal.
If the boil does not drain on its own and is getting bigger, then you need to see a doctor. She may be able drain the boil for your in a sterile office setting.
 To help reduce recurring boils, try a warm compress. Soak a small, clean towel or washcloth in very warm water. Make sure it isn't too hot. Wring out the excess water and apply it directly to your boil. Use a warm compress as often as you can, but always use a clean towel every time. This limits the possibility of contamination.


You should always wash any towels and clothing that come into contact with your boil in very hot, sudsy water in order to destroy the bacteria., Tea tree oil is an herbal treatment that can be used to treat a recurring boil because it is an antibacterial and antifungal agent. Use a cotton ball or a swab to apply the tea tree oil directly to the skin of the boil. Repeat this at least two to three times a day.It may also be useful for MRSA, an antibacterial resistant infection, as well as other antibiotic-resistant infections.It is also an anti-inflammatory agent.Tea tree oil should only be used topically, or on the skin.
 Cumin can be used to treat a boil in either its powder or essential oil form. Cumin has both antibacterial and anti-inflammatory effects. Mix ½ teaspoon of powdered cumin with one to two tablespoons of castor oil to make a paste. Apply this mixture directly to the boil, then cover it with a gauze bandage. Replace the bandage and paste every 12 hours.


If you use the essential oil, apply the essential oil directly to the boil with a cotton ball or cotton swab., Neem oil is derived from the Indian lilac tree. It is known for its antiseptic qualities for over 4,000 years and is effective against bacteria, viruses, and fungi.To help combat recurring boils, apply the oil directly on the boil with a cotton ball or swab. Repeat this every 12 hours.
 Another essential oil that is helpful for boils is eucalyptus oil because of its antibacterial properties. To help with the recurring boils, apply it to the boil directly with a cotton swab or ball every 12 hours.


Eucalyptus oil is also helpful against MRSA and other antibiotic-resistant infections., Turmeric, which is the main ingredient in curries, has both antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory properties.Turmeric can be used as a powder or as an essential oil. To make a turmeric paste, mix ½ teaspoon of dry turmeric powder with one to two tablespoons of castor oil to make a paste. Apply this paste directly on the boil with clean hands or a cotton ball. Then cover the paste covered boil with a gauze bandage. Replace the bandage and paste every 12 hours.


For use of the essential oil, apply the oil directly to the boil with a cotton ball or swab.
Using turmeric may stain the skin orange, which means it may be most useful for areas that are not visible by the naked eye.

