 This style of roll is one of the easier styles and doesn’t strictly require styling cream. However, you may find it useful if you have especially fine hair or hair that is prone to flyaways. After using the mousse, brush your hair thoroughly.
 Take a comb and make a clean, even part down the middle of your hair. Tie one of the sections of hair into a pigtail to keep it out of the way as you are styling the other side.
 Take the very front pieces of hair from the loose section of hair. Carefully twist this section of hair tightly and away from your face. Then, still holding onto the twisted section, take another small section of hair right next to the first section you’ve twisted and twist this section. Make sure you are still holding onto the first twisted section so the twist doesn’t undo.
 Take these two twisted sections and combine them into one section of hair. Twist these sections together. Keep adding small handfuls of hair and twisting until all the hair on this side has been gathered into one big twist.
 Take a large clip and clip the twist onto the top of your head. Make sure to clip it at the end of the hair, so that none of the twists get undone. Also make sure that you are clipping the hair away from the hair on the other side of your part, so that when you twist the other side the clip doesn’t get in the way.
 With one side of your hair clipped up, twist the other side of your hair into individual twists, and then combine to make another large twist. You should now have two twists on either side.
 Take the first twist you made out of the clip, making sure it doesn’t unravel. Then gather the two twists into a ponytail. Secure with a hair band, letting hair below the hair tie uncoil so you have a ponytail.
 Since this is a modern and elegant look, you will want to make sure that your hair is free of frizziness or bumps. Take a comb and smooth down any messy spots. Clip any fine hair in place with bobby pins. Then use hairspray on the rolled section of hair.








