 Humidors are available in many different sizes, styles, and price ranges. You don't need to break the bank to get a good-quality humidor in which you can keep great cigars fresh. Online, or at the cigar store, explore options in your price range.


You should be able to get a handsome glass-top humidor in which you can control the temperature for less than $60 or $70.
Another big cost-difference tends to be temperature and humidity control elements, the quality of which can vary slightly. It would be better to get the smallest-possible humidor for your uses, with the best-quality components.
While good-quality cedar chests are the best and most reliable way to store cigars, it's possible to make your own from household ingredients, if you're less of a stickler for supreme quality. Skip to the next method if you want to make your own humidor.
 There's no sense in investing in a 7-drawer humidor chest that can hold a couple hundred cigars if you only smoke one every now and then. Try to anticipate how many you plan to keep on hand at any given time and get the smallest-appropriate humidor.


Desk-top humidors will hold about 25 cigars, while larger cases can hold upward of 150. Humidors with multiple drawers can offer organization solutions, allowing you to keep full boxes of different varieties of cigar in different areas of the humidor, hundreds of sticks on each. These are the most expensive option, several hundred dollars.
Travel humidors are small, durable, plastic-backed cases that hold 10 or 15 cigars at a time. If you're going on the road and end up collecting a few cigars, or if you just want a small and durable option, a travel humidor can be a cheap alternative to more expensive desktop varieties.
 It's important to buy humidors lined with cedar wood, which helps to regulate the humidity and the airflow in the humidor. Plastic or metal humidors, even with the proper humidifying agents, won't maintain as even and optimal a temperature as a cedar humidor. It looks handsome, smells great, and maintains temperature and humidity.
 Most humidors will come with a humidifier in the case already, but being able to distinguish between the different types and styles of humidification will allow you to make the most informed choice.



Sponge-style humidifiers are the most common humidifiers, and the cheapest. These usually line the lid of the humidor, and are soaked with propylene glycol solution, commonly called "PG," which regulates the humidity in the box.The liquid is commonly sold at cigar retailers, for between $6 and $10 a quart. Xikar and Cigar Mechanic are popular brands for soaking the humidifier.

Humidor beads are made of moisture-sensitive silica, and are extremely long-lasting, easy to use, and can be recharged periodically to maintain the humidity in the humidor. A package of humidor beads costs between $18 and $20, but will likely never need to be replaced, just recharged. To use them, you'll soak them in distilled water and spritz them with distilled water periodically to maintain humidity. Keeping them stored in a new women's stocking is a perfect way to store them in the humidor.

Digital humidifiers are somewhat expensive, but also the most efficient. You can set the electric humidifier to the proper specifications, set it, and forget it.
 A hygrometer is used to measure the humidor's humidity levels, and are available in both analog and digital models, which can be installed in the humidor, or on the outside. Some humidors come with clock-style hygrometers on the front lip of the humidor, for easy access. Digital hygrometers are ready to go out of the box, but analog hygrometers need to be calibrated before use, to make sure they're reading correctly.


To calibrate your hygrometer, close it in a plastic bag with about a tablespoon of salt in a cap for between 6 and 12 hours. When you remove the hygrometer from the bag, it should read 75% humidity. If it doesn't, use a screwdriver to calibrate the back of the hygrometer so it reads 75% and it'll be ready to go.
 Before you load your humidor with cigars, you need to spend about 7 days humidifying the humidor and preparing the optimum microclimate. It's a simple process, but an important one to prime your humidor and give your cigars the best possible home.To season the humidor, prime the humidifier of your choice, either by soaking the humidity beads, the sponge, or setting the digital humidifier, and putting it in place in the humidor.
Pour about a cup of distilled water into a clean cup and place it in the humidor, then blot the walls of the humidor with a very-slightly damp towel. Don't wipe them down, just blot them very gently.
Close the humidor and leave it alone for about seven days, watching the temperature and the humidity levels. At the end of the week, you can remove the glass of water and you should be ready to load up the humidor with cigars.

