 Even though you have all that work stewing in your head, you need to breathe. Take a slow, long breath in through your nose, then gently exhale through your mouth. Don't let out a big, sobbing puff. Think of your breath as the wind. There is a tiny village sitting in front of your lips, and you don't want to blow too hard on the little people. Breathe like this for five or more breaths whenever you are stressed.;
, Even if there's no one listening, cheerfully chat to yourself about what you need to do, and how fun that reports on Rome is going to be. negative things that are out in the open are neutralized, and you can breathe them back in without getting poisoned.
 While you may have been looking forward to slouching on the couch, stuffing your face with cheese puffs and getting orange powder all over the cushions, having this lazy time in the dark will gradually make you think littler of yourself. If your tired, read, nap, do yoga, stretch, or do something peaceful and creative. If you're up for it, jog, go on a brisk walk, anything to push off the laziness.
 While working hard on doing a heap of dishes or researching Amazon Plant Life, divide the work. Set a timer for ten to thirty minutes, and take five to ten-minute breaks when the timer goes off.
 This means bathing or showering regularly, washing your hair, keeping your teeth clean, treating any conditions, and scheduling consistent doctor and dentist appointments. Keep a date book to organize any appointments.
 This just means that instead of choosing Super Oozers for a juicy, oily hamburger, you should choose Salad Party. You may long for those sweet, unhealthy foods for a while, but once they're gone, you'll feel better than ever! Don't go out of your way to make yourself super skinny. Don't think skinny, think healthy! Have a few snacks like fruits or nuts during the day, as well as lunch, breakfast, and dinner. Only eat when you're hungry, and drink plenty of water. You need eight cups of water a day to maintain a good balance of H20. You should check that your body is getting enough of every vitamin, as well.
 It may be sunning on a rock in your garden surrounded by flowers, or it may be snuggled into your mattress, dozing over a good book. It doesn't matter where it is, just that you get there at least once a week! Make sure that you quiet yourself every now and then and be grateful for all you have. This will leave you refreshed and with a pleased outlook on life.
 Not often, but spend that extra buck when you need a manicure, or want to see the game. This is important, and remember that even tidying the house will have you smiling when the results are in. You are you, and you are worth it.
 Somebody, somewhere, would risk their life for you, your smile. Smile more often, and know that everything is balanced. Don't get plastic surgery, settle for something that makes you happy. The simple, sunbeam, every day, buttermilk pancake, fresh breeze, blue waters, I-think-he-likes-me kind of happy.
 You were put on this world for a reason. You have a claim to this world, and it might not be taken.

