 Many airlines allow you to follow the progress of your baggage by plugging your claim number into an online app, or calling a toll-free number. Take advantage of these options to monitor the situation.Find out from the agent how to track the status of your claim before you leave the airport, and write down all contact information.
Make sure you provide a valid phone number that will work in your location. For example, if you're traveling in Europe, don't give the baggage agent your mobile phone number if your mobile phone company does not provide service in Europe.
Information about the status of your bag can change rapidly, particularly if a baggage agent initially classified your baggage as "lost."
Keeping up to date on any changes can help you continually assess the situation and determine the amount of compensation you may be due.
 It may be inconvenient or virtually impossible for you to make a return trip to the airport to pick up your delayed luggage once it gets there. Airlines typically will deliver it if you ask.If the airline has located your luggage and believes it will arrive at the airport within a few hours, they might encourage you to stay.
Keep in mind that even if you don't have set plans, it's okay not to go along with this. Most people aren't interested in hanging out at an airport for several hours, and the airline can't insist that you stay.
If you do decide to stay, ask the agent for meal vouchers or any other compensation the airline typically provides for passengers on delayed flights.
On the other hand, if you need (or want) to leave, you can insist that the airline deliver your luggage. Provide the agent with an address or the name of your hotel.
If you have to return to the airport to retrieve your luggage, you may be able to get the airline to compensate you for those travel expenses – particularly if you are away from home and had to take a cab to the airport.
 After you have your bags, get a written claim form from the airline and file it promptly. In many cases, you must file a claim within a week of your flight if you expect reimbursement.Don't be afraid to request compensation for the stress or inconvenience involved with the luggage delay. Maybe you missed a connecting flight, or had to alter your travel plans. Any costs you incurred as a result can be included in your claim.
You'll want to attach your receipts. Make copies of them beforehand if possible, so you can keep copies for your records – or ask the airline to make a copy of your entire claim.
If you're in the middle of a trip and unsure how to get copies, ask at the lobby of your hotel. You also can take photos of the receipts from a smart phone.
You'll also need your boarding pass to prove that you were on the plane, and any luggage labels (if you got a barcode ticket when you checked your bags).
Keep in mind that unless your baggage was delayed for more than 24 hours, you typically won't get reimbursement for anything beyond essentials.
In other words, if you needed to buy replacement clothing, don't expect reimbursement for the cost of those items if your bag showed up four hours later. However, if you had an important reason for doing so – for example, you were traveling for a business meeting that occurred soon after your flight landed – you have cause to insist that the airline reimburse you.
 If the baggage agent is unwilling to work with you, don't be afraid to accelerate your claim to their supervisor. Even if you're legally entitled to compensation for your delayed airline luggage, you may not get it without a fight.Review the international agreements or national regulations (in the case of U.S. domestic flights) that apply to your situation, and be ready to reference them to the airline representatives with whom you speak.
If you're not satisfied with the airline's response or its handling of your delayed luggage, consider filing a claim with a government regulatory agency. The agency with jurisdiction typically will be the one in the country where the airline is based, or where the delay occurred.
You also may have the option of suing the airline. In case of luggage that was merely delayed and that you ultimately recovered, however, this may be more trouble than it's worth.

