 Wash your face and remove all makeup before you start a steam treatment. The treatment will open up your pores and if you have oil or makeup on your skin, then your pores may become even more clogged.
 The easiest way to do this treatment is to plug your sink and fill it up with hot water. If the water from your tap is not hot, then you may need to boil some water to use this treatment. Just make sure that you do not put your face over the boiling water. Remove it from the heat first and let it cool down a little bit before using., Many essential oils have antibacterial and/or antiseptic properties, meaning they can kill bacteria and other microorganisms that infect the skin and cause pimples. Using these oils can help prevent the formation of pimples. Try one of these types of essential oils:


Spearmint
PeppermintThymeCalendulaLavender, Before using essential oils, it is always a good idea to pre-test a small area of your skin with the oil. Some people are allergic to essential oils and if you do not test the oil first, then you might have a reaction to the steam treatment. The reaction is often a mild rash that may or may not be itchy.


To test an essential oil on your skin, place a drop on your wrist and wait for about 10–15 minutes. If there is no irritation, then you should be able to use the oil. If you notice any redness, swelling, or other signs of irritation, then do not use the oil.
 After you have added the oils to the water, then cover your head with a towel and place your face over the steaming pot. Make sure to close your eyes and keep your face at least 12 inches away from the water.The steam will open up your pores and help to prevent breakouts, but if you are too close to the steam then the heat may damage your skin.
 After 10 minutes have passed, rinse your face with lukewarm water and pat your skin dry with a cotton towel. Don’t rub your skin, just gently pat it dry. Then, apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer.
 After two weeks, you should notice an improvement in your skin. At this point you can taper down and just do the steam treatment once a day. If you do not notice any improvement or if the treatment irritates your skin, then see a dermatologist.

