 If you don't already know, then search for info on the different voice ranges. Find an instrument you can sing along to, such as a guitar or piano, find middle C (256 Hz), and figure out what range you fit in to.
 Every good metal screamer does a warm-up at some time of the day before a performance. This is not a screaming warm-up, it's a singing warm-up. People like Randy Blythe of Lamb of God, Byron Davis of God Forbid, and Phil Labonte of All That Remains, all practice conventional singing warm-up exercises before a performance; the same fundamental exercises that you would do before choir practice. This is very important for your voice so don't be lazy and skip it. Find a singing warm-up routine, like singing the vowels--Eh, Ee, Ah, Oh, Oo--over a 5-note scale.
 Like little cat growls and trying to speak like Marge Simpson. It's important that you create your scratchy sounds from the nasal region in the back, above your throat, not low in your throat. If you make the sound from low in your throat, you will be teaching yourself to do it wrong and learning a method that will hurt you. Try to feel the difference between the Marge voice and the low-in-the-throat, gargle-like noise. You should be able to create the Marge voice without hurting yourself. Use these two points of reference as you're learning. Remember to keep your scratchy sounds coming from higher up (the nasal region) so you don't damage your voice. If you're doing it wrong, it will hurt. Practice intelligently. You will probably be screaming wrong in the beginning, so save your voice until you figure out how to do it right.
 Don't hold the air in your chest! You should breath in and fill your stomach, not your chest.
 After you do that, talk a little bit, if you get a raspy sound coming out, you are talking correctly.
 Also after a long time of practice as to where you can get different pitches, try pushing out more air.
 When performing high exhale screams, open your mouth as wide as possible and scream while flexing the diaphragm.
 If, however, it continues to hurt and/or bleeds, you are doing it wrong.
 For highs, raise your tongue high and allow the scream to hit the top of your throat.
, If you master both, alternating can give different vocal chords a chance to rest.
