 Oracle produces a vast array of software and hardware products. The company offers certifications for each supported version of a product (i.e. Oracle still maintains and updates the software). A certification will allow you to provide technical support for a company that runs a specific Oracle product. As a result, a person's job or desired job usually dictates the certificate they receive. Receiving an Oracle certificate may lead to a new job, a promotion, or a raise.;
, The training and certification process is overseen by Oracle University. From its home page, you may access information on the certification and training process., This tab is located near the top of the page and to the right of the search bar. Locate the "Certification by Product” section and click "View All Certifications". This will bring you to a complete list of Oracle’s certifications.


Alternatively, you may select a general product category from the drop down menu., Each Oracle product falls into one of ten general product categories. These include: Applications, Cloud, Database, Enterprise Management, Foundation, Industries, Java and Middleware, Operating Systems, Systems, and Virtualization. Scroll down to the general product category that interests you, locate the software you want to become an expert in, and then click on the certification that meets your needs. Clicking on the certification itself will transfer you to a new page that lists information about the certification., The information on this page includes a description of who should consider obtaining this certification. You will also be able to read about the benefits of receiving this certification.
 Each certification has an accompanying Learning Path, a series of training courses offered through Oracle University. You can access a complete list of Oracle University’s Learning Paths by clicking here.
 Your certification’s Learning Path may list required, or core, courses. To view more information on a required course, click directly on the course title. This will bring you to a webpage that contains the course description and purchasing/scheduling options.


If you have questions about required courses, contact Oracle University through its website or by phone at 1-800-529-0165., Once you've found the course you want to take, click "View Schedule". Identify the date, time and format of the course that meets your needs. Click "Buy Now" to purchase the course. Prices vary greatly by course and format. You can expect to pay between $500.00 and $1,000.00 per day of class.


Oracle offers traditional classroom instruction, live virtual classes, and self-study courses. The classroom education is offered at various sites around the world. The live virtual classes include traditional content and interactive learning. Classes are available day and night.
Please note, while you may select a format that suits your style of learning best, some certifications require that at least one of these core courses is “hands on”, or led by an instructor.
 After you finish a class, you may be required to fill out a Course Submission Forms. This form documents that you have met a specific requirement for your certification.


In order to receive your certification, you must meet and document these requirements.
 In addition to listing core courses, the majority of Learning Paths also suggested specialized, or optional, courses. These classes afford you a chance to learn about a specific feature or function. If a specialized course is directly relevant to your job or desired job, you may wish to take it. Furthermore, the course may cover content that may appear on the exam.While you are not required to purchase these courses, Oracle encourages its future certified experts to receive as much hands-on training as possible before you take the exam.Like the required classes, these courses are also offered in a variety of formats.
 In an effort to help you prepare for your certification exam, Oracle provides a variety of resources. These include practice exams and review seminars.


You may purchase a 30, 90, 180, or 365 day access to practice exams through Oracle or Kaplan SelfTest. Prices range from $69.00 dollars for 30 days of access to $99.00 for 365 days of access.If you prefer a more guided study approach, consider enrolling in an exam preparation seminar. In addition to the seminar, you will receive access to one free practice exam and an exam voucher.Please note, practice exams and seminars are not available for every certification.
 Before you sit for the test, you will need to create a personal account at certview.oracle.com. Oracle will send your test results and certificate to this account.Don't forget to verify the account.
 To purchase a voucher, click here. Oracle offers vouchers for an in-person, proctored exam and an online exam. Vouchers are valid for six months.A proctored exam costs $245.00.An online exam costs $125.00., To register for your exam, click here. You may register for your certification exam in advance of the desired test date or on the day you would like to sit for the test. Depending on the voucher you purchased and your location, you may register for an:


In-person, proctored or non-proctored exam at a Pearson Vue testing center
In-person, proctored exam at an Oracle testing center
Online exam taken at your own location, Following your exam, you will receive an email from Oracle notifying you that your results are viewable online. You may access these results at certview.oracle.com., Upon passing your exam, Oracle will grant you a certification. When your certificate is available on certview.oracle.com, the company will send you an email.


To receive a printed copy of the certificate, follow the instructions provided in the notification email.