 The worksheet in Publication 972 must be used if you are excluding foreign earned income or income from Puerto Rico or American Samoa, or have claimed certain credits.


Use this form if you have claimed the mortgage interest credit, adoption credit, residential energy efficient property credit, or District of Columbia first-time homebuyer credit.
You must fill out any of the forms required for those exemptions or credits before calculating your child tax credit.
 Your child must meet the same tests for age, relationship, support, dependent status, citizenship, and length of residency as if you had used the worksheet accompanying Form 1040.
 For example, if you have two qualifying children, you'd enter $2,000 in the first box., This is the amount on line 38 of your 1040,line 22 of your 1040A,or line 37 of your 1040NR., If you’re filing a 1040A or a 1040NR, enter a zero.
 This represents your total income for the tax year, including income excluded from taxes.


For example, assume you are married filing jointly, and you and your spouse have an adjusted gross income of $100,000 for 2014. You would enter $100,000 in the fourth box.
, The final calculation in Part 1 determines if your total income is above or below the threshold amount necessary for child tax credit eligibility.


If the threshold amount in the fifth box is greater than the amount you entered for your total income in the fourth box, leave the sixth box blank and enter a zero in the seventh box.
If the total income you calculated for the fourth box is greater than the threshold amount you entered in the fifth box, subtract the threshold amount in the fifth box from your total income. If the resulting number is not a multiple of 1,000, increase it until it is and enter that number in the sixth box. For example, if you subtracted and got $472, you would enter $1,000 in the sixth box.
In the example, your income of $100,000 is less than the threshold amount of $110,000, so you would leave the sixth box blank and enter a zero in the seventh box.
Multiply the amount in the sixth box by .05 and enter that amount in the seventh box.
 This step will tell you whether you are potentially eligible for the child tax credit. If so, you’ll need to continue to Part 2 of the worksheet.


If the amount in the seventh box is more than the amount you entered on the first line of the worksheet, you are not eligible for the child tax credit or the additional child tax credit.
If the amount in the seventh box is less than the amount you entered on the first line of the worksheet, you should subtract that amount from the amount in the first line and enter the resulting amount in the eighth box. In the example, zero is less than the $2,000 you entered on the first line of the worksheet for your two children, so you would enter $2,000 in the eighth box.
 The ninth box is your tax liability, while the tenth and eleventh boxes total the credits you’ve claimed.If you are taking the mortgage interest credit, adoption credit, residential energy efficient property credit, or District of Columbia first-time homebuyer credit, add the amount you’re taking and enter the total in the eleventh box.
If you’re not taking any of those credits, enter the amount from the tenth box in the eleventh box., To do this, you'll need to subtract the total credits you’re claiming in the eleventh box from the AGI you entered in the ninth box and enter the result in the twelfth box.


Compare the amount in the twelfth box with the amount in the eighth box. You will enter the lesser of these two amounts on your 1040, 1040A, or 1040NR as the amount of child tax credit you’ll claim.You’ll also want to fill out Schedule 8812 to figure out if you’re eligible for the additional child tax credit.

