 The best way to overcome cultural differences is an open, inquisitive mind. Let yourself wonder why something is happening instead of judging it-- more often than not your initial revulsion or lack of acceptance is the cause of ignorance, not some horrible or unthinkable cultural practice.


Try to look objectively instead of comparing what is happening to how you normally do things. Remember that, for someone unsure of your culture, your methods likely seem odd or weird, too.
Stop thinking about "right and wrong," as there are very few "right" ways to do things, especially where unique cultural practices are concerned. Instead, think of the "why.", There is a custom in many Nordic countries that embraces the cold and dead of winter with gleeful hope, instead of the "normal" practice of loving summer and sheltering up during winter. It's strange, but it makes sense in context -- these nations have long, cold, and dark winters, and they've adjusted their cultural mindset accordingly. Their differences are the result of the weather, not some cultural whim.


Remind yourself that culture is a response to the environment, politics, and resources, not something that appears out of thin air. Noting these triggers will help understand them., There are very few things that people just "do" without a reason. That reason may be something abstract, like spiritual worship or impressing the other sex, but that doesn't mean it is coming out of nowhere. Every cultural practice, including the more extreme or difficult ones, come from the desire to fix or accomplish something, and figuring out what that is will take you a long way towards understanding and admiring it.


Outside research, asking questions, and careful watching are necessary to get over the immediate shock of certain cultural differences, like walking into a Senegalese house in the fall and seeing a half-skinned goat. However, knowing the religious importance of Tabeski, a local holiday, makes the behavior a lot more understandable., The men of the Xhosa tribe of Africa paints themselves up and dances once a year, hoping to score a date from the women looking on. It's loud, bright, and crazy, but is it really that different from an American club scene, especially when make-up, high fashion, and attempts at dancing are concerned? We are more alike than most people realize, and the impetus for most of our cultural practices is very similar across cultures, even if the manifestation of that impulse is a bit different across the globe., People disagree, and if you've done your best to be open-minded, fill in the gaps in your knowledge, and communicate with others, it is okay if you still disagree or dislike a practice. Women still can't drive in Saudi Arabia, a political choice born out of cultural differences between the sexes. While you can understand where this decision came from (historical sexist practices, certain readings of religious texts, etc.), that doesn't mean you have to accept it. Don't feel like understanding and accepting is the same thing as condoning the behavior. Your job as a traveler is to be open minded, not to agree with everything.