 This method of pickling is relatively simple and only takes a couple of hours, most of which will be spent waiting for the brine to cool. This means you can whip up a batch of spicy pickled celery and then perform other tasks as it cools. You'll need:

Bowl (large; glass or ceramic preferred)
Celery (about 8 large stalks)
Cracked peppercorn (1 tbsp)
Garlic (4 cloves)
Knife
Mustard seeds (1 tbsp)
Red chili flakes (1 tsp)
Salt (1 tbsp)
Saucepan (small)
Sugar (¼ cup)
White vinegar (1 cup), Peel the papery outer skin off your four cloves of garlic and then use a garlic press or sturdy spoon to press or crush up the garlic. Put this in a small bowl to be used later. Then you should:

Rinse your celery thoroughly under cool water to remove any dirt or bacteria from it. Then use a clean dishcloth or paper towel to pat dry any remaining moisture.
Cut your celery to your preferred size of pickle. You might want to leave your pickled celery long for use in Bloody Marys, you might cut them to sandwich size for use in lunches, and so on., First pour your vinegar into your saucepan. Turn the heat of your stove top to high, and stir in the sugar and salt. Allow the mixture to come to a boil, and continue stirring it until the sugar and salt have dissolved. Then:

Remove the saucepan from the heat. Then add your crushed garlic, mustard seed, peppercorns, and chili flakes., Transfer the cut celery to your large bowl. Pour your brine mixture over the celery and use a spoon to stir the mixture to distribute the spices evenly throughout.

While stirring, use your spoon to arrange the celery so that it is completely covered in the brine mixture., All you have to do is wait for a few hours and your pickled celery will be ready to eat. The celery and brine mixture should be completely cool before you serve this dish. To pickle longer stalks of celery:

Use a mason jar instead of bowl. Stand the stalks up on their ends in the jar and pour enough brine to cover each stalk completely.Cover the jar with its lid tightly. Then, allow the pickled celery to cool completely and it's ready to eat. At some point you may need to gently shake the jar to help spread the spices evenly throughout the mixture.