 If you're not, then explore new things, try new things. Start by considering new ways of thinking, and then explore them. Luna's open-mindedness was one of her strongest qualities. Always trust the people you care about, and never shut anything out based on logic.;
, Even in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, she managed to remain calm. Don't ever panic or get frustrated about anything. A lot of people will tell you to practice meditation to calm yourself down, and while it's a very calming experience for a few minutes, it can get boring. Do whatever works to keep yourself calm and if you're about to panic, just tell yourself that everything will always work out somehow.
 Speak about any of your ideas and opinions in class. Luna shares what she thinks with people through the series. Even no matter how strange or on the contrary it is. Don't care what others may think. Oh and remember to follow the above step (stay calm). Luna was never angry or "strong" on her points and ideas. Just act natural.
 Though you should listen to people when they're talking to you, if you don't find a conversation interesting, feel free to think of something you find more interesting.
 You don't have to be Monet, but a little drawing once in a while can be fun, and if you really try, you never know, you might come out with something quite impressive.
 Luna's quirky fashion sense was one of her trademarks, so if you find a particular hairstyle, make up style, or item of clothing nice, then don't hesitate to wear it. No matter what people say, you are you and have the right to wear what you want. Fashion isn't just something to make you look good to Luna, it's a way of expressing yourself. If you do want to emulate Luna's clothing based on the movie, then you may want to wear layers such as cardigans, light jackets, skirts, tights, and sneakers. Wear what ever colors you wish. Luna was all about color and mismatching. She had very unique hand-made jewelry as well.
 If you are someone who is a follower, it's time to step away from your group. Just because a lot of girls are in cliques doesn't mean you have to be in one!

, Think with your head and not your heart. Get good grades. After all, she was a Ravenclaw.

