 You should speak with your doctor before trying any herbal supplements for ADHD, as even herbal and natural treatments can interfere with other medical conditions or prescription medications. If your doctor gives you the go-ahead, consider some of the following remedies.


You should always consult with your pediatrician before giving any herbal remedies to children. Many are not safe for children's use, or should be used only under close supervision by your doctor.
 There are several herbs that can help calm and relax you. Some have been proven effective at reducing feelings of stress and anxiety. You can find the following herbs widely in tea form.Roman chamomile. This herb is well known for its relaxing effects. It can be taken as a tea. However, it may cause an allergic reaction if you are allergic to ragweed. People with certain hormone-related conditions, such as some cancers, should always consult a doctor before using chamomile.Valerian. This herb can help reduce anxiety and restlessness. You can prepare it as a tea or take it as a supplement or tincture. Valerian may interact with sedatives or other medications.Lemon balm. Lemon balm is another calming herb. It can help reduce feelings of anxiety. You can take it as a tea or as a capsule. It may interact with sedative or HIV medications.Passionflower. Passionflower is often helpful to calm feelings of anxiety. You can take it as a tea, extract, or tincture. You should not use passionflower if you are pregnant or breastfeeding. It may also interact with some medications, including MAOIs and anticoagulants., Seafoods, poultry, fortified cereals and other foods with a high zinc content or taking zinc supplements are linked to lower levels of hyperactivity and impulsivity in some studies., Some studies suggest that ginseng and gingko may help people with ADHD by improving their ability to pay attention and focus.These herbs activate cognitive functions in the brain.


Do not give Asian or American ginseng to children without consulting your pediatrician first. You should not use ginseng in children without your doctor's supervision.Do not give ginkgo to children without consulting your pediatrician first, as it is usually not recommend for use in children. Pregnant and breastfeeding women should not take ginkgo. People with diabetes should consult with their doctor first., Pycnogenol is an extract from French maritime pine bark. Taken as capsules, this extract may help improve focus, reduce hyperactivity, and stimulate visual-motor coordination., Also known as wild oat extract, green oats are thought to produce improved outcomes in staying on task, reducing anxiety and calming nerves.This remedy can be purchased as capsules in a natural foods store.
 St. John’s wort is a natural supplement that is often used to naturally treat disorders such as anxiety and depression. There is limited scientific evidence that this supplement may slightly improve the symptoms of ADHD.But many other studies have not reported measurable impact of this supplement to be helpful.St. John's wort may actually worsen symptoms of ADD/ADHD in some people. It can also make major depression or bipolar disorder worse.