 Insults, unlike criticisms, are often delivered with the intention of hurting. Sometimes the insulter is just callous. Whether someone insults your looks, intelligence, skills or something else, it can feel like a personal attack. Since insults are in no way constructive, you don't have to take them to heart. Unlike with a criticism, there's nothing positive to do with the information. Give yourself permission to reject the insult instead of factoring it into your view of yourself.Remember that an insult is opinion, not fact. For example, if someone calls you unattractive or unintelligent, another person may believe the opposite to be true.
After feeling the pain the insult brings about, try to let it go. Put it into context as a barb that can sting for a minute but ultimately holds no weight.
 People who insult others often do so because they have their own emotional baggage or personality flaws. If you're feeling good about yourself, you don't go around telling others what's wrong with them. Take a step back and realize that the person who insulted you is the one with the problem.Look for the emotion behind the insult. The person who made the comment may be sad, angry, or upset in some other way. Some people have trouble expressing emotions so they take out their problems on other people.
Use this information to help yourself take the insult less personally. It may have hurt your feelings, but it was just a disguise for the person's real feelings.
 If you tend to take the least negative comment as an insult, you might be the one with confused emotions. You might have deeper feelings of inadequacy that make it difficult to bear callous comments. Recognizing this can help you feel less insulted and develop a thicker skin.For example, maybe you've been feeling insecure about your intelligence ever since starting a difficult new class. Someone calling you "silly" or "dumb" may cause you to feel more deeply insulted than the person intended.
The solution is to work on the feelings of inadequacy that are leading to the tender, sensitive spot. When you feel more confident about your intelligence you'll be able to let such comments roll off of your back.
 Resist the urge to counter the insult with one of equal force. It won't make you feel better about yourself. Resorting to a counter insult will only cause worse feelings to arise. Instead, react in a way you can be proud of when you think about the situation later.


You have every right to ignore the insult. Just pretend like it wasn't said, if that seems like the best solution.
Or try lifting your chin, making eye contact and telling the person "you're wrong; that's not true."

, If you're being insulted frequently, you may need to go further to put a stop to the situation. Some people get pleasure from making other people feel pain. If you feel the insults are going too far, consider one of these options:Have a face to face confrontation. Tell the person that you expect him or her to stop insulting you. Sometimes just calling the person out will put a stop to the behavior.
Seek outside help. If you feel you're being bullied, a one-on-one confrontation may not help. Talk to your teacher, principal, supervisor, or someone else who can help you deal with the situation quickly.

