 The most basic and common type of nickname is a shortened version of someone’s real name.For example, Alexander is shortened to Alex or Al, Katherine to Kate or Katie, Richard to Rick, Rick, or Dick, and so on., Take and combine the first letter of your first and last names, or first letter of your first and middle names. Going by your initials can help differentiate you from others if you have a common name, or make a difficult or long name easier to pronounce. This works well if your middle or last name begins with “J”, “D”, or “T” – for example Daniel Joseph can be shortened to “D.J.”, Andrew Johnson to “A.J.”, Jonathon Jameson to “J.J.”, or James Taylor to “J.T.”.
 Think of a good feature about yourself or a friend and use that as inspiration for a nickname. For example, the 16th president Abraham Lincoln is often called “Honest Abe” for his integrity.Be careful not to offend anyone and focus on positive, not negative attributes.


If someone is really smart, call them “Prof” or “Doc”, or a creative person could be called “Muse” or “Da Vinci”.
In China, many American and British celebrities have nicknames based on their appearance or reputation. For example, Katy Perry is known as “Fruit Sister” for her colorful costumes, Benedict Cumberbatch is “Curly Blessing” for his curly hair, and Adam Levine is “Flirty Adam”., This works well in sports or at work, especially if you have a common first name. Also, most athletes go by their last name, since it’s on the back of their jerseys. You can also abbreviate or shorten your last name.
 You can abbreviate someone’s first or last name to 3 syllables or less. You want something that is catchy and easy to say.
 If you are trying to come up with a cool nickname for a friend, try it out on them first when no one else is around. See how they respond – you want a nickname to be flattering, not offensive.Stop calling the person by that name if they find in annoying. Inappropriate nicknames include those that reference bad habits, negatively portray someone’s physical appearance or weight, or are sexually explicit.

