 Players that are more concerned with their individual game hurt the overall success of their team.;
, Players should not be spectators of the game. They must always be involved and moving, even when they don't have the basketball.
 Players must always be aware of their teammates and the defensive players on the court and be ready to make a pass when appropriate. If a teammate is open and has a better scoring opportunity, then the pass must be made to them. But if you are a player that only looks to pass, your team will be unable to win due to a lack of points made. Be aware at all times of the basket and where you are in proportion to it. If no one is guarding you, take a good shot, and if a defender stabs at you, drive past them and go for a layup.
 This makes the defenders' job much harder. Players must always look for various scoring options on their set plays. If the first option that opens up leads to a good scoring opportunity, then the pass should be made. Otherwise, the players should look for other options.
 Telegraphed passes are easier for the defensive players to read and possibly steal. Players should use eye, head and ball fakes before passing the basketball.
 Everyone makes mistakes in basketball. When it happens on the offensive end of the court, players should hustle back and play good, strong defense to make up for it. They should avoid committing fouls out of frustration.
 Avoid using fakes and moves that your teammates are not ready for or familiar with. You must play within yourself on the court. New moves and fakes can be worked on during practice - not the game.
 Players must always know how much time is left on the shot clock during each possession. They must also be aware of how much time remains at the end of each quarter, the half, and the game. This is every player’s responsibility, not just the point guard's and coach's.
 Players must always stay focused and concentrate when playing basketball. They should know what their responsibility is at all times and also follow the action of their teammates.
