 Do you want a guard dog, a lap dog, or a dog to go on long hikes with? Do you want a dog that will interact with other dogs freely or a dog that likes to play games? Figure out what role you most want your dog to play and focus on that while choosing your dog.


Research what breeds fit these priorities and choose from them. Don't assume any dog can be a lap dog or a guard dog, for example.
A dog can fulfill several roles for you of course. For instance, a herding dog such as a collie can be great for training and tricks but can also be a lap dog at times. Just be sure to understand what you want out of your dog and to balance those expectations with an understanding that one dog may not be able to fulfill all of your desires., Decide whether you want a puppy or an adult dog that already has some training. This decision depends on whether it is important to you to have a dog from puppyhood, or if you would like to give an adult dog a home.Both of these choices have good and bad aspects. For instance, a new puppy is a lot of work to raise but you will get to do all of the training and mold its behavior. An adult dog is typically less work to care for but may have bad habits that are hard to break, due to someone else raising it when it was a baby.
 In addition to deciding what type of dog to get, you will also need to figure out where to get one. It may be a priority for you to get a dog that needs a good home. Going to your local shelter or rescue organization will assure that you go home with a dog that is in desperate need of a home.Do an online search for the organizations in your area. There are probably small rescue organizations that foster dogs in member's homes. There are also probably large organizations, such as the Humane Society, that have large facilities to house dogs in. Once you have identified all of these organizations, then look at their websites for lists of adoptable dogs.
If you really want to get a young puppy, it will be harder to adopt one from a shelter or rescue organization. They are very in demand and get adopted very quickly. Instead, you may need to go to a dog breeder to get a puppy.

