 Obviously if you want to observe a particular type of animal or bird, you’ll have to go where that creature lives. If you’re more flexible, however, you can find wildlife just about anywhere, even in the middle of the city. Consider your budget and the amount of free time you have available, and then go out and meet nature. Your own garden or the nearest park or green space can work to if you can travel easily. You can even watch wildlife through a widow.;
, Find out what creatures you can expect to see, and find out a little bit about them. Pay special attention to information about their daily lives and behavior—their feeding, sleeping, and breeding habits, for example—and what environments they prefer so you’ll know where and when you’re most likely to see them. A little research will also help you figure out what animals and birds are doing when you see them. Look up specific species on the internet, read about them at your local library, or visit your local nature center or wildlife-watching club for more information. Don't have to high expectations. It takes patience and time to see rare animals and birds exhibiting unusual behaviour. Don't forget that common species can be fascinating too. Insects, Sparrows, Grey Squirrels, pigeons and Starlings are wildlife too. Watching a Starling feed it's chick may not be as exciting as watching a Timber Wolf hunting, but you have to start somewhere!

, The preparations and equipment you will need will vary depending on where you’re going. Make sure to bring appropriate clothing for the climate, and dress in layers if it's cold. Let somebody know where you will be and when you expect to be back. Research the area if you’re unfamiliar with it, and get a map and compass or GPS device if appropriate. Remember to take a pad, pen, and camera to record your observations. You may also want to take binoculars. If you like to sketch, why not take a sketch book and pencil. You can challenge your self by taking a list of things you hope to see and ticking them if and when you spot them. Field guides can be useful for helping identify what you see.
 Wear camouflage clothing appropriate for the setting, or simply wear earth-tone or drab clothes—avoid flashy, bright attire that will call attention to you. Don’t wear colognes, perfumes, scented lotions or hair products. Above all, be quiet. Keep talking to a minimum (use hand signals whenever you can), and step lightly, being careful not to break twigs underfoot. Turn off your cell phone or pager, and wear clothing that does not make excessive noise (cotton is usually a good choice in warm dry weather; wool or polyester fleece for pants and sweaters is smart for safe, comfortable viewing in cold or wet conditions)., Perhaps the best way to get a chance to observe wildlife, especially at a wildlife viewing area, is to simply wait for animals or birds to show up. Find a comfortable, partially concealed place from which to observe wildlife. You can use a constructed implement, such as a duck blind, or your can simply crouch low to the ground or hide behind rocks or trees. Be patient. Animal and birds may hear you coming and go into hiding, or they simply won’t show up if they sense your presence, but if you wait long enough and quietly enough, chances are they’ll either not notice you or not feel threatened by you., Usually your best bet is to sit still in one place (a place where you know you have a good chance of spotting wildlife), but sometimes you’ll see something in the distance and want to get a closer look. Remember to remain silent and try to stay downwind from it. Move slowly, and use the cover of trees, rocks, and other natural features to your advantage. If it is a potentially dangerous anima, you’re better off keeping your distance and viewing it with binoculars or your camera’s telephoto lens. Even if the creature is harmless, respect its space and don’t disturb it., Whether you’re searching for wildlife or observing it, you’ll be more successful if you rely on more than just your eyes. Listen for cracking twigs or branches, animal calls, or the flutter of birds’ wings to help you locate wildlife. While you’re watching animals and birds listen to the sounds they make. Soon you’ll be able to distinguish different types by sound alone. To amplify sounds, cup your hands behind your ears., If you’ve done your research you should know a bit about the behavior of the wildlife you’re watching. Try to identify certain behaviors as you observe them in the wild, and make a note of behaviors that you’re not familiar with., If you really want to get serious about wildlife watching, you should keep a journal of your observations. Note the types of creatures you see and their characteristics, and jot down what they are doing and where. Make sketches or take pictures and paste them into your journal., Once you return from the field, review your journal and do some more research to answer any questions that came up during your observations.

