 Downspouts are the parts of the gutter that run vertically from the roof gutter to the ground. They should direct water at least six feet away from the foundation of your house. If yours currently don’t do this, you can add extensions to make them more effective. These extensions are inexpensive and relatively painless to install.Elbows and extensions can be obtained at any hardware store.
Typical cost is just under $20 per extension.
 The extension piece will be several feet of straight pipe. In most cases, these extensions are installed by simply screwing them on.


Make sure to direct the water at least six feet away from your home’s foundation.
 In winter, water deposited onto your driveway can freeze, causing a number of dangerous situations.The ideal spot for water to come out of the extension is on a sloped part of the ground, so that the water continues to drain further away from the house.


Make sure the water doesn’t end up on an incline that slopes back down to your home. This will result in the water draining straight back to the foundation of your home.
 Overflowing gutters and inefficient downspouts can erode the ground around the foundation of your home. This erosion will create a trench in the soil that traps the water there. If you see any gaps like this around your home, fill them in with soil. Firmly pack the soil in place for best results.


Avoid soils with high clay content, since these drain poorly. Purchase granular soil with a high sand content.You can buy bagged soil at any home improvement store. How much you need to buy depends on the size of your home and how steep you want to make the downslope.
Buy one bag and start the job. Once you know how much area one bag covers, you'll have a good idea of how many more you'll need to finish the job.
 Instead of just filling the gaps in with soil, add a slight excess of it. This will create a gentle slope that leads away from the foundation of the house, preventing water from collecting around the foundation. This gentle slope should extend, at minimum, about two or three feet from the house.


Pack soil around your house and slope it downwards at about one inch (2.5 cm) per foot (30 cm).Be sure to pack the soil firmly when creating the slope.

