 Running cues the bear to chase you, and it will always be fast enough to catch up. Do not be aggressive, but do not crouch down, play dead or otherwise show fear or vulnerability. If the bear charges you, muster all your courage and stay where you are: the charge is most likely a bluff, and if you stand your ground the bear will turn away., Bears and other 4 legged animals have a wider center of gravity, and hence can't make turns quite as sharp as you or me. Don't just run in circles however, but if engaged in an open area (plains or field), do not run directly away from the bear as they're generally faster. Move left and right where applicable to force the bear to change direction. Do not abuse the bear, however, as it drains vital energy.
 If the bear (other than a black bear) is attacking you in self-defense, you can put it at ease by playing dead and lying completely flat on the ground. Do so only after the bear makes contact with you or tries to do so. To play dead, lie flat on the ground protecting your vital parts with the ground, and your arms protecting your neck with your hands laced behind the neck. If you have a backpack on, keep it on to defend your back. Keep your legs together and do not struggle.


Once the bear leaves your immediate vicinity, wait 10-15 minutes before carefully looking to see if the bear is still around. A bear may look back and may return if it sees you moving.
Remember -- if you believe this is a predatory encounter, as the bear has approached you or been following, you'll need to change course and fight back., Remember, this is not if they charge alone -- this may be a bluff. If a bear charges and makes contact with you, however, you need to fight back with whatever you can. Focus on kicks and strikes to the face and muzzle in particular to scare it off. The odds may seem against you in a fight, but bears generally do not see humans as prey, and a bear that makes a predatory attacks is usually immature, starving, or wounded, and may easily be scared away if you hit it.If you believe any attack is predatory, such as an attack at night or if you've been "stalked" throughout the hike, fight back immediately -- this is usually a bear desperate for food., If you get charged by bear, stand your ground and unclip the safety clip and put a cloud of spray in between you and the bear. Squint and hold your breath. Good aim doesn't matter so much as a layer of protection, giving you plenty of time to escape. Begin spraying when the bears is 10-20 yards away for the greatest effectiveness.


Keep spraying until the bear changes direction. If the cloud doesn't work, hit it right in the face.
You should practice quickly and easily getting your spray out of it's holster before hiking.