 This can motivate you to get up and clean your room.;
, This will make smell in the bedroom go away and the light will reflect on the room to make it look more inviting.


Opening the window will let fresh air get into your room and clear out any bad smells.
 This will give you room on your bed and make the bed look cleaner. Wash the sheets if needed.


Fold up your duvet nicely and place it near the headboard with your pillows.
Washing your sheets, pillowcases, covers, and comforters every week will keep your room smelling good. Also, it's good for skin because bacteria, dirt, dust mites, and other organisms can build up on your covers, which can lead to more pimples and breakouts.
 So the book on the bookshelf, paper on the work desk.
 If other people's belongings are in your room, then take them to the room they belong in. Their things can get into your way. You don't want anything that might be your siblings' so just take it into their room and place it onto their bed and walk out, it's not a big deal.
 If you find any rubbish like a bottle or paper then put it into your bin, and make sure you get all of it!


Go around with a bin bag or a trash bag. Pick up all the rubbish that is lying around in sight, such as crumbled pieces of paper, rotten apple cores, and other pieces of trash that you don't bother picking up.






After the noticeable pieces of trash on the floor have been cleared, rummage around in the overstuffed closet and underneath your bed for discarded items, such as the half-eaten sandwich from two years ago!







, Make sure you have got all of them in there.
 Remember to fetch things from the tops of cabinets, inside wardrobes, etc. Make sure you go around your room picking everything up, check under your dressers, wardrobe, bed (again) and anything else.


Although some people may like to place their items on their bed, it isn't recommended you do so because of the dirt and dust that might linger on those items. Your bed is where your face goes, and you definitely do not want to be clogging up your pores with dirt.
 Before you place all your belongings back into their spots, it's a good idea that you sort through them and throw out any that you don't need or want anymore. Separate them into piles - one for trash, one for donation, and one for keeps. Stuff the trash pile into the dumpster, carefully place the unwanted items into a trash bag for donation, and organize your remaining belongings so that they will be easier to find. Do not just stuff them in the closet again!


When donating items, make sure that they still are usable. Do not donate ripped, old belongings that are in poor condition.
 The dirty dishes can sometimes leave a really stale smell in your bedroom, and will attract ants and bugs to your room. Now who would want that? Not you, now take them out.
 Vacuum up the dust bunnies and dirt. Start with the floor, then work your way up to the skirting boards, cabinet tops, desk surfaces, etc. Don't forget to clean the inside of your wardrobe as well because this is where a lot of the dust might hide. However, be careful about vacuuming up your homework or any other important items!


Sweep if the floorboards are laminated, vacuum if it's carpet or hard floor.
 Use cream cleaner on a cloth to get grubby fingerprints off white light switches and doors. Use glass cleaner on your mirrors and windows.
 Put the pencils and pens in a holder and the paper in a pile.
 You might want to put a plant on there or a teddy, or just do what you want to do.
 Sort your clothes and group them together (all the pants together, all the short sleeved shirts together, etc.). You could also sort them by season or color.

Go through your clothes and donate anything that doesn't fit.
 Like a bookshelf, a desk, even the walls.
 For example, arrange a few ornaments, photos, etc. on top of your cabinets and shelves. Add a box of tissues and a vase of flowers as well to make your room seem fresher. However, limit your amount of decorations to very few because you don't want your shelves to appear cluttered! Less is more.
 Be meticulous, and maybe add decorative pillows or stuffed animals on the bed. It's your room's main fixture, so it probably should be the nicest.
 Make sure you don't spray too much.
, Try not to mess it up again - the hardest part of all is keeping it clean and tidy.


One good way to keep on top of your room cleaning is by having a fifteen minute cleanup before bedtime each night or in the morning when you wake up. Then, during the weekend, vacuum, dust, and polish your room. This way, you'll keep it clean, and you'll no longer be embarrassed when your friends come over!







