 You like to feel the information, if at all possible, learning in the doing. Here are some characteristics of tactile learners:


You learn best when you are hands-on––moving, doing, and touching help make the information real to you.
You use your hands when you talk.
You remember events by what happened, but not necessarily what was said or seen.
You're good at drawing, art, cooking, construction—–things that require manual manipulation of objects.
You tend to be adventurous and easily distracted, finding it hard to stay put for long periods.
You don't like to be hemmed in, preferring to be where you can stand up, move around, and take a break.
You don't like sitting in classrooms when there are things you could do that would teach you more.
 You need room to move around, so don't sit in your bedroom with the door closed while you study. The kitchen table might be more suited for your style of learning.
 Act out or pretend to be the object, trying to mimic every detail of the object. If you're trying to memorize the Articles of the Constitution, grab a piece of paper, or better still, cut out a panel from a paper bag: it's more the size of the constitution, and doesn't look like a fresh piece of computer paper. It will also have a smell that you can associate with. Hold the paper in your hand as if it's the Constitution, and point at each phrase and "read" it from the "Constitution." You've engaged most of your senses—–touch, smell, sight, even hearing—–so you will have a much easier time remembering.
 If you're memorizing abstractions, such as the value of pi, write down the individual numbers or steps on each flash card. Then personalize each flash card with stickers or drawings. After personalizing, scramble the cards and attempt to put them in order. Be sure that you write down the order somewhere or you'll never remember what the sequence was.


Alternatively, you can grab a couple decks of cards; search for, and "play" each number after the decimal, in sequence: Ace, 4, ace, 5, 9, 2, 6, 5, etc. Lay each one down, then flip them over. Go left to right, flip them face up again, and say the number. Repeat, and next pass say the number, then flip the card.
 Adapt the tips as needed so that you are interactive with your material.

