 If you have an extra bedroom in your home and are willing to share your living space, temporarily renting out the space is a great way to make extra money. If renting for more than a week or two, draw up a lease agreement with your new tenant to help circumvent any disputes.


Renting a room or your entire home to people on vacation is another way to increase your income. Websites like Airbnb will facilitate the renting process for a cut of the money that renters will pay.Make a profile about you and the available space on the Airbnb website, set a nightly price, and accept offers to rent the space based on an applicant’s profile and the dates they hope to stay.
Be aware that laws in different states and cities treat short-term rentals differently. Familiarize yourself with the laws in your area.;
, If you live in a big city where parking space is limited, consider renting out your driveway or garage. In big cities, especially cities that are growing, people are willing to pay large monthly sums of money to use your parking space.


There are apps specifically designed to help you make money off of your parking spot! In most places it is legal to rent out your driveway, or even your reserved spot in a garage for various amounts of time. (Check about legality in your area.) Try out Monkey Parking, Just Park, and Spot – they each have different rules and specific criteria for use., If you have items of value lying around the house that you no longer need, consider selling them. Items with high resale value include unused furniture, clothes, shoes, bags, cars, bicycles, musical instruments, and other collectors' items.


Postpone the yard sale. Though this might seem like the quickest way to sell your stuff, many of your items will likely go unsold, or will sell for less than they are worth at a yard sale.
Sell your stuff online. Craigslist and OfferUp are essentially online versions of a yard sale. They require less effort and provide access to a larger audience, but they are still limited to a relatively local market.Use photos and descriptions to market your items online.
Sell items on eBay. This will give you the highest probable sales price, in part because you’ll reach the largest audience. Further, potential buyers will bid on your item and potentially pay more than you had anticipated. Plus, payment and shipping are easier and more reliable than having to meet without someone to complete a sale., If you have unused scrap metal lying around the house or garage, take it down to a metals recycler to make some cash. Look for unused steel, brass, copper, aluminum, and iron.


Common items to recycle include old car parts, toasters, plumbing fixtures, beverage cans, and metal construction debris - the heavier, the better, as you’ll be paid by weight.
Different metal recycling centers have different rates and may only purchase certain kinds of metal. Make a few calls to find the business that will pay you the most., Healthy men between the ages of 18 and 35 may be eligible candidates to sell sperm.Healthy women between 20 and 30 can also make substantial amounts of money selling eggs.Prepare to be interviewed and screened thoroughly, for either sperm or egg donation. Physical fitness, medical conditions, and lifestyle all greatly affect your ability to donate.
Donating sperm is perhaps the easiest of these options, though the process does require a blood test. Sperm banks will generally pay $35-$50 per specimen, though facilities will not pay you until a second blood test following your sperm donation comes back clean.Donating eggs is a serious endeavor that involves a substantial medical procedure and will likely also include a strict regimen of supplementation and behavior preceding donation. The process will last several months, and there are emotional and physical risks involved, as well as a recovery period following each donation. Women are usually paid several thousand dollars per donation, and can donate multiple times.Sell your plasma. If you are in good health, then you may be eligible to sell your plasma for some quick cash. There are much less strict requirement to be able to sell your plasma, though you still have to meet certain criteria. Plasma donations are usually met with a $20-$50 dollar return, and first-time donors usually get an added bonus!, There are plenty of ways to make an extra buck on the side. Babysitting, dog walking, and house cleaning are all great ways to make cash in a short period of time. Reach out to friends, family, and neighbors to see if they are looking for any sort of help.


Even better, harness the time and energy you spend on one of your hobbies by trying to turn a profit doing what you love. If you play an instrument, join a house band with consistent gigs at local venues, or contact recording studios to tell them you’re available for recordings.
 If you have recently purchased items that you don't need, and if they are still in good condition, then return them to the store you bought them from. This is a great way to make cash back instantly.


Note that different stores have different return policies. You may need to return the items with the tags still attached and/or with a receipt. Some stores only offer store credit rather than cash.
 Scalping involves buying tickets to a concert or sporting event and then reselling them in order to make a profit. Use caution with this method, though; while it is usually legal to resell tickets at face value, scalping laws vary from state to state. Some even allow you to sell tickets at whatever price you can.


Scalping works best at sold-out events. While the quality of the seat matters, potential buyers will likely be able to find tickets for less than face value if the event is not sold out.
Make a profit by acquiring tickets at lower than face value, so you can sell them for the face value and still make a profit.
Use StubHub to find and sell tickets. StubHub is especially helpful in facilitating payment and shipping, and provides information regarding the legality of the transactions you’re considering.Craigslist is another great option for acquiring and selling tickets too.

