 The type of milk you decide to use to make the yogurt will determine the fat content of the yogurt. Whole milk will give you the creamiest yogurt.;
, (29.6 ml) of the milk to be used later on.
 (1.86 l) of milk into a saucepan with a heavy bottom. Heat the milk on the stove top on medium heat. Stir constantly with a wooden spoon while it is heating.
 This is just before it starts to boil. Use a candy thermometer to keep track of the milk's temperature while it heats.
 Place it uncovered on a cooling rack. Wait until the temperature of the milk reaches 110 degrees Fahrenheit (43.3 degrees Celsius), approximately 45 minutes.
 If you have an oven that you can set at very low temperatures, set it to approximately 110 degrees Fahrenheit (43.3 degrees Celsius). Place an oven thermometer inside so you can be sure it is between 100 and 110 degrees Fahrenheit (37.7 and 43.3 degrees Celsius).
 (29.6 ml) of milk you reserved earlier with 2.5 tbsp. (37 ml) of plain store-bought yogurt. Stir them together in a small glass with a fork or spoon.


Make sure that the yogurt label lists active cultures. This will serve as your yogurt "starter."

, Stir well until it is thoroughly combined.
 Place the lid over the mixture and a dishtowel over the top to keep it from overheating. Put the bowl in the oven.


If the temperature goes above 120 degrees Fahrenheit (48.9 degrees Celsius), the active yogurt cultures will be killed. If the temperature goes below 100 degrees Fahrenheit (37.7 degrees Celsius), the active cultures will not grow and your milk will not be converted into yogurt.
 Many people choose to leave it overnight.
 If it has not thickened, place it back in the oven and wait a few more hours. If it has, turn the oven light or element off.
 There will not necessarily be a watery portion. Place the bowl in the refrigerator for 2 hours, giving it time to thicken.
 Place the lined strainer in a large bowl. You can use a colander, but make sure it has a concentration of holes at the bottom, rather than the sides.
 Place it back in the refrigerator for 1 hour. The whey will accumulate in the bowl underneath the strainer.
 You can pour the whey down the drain or reserve it for other recipes. Replace the bowl under the strainer and place them both back in the refrigerator.
 Pour away the whey. Spoon the mixture into an airtight container.
 Reserve 2.5 tbsp. (37 ml) of the yogurt to use as a starter for your next batch of yogurt.

