


Draining old brake fluid and replacing it is a substantially more complicated task than simply adding extra fluid. It's also a task with more potential for error. For these reasons, you'll want to consult your vehicle's owner's manual before you get started. This guide may not apply to every vehicle, so it's important to double-check with your manufacturer's instructions to ensure you don't inadvertently do any damage to your vehicle.
Note that this is a two-person job, so you'll also want to grab a partner before beginning.










To start, you'll want to raise the vehicle on frame stands. Remove each wheel just as you would if you were replacing the vehicle's tires.
A level working surface and secure supports are essential here — since the vehicle is raised off of the ground, slippage is a rare but potentially deadly possibility.










Open the hood and locate the reservoir as normal. Add extra fluid to the reservoir as normal — even if the fluid that's already in the reservoir is discolored.
When you're done, replace the lid. In the next few steps, you'll be getting into and out of the car repeatedly, sometimes adding more new fluid to the reservoir. As you do this, remember not to remove the reservoir cap while the vehicle's brake pedal is depressed, as this will cause the fluid to gush out.










On each brake caliper, you should see a small bleed valve on the back side. This usually looks like a bolt with a small nipple on it and sometimes has a rubber protective cap.In the next few steps, you'll use the bleed valves to let the old, spent brake fluid out of the vehicle's brake lines. Typically, this is done by starting with the rear wheel on the opposite side as the brake fluid reservoir and proceeding through the rest of the wheels in reverse order of their nearness to the reservoir. However, many vehicles require an alternate order to be used, so be sure to double-check with your owner's manual.









This is a somewhat complicated process — see the link in the step title for a detailed guide.
Begin by connecting the bleed valve to a clear plastic "catcher" container (like an empty soda bottle) with tubing. Ideally, this should be hung or held above the caliper to prevent air from entering the brake system through the valve. Loosen the valve very slightly — not enough for brake fluid to flow, but enough for it to be easy to loosen it the rest of the way.
Have an assistant pump the vehicle's brakes a few times until s/he notices pressure or resistance from the brake pedal (the vehicle's engine should be off at this point). Once s/he notices pressure, loosen the bleed valve until fluid begins passing through the tube. The assistant should notice the brake pedal move towards the floor.
Be sure to stop bleeding fluid before the pedal reaches the floor — your assistant should shout to let you know when the pedal is about 2/3 of the way to the floor. Letting the pedal reach the floor can damage the brakes.










You never want to let the fluid drop so low that you can no longer see it, as this can introduce air into the brake system. Check the brake fluid reservoir after each bleeding. If necessary, add fresh fluid back to the fill line.
Repeat the bleeding procedures above, refilling the fluid in the reservoir as you go, until the fluid passing through the valve is clear and free of air bubbles. Close the bleed screw when finished and make sure it is tight.










Once you've bled the first wheel as directed above, move on to the rest. As noted previously, the typical order for bleeding a vehicle's brakes is to start with the rear wheel furthest away from the brake fluid reservoir and proceed through the other wheels in reverse order of closeness, ending with the front wheel closest to the reservoir. However, this order may be different for some vehicles, so check the owner's manual.
As one final precaution, observe the fluid level in the reservoir as your assistant depresses the pedal and then abruptly releases the pressure. If the pedal feels spongy, there may still be air bubbles in the brake system, so you'll need to continue bleeding.When you've finished with the last wheel and no air bubbles remain in the brake lines, refill the brake fluid reservoir to the fill line and re-cap it.










Use a lint-free cloth to wipe up any brake fluid that may have dripped or spilled around the reservoir, taking care not to wipe any debris into the open reservoir itself.
Double-check to ensure that the cap is properly tightened and that the rubber gasket is seated properly before closing the hood and operating the vehicle. Replace the wheels and carefully lower the vehicle back to the ground.
Congratulations! You've just replaced your vehicle's brake fluid and bled its brakes — not an easy task for beginners.



If brake fluid spills onto the ground, don't forget to clean it up — not only is it a corrosive, somewhat noxious fluid, but also a hazard in terms of slippage.
Minor spills can usually be cleaned up with a wet towel or mop. For major spills, absorb the fluid with inert, non-flammable materials like sand, dirt, diatomaceous earth, etc. and shovel this into a waste receptacle.Don't let brake fluid make its way into a storm drain or use brake fluid-soaked dirt etc. be used for purposes like gardening — brake fluid is toxic and can pose an environmental hazard if it's released into the environment without being properly processed and treated.

