 The hockey stick is aggressively slapped (almost as hard as you can) and bent on the ice, building tension that is then released against the puck in the direction of the intended target. Even though this technique can generate a puck speed of over 100 mph (160 km/h), it's not as accurate or as convenient as the wrist or snap shots.;
, It's tempting to wind up on the one-timer heading for you when you're right at the top of those hash marks, but try to restrain yourself. The vast majority of the time, something much more simple will work better. Slap-shots should be used primarily by a defenseman when in his position near the blue line or to dump the puck in the offensive zone. This allows for a tip by a forward standing in front of the net.
 Do not point your skates at your target (which is the net, hopefully); this is a huge mistake made by beginners. Although once you build more skill in taking Slap-shots, this will be possible. Later on, if you're short on time during a play, or cannot position yourself correctly for the shot, you can take a shot with your feet a little crooked.
 You probably won't have much time to get your puck off if you spend too much time aiming at this point. A simple glance will do for now to get the general direction of where you want to shoot.
 If you're right-handed, you should be holding your stick with your left hand at the top. Your right hand should be lower than where you would normally carry it when stick-handling or skating. Make sure your hands are shoulder length apart on the stick, as the stick reaches its highest point your hands will separate a little more and move down the shaft, and as you finish the shot, your hand should end up somewhere near shoulder length apart. (NOTE: A majority of left handed hockey players shoot on the left making these instructions completely backwards. Your right hand would be on the top of the stick because you would use your dominant hand for best control)

, Don't do this to an extreme; pulling back way above your head doesn't add power and sacrifices time and accuracy drastically. Pulling the stick back to your waist should be sufficient. You should be looking down at the puck at this point so you don't miss it. Especially as a beginner, while trying to learn the overall movement, during the windup don't bring the blade of your stick any higher than your waist. Once you have a reasonable shot, you can increase your windup. With good mechanics it is possible to unleash a very powerful slap-shot with little windup.
 If you're going for a goal, you should aim for a particular spot on the net, not just the net itself. If you're taking a shot hoping a teammate will tip it (this is recommended over an actual shot for a goal), keep your eyes on the ice and on your teammate's stick side.
 Many mistakenly hit only the puck, thinking the ice will slow their shot. If performed correctly, however, hitting the ice with your stick moments before contact with the puck will cause your stick to "flex" and shoot the puck off like an arrow from a bowstring.
 This adds accuracy to your shot.
 After initial contact, follow through completely in the direction you want the puck to go. This makes for a more accurate shot, and it also helps keep your puck stable in the air. Your shoulders should finish facing the net, your hips should twist towards the direction of the shot, and your front foot should turn towards the direction of the shot. After following through, your stick and body should be pointing (gliding) towards the direction of your shot.

