 Avoid doing work, making phone calls, or paying bills in bed. Instead, get used to the idea that your bed is for sleeping or romantic activities. You want your bed to be a place of relaxation--not a work desk. Keep your bed free of clutter, and never perform work activities in bed., Your bedroom should be a relaxing safe haven, one that is free from stress, distractions, or anything nerve-wracking. Try to avoid doing work or anything stressful in your bedroom. Keep your bedroom free from electronic screens or noisy items such as televisions, computers, and phones. These electronics have been known to give out blue light which interferes in sleep. Other ways to have a relaxing bedroom space include painting your room a calming color such as light blue or light gray, using lamps that create soft light, and using calming essential scents such as lavender oils or potpourri. Essential oils can help you sleep better.
 Having a dark room is very important for relaxing and sleeping well in bed. The sleep-inducing hormone melatonin is very light-sensitive. Check to see if your room is too light by turning off all the lights at night. Wait for your eyes to adjust: if you can clearly see objects, there is too much light. Now you can look for areas where the light is leaking in.If you are in a city with lots of street lights outside your window, consider getting a blackout lining for your curtains or buying an eye mask.
 A room that is too hot will stop your core temperature from dropping, something which is necessary to switch on your body's sleeping mechanism. Your body drops to its lowest temperature when you are asleep so keeping your room cool can help. You should aim for a temperature of around 18 - 24 degrees Celsius, or 64 - 75 Fahrenheit. Being overheated can make you feel dehydrated, anxious, or restless at bedtime.Keeping a window slightly open, if it is safe to do so, can help by ensuring there is a good circulation of air. An oscillating fan can also help create the proper temperature in a bedroom during the warmer months.
Be sure to keep your extremities warm. If it's cold opt for a warmer duvet rather than leaving the heating on, which can dehydrate you.It is especially important that you keep your feet warm, so you might want to wear socks to bed., A mattress that is made of breathable, hypoallergenic materials will help your body relax more effectively at bedtime. Be sure that your mattress is also your desired firmness and size. Choosing the correct mattress for your body type and sleeping style will contribute to a relaxing environment., Noise is one of the great sleep disruptors, and it can make you feel stressed out before bed or overnight. White noise is a calming, ambient sound that can help cover up stressful noises such as voices, cars, snoring, or your neighbors' music.White noise machines can be specifically purchased, or you can use a fan or dehumidifer as a white noise machine. There are also white noise generators to be found online.

