 Get to know your clown’s character. Is your clown persona extroverted, shy, goofy? What kinds of tricks do you want to do as a clown? A shy clown probably would not do showy magic tricks, and a goofy clown probably would not have makeup with fake tears on it. Make sure that your clown has a distinctive character. Many clowns often improvise when they’re onstage; practice your improvisation while you’re exploring your clown’s character., Many clowns have their own names that they use for professional purposes. This name sometimes ends in “o,” such as “Bozo” or “Cheeko.”Think about your name carefully, because you will use it to market yourself for gigs.
 Clowns always have tricks up their sleeves, from balloon animals to card tricks to handkerchiefs for juggling. Here are some examples of things you might want in your own clown arsenal.


Balloons and balloon pumper for making balloon animals
Handkerchiefs for juggling
Fake thumb tips
“Magic change bags” (for turning something into something else)
Silk scarves
A “trick” deck of cards, Clowns aim to be funny and also tend to do different tricks throughout their acts. Whether you want to make balloon animals, juggle, perform magic, mime, or do a comedic routine, your act will ultimately be a performance. You can also consider humor, especially slapstick humor, when creating your act. When people see clowns, they want to laugh and be entertained. Watch videos of successful clowns (either at the circus or doing freelance work) to see what fits your style and persona.
 Practice in front of the mirror with your costume and makeup done. Make your card tricks and balloon animals flawless so that you can focus on other aspects of your performance.
 Gather a group of people you know and trust to evaluate your clown performance. If you know any other people who clown, ask them to critique your performance. Practice your performance as though it is the “real thing” and ask them to write down comments for you on ways to improve it and things that are working well. Here are some questions you can ask them:


What in my performance was funny?
What was not funny?
What was impressive in terms of tricks?
Did the performance “drag” in any places?
What did you like about my performance?
What did you dislike?
Overall, did it feel too long or too short?
Did anything look unpolished?

, Spend 8 weeks learning about the process of being a clown. You will receive training to develop your clowning skills. You will also receive professional development; after the end of the 8 weeks, the college will facilitate your auditions for different circuses, if you would like., Many groups, like the World Clown Association, exist for the purpose of supporting aspiring clowns.Explore the resources that a clown organization can offer to you, whether it might be mentorship from an older or more experienced clown or a tutorial on how to do makeup more effectively. Many of these resources are available only to members.
 Many clowns start out in the world of freelancing, but, eventually, clowns either focus on freelance work or try to start performing with a circus.Decide which of these options is for you. Do you want to stay in one place to do freelance work, or would you travel with a circus?


Freelance clowns have more flexibility in their schedules, but they do need to market themselves extensively so that they keep getting gigs. If you are an established circus clown, it may be easier to get more freelance gigs. Consider joining a circus for a couple of years and then settling into freelance work.
Circus clowns need to audition and travel with the circus. However, unlike freelance clowns, they do receive health benefits. Many people cannot be circus clowns for their entire careers because the travelling is challenging. Circus clowns may do 500 shows in one calendar year!