 The second you fart, move your feet on the floor so your shoes squeak.


Create a diversion by dropping a book or or talking right at the moment that you fart.Move in your chair to create noise from your chair moving across the floor or from the cushions in the chair. You could also cough at the same time that you fart. This won’t hide the smell, but it will help camouflage the sound, which helps identify you as the culprit.;
, There’s always the good old blame someone else tactic. This works best if you are the first person to point out the fart.


Rather than waiting for someone else to notice it, notice it first. Point it out, and look at the person next to you and point out that they just farted. Or, better yet, blame someone who doesn't know you're blaming them. The kid in the chair ahead of you who hasn't smelled the fart or heard it or the teacher who just walked past.
It’s less suspicious if you bring it up than if you ignore it. Who should you blame? If you're struggling for a suspect, just pick the person closest to you., If you’re about to fart in the hall in a group of people, just lag behind a little bit. If you’re walking behind them, they won’t very easily smell the smell.


Or make an excuse and go to the restroom or your locker when you sense that a fart is coming on. Just don’t stand around a group of people. Try to go to the bathroom right before class.
You will need to be in a group of at least three people for people to not be sure where to put the blame. So, if you’re in a large group, you might get away with it. If you’re with one or two people, lag behind or walk away.
 If you can sense a fart coming on, and you’re able to do so, go outside before you let it rip! Obviously, the outside air will more closely dissipate the smell.


The worst place to fart is in a small and enclosed space, such as an elevator. You might not be able to hold it for long, but it’s a good idea to hold it at least long enough for the elevator doors to open.
If you’re stuck in a classroom, you could ask to go to the bathroom, but that will give away that you did it if you’ve already farted, so better to try a diversionary tactic in that case.

