 Will it be for business or personal use? Business printers are usually more expensive because they are more reliable, generally have higher duty cycles (in other words they last longer), have better warranties, and parts are easier to replace. Personal printers are usually less expensive. Check that the printer works on your Operating System (Windows or Mac, for example).;
, Color printers are more flexible but can also cost more to purchase and operate.
 Laser printers are typically used more in business environment because they print faster, are generally more reliable, and sometimes cost more to purchase and operate than an Ink printer.
 Most printers will print envelopes, letter (8.5 x 11) and legal (8.5 x 14). Other sizes, such as tabloid and executive require special consideration. Also don't forget about paper weight - make sure the paper will take heavy paper such as cardstock, if that is a requirement.
 There are advantages to a multi-function device - they generally take up less space when compared to the individual components and they can be more economical to purchase compared to buying each device individually. There are disadvantages too - if one component breaks, the entire device needs to be replaced, the individual components are sometimes of lesser quality than if they were purchased separately.
 After following the above steps to narrow down the type of printer, take time to research the companies and printer models available. Consumer Reports is a good resource for researching printers. PC World, CNET, PC Magazine, and others can have valuable information as well.
 Purchasing the printer is just the first step and very inexpensive printers can end up costing a lot to operate over time. Other considerations include: What is the energy consumption and is the printer Energy Star certified? How much do replacement toner/ink cartridges cost and how many pages will they last? How long is the warranty? What is the cost for printer maintenance and how often is maintenance recommended?

,