 Ideally, your dog should have a meal plan that's tailored to his or her specific dietary needs. What is nutritionally appropriate for one dog may not be what's best for your dog. This is especially true if you're feeding a growing puppy, instead of an adult dog. Work with a veterinary nutritionist to develop a meal plan for your dog.While your veterinarian may be able to suggest some healthy options for meals, a study that analyzed veterinarian-created recipes found that the majority of recipes lacked at least one key area of nutrition.;
, It's easy to fall into a routine if you regularly prepare food for your dog. If the meal you usually make is missing a certain nutrient, your dog could develop a nutritional deficiency over time. To prevent this, feed your dog a variety of meals over the span of several days.For example, you may feed your dog a mixture of chicken, rice, and vegetables for three or four days. Then, you may feed a meal of grains and seafood for another three or four days. Your dog will get a variety of nutrients over the course of the week.
 Some foods we humans safely eat are actually toxic to dogs. In many cases, your dog would need to eat a large quantity or small amounts regularly before developing health problems, but it's not worth the risk. Monitor your dog for several weeks if you fear he's eaten something he shouldn't. If you are not sure if a food is safe, speak to your veterinarian. You should avoid feeding your dog:Garlic: The more concentrated the garlic is, the more dangerous it is to your dog. Make sure any chicken or vegetable broths you cook with don't contain dried garlic.
Onions in any form (fried, baked, raw, or dried)
Grapes, raisins or sultanas: These cause kidney failure.
Avocado: This has contains persin which dogs can't tolerate. Persin toxicity causes a range of problems, from mild stomach upset to fluid in the chest and breathing difficulties.
Chocolate
Bread dough
Xylitol (artificial sweetener found in low sugar cookies, cakes, and sweets)
Alcohol
Macadamia nuts

, If you're just feeding one homemade meal for your dog, you can skip the supplement. However, if you're planning to regularly feed your dog homemade meals, you'll need to give him a dietary supplement. A supplement will ensure that your dog gets enough calcium, vitamin D, vitamin E, and other essential minerals. You can find calcium supplements at your pet store. Choose one that will give your dog 800 to 1,000 mg of calcium for each pound of food feed.Ask your veterinarian to recommend a vitamin and mineral supplement specific for your dog's needs.
 Meat should make up the majority of your dog's meal. However, meat should not make up more than half of the meal. Choose a lean meat that has the bones and fat removed. Most dogs don't need the extra energy or calories that come from fatty meat. Instead, fatty meat could cause your dog to gain weight (unless he's very active).For example, your dog's meal could be 50% chicken, 25% rice, and 25% vegetables.
 Since half of your dog's meal will come from meat, the other half should be made up of equal parts carbohydrates and vegetables.Carbohydrates can come from cooked rice, pasta, or boiled potato. Good vegetables include cooked:Green leafy vegetables (such as spinach, kale, spring greens, brussel sprouts, Bok choy, and chard)
Butternut squash
Turnip
Parsnip
French beans
Okra

, Fish is a great way to add protein to your dog's meals. It also has high levels of omega fatty acids which are essential for a healthy coat. Fish is also rich in vitamin D which helps your dog convert calcium into strong bones. You can offer your dog a small amount of fish every day or a fish meal twice a week. Add about one ounce of fish for every pound of other meat. Good fish choices include tinned:Tuna
Mackerel
Sardines (packed in water, not oil)
Pink salmon

, Eggs and dairy can provide a variety of nutrients your dog needs such as protein and calcium. Take care not overfeed your dog though. You should typically only feed one egg for every 20 pounds your dog weighs. If your dog weighs less, you'll need to scale this down appropriately. If you decide to give your dog dairy, consider offering cottage cheese or goat's milk.Since not all dogs can digest the lactose in most dairy, watch for upset stomach.
 Depending on how many meals you're making, cook a small amount of rice (for one meal) or a pot of rice that you can use for several meals. Once the rice is completely cooked, set it aside while you prepare the rest of the meal. If using other vegetables as the source of carbohydrates, be sure to cook them well. Good carbohydrates include:Sweet potato
Lima beans
Apples
Peas
Lentils
Garbanzo beans

, Wash your hands and trim the meat of any fat, tendons, skin, or bones. Chop the meat into bites that your dog can manage (larger bites for larger dogs and smaller bites for smaller dogs). Cook the meat in a little bit of oil over medium heat until it's completely cooked.
 Wash your vegetables and chop them into bites that your dog can manage. Saute the vegetables in a pan with oil until they're soft enough for your dog to easily eat. Good sources of vegetables include:Broccoli
Zucchini
Carrots
Green beans
Celery
Spinach
Summer or winter squash

, Once the components of the meal are prepared, combine the appropriate balance. You'll need to mix half of the meat with one-quarter vegetables and one-quarter carbohydrates. Stir the mixture well and portion out enough for your dog's meal. Store the rest in the refrigerator.


For example, mix 1 cup of cooked chicken with 1/2 cup of zucchini and 1/2 cup of cooked rice.

