 Once you’ve been pre-approved by the lender, you'll know what you can spend. But there's no reason to share that information with the dealer. If you walk in saying you've been pre-approved for $15,000, you'll probably end up spending $15,000. Instead, try and do all the negotiation you can beforehand.


If you think you’ll be tempted to show it to the salesmen, don’t come to the dealer with your pre-approval paperwork at all.
 If you are buying a car from the dealer, they may offer you financing. This financing usually has higher interest rates, but the dealership can offer you other incentives, such as rebates or no-interest periods, that may bring down the cost overall. Talk to the dealer, and get a quote for financing to see if it is right for you.

Some dealerships will advertise that they finance people with no or bad credit. Typically these dealerships charge extremely high interest rates. It is better to see if a bank, credit union, or reputable dealer will give you a loan first., Before you buy a used car, ask the dealer if you can have a mechanic examine the car to make sure that there are no problems. Always get your own mechanic to perform this service. They should check out the car’s brakes, electrical system, compression, transmission, and other parts to prevent you from buying a defective car., Once you buy the car, make sure that you have the title transferred into your name. You should doublecheck that the VIN on the title is the same as it is on the car. The odometer on the car should also be the same or higher than it is listed on the title. Go through all of the proper paper work, and submit it to your state DMV.

Be sure to get a new license plate for the car registered in your state of residence.
 You must have insurance on your new car. Contact a few insurance companies to find the best rate. If you had insurance on your old car, contact your insurance agency and tell them that you have bought a new car, so that they can adjust your insurance. This will ensure that your insurance will cover the new car.