 Dip the sponge in cold water, then blot out any visible stains on the burlap.


Wring out any excess water before blotting out the stain.
Only blot or dab at the stain. Do not scrub or rub it since doing so could cause the stain to seep further into the fibers of the material.
If you only want to clean off the stain, blot up the water with a dry towel as soon as you get the stain out. If you want to wash the entire piece of burlap, though, continue on with the rest of these steps.;
, Plug the sink and fill it halfway with cold water. Adjust the depth of the water as needed so that there will be enough for you to completely submerge the burlap.


Do not use warm or hot water. Warm water can cause the fabric to shrink.
Use a large bucket or tub if you do not have a clean enough or large enough sink.
For small amounts of burlap or finished burlap pieces, hand washing is recommended over machine washing. Burlap can start to unravel if handled too roughly.
 Pour a quarter to a half cap of gentle liquid laundry detergent into the water. Use your hands to agitate the solution until the detergent disperses and suds begin to form.
 Submerge the burlap in the soapy water. Keep it underneath the water for no more than five minutes before removing it.


Simply leaving the burlap submerged in the water should be enough to clean it. If desired, though, you could also slowly stir the burlap using your hands to gently agitate the dirt off.
Do not leave the burlap in the water for much longer than five minutes. If you soak it for too long, the material can begin to fray and unravel.
 Remove the burlap from the soapy water and rinse it under cold running water. Continue rinsing it until the water coming out from the bottom of the material runs clear.
 Spread out a dry towel on a hard, flat surface. Place the wet burlap on top of it, then drape a second dry towel on top of that. Let the burlap dry flat in between both towels.


Do not wring out the water or otherwise squeeze or twist the damp material. Twisting the burlap fibers while the material is still wet can cause the fabric to become distorted and damaged.
Change the towels as needed until all of the moisture has been soaked up.

