 Keep your valuables at home so they don't get lost, stolen, or even confiscated.;
, Squad leaders can make it difficult for you, unless you do as ordered. This is not a regular public school. You are here to learn and to become a leader. Show respect, even if you do not feel it. These people are professionals, and their job is to train you in respect, obedience, and military protocol, and they know how to do so.
 Just show them that you are there to learn and you are sincere, and they will not harass you.
 If you are assigned a room, you may not be allowed to choose your own roommates, so you may have to make the best of it.
 This will make you more positive, and motivate you to do your best. You are here for a reason, so do not forget what it was.
 Wearing uniforms are a way of promoting camaraderie and equality, as well as learning how to listen and obey orders. Marching is there to help you be part of the group, and to promote teamwork and coordination.
 Each person in a room is individually inspected instead of the entire room itself. This way, each cadet is responsible for keeping their own area clean and neat.
 You are incredibly lucky to get to participate in these because they are considered rewards. Don't skip out on them. Enjoy them when they come around. If your school doesn't hold war games, suggest them about once a month.
 You need to be honest and truthful - especially if you face court-martial.

Behave and stay out of trouble as much as possible.
Ask questions about anything you don't understand.
Offer to help when necessary.
Prepare for graduation.
 It could be because you wouldn't stop behaving badly. Very often when parents can't "control" their children, they'll turn them over to someone who can.
 You can ask them why, but focus on improving yourself.
 Being given privileges and special treatment.
 If it's a Marine school or the Tactical officers (TACs) are mostly Marines, learn Marine Corps traditions and find out how to build rapport with them. Find out what those TACs did in the service and discuss it with them, especially if you feel that you want to join the military. Remember that the Marine Corps is the most elite of all US military branches, and Marine instructors will be the hardest to impress.
 If you are a good cadet and all of the people know it, when you get into trouble, they can help you out. This does not mean you can get in trouble often or abuse that person's trust, as he or she will end up losing faith in you. Make goals for yourself after graduation.

