 Your baby should be used to eating cereal mixed with formula, breast milk or water before you begin mixing fruit or vegetable purees into the cereal. Most babies can start enjoying fruits and vegetables within a few weeks after starting cereal.


Your baby might enjoy cereal more when it's mixed with fruits or vegetables, since these will give the cereal a little flavor. The fruit and vegetables will also give important nutrients to your baby.
 Always use pureed fruits or vegetables when combining it with cereal. Start with a single fruit or vegetable at a time, so you can watch your baby for allergic reactions (like hives, swelling, or skin irritation). Consider starting with one of these easy-to-digest foods:Avocado
Banana
Sweet potato (cooked and pureed)
Carrots (cooked and pureed)
Pears
Peas (cooked and pureed)

, Combine the usual amount of cereal and formula or breast milk that your baby usually eats. It's alright if the mixture is a little thick, since the fruit or vegetable puree with thin it out a little.


For example, a five month old baby may be eating 2 tablespoons (5 g) of cereal with 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of breast milk or formula.
 The cereal will thin out a little and have a slight fruit or vegetable flavor. You can offer your baby any fruit or vegetable. Keep in mind that your baby might refuse a fruit or vegetable the first time, but may enjoy it the next time you offer it. Some basic starting combinations include:Pumpkin puree with oat or rice cereal
Applesauce with oat or rice cereal
Pureed peas with oat or rice cereal

, Once your baby has tried a variety of fruits and vegetables, you can begin combining them with the cereal. To create a flavorful meal, you can mix a fruit and vegetable into a cereal. You can also increase the amount of puree to one or two tablespoons. Some good flavor combinations include:Pureed peas and carrots with cereal
Pureed green beans and mashed potatoes with cereal
Applesauce, pureed sweet potatoes, and cereal
Mashed banana, pureed pears and cereal
Carrot puree, applesauce, and mango puree with cereal

