 If you make a decision to completely deprive yourself of chocolate, your habit may well escalate! Any time you make a decision to give up something totally, you totter on the edge of falling back into your old way any moment and then finding even more excuses as to why the old habit is perfectly justifiable and doesn't need changing. Rather than taking an all or nothing approach, make a decision to cut down on, rather than cut out, chocolate from your way of eating. Since chocolate makes most people feel good, it has its own way of making us want to come back for more..., In an era of "nutritional philosophy" as Michael Pollan terms it,we're heavily focused on taking the pleasure out of eating food and we've stopped savoring it. In other words, it's much easier to scoff down a large bar of chocolate unthinkingly than it is to eat just a few squares and truly immerse ourselves in the experience of how it tastes, what its aroma is like, feeling the texture, etc. And the moment you start to feel guilty about your chocolate eating, there is a risk of becoming stubborn, sneaky, and making excuses instead of finding a more gentle way to enjoy chocolate. Research at Northwestern University's medical school has even shown that different parts of the brain are activated depending on whether we view eating chocolate as rewarding or something to be avoided.Decide to change your mindset about how you eat chocolate and you will find yourself eating less of it but enjoying it more:



Savor every piece of chocolate. Notice its various tastes from cocoa bean to flavoring in the chocolate. Notice its texture. Notice its aroma. Slowly eat each piece and avoid wolfing down piece after piece as if you can't wait to get the bar out of your sight. Instead, keep the chocolate in your sight for as long as possible, consuming it mindfully, slowly, with a passion for it.
Read How to taste chocolate for more details.
 Reducing chocolate intake can be achieved by improving the selection of chocolate you do eat. Out with the over-sugared, fat-saturated common chocolate bars ("candy chocolate") available everywhere, and in with the more expensive, refined, and darker, more pure chocolate brands. The increase in cost will benefit you considerably because you just won't be able to afford quality chocolate as often as the run-of-the-mill junk chocolate and this is a good thing, for chocolate turns into an occasional treat.


Go for quality in small amounts rather than eating large amounts of poor quality chocolate. Quality chocolate high in cacao content and low in sugar and fat is good for you in small amounts as the cacao beans contain a high level of antioxidants.It should only be eaten as a condiment, and one to two squares of quality dark chocolate after a meal each day rather than as a snack is acceptable nutritionally speaking.Good quality chocolate is high in cocoa and generally lacks fillings and artificial flavorings and colorings. If you avoid "candy chocolate", suddenly a lot of chocolate choices are off the menu and you will find it easier to enjoy quality chocolate properly on suitable occasions.
 Instead of blindly turning to chocolate when you feel an energy slump or you're bored or it just happens to be sitting in front of you, choose your chocolate eating times with purpose and intent. As part of this choosing instead of reacting to unconscious triggers, map out the times when you will eat chocolate, such as after a sports game or a hike, during a weekly family movie night, on the weekend only, or when having friends over, etc. Also map out the times when you're likely to reach for it, such as during the afternoon slump or when you feel bored, and reach for a glass of water or a handful of nuts or sultanas instead. Do something rather than letting boredom be the source of your desire to munch away.
 A simple response to preventing your Pavlovian salivation is to remove chocolate from sight and to cease stashing it in large quantities in places where you can easily access it, such as at home, in your bag, or in the office. Don't keep chocolate in the house – temptation is only at the reach of a hand when you keep chocolate stashes in the home. As an added bonus, if you don't have chocolate but have to make the effort to get it, you'll not only think twice about going to get it from that delightful boutique chocolate store on the other side of town but you'll burn up calories getting there!


Avoid places where chocolate is on display. Walk on the other side of the street rather than by the window of that sweet little chocolate shop. When you go to the grocery store, avoid walking by the chocolate aisle. At the checkout, try to go for the checkout that is confectionery free, or simply look elsewhere.
 If it's mealtime, eat your meal first. If it's snack time, eat healthy snacks such as carrot sticks, nuts and seeds, gum, fruit, small amounts of dried fruit or celery sticks before having a piece or two of chocolate. You may not even want the chocolate with the other flavors in your mouth.
 Sometimes it is easy to confuse being thirsty with a craving for sweets or chocolate.
 Chocolate contains chemicals that make us feel good, namely the neurotransmitters serotonin, dopamine and phenylethylamine.If you're in need of a psychological boost, chocolate can often fit the bill because it gives you a brief boost that increases your sense of well-being and acts like natural Prozac.The challenge for you may be unearthing the reason why you need a constant psychological boost rather than masking it with chocolate popping. If you are relying on this aspect of chocolate regularly, it may be that you need to face underlying reasons as to why you seek chocolate as a source of medicating or calming yourself on a daily basis. If you are stressed, suffering from anxiety disorders, feel overly shy, or you aren't quite sure what's wrong, seek professional assistance to deal with the root of the problem.


It may be the fat and/or the sugar, it may be the caffeine or theobromine, or it may be other elements in chocolate that cause the addictive nature. To test this, cut out candy chocolate (high in sugar and fat), then proceed to switching from chocolate to cacao. In this way, you might discover which part of the chocolate eating has caused the addition and you find chocolate or cacao that you can consume without ending in a chocolate addiction. Try raw cacao nibs. With cacao, you get all the benefits of chocolate (high magnesium content, the neurotransmitters, and a chocolate high) without the unhealthy additions of sugar and fat.Keep a journal that records both when you eat chocolate and the feelings associated it. If you can identify the eating pattern, this will go a long way to identifying problem feelings that need to be dealt with through other methods than chocolate sedation.
You might like to consider chocolate perfume, chocolate bubble baths, chocolate soap, chocolate scented candles or other sources of chocolate scents as a way of meeting your need for the uplifting side of chocolate without actually having to consume it as well.

