 There are a lot of options, such as deer, elk, or bird, so consult with your group to see what they would prefer to hunt. Make sure that whatever you're hunting is in season and check to see what the limitations are. For example, sometimes you are only permitted to bag a certain number of animals in a single hunting trip.;
, Decide if you would rather be in a remote area and camp out in tents or on a deer blind, or if you would rather hunt in a more populated area and sleep in a lodge or hotel rooms.
 Even if you are an experienced hunter, a guide can make your hunting trip even more successful. Look in the yellow pages or on the Internet for a hunting guide. Talk to previous clients to see if the guide is worth hiring.



Give each person a job. One friend can be in charge of the food and another can take responsibility for the maps and planning the route.
Everyone should be in charge of their own individual equipment.



Take standard camping gear, like a tent, matches or a lighter, and sleeping bag.
Bring your favorite weapon. If you're unsure of what to bring, talk to a local hunting expert. Don't forget ammunition and a hunting knife.
Bring equipment to preserve your game. You wouldn't want all the game you collect on the trip to go bad before you can get it home. Get a large cooler and bring lots of ice.
 Go over safety requirements before anyone picks up a weapon.


Make sure all members of your hunting party know how to use their weapons and that they know how to set the safety on their weapons.
Make sure all of your hunting buddies are outfitted in orange hunting gear, so they are clearly visible to other hunters.
Tell someone your hunting plan. Leave your agenda and location details with someone who is not going on the hunting trip. This way, if anything goes wrong, the individual will know where to find you.
Keep all the weapons in one spot when they are not in use.
Be accountable to your other hunting buddies. Let each other know where you are going to be at all times--especially if you are out in a remote area of the woods.



Make sure the game you're hunting is in season.
Make sure your hunting license is valid. Do the same for all of your hunting buddies.
Be careful not to trespass on private property. You need permission to hunt and kill animals on private property.

