 Exercise is important in maintaining cardiovascular health, but it is important for lung health as well. Exercise increases blood flow to the lungs and allows all the necessary nutrients to reach them. You should take it slowly at first and proceed with caution so you do not overdo it. Find the right pace for you and increase the level of exercise as you are comfortable.


When you first start, go for a long or brisk walk or use an elliptical machine. These exercises are not too strenuous but will get the blood and air moving through your lungs and body.
If you have lung or breathing problems, consult your doctor before doing any new exercises. She may have examples of safe exercises that will help increase your lung capacity and help you gain lung strength.
 Breathing exercises are done to help increase the amount of oxygen you take in and your ability to release the carbon dioxide. At first, any of these exercises might make you a bit dizzy. This is why most healthcare professionals advise a slow and steady approach. Once you get used to the method of breathing that works best for you, you will find that you are using that method more and more, often without actively or consciously thinking about it.


You can find a personal trainer or physical therapist who can guide you in increasing that capacity. Ask your health care professional for a referral.
Always speak to your physician or health care professional before starting any program of exercise. If you are working toward greater lung health, she may refer you to a pulmonary rehabilitation specialist.
 In general, most physicians will recommend one of two methods to ease any difficulty in breathing and increase lung capacity. The first method is pursed-lips breathing. Start this method by breathing in through your nose for about two or three seconds. Next, pucker your lips and breathe out slowly through your pursed or puckered lips for four to nine seconds. Repeat as often as you are comfortable.


If you get uncomfortable, wait an hour and try again. It will take practice and dedication, but if you do, you will soon find it easier to breathe and find that you feel better., You should teach yourself to do diaphragmatic breathing, which is breathing through your belly instead of your chest. Although most people don’t breathe this way, this is considered normal breathing. It uses the diaphragm, which is the strip of muscle below your lungs that is the main muscle of breathing. First, relax your shoulders, back and neck. Place one hand on your belly and one on your back. Inhale through the nose for two seconds. As you inhale, move your belly outward. Then, breathe out through pursed lips to help control the rate of exhalation while gently pressing on your belly. This pushes up on the diaphragm, strengthening the muscle.


This will take some practice to master. It is not easy to retrain yourself to use the diaphragm, but if you watch babies, this is the way they breathe. They don’t use what are called the “accessory muscles of breathing,” which is the muscles of the neck, shoulders, back, and rib cage. Once you get it, use the method for as long and as often as you are comfortable., There is a variation on the pursed-lips and diaphragmatic breathing methods adapted from the University of Missouri at Kansas City. For the deep breathing method, lie flat on your back. Use pillows under your knees and neck to make sure you are comfortable. Put your hands palm down on your stomach, right below the rib cage. Place the fingers of your hands together so you can feel them separate and know you are doing the exercise correctly. Take a long, slow deep breath by expanding your belly. Your fingers should separate as they lie on your belly.


This exercise ensures that you are using your diaphragm to breathe rather than your rib cage. The diaphragm creates suction that pulls more air into your lungs than can be achieved by expanding the rib cage.
Do this whenever you are short of breath or as often as you can. At first, you may feel a bit dizzy because you are pulling more oxygen into your lungs than you are used to. If you feel uncomfortable at any time, stop. However, you can repeat this as often as you want., You can increase your lung capacity by strengthening your diaphragm. To do this method, first start with the deep breathing exercise. As you exhale, make a humming sound. This noise moves your diaphragm and helps strengthen the muscle. Do this whenever you are short of breath or as often as you can. At first you may feel a bit dizzy. Don't be alarmed. This is because you are getting more oxygen than you are used to getting at one time.


If at anytime you feel uncomfortable, stop. However, you can repeat this as often as you are comfortable., For this exercise, you need to sit down comfortably. Take three short inhalations through the nose. On your first inhale of breath, lift your arms, reaching in front of you and keeping the arms at shoulder level. On the second intake of air, move your arms to the side, keeping your arms at shoulder level. On the third intake, lift your arms over your head.


Repeat 10 to 12 times.
If this exercise causes any dizziness, stop. Once you do, the lungs natural rhythm will take over immediately.