 This one just requires you to have an 8oz glass or hot or cold green tea four times a day, when you first get up and before every meal. The tea will help boost antioxidants in your system and help you to feel full before meals, thus eating less. Have more tea instead of snacking. The increase in fluids will help with your weight loss as well as not consuming so many calories from eating.
Continue to drink water throughout the day. Green tea can actually dehydrate you. To avoid this, have your normal amount of water along with the tea.
 This is a great, easy way to get more fruits and vegetables in your diet. Find a good juicer or blender that can get the food to smoothie consistency. You may opt to only juice during this time period, or just replace a meal or two with a healthy smoothie, typically breakfast and lunch. Try and keep this diet up for a week.


Make sure to not just focus on fruits, but also vegetables. Leafy ones like kale and spinach work well. Add an apple to sweeten your smoothies if you do not want an all vegetable one.
Have a healthy dinner of raw veggies and lean meats. It would be counterproductive to binge on unhealthy food during this time.
If you find you are hungry have more juice, water, or a snack like almonds or dried fruit to curb your hunger.
 This entails mostly unprocessed eating foods that are free of preservatives and additives. Incorporate fresh vegetables, fruits, and organic foods, and staying away from anything artificial such as sweeteners and dyes. This will ensure that you are eating food in its most natural state, which is the healthiest for you.Always read the label to check for ingredients. If you can’t pronounce something, look it up. It might be the technical term for something well-known and not harmful. If the ingredient list is overrun with items that are not recognizable, avoid buying it.
Shop at whole food markets or farmer’s markets. These are the best places to find food that is closest to its natural state.
Grow your own produce. There’s nothing more organic than something grown in your own backyard. Try a vegetable and fruit garden as a means to help monitor what is going into your body.
Make things yourself. Finding some recipes for things like salad dressing, ice cream, or even baby food will help you to know exactly what your family is eating.
 Exercise and healthy eating are the most effective ways of losing weight and keeping it off. Talk to your doctor or see a nutritionist to help you with learning the mistakes you might be making and outlining a health plan you can follow.


Avoid crash diets as they only provide temporary results. It is best to learn healthier habits for the long run.
Be patient with weight loss. Losing a lot of weight quickly does not mean that you did it in a way that will last. Focus more on having a healthy lifestyle than rapid weight loss.

