 AutoCAD programs cover a broad range of applications. You can find specialized programs for your area of interest, including software focusing on architectural, mechanical, civil, aeronautical or electrical drawing.;
, AutoCad requires the following:


2 GB RAM
2 GB of space for installation
Screen resolution of 1,024 X 768
Internet Explorer 7.0 or higher

, The process is a basic installation with step-by-step instructions from the Installation Wizard. It takes about 30 minutes to complete. After installation the AutoCAD icon will appear on your desktop. Double-click the icon whenever you want to start the program.
 The workspace in AutoCAD is divided into 2 distinct areas. The drawing area covers most of the screen and toolbars are anchored above and below the drawing area. They include:


Application button: The large, red A at the top, left-hand corner of the screen is the application button. Use it to print files and to exit the program.
Quick-access toolbar: This toolbar sits next to the application button and contains common commands like "Save" and "Open."
Ribbon: Located below the quick-access toolbar, the ribbon is comprised of a series of tabs (e.g., "Home," "Insert," "Annotate," "View," etc.) that contain groups of standard commands and tools.
Status bar: The toolbar across the bottom of the screen is the status bar. It mostly consists of control settings that allow you to monitor changes in the drawing.
Command/prompt toolbar: Directly above the status bar is the command/prompt toolbar. This is where the software communicates with you.
 From the quick-access toolbar, click "File," and then "New." The new drawing will use 1 of 2 default settings, either imperial or metric. If you want to use specific settings for a drawing, select "Templates" under the Options dialog box. Several Draw a simple figure. Master simple techniques in AutoCAD and practice fundamental skills before moving on to complex drawings. Start with an exercise like drawing a 4-inch horizontal line.
 This is the Workspace icon. Click it and select "2D Drafting & Annotation."

,,, It should show "Command: _ line Specify first point."

, A + symbol should follow the mouse as you move it.
 This is the first point of the line.
,, In this example, @ denotes at the first starting point, 4 represents the unit of measure, < stands for direction, and the number after it, in this case, 0, represents the number of degrees from the horizontal axis.drawing templates come with the program.
 Learn to draw other shapes and figures like arcs and rectangles, and master other important functions, like erase, change line types and add colors.
 As you become proficient with AutoCAD, you'll be able to convert lines into 2D surfaces, surfaces into 3D solids, add realistic material representations, and manipulate light and shadows.
 Go back to the quick-access toolbar, click "Options," "Open" and "Save," and then execute the desired command. To exit the program entirely, click the application button, slide your cursor down to "Exit," and click.

