 Make guidelines to estimate how much space the figure is going to take. To get a rough idea, you may make divisions to fit the top, mid and the lower section.


The top will fit the head, the neck and the shoulder.
The mid section will encompass the waist.
The rest of the body will be drawn in the lower section.;
, The face might be one of the most difficult things to get right. If its a straight face, it may be symmetrical. But when you tilt or bend the face, you will have to adjust the features to match.


First make the face in the shape if a curved 'L'. Leave some space for the forehead and draw curved eyebrows.
Make eyes in the shape of bent '>'. Add eyelids over the pupils and to the lids add light eyelashes.
Make a curved nose. You can opt for a longer nose, if you like.
The lips will be pointed at one end and rounded at another to compliment the tilt of the face.
Make the neck, also slightly curved and then the shoulder.
 Once the intricate detailing of the face is done, draw the hair. The hair could either be straight or wavy and long or short. Here, wavy and short hair is made with the classic wreath head band. Once the hair is made, draw the head band with two parallel lines. Add the leaf like detailing to both the sides of the head band.


This princess is not looking straight so the entire drawing will be asymmetric which means both the sides of the body will look different.
Use the guidelines to keep the left and the right side of the body in proportion by using the center guiding line.
 Start with parallel lines and then work on it until you make it thick at the top and leaner at the wrist.


For measurements you can see how far your fingers extend to your body. This will keep the measurements in check.
Add the waist band with two parallel lines.
To get the fingers right, aim to make it look slender. Make it thicker at the wrist and thinner around the nails. When the fingers are slightly twisted, it makes it appear more graceful and natural.
 The end of the gown could be made simply by continuing from the waist line. Just flair the gown slightly as it goes down.
 Color it to your liking.


Try to blend two colors for the hair by applying them one over the other.
If you smudge colors over the wreath head band, you may still color on top of the smudged color. A little additional color here and there could be covered with other colors and later with outlining.
Color the face and the dress, leaving the waist band for the end.
To keep the color looking neat, keep the coloring strokes either vertical or horizontal. Follow the section your are coloring in mind and it's direction to guide you. Then, in the end, the leftover gaps could be filled with color making it look creative and neat.
 Add the illusion of depth to your drawing with darker colors where there is either a darker area or in folds.


Use two shades of a color to make the color stand out. Just add one color evenly and the other over it.
If you are using water color, blend it with other colors of your choice.
If its pencil color, overlap it one over the other. Same with crayons.

Crayons could also be scrapped with a scale whether its a single layer of a color or more colors.


Highlight and outline each line, curve and detail.

