 One of the best things you can do if you are prone to fainting is to learn to recognize the signs. Keep a notebook or log of your own symptoms if you are prone to fainting. If you can tell in advance that you are about to faint, you can take the proper safety precautions and potentially avoid a serious injury. Signs that you may be about to faint include:Nausea, dizziness or lightheadedness
Seeing white or black spots or experiencing blurry or tunnel vision
Feeling very hot or sweaty
Having an upset stomach

, Raise your legs to encourage blood flow to the brain.


If it's not possible to lie on the ground, sit down and put your head between your knees.
Rest for about 10-15 minutes.
 Take deep breaths in through your nose and out through your mouth. This can also have a calming affect.
 Calling for help is a good idea because it alerts other people to your situation. Another person can then catch you if you fall, place you in the recovery position, and call a doctor if necessary.
 If you have recognized that you are about to faint, it's important that you remove yourself from any potential dangers and take some steps to minimize the severity of the faint.


For example, try to position your body such that you fall out of the path of sharp objects.
 In some cases, it is possible to prevent a potential fainting spell by taking the proper precautions and avoiding possible triggers. Some preventative steps include:



Staying hydrated and eating regularly: It is essential to stay hydrated by drinking plenty of water and other fluids, especially on hot days. Eating regular, healthy meals can help ameliorate feelings of dizziness and weakness associated with hunger.

Avoiding stressful situations: For some people, fainting is brought on by stressful, upsetting or anxiety-producing situations. Thus, it is important to stay calm by avoiding these kinds of situations as much as possible.

Avoiding drugs, alcohol and cigarettes: These items are full of toxins that are generally unhealthy and can induce fainting in some people.

Avoiding changing position quickly: Fainting is sometimes caused by sudden movement, such as standing up too quickly after sitting or lying down. Try to stand up slowly, and hold onto something stable for balance, if possible.
 If you find yourself fainting on a semi-regular or regular basis, it's important to consult your doctor. The fainting may be a symptom of a more serious underlying issue, such as heart problems or orthostatic hypotension.


You should also contact the doctor if you hit your head while fainting, are pregnant, suffer from diabetes, a heart condition or another underlying issue, or if you experience accompanying symptoms like chest pain, confusion or shortness of breath.Your doctor will evaluate your medical history to figure out why you have fainted. Further tests such as an electrocardiogram (EKG) and blood work may be performed also.

