 Peaches that are at their ripest are much easier to peel. When peaches are ripe, the skin tends to fall off without taking any of the fruit with it. Choose those peaches that are highly fragrant and indent only slightly when pressed with your thumb.


If a peach feels hard as a rock, it's not yet ripe, so it is best to avoid those that are still a little green.
If you easily break the skin when you press it with a finger, it's overripe. Overripe peaches are still good for making cobblers and other dishes.


Just make sure the peaches you're using aren't rotten:On an unripe peach, avoid small circular spots that get bigger or join.
On a mature peach, avoid deepish lesions. These may grow rapidly.
Avoid tannish-gray spore masses that are sometimes found upon close examination. (These are sometimes found all over the skin and sometimes in localized patches.)
Avoid shriveled brown, black, or brownish-black fruits.;
, Give the peaches a quick rinse under cool water before proceeding, especially if they have visible dirt or other debris. You don't want dirt (or bacteria) ending up in your finished dishes.
 The vessel should be large enough to comfortably fit three or four peaches. Don't try to blanch more than four medium-sized peaches (or three large ones) at a time.—Putting a larger mass of peaches into the water will lower its temperature and disrupt the blanching, making the process less effective.


Choose a Dutch oven or large pot (or saucepan) and fill it three-fourths the way with water, then bring the water to a rolling boil.
 Fill a large bowl three-fourths full of ice cubes in water. This ice bath will be used to quickly cool the peaches after blanching.


Quenching in the ice bath, arrests the cooking process and assures that the peaches don't end up mushy.
 Use a sharp knife to make an "X" shape at the pointy tip of each peach (not at the stem cavity). When the peaches are being blanched the fruit expands, stretching the skin, then, when the fruit is iced, the fruit shrinks leaving loose, easy-to-peel skin.


Don't score the peaches too deeply, or make the Xs too big or the peaches may fall apart in the hot water. Medium length incisions 1-2" (3-5cm) long which just break the skin are all you need.
 Place three or four peaches into the boiling water. Allow them to cook for 30 to 40 seconds (depending on how ripe they were to begin with). During this time, the skin on the peaches will loosen quite quickly.

The riper peaches won't need to stay in as long - take them out after 30 seconds.
Don't leave any of the peaches in for longer than 40 seconds, or they'll get mushy.
 Use a slotted spoon to lift the peaches (one by one) from the boiling water and immerse them in the ice bath. Keep them in the ice bath for about one minute, then put them on your work surface.


In the meantime, you can start the blanching process with another mini-batch of three or four of the remaining peaches.
Don't over-ice the peaches.—You want to cool them for just a minute. Icing them for a longer period of time can affect the texture and flavor of the peaches.
 Take a cooled peach and grasp the skin at one of the corners formed by the "X" you made. Pull the skin lightly - it should easily peel off. Keep peeling until all the skin is gone, then discard it.


Peel carefully and steadily, so you don't pull off fruit with the skin.
 Now they're ready to be sliced, diced, or pureed. The peeled peaches will be easy to pit, too. Here are a few delicious ways you can use up your peeled peaches:



Peach cobbler. This classic summer dessert is wonderful hot out of the oven with a scoop of vanilla ice cream.

Peach pie. If you're up for a challenge, this homemade dessert is sure to be a hit with your family and friends.

Peach jam. Make jars of peach jam so you can enjoy the taste of summer during the months when peaches aren't in season.

Peach chutney. This delicious condiment goes well with fish and pork.

Peach salsa. Try something a little different next time you have a bag of tortilla chips to use up.

Peach smoothie. This healthy drink is perfect for breakfast or a light dessert.

