 In addition to "prt sc," Windows lets you capture certain parts of your screen using a program called Snipping Tool. Compared to the print screen function, the Snipping Tool allows you to save the image to your computer directly.


Press the Windows key (left of Alt key), type "Snipping Tool," then press ↵ Enter.
 In the Snipping Tool window, press the New button. This will allow you to start capturing certain sections of your screen. By pressing the upside down triangle button next to New, you can also select different ways to capture sections of your screen. You can select:



Free-form Snip: You can draw your selection in any form. Enclose your drawing to select that area of the screen.

Rectangular Snip: Select a rectangular area of the screen. You can choose the size.

Window Snip:You can select a window for the snipping tool to capture.

Full-Screen Snip: The snipping tool will capture the entire screen.
 Depending on which of the four selection types you are using, the process will be slightly different.



Free-form Snip: Click and hold your left mouse button, then draw the area you wish to capture. You must enclose the drawing in order to capture the selection.

Rectangular Snip: Click and hold your left mouse button, then expand the rectangle to cover the sections of the screen you wish to capture. It is recommended to start at the corner of your desired selection.

Window Snip: Select the window you wish to capture.

Full-Screen Snip: Do nothing. The full-screen will have been captured already by pressing "New"

, Press the floppy card icon in the upper left corner of the window to save the snip. Save it anywhere in your computer.
 Press the icon that looks like two sheets of paper to copy the icon to your clipboard, much like the Print Screen function would do.
 Press the envelope icon to send your snip over e-mail using Microsoft Outlook. You will need an Outlook account for this function.


If you do not have an Outlook account, it may be better to just save your snip and then send it as an attachment using your current e-mail service.




Draw: Use the pen icon to draw on your snip. Select the upside down triangle to choose different colors. This is useful if you want to make quick notes on the screen capture before saving.

Highlight: Use the highlighter icon to draw focus to certain parts of your screen capture.

Erase: Erase your drawings. If you need to undo any drawings you made on the screen capture, select the eraser icon in the top right of the window.

