 When you bathe your dog, choose only gentle shampoos that are labelled safe for dogs. Avoid human shampoos and those marked for cats or other pets. Look for shampoos that are beneficial for any coat issues your dog exhibits.For example, if your dog has a dry, brittle coat, choose a moisturizing shampoo. If your dog’s coat is dull, choose a shampoo for shiny coats. Ask your dog’s vet if you have any concerns about nutritional or health-related causes for a dry or dull coat.
 Prepare your dog’s ears and eyes before its bath using cotton balls and mineral oil. Dab two cotton balls with a drop of mineral oil and place one in each of its ears to prevent them from getting wet.In addition, put a drop of oil on your fingertips and massage around its eyes to protect them.
 Wet your dog, making sure the water is warm but not too hot to your own touch. Place a dime-sized amount of shampoo in your palm, rub your hands together, then lather it through your dog’s fur.Rinse the shampoo thoroughly, making sure no suds or residue remains. A detachable showerhead will come in handy when bathing your dog.
 Squeeze out as much water as possible from your long-haired dog’s coat. Thoroughly towel dry and, if necessary, use a brush so the towel can absorb water from its undercoat. You can also use blow dryer to speed up the process.Make sure the blow dryer is labelled for dogs. Use a setting that’s gently enough not to burn its skin, and hold it at least a foot away from your dog.
Drying off a short-haired breed is much easier, so a towel alone will do just fine.
 Dog should be bathed regularly, but bathing too frequently will remove oils that help keep its coat and skin in good health. The recommended frequency depends on your dog’s breed and the type of shampoo you use.Dogs with oilier coats and skin folds, like Basset Hounds, should be bathed as often as once a week to prevent bacterial infections.
If you use a gentle, moisturizing shampoo, you can bath your dog every week or two.
For most dogs, try bathing them at least once a month or whenever they become dirty.

