 Remember, you will have some limited intel, satellite photography et cetera... but some aspects may have changed from when the photograph was taken;
, They are to watch the facility/target for several days gathering vital information such as:


Guards: how many, how alert, patrol timings, shift changes etc...
What defences are there? Are there mines, motion sensors, spotlights or otherwise?
Do they have an alarm system, can it be disabled?
What entrances and exits are there to the facility-are they guarded?
How nearby is the enemy QRF (Quick reaction Force)? How long would it take them to get there?

, The OP team should also build a model of the facility in a hidden area to aid the commander to create a plan of attack.
 Whilst a standard vehicle DOP (Drop Off Point) is valid, the larger force will draw attention to itself if it all de-busses at the same place in this manner. Therefore it is recommended that the force infills in a different way. Here are some options open to you:

, The only safe method for this is to hire a motorised boat from the nearest harbor and take it about 5 miles (8.0 km) out to sea to reduce noise-do this about 2-3 hours before sunset. Make sure you are roughly parallel with the landing beach. Start your advance towards the shore about 30 minutes before sunset and moor the boat a little way out from the shore. Two members from each boat crew should use wetsuits to swim ashore and check the landing beach is clear. They should use a torch to signal to the rest of the boats that the shoreline is clear. The boats should make their way to shore quietly at low throttle. Remember: when the water starts getting shallow, pull the motor screw into the boat. When the boat is in shallow water, all crew members should leap out and drag it ashore. With two people covering each team, the rest of the crew should lift the boat into the nearest cover higher than the high tide line. If possible, hide the boats under an overhang at the top of the beach or in dunes. When done, flip the boats over and cover with a suitable camouflage sheet.


Once all the team members are changed into their DPMs, collect your bags and tab to the RV point, where someone from the OP team will meet you.
A similar technique can be used for river raiding or assaults across lakes. With narrower channels of water, go across right before dark.

Climbing
This is useful in mountainous country where the hills are bare with little cover. Instead of walking up a hill, insertion directly into a facility can be accomplished with this method.
Often, where steep cliffs meet the boundary of a facility, the area is left unguarded and offers a safe way in.
Climbing can also be used when infilling off a beach, the surrounding cliffs offer cover whilst the climbers secure a way to the top. The rest of the force can follow. An extra support company should camp at the cliff top (or other LZ(Landing Zone)) to support the rest of the unit as they retreat.
 For assaults of this type, the companies will have been put together for the mission, unless you are part of a Special Forces Regiment (Greens and Royals or Victor Force). More clandestine assaults are carried out by SDSSOE (Street Defence Service-Special Operations Executive) operatives, secretly and quietly lifting a target as opposed to all-out warfare.The bulk force will tab to the dead ground behind the OP (forest is more than ideal) where the OP team commander will give a briefing about troop strengths etc... and will demonstrate weak and strong points on the model he has built of the base (an OP commander will bring a box of certain materials such as ribbon, chalk etc... to assist him in model making). He will then hand over to the Detachment Commander who will give the plan of battle. The attack should go down at sunrise-about 0430-0500 hours when the enemy will be at lowest guard. The assault usually, this involves the support company hiding at the edge of the forest and either raining down shells on strategic targets or providing covering fire. The assault groups should attack at weak points, but if you are attempting to lift a human target-a war criminal for example-you must attack at the place in the perimeter that is closest to their location.
You should divide your force into several groups: one to hit the main target, another to take out secondary targets and the facilities the enemy may have to follow you up, i.e.; vehicles, artillery etc.... Also causing a large fire with the fuel or ammunition dumps will most likely keep the enemy off your tail when retreating-but only start the fires when you are about to retreat.
The third unit should keep as much of the garrison occupied as possible whilst the other two deal with targets. The OP team should keep in contact with all other units during the assault so as to direct support and give warning of approaching enemy units. If the enemy has a local QRF, part of the support company should be ready to stop them on the approach road.
So long as each group knows where the others are operating, there is little chance of a blue-on-blue situation. If a group is moving into a different area to the planned one, the commander of that group must make sure the other commanders know so they can make sure their men will watch their fire.
If the target is a hostage, see instructions on how to treat a hostage in a combat situation on page (...n/a). When the Detachment Commander feels that all objectives have been completed to satisfaction, he will order the retreat. As they pull back, the support company should hit buildings and fuel and ammunition dumps.
Once all the assault companies are back at the OP, all units will fall back to the LZ (Where the main force infilled), the support company should lead, with the rest of the infantry companies taking turns to guard the rear. While the assault and support teams are pulling back the support team at the LZ give covering fire for them. Forward spotters pick out targets, enemy infantry etc... for the support company to pin down.
The first companies back should get the boats/vehicles or exfil transport ready. When all the companies are at the LZ, including the OP team, each group should get into their boats or transport and go. The last company to leave should be an infantry company, who can provide their own covering fire. Then retreat back to the harbour/port/extraction point where you either dispose of your boats or take them with you.
 At other times, it allows you to lift a hostage without having to fight through a well-defended residency.


The basic requirements for ambush are these: Covert LUP, detailed recce and lightning-fast action.
Explanation: Covert LUP (Lay Up Point), you must set up camp a reasonable distance from the ambush site so you can observe patterns (if any) of enemy movements. A detailed recce is required of the immediate area around the ambush point; make sure this is done two nights before the ambush. Scouts must recognize commanding fields of fire, physical cover, aural cover, escape routes and entry routes. Here are 6 points for an ideal location:




Set the ambush in a site you can move in and out of unobserved
Use a night ambush only if you can complete the objective with a short, intensive burst of fire
Choose a site where the enemy will be forced to bunch up
If enemy re-enforcements can reach the scene quickly (and you have enough units) it might be a good idea to set up a secondary ambush to tackle those coming to the scene
There should be wide fields of fire but plenty of cover




Escape routes must allow all the units to join together for the escape
Lightning-fast action is necessary so that any survivors will be too dazed to react when you make your escape, ensure that when the shooting has stopped, you rapidly disengage the target and leave the immediate area quickly as ‘revenge patrols’ will be chasing you down.

