 Smiling helps you stay positive and also encourages others to feel less intimidated by you. Returning other's smiles really does boost both their confidence and yours and may even help you make a new friend.;
, Don't fail your classes just to seem cute, because your future is more important than a boy. Some people like smart girls! Study hard and if you're going to a party or going out, do your homework before! It may not seem that fun to study and do homework but it will help you become a successful woman. Don't let your social life get in the way. Work hard in class and be consistent.


Try to get the best grades that you possibly can because your teenage years are when it all counts. High school is especially important because it's when you figure out where you want to go in life. It will pay off in the long run!

, Don't become someone you're not. Not every person is going to accept you but you should love yourself anyway. Just know that there will always be someone else who will love you for who you are. They might love the quirky little things about you and you should never change who you are just because you want to fit the image someone else is creating for you.
 If someone made you upset or angry, don't just yell at them or ignore them. Control yourself and talk it out in a calm and rational way. Try to tell them why you're upset. Don't talk behind peoples backs, either. Most girls love to gossip, and almost everyone is guilty of it at one time or another, but it's immature and hurts other people's feelings. The best way to keep yourself from gossiping is to put yourself in the other person's shoes. Would you like others gossiping about you?

, Smile if you catch someone's eye across the classroom. Hold doors open for people, and say thank you when they do it for you. If someone says hi to you, say hi back and turn it into a conversation - ask how they are, what class are they in next etc. Look people in the eye and smile when you talk to them, and avoid folding your arms, because it makes you seem frosty and unwelcoming. If the weird kid comes up and starts talking to you, don't laugh and walk away - attempt to start a conversation!

, Some people find that cursing makes you seem trashy or unintelligent, so avoid swearing around people you know feel uncomfortable. No matter how gorgeous you are or how perfect you are, if you swear a lot it will make you seem unattractive to some. Definitely avoid swearing around children, especially ones that aren't your family.
 If you're a shy person it might be a little harder, but go out there and meet new people. Don't try to just stick to one type of clique. Hang out with new people. Do some crazy stuff you would never think of doing. You can even dress up as Jesus! After all, you want to grow up and have amazing memories to remember. If you're invited to a friends party, make an effort to go, even if you'd rather sit at home watching Netflix. You might end up having fun!

, Go shopping, to the cinemas, or just hang at each other's houses. Organise and plan events to look forward to. Sometimes you need to take a break from all the schoolwork and extracurricular activities for some down time with your bffs.
 Getting into a relationship can really help your self esteem if you feel a little low. But remember that a relationship with someone (no matter how cute they are) can't fix everything - you need to know and accept yourself before expecting someone else to.
 Being mean to your parents/brothers or sisters may be fun to do for a little while, but there is more of a possibility that you'll be grounded and unable to do anything cool with your mates! Listen to your parents, be patient with your siblings.
 If you have a boyfriend, don't try to take over and do everything. Have fun and don't be to uptight. Try new things that they suggest. Listen to them and try to understand where they are coming from. Your non-romantic relationships are important as well. Keep in touch with your friends and communicate with your parents. Tell them how school was that day, ask them what they've been up to lately. Communication is key in any strong relationship.
 Cut back on the junk food. Instead of chips or ice cream, have a fruit smoothie or low fat yogurt. It's OK to treat yourself one in a while, but eating fatty foods every day is not healthy. Attempt to excercise a few times a week, whether it be jogging, jumping jacks, or lifting weights. Avoid smoking, drinking, and drugs. Do some research to find out how much water you should be drinking daily (around 2 liters)

, As mentioned before, try exercising a few times a week but be comfortable with the size you are. Try playing a sport to stay in good physical condition and to make new friends.
 Sleep at least 8-10 hours every night. Sometimes it's hard because teenagers have many responsibilities, such as school and sports, but in the end, you and your body will thank you for being well rested.
 You want to keep your teeth in the best possible condition and also avoid scaring off other people with your bad breath. Try keeping gum or mints in your bag to freshen your breath (This is also a great way to strike up a conversation with others!). To keep your teeth healthy, brush them 2-3 times a day. If you want to whiten them, brush them with baking soda.
 Don't slouch when sitting or standing. You will look taller and also give off the impression that you're confident, even if you aren't. Tip: If you have back issues, consider seeing a chiropractor.

