 In order to care for your millipedes, you need to purchase them. Most traditional pet stores will not have this species on hand. It is best to search for a reputable online retailer.Run an internet search for "purchase Giant African Millipedes". Once you have found some companies that sell them, do your background research.
Read reviews of current customers. Look for a company that has a satisfied customer base.
Make sure that the company has experience shipping Giant African Millipedes. You want to make sure that yours arrive safely.
Giant African Millipedes are legal in the U.S. But if you live with your parents, it's a good idea to ask permission before buying.;
, Head to your local pet supply store to buy a good home for your millipedes. Look for the type of clear plastic or glass tank that houses small pets and reptiles. You want to make sure that it has a lid that has multiple air holes.Depending on how many millipedes you have, you will need either a 5 or 10 gallon tank. Millipedes can live comfortably in groups, but they need space to stretch out and move around.
The cage you purchase should be at least twice as long as your largest millipede. For example, if you have a 12 inch millipede, your cage should be 24 inches long.
When the millipedes are babies, they can live comfortably in a small plastic container. Just make sure that there are air holes in the lid.
 Once you have the right cage, look around your home to find the best possible location. Millipedes do best when the temperature is about 75-85 degrees Fahrenheit. Consider keeping them in a small room of your house that you can keep warm.Make sure that your millipedes do not get too cold. They will not thrive in low temperatures.
If necessary, you can purchase a heating pad to place under the cage. Ask an employee at the pet store for a recommendation.
Keep the cage inside your house, not in a garage or in an outdoor garden shed.
 Millipedes do not need toys or any decorations for the cage, but they do need a clean environment. Set aside time once a week to clean the cage.Remove your millipedes to a temporary home. If you have a backup tank, that is best.
Remove old food from the cage. Using a paper towel or cloth, wipe up any excrement that is on the floor of the tank.
Using a mild soap as a cleanser, gently wipe down all surfaces of the tank. Dry with paper towels or a clean cloth.
Clean more regularly if you have multiple millipedes sharing the same cage.

