 Nobody else will be able to enter your instance unless they are a part of your group. For example, if you are in the Stormwind Stockades instance and somebody who is not in your group enters the Stormwind Stockades, they will be taken to their own instance of the Stockades.


Damage dealers focus on dealing damage to enemies.
Healers focus on healing other players in the group and also removing harmful effects such as curses.
Tanks protect damage dealers and healers by taking as damage from enemies so damage dealers and healers don’t have to worry about being attacked.
In an instanced dungeon group, one player must tank, one player must heal, and the remaining three players are damage dealers.;
, To enter an instanced dungeon, you can either go to the dungeon entrance or you can queue to enter a dungeon through the Dungeon Finder.


If someone else in your group has already entered the dungeon through its entrance, they may be able to summon you with a Summoning Portal.
If you do queue through the Dungeon Finder, then once it is your turn to enter you will be teleported directly to the dungeon.
Even if you do not have a group, you can queue alone with the Dungeon Finder, and it will match you to a group with four other people who have queued.
To open the Dungeon Finder, you can press “I” on your keyboard or you can click on the Dungeon Finder icon on your menu bar. The menu bar is located on the bottom of your screen, to the right of your action bar (the bar with your abilities and spells) and to the left of your bags.
On the menu bar, look for the icon of a green eye. Click on the green eye, and it will bring up the Dungeon Finder window.
 In the Dungeon Finder window, you will see three icons: a Shield (the tank icon), a Green Leaf (the healer icon), and a Claw (the damage dealer icon). These icons represent different roles to play in a dungeon. If you move your mouse over an icon, it will give you more information about the role.


The Shield icon is for tanks. Choosing it indicates you are willing to protect allies from harm by ensuring that enemies are attacking you instead of them.
The Green Leaf icon is for healers. Choosing it indicates you are willing to heal your allies when they are taking damage.
The Claw icon is for damage dealers. Choosing it indicates you are willing to take on the role of dealing damage to enemies.
You can select your role as either a tank, healer or damage dealer by clicking on the relevant icon. Once you have clicked on the icon, a checkmark should appear near it. If you want to change roles, you can click the icon again to remove the checkmark, and then click on a different icon.
 The key to being successful in an instanced dungeon is to work with other people your group effectively and perform according to your designated role.


There are 11 classes in World of Warcraft, and each class has three specializations except for druid which has four.
Choosing a specialization will give you additional abilities and attributes. Each specialization is suited to one of the three roles: tanking, healing or damage dealing.
To use an example, have a look at paladins. Paladins can be specialized as either Holy (designed for healing), Retribution (designed for damage dealing) or Protection (designed for tanking).
Holy Paladins have extra healing spells and abilities that Retribution and Protection Paladins do not have. Likewise, Retribution Paladins have extra damage dealing abilities that Protection and Holy Paladins do not have. Finally, Protection Paladins have extra damage reduction abilities that the other Holy or Retribution Paladins do not have.
Of the 34 specializations in the game, 23 are designed for damage dealing, five are designed for tanking, and six are designed for healing.
 For you to fulfill your role optimally, play a class specialized to that role.


If you are playing as a Restoration Shaman, and your role is damage dealer, you will have a much harder time dealing damage than if you were specialized as an Elemental Shaman because Restoration Shamans have more healing abilities and fewer damaging abilities, while Elemental Shamans have more damaging abilities and fewer healing abilities.
Here is a quick list of which class specialization belongs to each role: Tanks – Protection Warrior, Protection Paladin, Brewmaster Monk, Blood Death Knight, Guardian Druid; Healers – Holy Paladin, Holy Priest, Discipline Priest, Mistweaver Monk, Restoration Shaman, Restoration Druid; and Damage Dealing – every other specialization in the game is designed for damage dealing.
 If you ever do end up dying, do not panic.


Once you are dead, you will see a button in the middle of your screen called “Release Spirit.” You may not need to click the button if other players in your group are still alive, since they may be able to resurrect you with a spell to bring you back to life.
However, if your entire group is dead, you can click on the Release Spirit button. It will teleport you to the nearest graveyard outside the instance and you will be a ghost. As a ghost, you won’t be able to use any abilities or interact with the world, but you can still move. You will have to run from the graveyard to the instance entrance. Once you have entered the instance as a ghost, you will be immediately resurrected.
After you have resurrected, give your group some time to get ready again before you start fighting more enemies. You may need to wait for other people in your group to resurrect if they are still dead.

