 If you haven't started crying yet but think you might, try distracting yourself from your sad thoughts. Play a game on your phone or try to joke around with a friend, or try engaging deeply in your math book or listening carefully and fully to what your teacher is saying., If you are feeling overwhelmed by your feelings and like you are about to cry, try creating some distance between yourself and your thoughts.To gain distance, try imagining yourself as an outsider viewing the situation that is making you sad. You can also try referring to yourself in the third person when you think about your situation., If you are sad about something that is not relevant to the present moment (e.g., something that happened in the past or will happen in the future), try focusing on only the present.


To be mindful, pay full attention to your bodily sensations, all the information coming in through your senses, and your thoughts about those perceptions and sensations., You may be able to improve your mood by smiling, even if you don't feel like it. This is called the facial feedback hypothesis and it suggests that the relationship between emotions and the face is a two way street: though we typically smile when we feel happy, some evidence suggests that smiling may cause us to feel happier or otherwise help us to be less sad.If you have a pencil handy, try putting it in your mouth and biting it with your teeth. This will raise your cheeks and facilitate your smile.
 Try to change your mood by thinking about something really funny or something that makes you really happy. You can also try thinking about what is making you sad in a different way. For example, you could try thinking about something hilarious you saw on the internet or something nice that your significant other did for you.
To think differently about what is making you sad, consider this example. Say you are sad because you received a bad grade on an exam, and that you are upset because you think it means you are not smart. Try instead thinking about your bad grade as a challenge that you can surmount on the next exam by studying harder.
 When you can, find a friend or someone you can confide in and tell them what's bothering you. This may help relieve your sadness and help you to avoid any further tears at school.