 Chocolate chip cookies are a classic. Rich and sweet, they taste great with a glass of cold milk. You can use different kinds of chocolate to mix up the flavor. Dark chocolate, for instance, has a somewhat bitter edge to it.Sift 1.25 teaspoons of baking soda, 1.5 teaspoons of salt, 1.5 teaspoons of baking powder, 2 cups minus 2 tablespoons of cake flour, and 1.66 cups of bread flour into a mixing bowl.
Cream 1.25 cups of brown sugar, 2.5 sticks of butter, and 1 cup minus 2 tablespoons of granulated sugar together in a mixer with a paddle attachment. Add a large egg, then another after the first is well-mixed. Pour 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract into the bowl.
Reduce mixer speed to low and pour in the dry ingredients you sifted previously. Mix them for about five to 10 seconds.
Remove the mixer bowl from the mixer. Slowly add 1.25 pounds of bittersweet chocolate disks. Mix the disks carefully into the dough and try not to break them.
Scoop the dough out onto a sheet of plastic wrap. Wrap the dough in the plastic wrap carefully and refrigerate for a day or two. You can use the dough for up to 72 hours.
When you’re ready, heat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Place parchment paper along a baking sheet and scoop small spoonfuls of dough onto the parchment paper. The spoonfuls should weigh 3.5 ounces each.
If you see any chocolate pieces poking out of the cookies, push them down into the cookie or turn them to a more horizontal orientation.
Bake the cookies for about 19 minutes. Remove and let cool for 10 minutes. Consume with your friends.
 As their name implies, sugar cookies are a sweet treat. You can use cake flour to make lots and lots of sugar cookies. If you want, you could also add a coat of frosting to your sugar cookies after they’re ready.Mix 3 cups of cake flour, 3 teaspoons of baking powder, and ½ a teaspoon of salt. Set aside for the moment. Place the bowl somewhere safe so it won’t spill.
Place 1 cup of sugar and 2 sticks of room-temperature butter in your electric mixer. Stir until the two ingredients have creamed to take on a light and fluffy appearance.
Remove the mixing bowl. Add an egg, then another after the first has been thoroughly mixed into the cream. You can use a wooden spoon or wire whisk to mix the eggs in.
Finally, add 1 teaspoon of vanilla and 2 tablespoons of sour cream.
Gradually spoon the dry ingredients into the mix. Combine with a wire whisk or similar device.
Place the dough in the fridge for about one hour.
Preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Roll 3 tablespoons of dough into a ball, then flatten it with your hands to a thickness of about ½ an inch. Place the flattened disk on the parchment paper.
Continue adding the flattened cookie dough disks to the parchment paper. Space them about 2 inches apart.
Bake the cookies in the oven for 10-12 minutes. Remove and allow to cool for 10 minutes.
If you wanted to eat frosted cookies, you can whip up an easy frosting by combining 1 stick of butter and 3 cups of powdered sugar in an electric mixer. Add the sugar slowly as you use the mixer. When all the sugar is added, pour 1 teaspoon of vanilla and 3 tablespoons of milk. If you wanted colored frosting, you could add a few drops of your favorite color to the mixing bowl while the ingredients are being mixed.
 Blueberry lemon cookies really let the cake flour shine through. You’ll love the fluffy, light texture of these slightly citrusy and sweet little cookies. Bake enough so your friends can try some too!Place 1 cup of butter and 1 cup of granulated sugar in a stand mixer bowl. Use a wire whisk and beat until the mixture is fluffy.
Add an egg. When it’s mixed into the mixture completely, add a second egg and mix it in thoroughly, too. Add zest of one lemon, juice of one lemon, and 2 teaspoons of vanilla.
In a separate bowl, mix ½ a teaspoon of salt, ½ a teaspoon of baking powder, ½ a teaspoon of baking soda, and 3.25 cups of cake flour. Attach the mixing bowl to the stand mixer. Slowly add these dry ingredients to the fluffy mixture as the mixer combines the ingredients on low speed.
Remove the bowl from the mixer and fold in 1.5 cups of blueberries.
Allow the dough to chill for between 1 and 12 hours.
When you’re ready to bake, heat the oven 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper and spoon a spoonful of dough onto the parchment. Continue until you’ve filled the parchment paper.
Don’t place your cookies too close or they might get stuck together when they expand during baking.
Bake for 11-14 minutes. You’ll know they’re ready when the bottoms are slightly brown.

