 Depending on your skin type, the shaving cream you are using can be the difference between a close shave and razor burn. The best shaving creams are those that are formulated with many lubricants and moisturizers. The ideal lather these should give you should be rich and creamy, without much foam.A quality shaving cream can also save you money on razor blades. The less resistance your razor meets while shaving, the longer your blades will last.;
, Safety razors become dull over time and must be replaced. If you notice that your razor has dull edges or no longer shaves as well as it did initially, you should change your razor.Depending on the thickness of your hair, you will want to change your razor every 3 to 10 shaves.Disposable razors can be expensive. To make your razors last, you may want to use a pair of jeans to prolong the life of this tool. Run your razor up and down the entire length of your jeans 10 to 20 times in the opposite direction you would normally shave with your blades. Some users claim this technique has kept safety razors sharp for several months.You may want to use an old pair of jeans to keep your blade sharp as running your blade along the fabric may cause it to break down over time.
 To get the best possible shave, you'll need to have the right tools and quality shaving products. A shaving brush, while not necessary for a good shave, is a handy shaving utensil that raises your hair, creates a thick lather, and exfoliates - all of which help you get a better shave.A list of useful shaving tools follows:


After shave lotion (optional)
Clippers or scissors (for trimming long hair only)
Safety Razor
Shaving brush (optional)
Shaving cream (or soap)

, If the hair your are about to shave is long, you should trim it short with some clippers or hair cutting scissors before you shave. Long hair will collect in your razor more quickly, requiring you to rinse more regularly. It can also cause your razor to dull sooner than it might have.


Trim the hair you are about to shave as short as you can to prepare the area you are about to shave for lathering.
 Hair that is wet is easier for your razor to cut, and will help you achieve the best possible shave. A shower beforehand is a good idea to ensure the area you will be shaving is sufficiently dampened, but if this is not possible, warm water splashed on your face from the sink and/or a hot towel can prep your dry hair for your shave.Heat is important for opening up the pores on your face before you shave. The warm towel method has been employed by barbers for ages, and might be useful for you as well. Shaving your face cold or dry can result in razor burn and shaving rash.