 Tank tops are relatively simple, but you can make them look more interesting with some bold jewelry. The tank top's plainness will balance out even the chunkiest piece's gaudiness. Try large, hoop earrings, chunky bracelets, or long, dangling necklaces.Jewelry will make tank tops made from fancier materials, such as lace or silk, appear even fancier than they actually are. This is a great option for special events.
 If you find that the tank top doesn't cover all of your cleavage, tie a scarf around your neck to help hide it. Choose a patterned scarves made from chiffon or silk. Loop it around your neck for a chic touch.


The scarf doesn't have to just stay around your neck. You can also use it as a headband, or tie it around your waist for a cute belt.
Avoid woolen scarves, or your outfit will look too wintery. The one exception to this, of course, is during winter or fall.
 Tank tops are simple, so you can get away with carrying around a large handbag. It won't detract from your outfit. Try to add some contrast, however. For example, if your tank top is solid-colored, try a handbag with a bold pattern on it. If your tank top has a pattern on it, try a plain, solid-colored handbag., If your tank top if a neutral color, such as black, grey, or white, you can bring some extra color to your outfit by wearing a brightly-colored belt about your hips. If you are wearing a loose, flowing tank top, try wearing a wide belt around your waist instead. This will cinch in the excess fabric, and make you look slimmer.


Leather, suede, and fabric belts are great for the day time. Shiny, patent leather belts are perfect for the evening.
 For a more unique outfit, wear one or two accessories that match your clothes in both style and color. If you are at a loss of what sort of jewelry to pick, try something in gold of silver; both are neutral colors that go well with most other colors.
 Finish the look off with a pair of sandals or heels. This will also help lengthen your legs.If you'd something more casual, or if you want to lengthen your torso instead, opt for regular shorts instead.
 A short skirt will give your a hit, chic look, while a midi skirt will give you a sweeter one. A long skirt will give you a more boho look, especially when paired with a wide, leather belt., The go-to color for most girls is black, but you can try other colors and patterns as well. Keep balance and contrast in mind, however. If your tank top is solid-colored, you can wear solid or patterned leggings. If your tank top is patterned, however, you will want to wear solid-colored leggings. If you pair a patterned tank top with a pair of patterned leggings, your outfit will look too busy and clash.