 Linen tends to form and hold creases more than some other fabrics, so packing to avoid wrinkles is the key. If it is possible, the best option is to hang linen clothes on a padded hanger and store in a garment bag. This makes it so that you don’t have to fold the clothing, or at least it won’t be folded tightly and packed with everything else.Once in the garment bag, if you can, leave it hanging up during the course of travel. If you can’t leave it hanging, lay the bag folded lightly in half with nothing on top of it.;
, Although people sometimes prefer traveling with soft duffel bags, these are not a good plan for linen since these bags can be squeezed and crushed easily. A hard-sided bag will maintain its shape and keep the garments inside from unnecessary pressure. The suitcase does not have to be “hard” as in unbending plastic sides, but it should have supports that help it maintain its shape.If you are packing the clothes for a move, consider boxes over bags.
 Suitcases that are tightly packed cause greater pressure on clothes, which means the creases are more likely to set. If you are able to pack less overall, do so, but at least try to pack less in the suitcase that your linen clothes will go in. Perhaps you can pack a separate, smaller suitcase for the linen clothes. If you can only have one bag, try to pack it loosely enough that the linen clothes are not smashed., Don’t leave your clothes packed up tight for longer than necessary. Whenever possible, you should unpack linen clothes and hang them up as soon as you arrive at your destination. Rather than leaving them packed for extra days, getting them out quickly will help reduce wrinkles.Once you have them unpacked, hang linen clothes up. If there are wrinkles, you can hang them in a bathroom and turn the shower on hot for long enough to make the room steamy. You can gently pull at the linen to help release the wrinkles.
It’s also a helpful option to pack wrinkle-release spray when you anticipate possible wrinkles.
You can use a steamer or blow dryer to release wrinkles. If you have an iron or steamer available, this is a good option for immediately removing wrinkles upon unpacking. Another good option is to spray the linen item with water, especially in the most wrinkled spots, and then turn the blow dryer on the clothing. The heat will help release the wrinkles.

