 You may ask "how does creating a good attitude supposed to boost up my mark?" Well, if you create a good attitude in studying and think positive things about studying, it's likely that you will start liking a subject that you were really not fond of before. You may also get marks for having a good attitude and for not disrupting a class.;
, If you attend classes daily instead of skipping them, you will be there to listen to all the lessons the teachers are teaching and won't miss important days. It's likely that you will remember or learn more if you are in class when the teacher is teaching than if you skipped class and then take notes later on.
 Set goals like 'get good marks in math, science etc' for yourself and then try your hardest to achieve those goals. If you fail once, don't give up, keep trying.
 When you get homework, do it, don't leave it. If you're tempted to watch your favourite TV show instead of do homework, think about it this way: Is your favourite TV show going to help you get to a good university and possibly help you achieve the job of your dreams? If the answer is yes, then by all means watch the show. Homework is important because it gives you practice on the subject that you are learning. Always do your homework.
 If you have a question on something, ask for help, don't just leave it behind. You can ask anybody who has knowledge on the subject that you need help with like your parents, teacher, brother or sister. It will most definitely help you in tests and quizzes.
 It will help you reduce anxiety and focus on studying. If you have a test next week, start studying now. Try not to study at the last minute and cram the night before. Try studying 1 or 2 hours daily and leave a half hour for homework. If you study before you do homework, it will help you do your homework faster and help you understand the subject better.
 After school, review what you learned that day.
 This will really help and increase your confidence when taking exams if you're familiar with the typical exam format, common errors to avoid, and know how the concepts in a subject area usually tested.
 It will help you maximize your learning by using effective study techniques, developing meaningful notes, and making the most efficient use of your study time.



Linguistic learner: learns best by saying, hearing and seeing words; is good at memorizing things such as dates, places, names and facts.

Logical/mathematical learner: learns best by categorizing, classifying and working with abstract relationships; is good at mathematics, problem solving and reasoning.

Spatial learner: learns best by visualizing, seeing, working with pictures, is good at puzzles, imaging things, and reading maps and charts.

Musical learner: learns best by hearing, rhythm, melody, and music; is good at remembering tones, rhythms and melodies, picking up sounds.

Bodily/kinesthetic learner: learns best by touching, moving, and processing knowledge through bodily sensations; is good at physical activity.

Interpersonal learner: learns best by sharing, comparing, relating, cooperating; is good at organizing, communicating, leading, and understanding others.

Intrapersonal learner: learns best by working alone, individualized projects, and self-paced instruction.

