 Some friends and family may think that they can help you by trying to cure you of anxiety. They may try to understand the anxiety and think they know everything about the disorder, or make you do things to face your anxiety. These things won’t help, even if your friends mean well.You can say to your friends, "'There is no cure for my anxiety disorder. There are some medicines I can take if I need to, but I will always need to manage it. There is nothing you can do to cure me. That is okay. I just need you to support me and be understanding."
Instead of trying to cure you, your friends should help support you. This means being patient with you, encouraging you to keep living, and helping you through any anxiety attacks you experience while being with them.
 Many times, being around family and friends when you have an anxiety disorder is extremely helpful. Interacting with friends can help you get your mind off your anxieties.Say to your friends, "Just because I have an anxiety disorder doesn't mean I don't want to spend time with you. Even if I don't call you for days or weeks, that doesn't mean I don't want to see you. Sometimes, you may have to make the first step to see me. Call me and ask me to go to dinner or if you can come over to watch a movie."
Tell them that though they may be nervous at first, you are still the same person you have always been. There is no reason they should avoid you.
 Sometimes, people may think they are being supportive by asking about your anxiety. If you and your friends are in certain situations, they may ask you how it is affecting your anxiety. Ask them not to do this.Tell your friends, "I know you care about me and want to know how my anxiety is. You may be curious if I'm having a good day or a bad day. However, sometimes bringing up my anxiety makes it worse. I will talk to you about my anxiety when I need to. Please don't bring up my anxiety often unless I bring it up first."
If you are thinking about your anxiety, it could trigger an attack. It may also make you anxious because you feel like your anxiety is a focus point and obvious.
Tell your friends that you appreciate their concern and you want them to listen when you talk about your anxiety, but that you want to control when you bring up the anxiety.
 Anxiety can make you suddenly act differently than you did moments before. A triggering situation may cause your neurochemistry to change, and suddenly you feel hot, the room is really bright, and you are angry at everyone. Explain that this is a possibility to your friends. Tell them if this happens not to take it personally.Tell your friends, "Sometimes, I may start acting differently all of a sudden. I may get irrationally angry, scared, sad, or stop talking completely. This will have nothing to do with you. When I have an anxiety attack, my moods may change, so please don't take it personally. Don't ask if you can help. Just be there for me, don't get mad at me, and be understanding."
Extreme feelings of anxiety can make you feel angry, sad, or withdrawn. You may act differently with your friends until you have calmed down. Explain to your friends that it has nothing to do with them.

