 Rinse the lettuce and other vegetables in cool water and dry them off. The ingredients of your salad must be completely dry before you put the salad together.


Most vegetables, like tomatoes and cucumbers can be rinsed under running water and dried with clean paper towels. Some, like carrots, may need to be scrubbed with a vegetable brush or peeled with a vegetable peeler to remove any dirt caked into the outer crevices of the skin.
The hardest vegetables to work with in this case will be your lettuce and other leafy greens. To thoroughly clean and dry leafy greens, you should separate the leaves and let them sit in a sink or bowl of cool water for five to ten minutes. After that, you should rinse the leaves gently under running water and place them into a salad spinner. Spin the leaves thoroughly to remove all traces of moisture.
It is absolutely crucial that you send the lettuce through a salad spinner and that you dry off all the other vegetables. When trying to keep the lettuce portion of the salad fresh, you need the container it sits in to be as dry as possible. If moisture builds up inside the container, it will cling to the lettuce leaves and cause them to become soggy.;
, You can mix the lettuce and other ingredients as desired before you store the salad. Combine the ingredients in a single large bowl or in individual serving bowls.


Note that there are some ingredients that you should only add when you are ready to serve the salad. Hard boiled eggs can spoil fast and should not be stored with the rest of the salad. Most fruits have too much water content and can cause the lettuce to wilt too quickly even if you take precautions against moisture.
 If you have a large bowl of salad, you might need to use two or three paper towels.


The paper towels are another crucial element because they help keep moisture off the lettuce. Vegetables naturally contain a little water, so even if you dry everything off thoroughly before you place it into the bowl, some moisture will inevitably build up. By placing paper towels on top of the salad, you can protect the lettuce from getting soggy. The water will be absorbed by the paper towels instead of sitting on the lettuce leaves.
If your salad contains a lot of vegetables with a high water content, like tomatoes and cucumbers, you might want to consider adding more protection by layering paper towels in between layers of salad. Lay a little of your salad on the bottom of the bowl and place a paper towel over it. Spread out more salad on top of that and lay another sheet of paper towel over that. You can repeat this for two to four sets of alternating layers, but make sure that a paper towel rests on top.
 If the container has a lid, place the lid on top. Otherwise, tightly cover the container with plastic wrap.


If you want to ensure freshness, cover the bowl with a tight sheet of plastic wrap and place a tight lid on top of that.
Like moisture, air is another element that can quickly cause your lettuce to wilt. It can also cause the other vegetables to become less fresh and to spoil faster, so keeping air out of your container is an essential step.
 Do not combine the dressing and the salad before you store the salad.


If you add the dressing beforehand, you will introduce too much moisture to the salad and pretty much guarantee that the lettuce will become soggy and wilted.
 Place the container of salad and the container of dressing in the refrigerator. Keep the salad there until you are ready to serve it.


Every time you open the container, you should stir the salad some and replace the paper towel with a fresh one.
You should also replace the paper towel if it begins to look soggy.
When stored in this manner, salad can stay fresh and crisp for a week or more.

