 First, carefully read the quote that you've chosen to paraphrase. It should be no more than a two or three sentences long. Take the time to really absorb its meaning and reach a deep understanding of what it means before you move on.
 As you keep reading the quote, jot down the main ideas in the quote. You can write down the main argument, and a few key words that help illustrate the argument. When you're done taking notes, put the original quote away.
 Using your notes and your knowledge of the quote, write the original quote in your own words. Take care to not only mix up the language but the sentence structure, so you're not just substituting different words and keeping the same structure.


If you're stuck with finding a different way to say something, use a thesaurus for help. Just make sure you're comfortable with the words you find and don't end up using words that are not quite the same as their counterparts. This would change the meaning of your statement.
 Once you've rewritten the passage in your own words, read it aloud, and then go back to the original quote and read it side-by-side with your new passage. You should make sure that two things are true:


The words in your passage and the structure of your sentences should be different enough that you would not be accused of plagiarizing. It should sound like you, not the author.
Your words should still clearly convey the main ideas in the original passage. You shouldn't change your paraphrase so much that you've lost the intended meaning.

Example of an original passage:"These days, too many high school students spend all of their time cramming for standardized tests that don't teach them anything. They would not only gain more knowledge if they spent more time learning the school curriculum instead of studying for tests, but they would also become more open-minded human beings."

Example of a paraphrase: "High school students are so obsessed with studying for SATs and other standardized tests that they don't have time to process the material they learn in their school courses. Studying for standardized tests not only offers them little real knowledge, but it keeps them from being broad-minded individuals."

