 This means being flexible in everything you do, from making business decisions to assigning job tasks. A manager can lead to very stressed employees. Try to be innovative and consider what will work best for you and your team.


If you assign a task to an employee, and they come to you asking to trade assignments with another employee who is also willing to trade, consider the proposition before simply saying no.
However, there are some things, like office rules that you should inform everyone of your view on, so that they know how you will react if someone breaks one of those rules.
 If someone likes designing brochures then don’t assign him to gathering data for the brochure instead of designing the layout. Employees are generally less stressed when they know they can accomplish goals they have been assigned and enjoy the work in the process.


Consider directly asking your employees which tasks they feel they will do well with, and which ones they would rather avoid. Try to stick to these preferences as much as possible, while also keeping in mind that it is inevitable that you will also have to set these preferences aside on occasion to keep your company functioning smoothly.
 Instead of having an employee stamp letters all day, have her assist with proofreading the letters for part of the day. Repetition can be stressful and boring.


Have your employees trade duties regularly, so long as doing so does not affect workflow.
 Make your employees feel like their ideas are valued by asking for their opinions and thoughts on different projects. Listen to their suggestions, and work with them if you think the suggestions could turn into something that would be beneficial for the company.
 Sometimes, having an end goal can help to promote workflow and lower stress. While an employee’s assignment may seem isolated, show the employee how the assignment will ultimately help to obtain a larger goal. Often, having the ‘Finish Line’ in sight can help to keep employees motivated and less stressed.


Consider explaining why each aspect of the project is important. Employees may feel confused or frustrated if they don’t understand why they are doing a task. Take the time to answer their questions.
 To keep your employees’ stress levels down, create a list of things that need to be done to reach the next phase of the project or assignment your employees are working on. Give your employees goals along the way to finishing a larger project in order to keep positivity up, and thus stress levels down.


For example, don’t just tell an employee to make a brochure. Specify that they have to collect data from different departments in the form of pictures and text, sort through the data, prepare a draft and then send it over for finalizing.
 Keeping track of the progress your employees have made can serve to motivate them further. A tracking system can also help to point out strengths and areas that need to be improved on.


For example, have an employee keep track of all of the customers she dealt with and helped each day.

