 Bring chips and dip, cheese and crackers, bread or rolls (remember butter or a dip), pre-made potato salad, a party platter, a frozen lasagna, or a dessert from a bakery.

If you want, you can dress up store-bought foods by placing them in attractive, real dishes and adding your own garnish or arrangement.
Another way around this is to order food from a gourmet deli or local restaurant that is as good as homemade food; be sure to put in your order several days in advance.;
, They'll laugh, but you'll look good coming in the door. However, this is expensive compared with making a dish yourself., Here are some popular contributions that require little time or skill to prepare:


Make fruit salad, bring seasonal, fresh fruit, or just cut up a watermelon. A bowl of fresh berries is always appreciated.
Place a bag of prepared, frozen meatballs into a crock pot with a bottle of either barbecue sauce or teriyaki sauce. You can transport them separately in their original containers. Turn on the crock pot immediately when you arrive and everything will be warm by the time people eat; just be sure you're going somewhere that has electricity. Place a jar of toothpicks next to the crock pot for easy self-serving.
Make no-bake cookies or peanut butter fudge, melting the chocolate in the microwave.
 You might make lemonade or punch or simply purchase an assortment of soft drinks and juice.

Be sure to coordinate with your hosts, especially if you plan to bring alcoholic drinks.
Don't forget a bottle opener and corkscrew, even if all the drinks you bring are screw-top. It's the last thing people seem to think of bringing to gatherings. If you're given to heroics, you could learn to open a beer with a dollar bill or open a wine bottle without a corkscrew, but you'll still be a hero for bringing the right tools.
 Let your hosts know in advance, and ask how much they will need. They may be very happy not to make the trip to get it at the last minute, and they may not have remembered that they needed it at all., Ask your hosts if you could help by bringing plates, cups, napkins, forks, or decorations instead of food. While this might seem mundane, dealing with these essentials can take extra work off your host's list of things-to-do., See if your hosts need help setting up and taking down chairs and tables. Or, volunteer to do the dishes and clean up after the event., Do you have a patio umbrella or folding chairs you could offer? What about a cooler or tub for the drinks? In warmer months, an extra fan might be helpful, or in cooler months, an outdoor gas heater. Ask your hosts what they might need in the way of equipment.