 An ollie is one of the most basic tricks to learn on a skateboard and involves taking the board into the air. You will keep one foot on the back of the board and the other in the middle. It is essential to know how to do an ollie before attempting the varial heel flip.Jump up with the front foot and kick down with the back foot at the same time. Then lift up with your back foot and the board should pop into the air. These moves will all happen very quickly.
Bend your knees up to your chest and slide your front foot forward while the board is in the air.
Bring both feet down to flatten the board and land with both feet on the board.;
, The shove it is similar to the ollie except you scoop the board into a turn rather than popping the board up.


Keep one foot at the back of the board and the other in the middle. This is also important to learn before trying the varial heel flip.
Lift up with your front foot and scoop with your back foot. You will need to get the board turning with your back foot by scooping the board backwards.
Allow the board to turn 180 degrees so that the front becomes the back and the back becomes the front of the board.
Land with both feet on the board evenly.
 The frontside pop shove it is very similar to a normal shove it except you will pop the board into the air as you turn the board 180 degrees. Use your back foot to pop the board into the air as you scoop the board backwards like a normal shove it.
 A heel flip involves the board spinning forward in a 360 degree turn. Instead of turning around so the front and back change positions, the heel flip is more like a flip of the board. Learn this before attempting the varial heel flip.


Keep one foot at the back of the board with the other in the middle.
Push down with both feet and pop with your back foot to get the board in the air.
As you lift you should kick forward with your front foot so that the board flips over. At some point the board will actually be upside down so it is important to get enough height so that it can turn all the way around.
Land with both feet on the board over the wheels on each side.
 You may find it easier to attempt this move if you are moving forward slowly. It will also help give you momentum and to land in the correct position.
 Normally you should place your foot into the pocket, or curved edge, of the board.


You want the ball of your foot in the middle of the board or towards the back edge of the board so your heel will be hanging off the edge.
 Your front foot should be slightly above the middle of the board with the toes hanging off.


The length of your toes that are hanging off depends on your personal preferences so do what feels comfortable., Bending down helps you to get additional pop while staying centered will help you complete the trick and land properly.
 You need to get good air for this trick or else you will be unable to complete it., As you pop into the air your back foot will shove the back of the board forward. This completes the frontside shove it motion of your varial heel flip and turn the board 180 degrees.


Because your foot is already towards the back edge of the board you should not need to push hard with this foot to get the board to turn.
 Kick your front foot forwards to catch your heel on the front pocket of the nose of the board. This will create the heel flip motion of the varial heel flip and flip the board all the way around.


This is more difficult than creating the shove it motion so make sure you kick straight out in front of you to catch your heel on the edge.
As you attempt the trick really concentrate on this heel flip with your front foot as this is usually more difficult to produce., As you pop into the air and move your front and back feet to flip and push the board, you will also need to be jumping up and backwards. This trick requires good height so it is important to jump high.


If you are catching the board with your feet while in the air then you may not be jumping high enough.
Many people have trouble with landing too far forward on the board so jumping back will help solve this issue., This gets your feet out of the way of the board, preventing them from knocking the board in the air. Make sure you bring your knees all the way to allow the board space to turn., This will help you to time your landing and bring your feet down at the correct moment, once the board has flipped and turned completely in the air. , Time your landing with the straightening of the board and land with your feet evenly over the front and back wheels. Keep your knees bent to take the impact so that you do not slip out.


If you are landing too far forward on the board then make sure you jump back farther and harder when jumping up into the air.
Many people have trouble with over or under-rotation. If you are over-rotating try moving your front foot a bit closer to the front bolts so that the board does not rotate too much. If you are under-rotating try moving your front foot a little farther from the front bolts to help the board flip faster.
If you are spinning with the board you must try to stay centered and keep practicing.
 This trick can be quite difficult so stay positive and keep practicing. Think about your proper technique and just keep working on the trick. The more you practice the better you will perform and the easier the trick will be for you.

