 Place it on a suitable surface, such as the bed, floor, a table or similar. It is best if you have the suitcase near the clothes, to allow you to use it for one of the piles you're going to create.;
, The piles that you're going to make will consist of:


Clothes to take on the trip
Clothes to donate (to friends, family, the charity store, etc.)
Clothes you're not sure about yet (the undecided pile)
Seasonal pile divisions (this is optional but can be useful if you've allowed a mess of different season clothes to mount up or if you're in one season and traveling to a different season)
Mending pile
Keep but in need of washing pile (or take on trip but need washing)
Clothes to keep that are clean and don't need mending.
 Which clothes do you want to take with you? Drop those into the suitcase. Don't worry about how many for now, you'll start sorting that shortly.
 Try things on, make it a real event because you're going away, so let yourself spend spend a bit of time doing this. You'll come home to a tidy bedroom and you'll know you've tried on everything you'd like to wear for the trip too!

, If you have time before traveling, drop them off to friends, family or the charity store before your trip. If there isn't time, label it for dealing with on your return and put to one side.


If your tax system allows you to get a donation credit for clothing, be sure to get the receipt.
 You can come back to these after your trip. You will definitely have a new perspective after being away and it'll be easier to decide on these uncertain items with a fresh mind. You might even come home with replacement clothing, making it easier to donate some of the undecideds.
 Do this by season, if possible. If you like to color code, do this now as well. As you put back items, keep asking yourself whether you truly wish to keep each item.
 Start by halving the pile that has mounted up on your suitcase. Be ruthless, remembering that it's simple enough to make many outfits from just a few combinations of simple basics. Once you've halved the amount of clothes originally selected for travel, see whether it's appropriate to halve it again, then again. This will depend on how many clothes you added to this pile to begin with. Then pack.
 Put them away nice and clean for after you return from the trip, or add them to the suitcase, as appropriate.
 If you need the mending to be done before you leave, get on with it now.
 Does anything leap out at you to go in the donation pile? If so, pull it out before putting this pile to one side.
 Rest easy knowing that you've packed what you really wanted to travel with and you will come back to some wonderfully sorted clothes.

