 Measure the wearer's thigh and multiply the number by 0.75. Add 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) to this number for a seam allowance.

Use tulle that matches the color of your dress or one of your school colors.
The length of elastic should match this measurement.
You will need to cut three separate strips of tulle, and each length of tulle should be three times as long as this basic measurement.
After cutting the three strips of tulle, stack them and cut them down the center lengthwise. You may need to pin the tulle strips together to make sure that the cuts are even.
 Stack the six strips of tulle and pin the stack in several places along the length. Use a sewing machine to stitch down the center of the tulle.


Set a long stitch length and let the bobbin and needle threads stay long on both ends. Do not back stitch the ends. Back stitching secures the ends in place, but for this project, you need to create a gathering stitch.
 Gently pull one of the long bobbin threads to gather or "bunch up" the tulle.

Continue gathering the fabric until it is 2/3 the length of your tulle strips, which should also be two times the length of your original measurement.
Use your fingers to gently maneuver the bunches of tulle along the gathering thread. The bunches should be distributed along the thread evenly.
 Fold the tulle in half widthwise and stitch the ends together by hand or with a sewing machine.

Place the "right" or "top" sides of the tulle together. Sew a straight line 1/4 inch (0.635 cm) from the end.
Turn the right sides out. You should now have a uniform tulle loop.
 Fold your strip of elastic in half widthwise and sew the ends together 1/4 inch (0.635 cm) from the end.

Use a sewing machine to sew a straight line across the ends. Reinforce the seam by backstitching it.
The "right" side or "top" side of the elastic should be placed together.
Turn the elastic right-side-out.
 Pin the elastic loop to the tulle loop in four places. Use a sewing machine to stitch down the center of the tulle in a straight line, securing the tulle and elastic together.

Note that the elastic loop will be smaller than the tulle loop.
Set your sewing machine to produce a narrow zigzag stitch.
Gently pull on the elastic lengthwise as you sew. As you pull, the length of the elastic should be made to match the length of the tulle.
Make sure the sew around the entire garter.
 Use fabric glue to attach a charm of your school emblem or mascot to the garter.

You could also glue feathers, craft gems, fake-pearl buttons, or other charms and decorations to the garter. Get creative and decorate it according to your own unique personality.
Attach the decoration over the spot at which the two ends of the tulle ring overlap.

