 The standard mask goes a bit above the eyebrows and ends at the top of the cheekbone, but yours doesn't have to.


A basic masquerade mask is an elongated horizontal oval with a curved hump for the nose. More elaborate masquerade masks can cover more of the cheeks and forehead with exaggerated points at either end. Look for ideas on the Internet or a costume shop. You will also need to decide the type of materials to use in your mask construction.;
, For a sturdier mask, use cardstock. You could also take several pieces of paper to make it even stronger.


You want the outline to be plain with plenty of inner white space. Use letter-sized paper -- anything smaller wouldn't work and anything bigger would be a waste.
 Doing this now will help you see if you like the shape of your mask -- you can adjust it as necessary or add a detail as part of the shape of your mask.


Attaching flames or swoops onto the outline can make it more interesting and even change its shape entirely. Consider flames, swoops, hearts, stars, and geometric shapes.
 Be careful! Use a good pair of scissors to prevent any snags or tears. Leave a little extra room on the sides if you are attaching a band or some type of holding device.


Trim your eyeholes much larger than the size of your actual eyes. Having more visual space is safer, more comfortable, and it tends to look better.
 You'll be very glad you do this -- you won't end up painting your mask and having it turn out poorly or not to your liking. Make your marks light; you don't want to see them through your paint.


Creating a design for the surface of the mask might include multiple colors and textures. Sketching those outlines ahead of time will allow you to maintain symmetry.
 Take care as you hold it; if your fingers touch the wet paint you could smear it (or get it on your clothes). Paint on several coats to get a rich hue.


The choice of color is a personal one, but traditional colors include deep reds and metallics. Use a small paintbrush to ensure clean lines.
 Be patient -- this could take a while. Set it on a covered surface in an open area and leave it be.


Depending on the type of paint you used, this could take up to 4 hours.
 This is totally up to you, but do consider weight, bulk, and tackiness. Too many embellishments will leave your mask looking overdone.


Masquerade masks are traditionally loud and flashy, so adding materials such as rhinestones, glitter and colorful feathers is normal. Stick with your originally planned theme and don't overcrowd the surface.
 If you don't have a dowel, you can use chopsticks, a firm straw, or a very carefully rolled up piece of card.


Feathers are the traditionally adornment to a dowel, but you can use strings of pearls, leaves, or any embellishment you see fit.
 The easiest way to do this will be with a hot glue gun, though other methods will work, too.


The position of the handle is unimportant. Some masquerade masks have handles coming from the middle, others have it from either side, and some masks have no handle at all.
 Hold the dowel in position for 30 seconds to make sure it's secure and in place. If it moves at all, apply more glue.


Wave around your mask a bit -- if it seems sturdy, you're done!

