 You will need to purchase either a 1/2 inch or 1/4 inch dowel rod. The length of the rod depends on how much yarn you plan to use for one hanging, and how many colors you wish to add to the design. You will need multiple casts of yarn in various colors. Pick up some glue and some heavy duty scissors as well., You will need yarn in multiple lengths. Take your first color of yarn, and begin to wrap it around your elbow, and in between your pointer finger and thumb. Wrap it around, creating loops. This will create strings about 24 inches long (12 inches will appear, hanging down from the dowel rod). After you are done wrapping, carefully take the yarn off of your elbow and finger crux, laying it to the side. This will be your shortest length of yarn.You need to create at least 2 more sections, each of a different color. The second section should be about 36 inches long (18 inches will appear) and 48 inches long (24 inches will appear).
You can find interesting ways to wrap your yarn, like from your arm to your foot, or between two doorknobs. You can also simply cut 36 or 48 inch pieces against a long ruler.
Set each of your wrapped yarn loops to the side, making sure to keep them in their loop form.
 Take your shortest yarn strands (24 inches) and cut them at one end of the loop with scissors. Begin to drape them over the dowel rod, making sure that the strings are equidistant on both sides of the rod (12 inches on each side). Scrunch them all together on one end of the rod.Take your next longest yarn strands (36 inches) and do the same thing. Cut them at one end, and drape them over the rod, equidistant on both sides. Scrunch them together, and slide them next to the 24 inch strands.
Do the same with the 48 inch strands. Scrunch them together and slide them together against the 36 inch strands. If you decided to add even more lengths, add them now.
 Once you have arranged the strands properly, take out your glue. Work in colored sections, starting with the shortest strands. Lift the 24 inch section up slightly and add a strip of glue to the dowel rod. Press the strands down, trying your best to keep the strings equidistant on both sides. Hold them down until the glue is fairly dried.Do the same thing for the 36 and 48 inch strands. Make sure that you apply glue to the rod, keep them bunched up, and pressed against the previous lengths.
Leave your rod somewhere safe to dry. You do not want to begin cutting the yarn until the glue is fully dried.
 First, you will need to hang your design where you want it to hang permanently. This might mean hanging it on a few nails or tacks in your wall, evenly placed on both sides. Or, you can buy eye hooks, and screw one onto each end of the dowel rod. Slide a piece of yarn through both eye hooks, and tie knots on each end. Finally, hand the string on a hook or tack.Get out a pair of heavy-duty scissors. Begin cutting the bottom of your strands of yarn at angles. There are three options you can choose: Cut every strand at one continuous angle, cut each of the separate colors at different angles, or just cut which ever way you want to.
The key is to get creative. It doesn't have to be perfect, or smoothly cut. Because this project is relatively quick, you can always make another one in a short period of time if you make a mistake. However, with this project, mistakes are really creative scissor cuts.

