 Tell them that you understand why social media is appealing. Explain that it’s great for keeping up with friends and family and makes it easy to share positive information. Remind them that, despite these pros, social media poses risks, like oversharing, overusing, and cyberbullying.Say things like, “It’s great to feel connected to other people through social media, but talking to people face-to-face builds a stronger bond than texting or chatting online.”
Tell them, “Sharing too much information or posting too many photos, especially intimate photos, is dangerous. Never talk to strangers, share your location, or show people pictures of your body.”;
, Familiarize yourself with the privacy settings of whichever social media platforms your child uses. Go over the settings with them to show them how to ensure their privacy online.Make sure their profile picture, basic information, and “likes” are only visible to people they’ve added as friends. Instruct them only to add people that they already know.
Show them how to create privacy lists organized by categories like close friends and family, acquaintances, and teachers.
 Tell them that they have to add you in order to use social media. While it’s preferable to let them keep their password secret to encourage their sense of privacy, make sure you’re not blocked from seeing any content.Have them show you their privacy lists to ensure you’re not on a restricted list.
 Do your best from discouraging them from using laptops and phones in their bedrooms. Make it a rule that they can’t use technology behind closed doors.In addition to exposing your child to content that’s too mature for them, letting them use social media in their bedroom can interfere with their sleep. Consider having them turn their phone off at least an hour before bed. Either keep it in your possession or have them keep it in a common room of the house.
 Establish rules like “Everyone must turn their phones off during dinner,” or “No screen time within an hour of going to bed.” Set aside time during weeknights or weekends for technology-free family activities.Try having a weekly family game night in which no television and no phones are allowed. Consider making Saturdays or Sundays family days in which you do outdoor activities together, like bike riding around the neighborhood, hiking, or playing a sport together.

