 Energy Crystals can be gathered from dungeon monsters, but these have a low chance of dropping. To hunt successfully, you will need equipment with a bonus loot rate stat.


Most players purchase a set of low-level equipment with high loot rate then use it whenever they hunt dungeons in solo mode. Some enter low-level dungeons in Hell Mode to get more chances of obtaining Energy Crystals.
 After collecting 75 Energy Crystals, you can fuse them all with one Hero Emblem and five gold. This will create an Unidentified Summoning Device, which you can use to summon an Eidolon for a chance to obtain Eidolon keys.


If you fuse 100 Energy Crystals instead, you will get a Summoning Device that can be used in Guild halls.
 Accepting a Daily Quest will automatically summon you to a dungeon where tasks will be given to you by an NPC either seeking your help or testing you. Ancient Eidolon Fragments and Eidolon Energy Crystals will sometimes be given as rewards.Your Daily Quest resets every day and can be obtained in every map's bulletin board.
 You can use recipes purchased from merchants to turn 30 Eidolon Fragments into 1 Key Fragment. To get a full Eidolon Key, you will need 10 Key Fragments. It’s a very long process, but if you do your Daily Quest in every map, you will eventually get the summon you want. See the chart below for the various recipes available.



Soul Box Recipes

Recipe
Key Fragment


Duke of Darkness' Soul Box
Eidolon Eligos


 Empress of Torment's Soul Box 
 Eidolon Bel-Chandra 


Emerald Tempest's Soul Box
Eidolon Yarnaros


Trampling Thunder's Soul Box
Eidolon Bahadur


Feline Emperor's Soul Box
Eidolon Tigerius


, The Temple of Eidolon is found in Crescent Hills. You can enter the Temple of Eidolon up to 4 times a day. Once you enter the temple, you will be given a chance to pick a treasure box, depending on your level. There are three types of chest that can be opened inside the Temple of Eidolon.


Make sure that you're strong enough to take on high-level summons or else they will be wasted.
A level 35 treasure box will give you a level 25 Summoning Stone, a level 50 treasure box will give you a level 40 Summoning Stone, while a level 60 treasure box will give you a level 50 Summoning Stone.
You must use the treasure box right away to obtain the Summoning Stone or else the box disappears once you exit the dungeon.
The Temple of Eidolon refreshes at 6AM, 12PM, 6PM, and 12PM EST.
It is important NOT to accept or join another party while doing the Temple of Eidolon; otherwise, you risk being booted from the dungeon. After being kicked out, you won't be able to get inside again and have to wait for the next dungeon reset.

