 Clean all of the rice used for this recipe by quickly rinsing it in cool, clean water. Drain the water and save only the rice.


To rinse the rice, pour it into a large glass bowl and cover it with three times as much water. Use your hands to gently move and scrub the rice while it is submerged.
Pour the rice and water through a fine mesh colander to drain it. Set the rice aside until needed.
 Pour the vegetable oil into a large stockpot with a heavy bottom. Set it over medium heat on the stove.


Give the oil 30 to 60 seconds to heat up before continuing.
 Toss the minced garlic, diced onion, and sliced ginger into the hot oil. Cook, stirring frequently, for about 2 minutes.The three ingredients should become lightly toasted and very fragrant.
Temporarily remove these three ingredients from the pot after you've released their flavors into the oil. Place them in a separate dish and set them aside.
 Place the cut up chicken in the same stockpot and no more than 1/4 cup (60 ml) of water. Cover and cook over medium-high heat for 5 to 10 minutes.


Occasionally stir the contents of the stockpot during this step to prevent the chicken from sticking to the bottom of the pan.
Continue cooking until the chicken has released enough liquid to produce an approximate total of 1 cup (250 ml) liquid at the bottom of the stockpot.
 Toss the previously sauteed ginger, onion, and garlic back into the stockpot. Add the soy sauce and fish sauce, as well.


Stir everything together to distribute the flavors more evenly. Cook on medium-high for another 2 minutes.
 Add the remaining water to the stockpot. Bring the liquid to a boil, then reduce the heat to low.


The chicken pieces must be completely submerged in liquid.
After you reduce the heat, the liquid should still continue at a gentle simmer.
 Cover the stockpot and simmer over low to medium-low heat for 2 hours.Taste test the liquid after you've finished simmering it. If necessary, add more fish sauce or soy sauce to suit your personal flavor preferences.
 Use tongs or a slotted spoon to remove the chicken pieces from the stockpot. Set them aside in a separate bowl, allowing them to cool to the touch.


When you remove the chicken, take as little liquid as possible with it.
 Pour the clean rice into the stockpot of liquid. Mix well, then increase the heat to medium and simmer for 20 to 40 minutes.


The grains of rice should become puffy and the porridge should thicken up.
If the lugaw becomes too thick during this time, you can add more water. Add extra water to the porridge 1/2 cup (125 ml) at a time.
 While the rice porridge simmers, use two forks to shred the cooked chicken off its bones.


Reserve the chicken meat and discard the bones.
The chicken should be relatively easy to shred at this point since it has cooked for such a long time.
 When the lugaw reaches your desired thickness, add the shredded chicken. Mix well to spread the chicken pieces throughout the entire dish.


You should be able to add the entire shredded chicken, but if you want your lugaw to have less chicken in it, you can add a smaller portion of shredded chicken and save the rest for another use.
 Ladle the finished lugaw into individual serving bowls and enjoy while it is still hot.


Chicken lugaw is usually served with slices of hard boiled egg, a sprinkling of minced green onion, and a squeeze of fresh lime juice. All of these garnishes are only optional, however.

