 You may want to shut out someone or a group for many different reasons. These may include a bad experience, a failed romance, or wanting to pursue other endeavors. Determining why you want to shut out the individual or group can help you deal with the situation in a more constructive way.Write down a list of reasons you want to shut out someone. This may help you realize that avoiding the individual is more constructive than shutting the person out entirely. For example, if you write, “Hannah said something that offended me. I don’t want to see her,” you might want to shut the person out for a while. However, writing, “Max betrayed our friendship by stealing my girlfriend,” may help you realize its best to cut out your friend and ex.
 If you decide that you just need time away from a person or people, let yourself enjoy time to yourself. This can help you refocus and enjoy new things without the influence of something that may make you stressed or unhappy.Consider giving yourself a break from activities such as extra-curricular sports or clubs, family outings, or professional engagements. You can let people know, “I’d love to join you, but I need some time to myself.”

, Cutting off contact with many people in your life may be a sign of a more serious problem. Depression and anxiety can cause a loss of interest in friends, family members, and colleagues. If you find that you are shutting out loved ones with no real reason, consider seeing a doctor to rule out depression or anxiety. The doctor can also help treat your feelings.Schedule an appointment with a counselor, psychologist, or a psychiatrist. The mental health professional can help diagnose any conditions that may make you want to shut out people.
Be honest with the doctor about why you’re seeking counseling. Answer any questions the therapist may ask. These can provide insight on why you’re shutting out people from your life.
 It is not a bad thing to cut out unproductive, stressful, or negative relationships in your life. As long as you handle the matter in a mature and polite manner, you do not need to justify your actions.

You may be questioned about your actions, but stay firm in your decision. This will help you create boundaries.
If someone doesn't agree with your decision, try to avoid engaging with them on the matter.

