 As a result of sitting in disuse for a bit, your neti pot likely has become the home of some local bacteria. Prevent these germs from entering your system by thoroughly cleaning it with soap and hot water. Allow the pot to air dry completely before use.






;
, Mix a heaping 1/4 teaspoon of finely ground non-iodized salt or a slightly rounded 1/2 teaspoon of coarsely ground salt (kosher salt) in the neti pot with 8 ounces of warm distilled, boiled, or filtered water until the salt is completely dissolved.









Do not use untreated tap water as it can contain amoebas which will make you sick. It is crucial to use filtered or distilled water.Do not use normal table salt. The additives in it can irritate your nose.There are commercial salts available specifically for neti pot use instead., Bend over the sink and turn your head to the side so that your ear is facing the sink. Keep your forehead at the same height as the chin, or slightly higher. You will eventually turn your head slightly so that the saline solution flows out of your opposite nostril.
 In order to close off your throat and mouth from the water rinse, breathe through your mouth. Avoid talking or laughing so that the seal in your throat is not broken, allowing water in.
 Hold it in such a way as to form a seal, preventing water from coming back out the entrance. Raise the pot so the saline solution flows into the upper nostril and out of the lower nostril. If it drains out of your mouth, lower your forehead in relation to your chin. Empty ½ of the pot per nostril.
 Turn your head in the opposite direction and repeat the aforementioned instructions. Use the other half of the saline solution to clear out your opposite nostril.
 When you’ve drained the entire neti pot, rest your head over the sink and blow your nose gently (without using your fingers to pinch it) to remove the excess water. Do this until most of the dripping has subsided and you can breathe relatively easily again.
 Remove the rest of the water and completely clear out your nose by blowing into a tissue. Be sure not to close off either nostril while blowing.
 To prevent high levels of bacteria growth in and on your neti pot, give it a final wash before putting it away for storage. Use warm soap and water and allow the pot to air dry.







