 Make sure that the shirt is washed. If this is a brand-new shirt, throw it into the washer and wash it; be sure to dry it afterward. Brand new shirts may shrink a little bit after you wash them the first time. You want the t-shirt to fit you properly before you begin cutting it and turning it into a racerback.


A racerback tank top has wider armholes in the back, leaving a skinny band of fabric between the shoulder blades.
 Start from just under the armpits, then cut straight up towards the shoulders.
 Cut right along the bottom hem of your t-shirt, using the stitching as a guide. When you are done, you will end up with a large, fabric ring. Cut this ring apart, close to one of the side seams, so that you end up with a long, fabric strand. You will use this to decorate the back of your tank top.
 Turn the shirt over so that the back is facing you. Trim the back of the armholes further until there are only a few inches of fabric between them. Be careful not to cut the armholes on the front of the shirt.









Make sure that you cut the same amount from each side of the shirt.
Cut the armholes deep. They should be a few inches apart when you are done.
 Find the back center of the neckline, then cut a deep V-shape. Keep the point of the V-shape between the armholes. This will help keep the fabric from bunching up when you tie it up.








Do not cut the front of the shirt; you are only cutting the back. Racerbacks have a plain collar in the front.
If you prefer a plain racerback, you can skip this step, and wear your racerback. The next few steps will teach you how to make a fancier racerback.
 Find the bottom of the V-shape and measure up a few inches







, Try to wrap as tightly as you can, so that the fabric between the armholes turns into a "rope." Stop when you reach the bottom of the armholes.
 You can do this simply by tucking the end under the wound fabric. For extra security, tie the two ends of the strand together into a tight knot first.
 Spread the shirt down sideways, so that you see only the side seam, the armhole, and half of the front and back. Find the folded front side of the shirt. Measure up a few inches, then start cutting downwards towards the back of the shirt. When you are done, your shirt will be shorter in the front, and longer in the back., You do not need to worry about hemming, because t-shirt fabric does not fray. Racerback shirts are perfect for layering over bandeau tops and for working out.

