 Blue jays are attracted to flat spaces on tree branches or surfaces like window sills. For this reason, they will make good use of a flat nesting platform instead of a traditional house.


The floor area should be no less than 8 inches (20 cm) by 8 inches (20 cm). It should be high off the ground, either mounted in a tree or on a pole. Whatever platform location you choose, make sure it is not prone to predators such as raccoons. Blue jays can build their nests anywhere from 5 feet (1.5 meters) to 50 feet (15 meters) above ground.You can also buy hanging feeders, like peanut wreaths, that are especially designed to attract birds like blue jays. You can also try a fun craft if you have kids or make it alone. Take a pinecone and cover it with peanut butter and bird seeds. Birds go crazy for them and you can sometimes find these things right in your very own home.
Hanging feeders are more free-floating, making it harder for other animals like raccoons to get at. However, they are more unstable and larger birds may shy away from them.;
, Have your nesting platform inaccessible to squirrels if at all possible. Since you’ll likely be loading the platform up with nuts and seeds, it could be a squirrel’s heyday – and he could fight off the birds from his new-found treasure.


In the shade is important, too. Sometimes blue jays will eat and eat and then stock up food in their mouths (their gular pocket) to bring back to their home and bury for later. This can take a lot of time, and if they’re in the sun, they’ll heat up. Keep your feeders in the shade so they can stay comfortable.
 A birdbath a good source of water for the jays and a good source of entertainment for you as you watch them bathe. A birdbath will also attract birds of other varieties, too.


Having a birdbath with a light mister or small fountain is double the fun. The birds will be intrigued, and you’ll be intrigued watching the birds’ fascination with their find.
 The best way to attract birds to your area is with food. The blue jay's diet mainly consists of plants, vegetables and nuts, though they also eat some insects. You will draw quite a few blue jays to your area if you offer a variety in a large platform feeder. Some of the blue jay's favorites include:Peanuts (preferably shelled)
Black and striped sunflower seeds
Elder berries
Cherries
Dogwood
Acorns
Suet

, Make sure the feeding area that you offer the jays has plenty of perching available. You want a nice, large, open shelf – not an enclosed area. If you notice it’s covered in food or that part is inaccessible due to an obstacle of sorts (like a branch), adjust the shelf to make it easier for the birds to munch. If you really care about them you can clean off the sides of the house.

You should clean up any left over berries, nut shells, egg shells, feces or dead insects on the bird perch or house to keep it clean.
 Blue jays prefer oak woodlands, though they can be found just about anywhere.However, if you want the best odds of getting blue jays, oak is the way to go.


Beech trees are a solid second as they too have nuts blue jays love feasting on.
What’s more, having trees around will provide the blue jays shelter should they need it from inclement weather (which is especially important in winter). It’s good for nesting, too.
 Blue jays are some of the most intelligent birds out there and, in general, have great memories. If you only stock food intermittently, they'll likely find somewhere else to go that's more reliable. Keep the peanuts coming and you'll be logged into their brains as a good, consistent food source.Blue jays are generally quick to move. If the food disappears, they won't likely wait for it to show up. To keep the same ones around, you'll need to be on top of your blue jay game.
 Blue jays mate from March to July and this must be taken into consideration when building or installing your nesting platform. You should anticipate when the mating pair needs the nesting platform so you can have it up and ready to go. Blue jays are monogamous and will normally stay together until one dies.


It might also help if you offer a pile of sticks and twigs nearby to help them with building their nest. The efforts to build a nest can take hundreds of trips back and forth bringing in the needed materials. Providing them these items encourages them to remain in the area.
 For the most part, blue jays eat nuts and seeds, yes. But they have been known to harvest on eggs or even small frogs, baby birds, and invertebrates from time to time. You may catch a bird in the act of something you’d rather not see. It’s important to know this before you go about hoping for blue jays in your area.


Because of this, many people are actually in the market to get rid of the blue jays in their yard, believing the blue jays are wreaking havoc on the other animals that are more peaceful. It's important to consider this side before you have a yard full of them.
 They tend to move around in groups, especially in the autumn, and their social behavior can be quite dynamic.They can be obnoxious, too, scaring away other birds and even imitating hawks to do so. They’re highly territorial – but if they’re outnumbered, they’ll back off. Because of their antics, some people don’t like them in the garden or backyard, but they are quite the sight to see!


Blue jays are sort of a give and take. You may have to bequeath your yard unto them, but they will grace you with their beautiful colors. If you do decide to go this route, be ready for other birds and small animals to be more scarce. They know fighting a blue jay for territory isn't worth it.
 Blue jays are commonly referred to as bully birds, keeping other birds at bay. Sometimes they even eat their young. If you've got too many blue jays, consider constructing a "blue jays only" feeding area and put other feeders and birdbaths out of sight. Alternatively, keep their food source minimal so they only come around once in a while.Blue jays are fairly big birds. If you want other, smaller birds around, put up a few bird houses and feeders that the jays cannot fit into. They'll abandon the fight once they realize it's fruitless.

