 Place the egg whites and salt in a large bowl. Beat the mixture on high until stiff peaks form. Set this mixture aside.To determine if you've made stiff peaks, turn off the mixer and lift your beater up. If the egg whites are firm and hold their shape, you're made stiff peaks.;
, In a separate bowl, whisk the egg yolks till they're combined.You can use the same beaters that you used to beat the egg whites. But be sure that you don't do it the other way around, or your egg whites won't whip.
 Beat in the powdered sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, and allspice. Mix the ingredients together well., Gently use a spatula to fold the egg whites into your sweetened yolk mixture. This should give the mixture some volume.To fold the egg whites, hold your spatula and slice straight down through the center of the egg whites. Scoop the batter and fold the egg whites in a circular motion. Turn the bowl a little bit and keep doing this until the whites are incorporated into the batter., If you like your Tom and Jerry on the sweeter side, fold in marshmallow crème or slightly softened vanilla ice cream till you get your desired consistency.You can also play around with different ice cream flavors. Cake batter is a popular choice for mixing into Tom and Jerry cocktails.
 Make sure you have Tom and Jerry Mix already made. Get out rum and brandy, if you're making the drink alcoholic.


Warm your 8-ounce mug by running hot water into it. Then drain and dry it immediately before filling it with your cocktail.
 Decide what liquid you'd like to use in your Tom and Jerry. You can use hot water for a stronger spice and alcohol flavor. Or you can use hot milk for a creamier drink. If you'd like a little caffeine, use hot coffee., Take your warmed mug and pour or scoop 2 tablespoons of Tom and Jerry batter into it.If you froze the batter, you'll have to just scoop it out. Make sure the liquid you add to it is really hot, since the frozen batter might cool off your drink too much.
 Pour in the brandy and rum. Stir until the alcohol and batter are combined.You can easily leave out the alcohol, if you like. Or, swap it out if you prefer a different liqueur. Other alcoholic options include: cognac, whiskey, crème de cacao, and applejack (an apple brandy)., Pour in the hot water, hot milk, or hot coffee. Stir well to combine all the ingredients. Serve the cocktail while it's still very hot.Garnish your cocktail with a little bit of extra nutmeg. Or, if you want an even creamier cocktail, add whipped cream or marshmallows.

