 Look for the Facebook app on your mobile device. It’s the one with the app icon with the Facebook logo. Tap on it to launch it.
 If you logged out of your previous Facebook session, you will be asked to log in. Enter your registered email address and password into the given fields, and tap “Log in” to continue.
 Tap the button with three horizontal bars on the upper left corner to bring out the main menu. Find the Groups section and tap on “Find New Groups” from here. You will be brought to another screen where can start your search for groups.
 Tap the “Top Suggestions” tab on the header bar. A list of groups suggested by Facebook based on your profile will be displayed. These are the groups that Facebook thinks you may be interested in or that you may already be connected to. Scroll through the list and see if there’s any group you’d be interested in.


The list continues to expand as you get to the bottom.
 Tap the “Friends’ Groups” tab on the header bar. A list of groups that some of your friends are in will be displayed. You may be interested to view a group that has people you already know. Scroll through the list and see if there’s any group you’d be interested in.


The list continues to expand as you get to the bottom.
 Tap the Local tab on the header bar. A list of groups from your current location or city will be displayed. You may be interested to view a group within your vicinity. Scroll through the list and see if there’s any group you’d be interested in.


The list continues to expand as you get to the bottom.
 If you know the name of the group, you can use the search box on the middle of the header toolbar from your News Feed to do a search. Tap the button with three horizontal bars on the upper left corner to bring out the main menu, then tap on News Feed from here.


Type in the name of the group you’re searching for and Facebook will automatically complete the search. On the results window, tap “See More Results” to expand the results so you can filter them.
Tap the Groups tab to filter and show only groups, and scroll through the list of groups matching your search parameter.

