 Place the sifter over the large mixing bowl. Next, pour in the rice flour and shake the sifter gently. Once all of the flour has fallen into the mixing bowl, add the urad dal flour to the sifter. Gently shake the sifter and allow the urad dal flour to fall into the mixing bowl.

Use a whisk to mix the two flours together.
Discard any lumps left in sifter.;
, First, add the cumin seeds and salt to the mixing bowl. Whisk the mixture until it’s combined. Next, add the room temperature butter. Use your fingers or a pastry cutter to press the butter into the flour. This will absorb the butter into the flour and create small pearls of dough., Slowly add a few drops of water into the mixture. Use your hands or a spoon to mix everything together. Continue adding water and mixing until a soft, pliable dough is formed. You will be done mixing when the dough comes together and no flour is left in the bowl., The surface of the dough ball should be free of cracks, but not sticky.Cover the dough with a damp towel until you’re ready to form the murukku.

If the dough seems dry and crumbly, add a few more drops of water.
If the dough becomes sticky, knead in a sprinkle of rice flour.
 Either place a large piece of wax paper on a baking sheet or lay it out directly on your counter. You will form the murukku on this wax paper., A murukku mold is a small metal cylinder with a variety of disk attachments and a metal tamper. Find the disk attachment with a small star shape in the center. Next, place the star attachment disk over the opening of the mold and screw it into place.

If you don’t have a mold, you can also use a pastry bag with a small star attachment on the end.
You can buy murukku molds online or at your local Indian grocery store.
 Use your finger and a small amount of butter to grease the inside of the murukku mold and the end of the tamper. If you use a pastry bag instead, you can skip this step.

If you don’t grease the murukku mold, the mold is much harder to clean.
 Pinch off a walnut-sized ball of dough and press it into the opening of the murukku mold. If you have a larger mold, you may need a larger piece of dough. Fill the murukku mold with dough, leaving a few centimeters of space at the top for the tamper.


If you’re using a pastry bag, fill the bag about halfway full. Press the dough gently towards the star attachment to remove any air bubbles.
 Hold the mold or pastry bag just above the wax paper. Next, gently squeeze the dough out by pressing the tamper or squeezing the pasty bag. Move the mold or pastry bag in a circular motion to create small spirals of dough.Once the spiral is as big as you’d like, use your finger to break the dough away from the mold or pastry bag.

Press the tail end against the spiral to secure it.
If the dough breaks while forming the spirals, remove the dough from the pastry bag or mold and knead in a few drops of water., Dampen a clean dish cloth and squeeze out as much water as you can. Next, gently drape the dish cloth over the murukku spirals. This will prevent drying., Use a deep stainless steel pan or stock pot. Fill the pot with your frying oil of choice and place it over medium heat. Add enough oil to cover the bottom of the pan with three inches (7.5 centimeters) of oil. Avoid using burn-prone oils such as olive oil and butter. Some examples of suitable frying oils include:


Coconut oil
Avocado oil
GheePeanut oil (Avoid this if you have nut allergies)

, To deep fry food, the oil needs to be 350-375°Fahrenheit (176-190°Celsius.) However, if you don’t have a cooking thermometer, you can still check the temperature of the oil. To do so, drop a small amount of batter into the hot oil. If the oil bubbles vigorously around the batter, the oil is hot enough.If the oil barely bubbles around the batter, continue to heat the oil before adding your murukku.
Wait until the oil is hot enough before cooking the murukku. Otherwise, they will soak up the oil and won’t cook.
 Use a metal slotted spoon to transfer the murukku from the wax paper to the hot oil. Depending on the size of your murukku, you may be able to add three or four at once. However, don’t overcrowd the pan. If you do, the murukku will stick together and cook too slowly.


The murukku should lift away from the wax paper easily. If not, let them dry out on the counter without the damp towel for a few minutes.
 The murukku will only take a few minutes to cook in the oil. Use the metal slotted spoon to turn the murukku in the oil and examine both sides. Look for a light golden brown color and a crispy texture.You don’t need to flip the murukku while frying them. The oil will cook both sides at once.
 Once the murukku are a light golden brown, use a metal slotted spoon to remove the murukku from the oil. Place the hot murukku on a plate lined with a clean paper towel. Serve them as soon as they’ve cooled to room temperature.


Leftover murukku can be placed in an airtight container and stored on your counter or in the pantry.Eat the murukku within one week of cooking them. Otherwise, they will become stale and chewy.

