 Caterpillars don’t tend to move around too much once they find a good place to feed, so it’s perfectly possible to have a habitat that is open. A caterpillar habitat could be as simple as a single potted plant placed on a table, but if you want to have a bit more control of where your caterpillar can crawl to, find an open bucket or container.


If you have a clear container, this will make it easier for you to observe the caterpillars.
Make sure it’s clean, but doesn’t have any lingering cleaning substances on the surfaces.
 Next you need to add the host plant to the container. You can do this in a variety of ways, such as just placing a potted plant into the bucket or container, or making some cuttings and placing them inside. Whichever method you use, make sure the leaves are a little damp to add some moisture.If you are adding a whole plant, make sure the plant is healthy and will continue to thrive and grow.
A plant will still need light to photosynthesis and remain healthy and a good food source for the caterpillars.
 If you are opting for an open container, you might consider adding a mesh, screen or net over the top of the plant or container. Your caterpillars may attract attention from predators and parasites in and around your home, such as spiders. Adding a net, such as a butterfly net, over the container or the plant can reduce the risk of this.


You will struggle to completely eliminate the danger of predators and especially parasites and parasitoids.Regularly cleaning away frass can help, as spiders are drawn to the smell., Once you have built up your caterpillar habitat, it’s important that you pay close attention to it. This means regularly cleaning out frass, adding fresh cuttings from the host plant, and ensuring the environment is not too dry. This is a bit of work, but it also gives you time to enjoy observing the caterpillars as they prepare to pupate.


You can always add some extra things, such as pebbles or more greenery. Remember that once your caterpillar has found a good place to eat, he won’t be too interested in exploring.
Try to avoid handling the caterpillars as much as possible. If you do need to handle them make sure your hands are clean, and ensure that you have rinsed off any excess soap.