 In order to have your rabbit safely in your home, you need to rabbit proof your home, or at least the room where your rabbit will be let out. The main thing you need to do it cover the electrical cords for all your electronics or appliances that your rabbit may be able to reach. This can be done with hard black plastic tubing or with black spiral plastic that can wrap around the cords.


You can also pull the cords off the floor if the plug is high enough or until you get tubing.;
, Your Harlequin rabbit is an intellectual and inquisitive animal that needs plenty of places play and things to interact with. This means making him a large play area where he can run around. In a room you have already rabbit proofed, set up a large series of boxes and tubes of different sizes as a playground for you rabbit.


He needs at least four hours of exercise every day to be happy and healthy.
Make sure to include some steady surfaces with stairs in between the boxes where he can stand or climb.
Wrapping paper tubes or paper towel rolls are good for your rabbit to play in and with, Your rabbit will need something to chew on at all times. If he doesn't, he will start chewing everything around him, including your electrical wires, walls, furniture, and carpet. Look for twigs or branches from apple, willow, or aspen trees. These are great for your rabbit. You can also buy him alfalfa cubes, untreated pine boards, hay, or cotton towels., Your Harlequin rabbit needs a great cage where he can sleep and spend time when he isn't in his play room. His cage should be at least 30 in long x 24 in wide x 18 in high, but anything larger is always better.He needs a litter box, shredded paper as bedding, and a small box for him to retreat to if he is tired or scared.


Rabbit cages can vary from simple wire mesh cages to elaborate wooden structures.
Use pelleted paper for the bedding, since it isn't toxic to him if he chews it.When you first get your rabbit, you need to leave him in his cage when you aren't around until he gets used to using his litter box., For your rabbit to stay in full health, you need to make sure that you check his cage every day. Any soiled paper, bedding, or litter should be removed. This will keep him from getting urinary tract infections as well as prevent flystrike, which is a condition where fly larvae burrow in his skin. This can cause health issues as well as skin irritation and infection., Your rabbit needs to be fed the right types of food every day to ensure he has the nutrients needed for his health and digestion. This includes commercial pellets, which should be fresh as possible.


Your mature rabbit should be fed at least ¼ to ½ cup of pellets every day depending on his size. If you rabbit is younger than a year old, allow him to eat as much as he wants so he can grow properly., He also needs hay to ensure he gets enough fiber for proper digestion and to prevent serious illnesses. The best hay is grass-type hay, which should be available in his cage and at meal times.


Avoid making alfalfa or clover hay his main type of hay. It is too rich for his system all the time., Your Harlequin rabbit also needs leafy green vegetables give him even more fiber. Give these to him three to four times a day. These include greens include dandelion greens, raw broccoli stems, carrot tops, and lettuces of all kinds except iceberg., In order for him to process all the fiber and nutrients in his diet, your Harlequin rabbit needs to be given plenty of access to water at all times. Once common water distribution is automatic dripper bottle, which can be attached to his cage. This is easy for him to drink from and will not spill. You can use a heavy ceramic bowl if your rabbit will not use a bottle.


These bowls cannot be chewed like a plastic bowl and are much harder to knock over.
The water bowl should be cleaned often and checked daily.
 There are certain foods that are considered treats for your rabbit. These should only be fed to him in small amounts and only every so often. Treats you can give your rabbit include:


Alfalfa or clover hay, which should only be given to him a few times a week in small doses because they have too much protein and calcium.
Fruit and starchy vegetables, which are great in small doses but have too much sugar and starch in them for every day. Do not feed your rabbit more than two tablespoons of fruit per day.
Other human foods other than the vegetables listed above are great in small doses as treats.
Avoid feeding him corn, because the hulls may cause digestive tract issues, Once your rabbit reaches four to six months of age, you need have him neutered (or spayed if she is female). This will prevent any unwanted litters of rabbits, aggressive behavior, urine spraying, urinary tract infections, and uterine cancers.


This is especially important for your rabbit because he is prone to uterine cancer., Yearly checkups for your Harlequin rabbit are recommended to keep him in top health. This is especially helpful so your rabbit can have his teeth checked. Even with ready access to chew toys, his teeth may grow too long.


If his teeth are out of alignment or uneven, your vet may trim his teeth so the teeth won't cause him any pain or pierce his lip. , Despite you taking care of your rabbit, he may still become ill. To help take care of him, you need to watch your rabbit closely in case he shows signs of sickness. If you notice any, you need to take him to the vet. These signs include:


Discharge from his nasal passage or eyes
Drooling or unnecessary wetness around his mouth
Reduction or loss of appetite and water drinking
Skin redness, swelling, or fur loss
Loss of mobility in his back legs
Inability or avoidance of hopping
Diarrhea
Not going to the bathroom for at least a day
Red or dark urine
Running a temperature over 105 °F