 Although you may have been involved in discussions on the phone, it is always best to check the offer letter for any details that may not have been discussed during negotiations.


The offer letter covers all the terms and conditions of employment, and in many cases you are only asked to sign at the bottom of the document and return it.
You need to read the document carefully before signing it, in order to ensure that it covers everything that the employer agreed to.
Additionally, even if your letter only requires a signature, it is best to proceed with writing a formal letter of acceptance to close the loop and verify your understanding of the agreement.;
, There are a variety of ethical factors that you must bear in mind when you accept a new job and draft your acceptance letter.


Once you have taken a job with one particular employer, let other potential employers know that you are no longer available and have taken a job somewhere else.
Cancel any interviews that you have lined up, by cordially explaining to other employers that you have taken a job somewhere else and hence cannot appear for an interview.
Your acceptance letter is you giving your word that you accept a job on the stated terms.
Therefore, it is crucial that you do not send any your letter until you are 100% sure of the terms and what the job entails.
If you are currently employed, make sure you resign from your last company in the proper manner, giving notice and in accordance with their procedure.
 Accept your job offer using whatever mode of communication you and your potential employer have been using during the hiring process.


If they send you the offer letter via email, your response should be via email.
In case you have received an offer via traditional mail, return your job acceptance letter via traditional mail.
If you send a letter, also notify the employer of your impending letter through email.
This way, your employer will know that you have initiated a response on your end.
 Make sure that you choose an appropriate business format to write your acceptance letter.


Mention your name and address at the top of the letter, along with the date of your acceptance.
Make sure you address the individual who sent you the job offer letter properly.
Use traditional business salutations, such as: "Dear Mr./Ms.".

