 Locate the main supply line at the side of your house, or in the basement if you live in a cold climate. If your supply pipe is silver and magnetic, with threaded fittings, it's galvanized steel. Old galvanized pipes often clog with mineral buildup or corrosion, slowing water flow. Replacing these with copper or plastic pipes may solve your problem.
 A small pipe can cause problems if it can't meet your water needs. As a rule of thumb, the supply pipe diameter should be at least ¾" (19mm), or 1" (25mm) if it serves a 3+ bathroom home, while ½" (13 mm) pipes should only serve one or two fixtures.A plumber can give you a more specific recommendation based on your water use.


PEX pipes have especially thick walls, and therefore a smaller inner diameter. If you're replacing a metal pipe with PEX, use a larger size than the original., If you've always had this problem, phone your water supply company and ask for your neighborhood's "static water pressure."If the answer is below 30 psi (2.1 bar / 21 meters of head), the city supply could be the problem.Purchase and install a water pressure booster to address this, or continue tot he next step.



Warning: If you have corroded or clogged pipes, boosting water pressure could damage or break them.Higher supply pressures may still be inadequate for a multi-story house or a house on a hill. 60 psi (4.1 bar / 42 meters of head) should be plenty even in these situations.If your water supply comes from a well or gravity flow system, leave pressure adjustments to a professional., Find a pressure gauge that attaches to a hose bib from a hardware store. Make sure nothing in your home is using the water supply, including ice makers and running toilets. Attach the gauge to the hose bib to read the pressure.If the pressure is lower than the water service claimed, it may be an issue with the water main. Talk to your water service and/or the local water municipality to find out whether you can get them to repair it.
If you can't get the service to repair it, install a water pressure booster.
Water pressure fluctuates along with demand. Try again at a different time of day to get a more accurate sense of the range.

