 Living with MS can be emotionally and mentally challenging. You should try to build yourself a support system that you can rely on when things get tough. This support system should consist of people who will listen to you when you need to discuss whatever is bothering you.Ask a couple of your closest and most trusted friends or family members to be your support. Make sure you choose people who will be understanding of your situation and illness.
Make sure to give support to those in your support system as well. Don't make it all one-sided and negative.
 You may want to seek the services of a mental health professional, like a psychiatrist or therapist. When you meet with a therapist, you can talk about feelings you may not feel comfortable sharing with others. Someone who is trained in dealing with the emotional and mental aspects of MS can help you learn how to deal with any depression or anxiety.You can also learn how to cope with your grief and loss, and learn how to live your life differently.
A mental health professional can prescribe medications for depression or anxiety, if you need it to help get you past this difficult time.
 Support groups can be a great resource when you have MS. At a support group, you can meet others who have MS and connect with them. You can ask questions and learn how others deal with living with the condition. Interacting with the MS community can help you feel more positive and inspired.You can also use the time to talk to others who have the condition. People in a support group may understand more than a family member or friend who does not have MS.
Support groups can help you feel like you aren’t alone. It can help to meet others who live with the condition every day just like you.
 Consider joining a multiple sclerosis organization, such as the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. Through these MS organizations, you can meet others who have MS and be active in spreading awareness and helping raise funding for MS research.Many MS organizations offer volunteer opportunities. Volunteering for a local or national MS foundation can give you a sense of purpose, help you feel like you are making a difference, and offer activities for you to engage in.

