 It’s important for any couple to have open and honest communication, but this is especially true if you have different personalities. Make an effort to understand your partner’s needs and respect them, even if they are different than yours. This can help you understand your partner better and not take things personally.Be honest about how much time you want to spend together, when you want to be close, and when you’d like to be alone, Tell your partner that these preferences help you function better and can help you be a better partner when your needs are met.
Say, “How often do you want people at the house, and how often would you like to spend time with friends each week? Your needs may differ from mine, and it feels important to talk about it.”;
, If you keep finding that an extroverted partner wants to go out while you want to stay in, have a discussion about social limits in the relationship. What is a workable amount of days to go out each week or month?Talk about your social limits within the relationship ahead of time to avoid fights or disappointments. For example, if going to dinner with friends every week sounds overwhelming, then you might agree to join friends twice each month and your partner can join them weekly.
If both partners are extroverts, you may want to have social time separately (like you spending time with your friends and your partner spending time with his or hers) so that you don’t spend all of your time together.
 Extroverts tend to prefer and increase energy by engaging with external things, while introverts tend to prefer and gain energy by engaging with the internal world. Keep this in mind as you move forward in your relationship and do activities together. An extrovert may love having dinner parties, yet, if you’re an introvert, you may feel drained. Make compromises that appeal to both of your needs, such as limiting dinner parties to once a month, or staying for half of the party.Compromise on social engagements and time spent together. An extrovert may want to spend lots of time together, but if you’re an introvert you may want some quiet time or alone time. Find a way to balance both of your needs.
 Extroverts may tend to approach conflict through confrontation and problem-solving while introverts tend to shy away from conflicts. In turn, introverts may feel harassed or nagged while the extrovert may feel like he or she is being stonewalled.If you are an introvert, be willing to engage in conflict with your partner, and realize that your partner likely wants to find a resolution, not argue.


If your partner is quick to discuss issues and it irritates you, ask your partner to thoughtfully consider the issue before immediately bringing it up. Some things are better left unsaid or can be worked out on their own.
Likewise, if you’re both extroverted, don’t bring every little thing to the surface. Count to ten or ask yourself some questions before going to your partner, such as, “Will this help improve our relationship?”

, In addition to understanding your conflict styles, be honest about what conflicts are like for you. If you’re an introvert, let your partner know what sets you off or shuts you down. You can encourage your extroverted partner to give you a nudge to open up or respond back.If you’re introverted, say, “I tend to shut down when you are upset. I know that doesn’t help us solve our problems, so please gently invite me to engage the situation, even if I seem mad and upset.”
If you are both extroverted, you may want to approach conflicts when you are each calm and settled. Don’t let anger flare up and don’t jump into discussions that could be better if you slowed down.
 If both partners are unwilling to compromise and continue to butt heads, this may be a relationship issue. For example, an introvert may retreat as a way to avoid problems in the relationship while the extrovert may spend more time with friends to avoid problems. If you’ve tried to find compromises but your partner won’t budge, consider the longevity of your relationship and how the changes you want will affect it.Talk to your partner about your efforts and how you feel about not finding compromises. Say, “It’s important that we find some degree of resolution about our differences, and I want us to treat each other with respect.”

, If the problems continue to come up despite your best efforts, it may be time to see a therapist.A therapist can help you work through problems and see things more clearly from your partner’s perspective. You may learn new ways to approach or interact with your partner or try new things to understand your partner’s needs better.


Seeing a therapist doesn’t mean your relationship is doomed or that you should be ashamed that you are struggling. It’s brave to ask for help and take steps to improve your relationship.
 Extroverts may have a difficult slowing down their talking, as talking can be a way to process emotions and thoughts. Extroverts also tend to interrupt others or dominate conversations. Take turns talking and listening and try to find a balance. Let your partner talk and express himself or herself without interrupting or derailing the conversation. Then, talk turns back and forth dividing the attention., While an extrovert may want to go to lively places, an introvert may feel overwhelmed with too much stimulation. Find a compromise by going out to a quiet place. That way, the extrovert can enjoy going out while the introvert can enjoy spending time with the person without feeling overwhelmed.Choose a low-key activity such as going for a walk or a hike. Choose quiet places for dinner and go camping somewhere remote.
 If you are an introvert, then having people show up for dinner on short notice might be really stressful for you. You might feel like you need time to prepare yourself and store up energy for the visitors. However, an extrovert is more likely to feel comfortable with people dropping by any time.

To avoid any uncomfortable situations, let your partner know that you need advance notice before people come over. For example, you might request at least a few hours of advance notice before people come over.
 Levels of preferred stimulation vary from extroverts to introverts. An extrovert may enjoy big cities full of things to do, flashing lights, lots of people, and lots of noises. To an introvert, this may be absolute torture and he or she may prefer a quiet, comfortable room to read in instead. If you and your partner clash in your level of stimulation, find some humor instead of frustration.Instead of telling each other to change, recognize that differences exist and approach them lightheartedly.


If one person’s morning routine is rushed and chaotic while the other’s is slow and methodical, don’t say, “Hurry up!” or, “Slow down!” Instead, recognize that you approach the same thing differently and laugh together.
 If you’re an introvert, you may shy away from attention and social situations. Allow yourself to be challenged and open up to your extroverted partner little by little. Be curious to things you’ve never noticed before and open-minded in the way your partner stretches you.If your partner challenges you to explore new things, say yes. Be open to the opportunity to learn something new or have a new experience.

