 At the edge of the diving board, dangle your heels off but keep a firm stand on the board. Push yourself up and down with your feet to get a feel for the spring of the board., This is how you'll prepare your flip. Once you've got a feel for the spring of the diving board, raise your arms above your head. The motion of your flip will be begun by the rotation of your arms backwards, beginning from their position above your head.
 With your back straight and head neutral, start with your arms above your head and rotate them forcefully backward in a full circle. Your arms should finish their rotation where they began, above your head. Continue rocking the board with your feet halfway off., Just as your arms are about to reach their position above your head, bend low (keeping your back straight) to prepare your jump. Be sure to time your coming jump with the spring of the diving board., Once in the air, begin to arch your head and back backwards (away from the diving board). Keep your legs extended and at an angle, pointing towards the diving board. Think of being aerodynamic in these first moments, as you try to gain height from the board.One of the most common mistakes in the jump is an instinct to toss your head backwards and move your hips forward to imitate the coming flip. Avoid this: it may cause you to lose distance between yourself and the board, risking collision.
 Your arms should be above your head; push them back in a forceful semi-circle so that they're close to perpendicular to your torso. Once you've completed the semi-circle, bend your legs quickly and bring your arms down to your legs, grabbing your shins.Once tucked, your back should be parallel to the pool and your head should be facing the side of the pool opposite the diving board. Continue to throw your weight backwards as you rotate.
 Once in a ball, you can just finish your flip by continuing into the water. Once your comfortable with the flip and feel you've got the right height, you can finish by coming out of the ball. At this point, you should see the pool as your continue the flip, the next thing you see being the diving board.


To finish extended, get out of your tuck position once you see board again after your forming into a ball. Try and land your legs at an angle in the water to complete the rotation motion. Have your arms at your side when you enter the water.