 You'll be feeling a twist of emotions now; From confusion, to fear, to anger, and even sorrow. Understand that all parents react differently to having a child with a visual impairment. Never compare yourself to other family members or criticize yourself to others by the way they're feeling. Having distressed emotions is natural and it's okay to feel the way you feel. Consider writing down how you feel in a notebook so you can acknowledge your feelings and understand how you feel at the moment. ;
, Finding out that your child now has a visual disability can be difficult to soak in and understand. Understand that it will take time for both you and your family to understand the fact that your child has a visual impairment. Every family feels adjusted at different paces so it's normal for it take some time to understand, especially if it's your first time having a child with a visual impairment. While you adjust, find out what steps and procedures you can take to make sure your child has a successful future.
 Try to research and learn as much as possible about your child's eye condition. Early intervention teachers and therapists, medical doctors, libraries, the Internet, eye care and low vision specialists, national organizations that serve people with visual impairments, and other families with a child that has a visual disability are good sources you might want to consider from. Ask questions to your child's doctor about your child's eye condition, especially if you're still confused and need a better explanation. Understand that it's normal to ask questions about your child's eye condition and it won't be considered 'silly' or 'weird'. Getting to understand your child's visual impairment will help you cope and accept the diagnosis since you can understand your child better. , This way, you can get tips from people who are like your child, and you can envision what life will be like for them in the future. Meeting other blind/visually impaired people can help you recognize that your family is not alone, and that a happy life is possible for your child.


It's a good idea to introduce your child to other blind/visually impaired children, so they know that they aren't the only one with this disability.
 During this time, getting support from family and friends is important to get the emotional support you need. Coping and accepting a diagnosis from your child is not an easy task. Friends and family members can lift you up when you're down and encourage you to keep going to help support your child.



State the facts. When telling your family or friends about your child's visual disability explain clearly about the eye condition. Explain how it effects your child on how they can see. If you'd like to share more info, you can state what you've been learning so far about raising a child who has a visual impairment. Stating the facts will help your family and friends cope with the diagnosis and connect with both you and your child.

Let your them know what you want. Tell your family and friends what you need from them. You may want them to accept your child for who they are and treat them like any other child. If you would like them to understand how to interact with your visually impaired child, explain to them exactly what they need to do. You might ask them to talk to your child and explain what they're doing (e.g when they try to hug, hold, or pick up your child). Tell them what you don't need. Not all families and friends will be supportive of your child's visual disability. Some will tell you that it was meant to be for you, that you've been the one "chosen," or that they're sorry for your "tragedy." Some might give you advice or 'medical miracles' that you would prefer not to hear. If this is the case, tell them straight up that you'd prefer and like them to be a listening ear rather than an advice-seeker. , Talking to others about the way you feel can be comforting and relieving. Choose a person that you're comfortable around, that is good at validating your feelings, and won't judge you for who you are or the way you feel. A listening ear will be there to understand how you feel, try to bring you back up when you feel down, and even try to help you take the next few steps for both you and your child. , Reach out to other families that are raising or have raised a child with a visual disability. Other families have faced similar challenges as you and can help you find contacts, current medical and educational information, and other useful resources. They can also offer plenty of emotional support, and provide you with lots of suggestions, tips, and sources for you and your child. You can connect with other parents by joining The National Association for Parents of Children with Visual Impairments (NAPVI) which is an organization that helps parents find information, get emotional support, and search for resources to help their children who are blind or visually impaired, including those with additional disabilities. , Professional organizations, university-affiliated hospitals, and national organizations for the blind and visually impaired are good sources to help work and help your child. Consulting with professionals about your child's eye condition can help you cope with the diagnosis can help you get the support you need. , Having a trusted group who can provide you with advice and help will help you and your child. It can be useful to have a group of the following professionals: A pediatrician
A pediatric ophthalmologist or optometrist
A teacher of students with visual impairments
An orientation and mobility specialist
A physical therapist, a speech and language therapist, or a psychologist (depending on your child's needs)

, Maintain all your child's medical records and files and keep them in a safe plan in your home. Maintain all the files of your child's medical condition and school status. You may want to save copies of: Reports from other consultants or specialists
Doctor's reports
Correspondence between you and any educational or medical program that you've contacted
Copies of your child's Individualized Family Service Plan (IFSP) or Individualized Education Program (IEP)
Results of any assessments from your child

, Knowing laws for your child is important and crucial, so you can ensure that your child gets the help and services they need. One of the most important laws in the US are the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Search up and research the laws in your area so you can understand your child's rights.


In the US, you can find the local and state legislators and learn how to reach their neighborhood offices. This can be really useful when you need to contact someone to confirm what your child's rights are under the law. , It's important to take care of your child's needs but that doesn't mean you should put yours aside. Don't forget to take care of yourself and to provide yourself with relaxation. Get a good amount of sleep at night, eat nutritious meals, and continue to do the activities and hobbies you enjoy doing. Yes, taking care of your child is important, but you need to remember to take care of yourself as well without feeling guilty. Stop for a moment and take a break. You may want to take a break for a day, week, or even a couple weeks just to catch your breath. Try to cancel any appointments made and take the time to rest. , It is difficult at times to maintain a positive attitude, but it can help make life better and easier for you and your child. Don't focus on what your child can't do, but instead, concentrate on what they can do. Enjoy your child for who they are and accept them. Provide plenty of love, nurture, and lots of playtime on a daily basis with them. Not only will this help their development but it'll help yours as well. 