 Magic can be hidden in many things, like weapons, armor, and unusual objects like cards or dice.;
, Many objects can be used for many things, but many have a sole purpose. That purpose could be as small as rigging a card game or as big as protecting an entire race., That would allow the players to understand why an object does what it does. Also it would allow the players to know what might the item look and feel like., Usually very powerful items can be destroyed in a certain way, some harder than others. If you cannot think of a way, a very iconic way of destroying something is drowning it in the River Styx., Magic comes in all different sources, and can change an object into a more lethal weapon. The object might be a simple +1 damage to even opening a rift between worlds. You can find inspiration in "Dungeon Master's Guide" (5th Edition) 142-227., You can add simple spells like "Magic Missile" or "Crown of Madness". However, when adding spells that require a saving throw, you must decide what the Difficulty Class the spell is., Most items that have spells use a system called "charges". This means that an item would have a maximum charge that replenishes (Usually every dawn or day). A spell would cost a certain amount of charges to cast. Some times the item might not recharge at all, and you can only cast it a certain amount of time., Determine these as you would determine a player stat (Rolling 4 6-sided dice, dropping the lowest roll and adding up the rest)., As a sentient item, it must be able to communicate. This is up to you either if and object communicates telepathically or verbally., When using these sense make sure it has a maximum vision and hearing range. A sentient object can also have dark vision if you wish., As a sentient object, it must have a moral compass on things., Give it quirky charm and human characteristics. After all, wouldn't want the player tossing this away. However, as like an NPC it has demands as well like blood or loyalty to a race. If the object's demand is not met, there should be consequences., Perhaps it needs the PCs to do something or exclude it from doing something or conflict between wielder and object will arise.