 An MRI machine is a magnetic resonance imaging machine, which uses magnetic fields to create two- and three-dimensional images of parts of a patient's body to help with treatment and diagnosis. An MRI technician is responsible for operating an MRI machine to conduct tests on patients.First off, you will need a great deal of technical knowledge to operate an MRI machine. You need a thorough understanding of how the technology works as you'll be operating the machine and may be responsible for detecting any problems a hospital's MRI machine might display.In addition to technical knowledge, a good MRI technician will also have good people skills. You will have to instruct patients how to position themselves to use the machine and keep patients engaged throughout a scan. Scans can take up to 90 minutes to complete and patients getting MRIs are often nervous or distressed, so good bedside manner is a necessary component to a good MRI technician.The job is physically demanding. You will be on your feet and operating machinery for long hours and also may need to lift and fit patients on the machine if they're mobility impaired. To be an MRI technician, you must be physically fit and be in good health.;
, If you decide MRI technician is the career for you, you need to start preparing early on. In high school, you should focus on math and science and look into programs you might want to apply for after graduation.


In high school, you should take courses in anatomy, biology, physics, mathematics, and chemistry. Try to enroll in AP programs if possible. Taking electives in courses like health and computer science will also look good on a college application.Certifications look great on an application to a college or technical program. Getting certified in CPR is easy to do at the high school level. Classes are usually offered through local colleges and hospitals. See what is available in your area.You can also volunteer, intern, or get a job at a hospital over summers. Any experience in a medical related field looks good on a college application if your ultimate goal is to become an MRI technician., As you reach your last years of high school, you should be looking into the kinds of schools you want to attend.


An MRI technician needs an associate's degree in radiologic technology or a related field in addition to 1 to 2 years studying in an MRI technology certification program. Your school should be accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiological Technology or the Commission on Accreditation of the American Registry of Magnetic Resonance Imaging Technologists.There are a variety of ways to find programs. The websites of the above listed institutions allow you to browse credited schools by state. You can also ask any MRI technicians you may have met while volunteering or interning at a hospital where they got their training.It's a good idea to apply to a variety of schools and see where you are admitted and what kinds of funding and financial aid you're offered at various institutions. You want to keep your options open so you have a lot of schools to choose from once you've graduated.
 Once you've selected and enrolled in a school, you'll begin the first part of your training to become to become an MRI technician.


Courses in your associate's degree will generally consist of science classes, like biology, chemistry, and anatomy, alongside technical skills like medical terminology, patient care, and radiography.Most associate's programs allow time for hands-on skills to be developed. You'll spend some time working in an actual lab getting acquainted with the MRI equipment you'll be using for your career., Make the most of your time in school. You want to make sure you get into a good training program after college and can secure a job later on.


Volunteer at hospitals. Volunteering is a good start as the work can be as consistent as you want depending on your schedule. Volunteering regularly or semi-regularly at a hospital throughout your time in school will help you foster connections with doctors, nurses, technicians, and other hospital staff members you can use later on in the professional world.
Look for internships related to your field. Ask your professors, classmates, and college advisers about where to apply for internships. An internship looks great on a resume and can bolster your chances of securing a job later on. If you make a good impression, the hospital you work for may eventually want to hire you longterm.
Get a job in a hospital. Even an office job, which may seem unrelated, can look good on a resume as it allows you to interact with patients. As bedside manner and social skills are important to becoming an MRI technician, such experience could prove important down the road.
 The American Registry of Radiological Technologists (ARRT) will only certify you as an MRI technician if you complete a 1 to 2 year training program by an accredited institution. The ARRT also requires the program you attend includes classroom training and training in a hospital setting.


You can browse the ARRT's website to find a list of school and you can search by your state and area. You will have to have completed at least your associate's degree before enrolling in an educational program.Training programs are generally run through colleges, community colleges, and hospitals. Prices vary from program to program, but some form of financial aid may be offered. Programs usually last from 1 to 2 years.During your training, you will work in a classroom setting learning about how to operate MRI technology. You will also work in a hospital setting getting hands on experience in your field., Once you have completed your associate's degree and your training program, you are eligible to take the certification exam. If you pass, you will be a registered MRI technician and can begin applying for jobs.


You can schedule your exam date using the AARP's website. You can find a testing center near you and schedule an exam time that works best with your schedule. Depending on your state, there may be a small application fee. If you need to cancel or reschedule an appointment, you may do so 24 hours ahead of time.
You will take the exam on a computer. Children, friends, and family members are not permitted in testing centers. You should arrive 30 minutes early and bring 2 forms of identification, one of which must be a government issued photo ID. Calculators and personal notes are not permitted in the testing room.
Questions are usually multiple choice and scores are based on the total number of correct answers. If you do not know an answer, it's best to guess or pick an answer you're uncertain of rather than leaving a question blank. You will have 4 hours to complete the exam.
While you will see an initial score on screen, this is not a confirmation that you've passed the exam. The AARP will further review your exam and mail you an official report 2 to 3 weeks after you've completed the exam.
 If you fail, a re-application form will be sent with your score. There is a $175 re-application fee. You are allowed to take the exam 3 times within a 3 year period. If you do not pass the exam within this timeframe, you have to undergo training again.
 Once you successfully pass the certification exam, you can begin looking for jobs as an MRI technician.


Create an account on the American Registry of Magnetic Resonance Imaging Technologists website. Login and submit your resume and CV information to their registry. The registry is open to candidates who have passed the certification exam. Work and education information must be entered and updated by individual members.
You can also browse online databases, like monster and indeed.com, to look for jobs in your field.
If you previously interned, worked, or volunteered at a hospital call up old connections and see if anyone is hiring.
Work on your resume. Have a college professor, friend, or co-worker look over your resume for you and offer you pointers on how to improve it.
 Great interview skills are vital to any field. Prepare for interviewing as you begin your job search.


Dress up when you go into an interview in professional attire. Do not wear anything that exposes tattoos or piercings. Go for formal attire. It might be a good idea to invest in some good interview outfits while you're on the job hunt.Always listen during an interview. Nod at what the interviewer says and reiterate some of it when you answer questions.Ask questions at the end of the interview. When someone asks you if you have any questions, never ask something about logistics. Questions like, "When can I expect to hear back?" should be avoided. Instead, ask open ended questions like, "What do you like about working here?" and "What is the company culture like?", ARRT certification requires 24 hours of continuing education every 2 years. Additional training can also lead to more complex and higher paying jobs, like specialists, supervisors and department heads., MRI technicians have the opportunity to specialize in certain areas, like pediatrics, cardiac, or neurological imaging. Advancement means greater job opportunities and higher pay.You may need to further your education if you want to advance your career. Going back to school for a Bachelor of Science degree in the field you're interested in can help. You might also need further training and certification if you want to progress in your field.