 Again, your first step is to locate the source of the urine smell. If you can’t find a wet spot, look for any spots where the wood is discolored.
 Once again, using towels, paper towels, or newspaper, blot up as much of the urine as possible. The stain will be easiest to clean once as much of the urine is removed as possible.


Wipe any excess urine towards the middle of the stain to keep from spreading it out any further and damaging any additional wood., Once you have removed all of the urine, use a damp paper towel to blot the area., After you have blotted the floor with a damp paper towel, sprinkle a generous amount of baking soda over the stained area. Do this while the floor is still damp because baking soda will soak up more effectively if the floor is somewhat wet. Let the baking soda sit on the area for several hours or overnight., Once the baking soda has had a chance to absorb your dog’s urine, vacuum it up. Use only a soft brush attachment to vacuum over hardwood floors. This will not cause any damage to the floor., Next, apply your enzyme-based cleaner to the area, wetting the stained area completely. Choose an enzymatic cleaner that is safe on hardwood floors and follow the directions on the bottle.


First, test the cleaner on a rarely-seen portion of your wood floor, like a closet, to make sure the cleaner will not discolor your flooring., Once the cleaner has been on the spot for the recommended amount of time, blot up any excess with a towel. You should notice that the stain is lighter than it was originally, or it may be gone completely., If the stain was not removed completely the first time, continue to apply your enzymatic cleaner and blot up the excess until the stain is gone. If you are repeating these steps, but the stain is not getting any lighter, you have removed as much of the stain as possible. If you are not happy with this, you may need to consider replacing this part of your floor., As soon as you have removed the urine from your floor, clean your floor with a pet-safe floor cleaner.