 Try to pull the sheet or covers back onto you gently but firmly. A few tugs back toward your side of the bed might suffice. If not, perhaps getting out of bed and lifting up the entire sheet and covers and draping them back over both of you might be all that's needed. If your partner is well asleep, they may simply subconsciously rearrange their sleeping position to cope with the restored covers arrangement.;
, There are several potential downsides to attempting this "gentle shift" of the covers back toward you:

Depending on how they have managed to end up with all the sheet and covers, you might find out that they wrapped themselves in a "burrito wrap". Unfurling this is probably about as easy as unwrapping a mummy, only weightier. Unless you're strong and gentle in just the right balance, this could end up in a tangle, with a grouchy awoken partner alongside you.






You may also find your partner stealing the sheet and covers back after you've shifted them. This can go on repeatedly, ending up in a "gimme back my covers" struggle throughout the night. Hardly conducive to a good night's sleep!







, Discuss the issue with your significant other first and explain what has been happening at night; be kind, as many people don't realize their strength when asleep and cold! Buying flat sheets and covers that are larger than your mattress size is not unusual by any means and is an excellent way around the problem of both bed users wanting to snuggle into lots of the cover. Indeed, bedding suppliers often stock separate flat and fitted sheets, just for this reason, to allow you to fit the mattress correctly but use a larger flat sheet on top.


For example, if you have a queen size bed, purchase a king size flat sheet and duvet/blanket/other bedding covers. All that extra length at the sides turns into separate snuggle zones!

, This solution means that both of you will have your own covers, even if the sheet is hogged. Extra covers ensure you that the other person won't be able to steal the entire amount of warm bedding and you will still have something left to cover yourself with.
 There is an increasing range of ways to secure the sheets and duvet covers on either side of the bed to stop your partner from pulling the covers to their side. There are a number of products available for this purpose, generally with clips on either side of the bed that attach to the covers and are connected by an elastic strap which passes under the mattress or bed frame. Try searching for "cosy cover hugger", "duvet clips", "cosy grips", or even "bed sheet holder" or "sheet fasteners" to find a potential solution. If all else fails, see if you can create your own makeshift bed sheet clips.