 Write down several notes on tiny sheets of paper and roll them into tiny tubes. During the course of the test, remove the eraser from the pencil and retrieve your notes. It may help to bring additional lead to give the illusion that you are replacing the lead in your pencil. Make sure to dispose of the notes in your pocket or in the trash so that no evidence is left behind.
 Write notes on a small strip of paper similar as you would when trying to hide them inside of a mechanical pencil. Roll the paper up and place it loosely in the cap of the pen. During the course of the test, remove the cap as though you are deep in thought and retrieve your notes.


If you pack the notes too tightly into the cap, you’ll have greater trouble retrieving them, which can draw attention to your cheating ways!
Place the note and cap on the butt end of the pen to allow more room for the paper.
Using multiple pens will give you space for more notes.
 Write out any notes or answers to questions ahead of time on small pieces of paper. Place the paper in your pencil case (or other similar cases, such as an eyeglass case). You can retrieve the notes by pretending you need to grab an additional pencil or eraser from your pencil case during the test..


Clear, soft plastic pencil cases, such as those that are zipped closed, allow you to see your notes without needing to open the pencil case. Place the pencil case somewhere on the floor where you can see it easily.
 If you have an eraser that features paper sleeves, remove the sleeve and write your notes on the inside. During the test, remove the sleeve as though you need to use a larger portion of the eraser, and carefully arrange the sleeve so that the answers are visible.Light colored erasers can be written on directly, either with ink or lead. This is a great place to write down simple short answers or facts, as the answers can later be rubbed off.
The eraser sleeve may need to be disassembled to allow easy writing. If this is the case, you can adhere it back on the eraser with a small amount of tape or glue.

