 Continually using polish can sometimes suffocate your nails and lead to a build-up of bacteria, fungus, and deposits. Remove your polish and then allow 2-3 weeks before reapplying. Watch to see if your nails improve. When you do decide to paint your nails again, go with a polish that is fortified with vitamin A and other nutrients.Small, white patches on your nails indicate a keratin build-up, which can be treated by giving your nails a polish break., It may seem counterintuitive, but keeping your nails trimmed can actually help them to grow in strength and length. Use a small pair of nail clippers to shorten your nails. Make sure that you cut to match the natural arch of your nail, not straight across. Then, file your nails in a gentle horizontal motion across the tips. Go slowly and apply even pressure until the nails begin to shorten.Repeat every few days to keep your nails just skimming the edges of your fingertips.
Use the soft side of the nail file to buff the surface of your nails. This can improve blood flow while also creating a surface shine. Apply a nail cream afterwards for even more pay off., Look for a nail-specific cream, serum, or gel. Apply it throughout the day, especially after you wash your hands. At night, rub on a generous portion of the moisturizer and then pull on cotton gloves or socks. The cotton will keep the nails moisturized overnight and will keep the air from drying them out.Washing your hands can dry them out. To protect your skin and nails, keep a bottle of hand lotion next to every sink at home and at work. Apply it whenever you wash your hands.
 In a medium bowl, add together warm water and a four teaspoons of sea salt. Place your hands in the solution and soak for up to ten minutes. Or, place your hands in a bowl or warm milk or olive oil. Apply a moisturizer directly to the nails afterwards to promote even more healing., Get a paper tea bag and cut out a small piece. Apply a clear basecoat to the damaged nail. Place the tiny teabag patch on top of the cut or injured area of the nail. Press it down to remove any bubbles and then wipe on another coat of clear polish. This is a great quick fix for a nail split, but make sure to keep a watch for any signs of infection.Keep the tea bag patch on your nail for only a week or so at a time. If needed, replace the patch with a fresh one.
 With its anti-fungal characteristics, tea tree oil is a great option if your nails are discolored, brittle, or emitting any odor. Apply a few drops of tea tree oil to the damaged nails twice daily. Repeat until the nails begin to improve in appearance.


If you are irritated by tea tree oil, then try applying lemon juice to your nails with a cotton ball. The acid in the juice can help to kill off any fungus.
If your doctor has prescribed an anti-fungal, you should use the medicine instead of at home-remedies. These creams are the most effective way to get rid of a fungal infection.

