 Since you’re with a group, you’ll want to pick something that’s a crowd pleaser. Consult with the people you’re sure you’re inviting, offer suggestions. Don’t be afraid to choose them yourself.
 Try to aim for the place that has the best ratio of seating space to screen size. In the event that you have space and a friend has a big screen or projector you could use, coordinate getting it. Make sure it’s compatible with your computer’s outputs and that you will have adequate sound, as many projectors and computer monitors lack or have weak, low-quality built-in speakers.


Set up an event online. If more people can come than you’ve invited then consider making an event on a social networking site and seeing who can come. You should avoid over inviting for your space and means for entertaining. Try to avoid annoying people with notifications and updates about the event by making your plans clear and firm when you make the event page online.
 If you aren’t providing food or drink, let your guests know in case they want to bring something. Make sure any allergy information or dietary needs are known by other invitees. You will want to do a cupboard-check and shop for anything you might be lacking.


If your night involves alcoholic beverages or other drugs, make sure your guests know about the rules of the space so as to avoid discomfort or strife with anyone you share the space with. Police and angry roommates can ruin a night very quickly and make a lot of people uncomfortable.
Serve easy snacks or premade drinks. Easy snacks include popcorn, hummus and vegetables, and nachos . Saving yourself time and effort will allow you to focus on details and keep the event fun and stress-free. You can avoid long queues of unserved guests and bolster the supply of snacks and drinks by keeping it simple.
Prepare any refreshments so that way they’ll be ready when your guests arrive, though popcorn is quick enough where it’s advisable to make it fresh for anyone who wants it. You can customize popcorn readily to a person’s satisfaction. It is also a good idea to make sure snacks are in a single area and that the area has any necessary utensils, dishes, and napkins.
 Place your seats in an arc around the screen and in rows to encourage a theater like experience. If you have the space and means, consider offering footstools so guests can relax and stretch a bit more than at the theater. Set up the home theater system you plan on using. Make sure the player you’re using has sound and video working when connected to your screen and speakers. Consider theming the space like a theater. The effect can be achieved with row seating, curtains, and movie posters in the space you’re using, and can delight some guests with your flair for decorating. Set up any game materials. A lot of people like to make games out of movie night, like movie quote bingo, movie trivia (before or after the movie), or a drinking game. These games often require printed materials, research, and some effort to assemble, as they are specific to certain movies quite frequently. Don’t underestimate the prep time on these.

