 By writing down the frequency and the content of your dreams, you may be able to recognize patterns. This can in turn help you pinpoint the cause of your troubling dreams, make sense of them, and distance yourself emotionally from them.


Recurring bad dreams often include more threatening content, and so can linger longer, bother us more throughout the day, and of course cause added anxiety as bedtime approaches.Thus, it's all the more important that you try to figure out why they are occurring, and a dream journal can help you with that.
 Most of the content of our dreams tends to be autobiographical: the people in our dreams are mostly people we know and interact with regularly, and most of the things we do in our dreams are drawn from our daily lives.


For example, pregnant women tend to dream more about pregnancy, birth, and childcare, while health care workers tend to dream more about their patients.When you pay attention to the content of your dream, you can begin to understand what your mind is trying to tell you: are you worried about an upcoming event at work? Are you stressed about your relationship?
If you come to realize that your dream is reflecting your stress about an aspect of your life, once you focus on handling that problem your bad dreams may subside.
 Learning about why we dream can be helpful as we try to process our bad dreams and get some perspective. Understanding what our mind is doing while it's dreaming can help us realize that it's a normal process which sometimes results in bad dreams.


Our brain uses the dreaming process to sort through our experiences and emotions, process the information we've taken in throughout the day, and begin to form memories., Our experiences aren't always processed by the brain immediately. It can sometimes take days or even weeks for an experience to work its way into our dreams.Researchers hypothesize that this is a way for our shorter term memories to be incorporated into our longer term memory.


Why should you care about this? If you realize that your bad dream is just a result of your brain processing and sorting this information, you may be able to conclude that your bad dream is just your brain's way of wrapping up the experience.
If this is the case, you may not need to worry about returning to the dream again.
 Some medications can also lead to an increase in bad dreams.If you have just recently begun to experience bad dreams, examine the labels of your medication to see if bad dreams or poor sleep possible side effects.
If they are, you may be able to speak with your physician about changing your prescription. If not, you'll at least know the possible reason and can take steps to manage and recover from your bad dreams.
 Alcohol can also interfere with our sleep and may be responsible for your troubled sleep.Consider cutting out alcohol in the evening (or altogether) to see if your bad dreams decline.
 People who suffer from migraines seem to be more prone to having bad dreams, as are those with sleep apnea and those with clinical depression.If you suspect that your bad dreams are not a result of normal stress, but may instead be the symptom of some underlying physical or emotional problem, it's important that you visit your physician and/or mental health care professional as soon as possible.
 It's very common for people who have suffered a loss or a traumatic event to experience bad dreams and to be affected by them.This can be both emotionally helpful and harmful.


For some people, the dreams about their loss can increase their depression, but others report that the dreams eventually help them come to terms with their loss.
Once you realize that bad dreams are to be expected after a difficult experience, you may rest better knowing that dreams are part of the grieving process. Just as your sadness will eventually fade or become more manageable, so too will your bad (or sad) dreams also become less frequent.
 You shouldn't hesitate to seek professional help if you think that your dreams are prompted by grief, trauma, anxiety or stress.


Your doctor or counselor will ask you how you've been feeling: be sure to discuss how you've been sleeping and what your dreams have been like as you begin to answer this question.

