 You can find a waterproof, cat-friendly sunscreen to prevent sunburn. Use one that has an SPF of 15 or 30. Apply it on areas where the fur is thin, and especially on the extremities of white cats such as the ears and nose.You can buy one at the pet store or ask your vet for a recommendation.


The cat might lick or otherwise ingest the sunscreen that you put on them. For this reason, it is important to only buy a sunscreen made for cats. Sunscreen made for humans may not be safe for your cat to consume.Some baby sunscreens may be safe for cats.Read the ingredients to make sure that the sunscreen does not contain salicylate (such as octyl salicylate) or zinc oxide, as these are toxic to cats.;
, Even if you have a long-haired cat, you should not shave them if they live outdoors. This is because their coat actually gives them protection from the sun. It can even provide some relief from the heat. Trim their long fur instead., Cats typically become sunburned around their nose, ears, lips, groin, and stomach. Their skin below their coat may have turned red or started flaking. They may also be losing hair around the affected area.You may also notice them scratching the area of the burn.If you think that the cat is sunburned, move them to a shaded area, and apply cool compresses to soothe their skin.


If the burn appears severe, you should contact a vet.
Once a cat has been sunburned, they are more vulnerable in the future to sun damage. You may want to consider providing extra protection to the cat or moving them indoors.
If you find dark tumors, skin lesions, or eruptions around the cat’s face, they may have squamous cell carcinoma. This is the most common form of skin cancer in cats. Take the cat to a vet. If caught early, it can be treated. If left untreated, it can be deadly., Certain cats are at higher risk of sun damage. While some cats will be fine without any protection in the sun, others need special precautions to prevent heat stroke, skin cancer, and sunburn.


Cats with light-colored or thin coats and hairless cats are at higher risk of sunburn and skin cancer. The head is the most vulnerable area, especially the area around the nose, ears, temples, and eyes.If you live in a sunny, hot, or tropical area, your cat might be at higher risk of sunburn and heatstroke.
If the cat has a scar from surgery, an autoimmune disease, or a parasite, they are more susceptible to sun damage.