 Women often dance around a topic or express themselves in more subtle ways than men. Men, by comparison, are more likely to state their thoughts directly and promptly. Share whatever is on your mind in an unambiguous way. Don’t drop hints about a problem or issue. Be direct and say exactly what you’re thinking and feeling.Be honest with yourself as well as your partner. If you are interested in taking your relationship to the next level, let your partner know. Alternately, if you want to keep things casual, make sure you and your partner are on the same page.
Men tend to speak less in private than in public. Try to build rapport with others by doing things rather than talking about things.
 Men are better than women at envisioning and remembering objects or new spaces. This is because male brains have a thinner parietal region (the area of the brain that processes visual information).Crafting a model, building a Lego kit, or playing a sport like soccer will help you think more spatially.You could also try drawing a map of a place you are familiar with.
 Men and women both worry, but women are more likely to continue worrying long after men have stopped. To think like a man, let go of small relationship issues, family matters, or troubles at the work place that you cannot solve.To worry less, set aside a designated time for your worries. Cut back on your internet surfing and try to get more exercise. You might also to find something that requires active engagement to distract you, like reading a book or painting a picture., While people like to feel desired, it's also good for them to know that their partner can care for themselves. Men are reared to act and think independently.Demonstrating that you can take care of yourself at work and in your social life will boost your self-confidence and let others know you are a capable, independent person.


Financial security can go a long way to feeling independent and living an independent life. Women are often expected to provide only a supplementary income and focus on children while their male partner acts as primary breadwinner.Create a solid financial foundation for yourself to build an independent life.
 If your first instinct is to yell, weep, or storm out in a huff – don’t. Count patiently to ten and try to come at the conversation or problem a different way. Women have more brain circuitry devoted to expressing and remembering emotions, so tamping down on the emotional instinct is an important step to thinking like a man., Touch can express feelings in ways words often can’t. Compared with women, men have more twice as much brain space allotted to sexual thoughts.Physical affection is a good way to make your intentions clear and show you love your partner.
 Women tend to fixate on and recall small moments that men do not. Things like fights, offhand comments, or potential slights go unnoticed or quickly forgotten by men. Try not to obsess over negative experiences, and be willing to let things go., Women are surrounded with pervasive messages that they need to look perfect. Men are not bombarded with the same kind of pressure to conform to a superficial standard of beauty, and tend to have better body image as a result.To think more like a man, learn to accept your appearance or body. Don’t fret over your imperfections.


Stand in front of the mirror with your feet apart and declare to yourself "I’m awesome.” Do this every day until you believe it.

