 Whether you’re struggling with bad memories or feeling frustrated with how your therapy is going, exercise can calm your mind and lift your mood. Working out forces you to focus on your body, which calms you down by resetting your nervous system. Exercise also makes you feel good by triggering the release of endorphins in your body.For maximum benefit, exercise outside. Spending time in nature can help you cope with your symptoms. Walking, running, and biking are a few simple outdoor workouts.
 Make sure you’re giving yourself adequate time to sleep every night, at least 7 to 9 hours per night. If you have a hard time falling asleep, create a bedtime routine that will help you relax, such as meditating or reading a book. Getting up and going to bed at the same time every day can also help you sleep better.Stop using electronics like your phone or tablet at least an hour before you go to bed. The light emitted by these devices can trick your brain into thinking it’s daytime.
 A good diet doesn’t just benefit your body – it also helps your brain adapt more quickly, which can make recovery easier. Choose whole, unprocessed foods that will keep your blood sugar even and give your brain a steady supply of energy.Eating plenty of omega-3 fats may also help balance your mood. Flax seeds and fish oil are good sources of omega-3.
 Devote a few minutes every day to writing down your thoughts and feelings. Journaling can help you process your emotions about your trauma as well as other events in your life. Writing regularly also gives you the opportunity to look back and reflect on your progress.If you want to ensure that no one reads your journal, consider using a private blog or a password-protected document on your computer.
Be aware that journaling may stir up uncomfortable feelings related to your trauma.
 Focusing on the present moment helps you avoid worrying about the future or dwelling on the past. When you find yourself mentally reliving your trauma, take a deep breath. Shift your awareness to your surroundings and the sensations you feel in your body. With practice, this technique can help you control flashbacks and lower your stress levels.Try to shift your focus to the sensations you are feeling in a non-judgmental way. You may want to try doing yoga or meditation to help you release these feelings.
 Many people are critical of themselves when something bad happens. Instead, it is important to show yourself the same love and kindness that you would show to a friend or family member. Practice saying kind, understanding things to yourself whenever you are feeling frustrated. This can have a calming effect on your autonomic nervous system and make you feel better overall., Using drugs or alcohol might help you avoid your thoughts and memories temporarily, but this behavior could lead to addiction, health problems, and increased stress down the road. Though it may be unpleasant, it is important to allow yourself to feel the emotions related to your PTSD. Numbing yourself and avoiding your problems will also prevent you from ever truly healing from your PTSD.