 Face masks and clays can be effective in drawing out the oil from the skin, but there is also a danger that overuse will result in excess dryness and irritation. Be wary of this when you use masks, and try to concentrate them on the areas of your skin that are the oiliest. Don’t use masks or clays too frequently. Instead only use them ahead of a special occasion, such as a party or big presentation at work.You can look for masks especially designed for oily skin.
Be prepared to try out a few to see which one works best for you.
 If your skin gets oily throughout the day it can be upsetting, and constantly washing your face is likely to only make it worse. You can, however, use simple blotting pads to remove excess oil from the surface of your skin. This is a good way to remove the oily shine during the day, which you can do subtly and quickly no matter where you are or what you’re doing.There are a number of over-the-counter blotting pad products you can buy that will help remove shine during the day.
You can also just use a tissue or some toilet paper.
Be sure to be gentle with your skin, and don’t scrub at it.
 Astringent toners are quite commonly included in skincare regimens, but you should be wary of using one that is drying or harsh on your skin. Drying the skin with a strong toner is not the way to tackle oily skin, and will only make the situation worse. If you do want to use a toner, make sure you stick to a light alcohol-free and oil-free one.


Only apply it to the oiliest areas of your skin.
If you find that you are getting dry patches of skin, stop using the astringent.
Remember that most people’s skin is a combination of dry and oily, so you should adapt your approach for the different areas of your skin., Make an appointment to talk to your doctor or dermatologist if you are sticking to a good skincare routine, but you find that the oiliness does not diminish. They will be able to advise you on what further steps you can take, and may even prescribe you some medication.


The choice of therapy should be individualized, depending on the severity and type of skin problems, as well as tolerance and other factors. Your doctor can help specifically tailor your skincare routine to your skin type.
Remember that oil production is perfectly natural and normal.
If the situation is upsetting you, ask for some professional help.