 It has been rumored, though remains scientifically unconfirmed, that massaging your breasts daily helps stimulate blood flow to the breasts and allows natural hormones taken in your diet to reach breast tissue more effectively. In turn, your breasts grow., A 15-year French study recently reported results that bras cause women’s breasts to sag over time. Researchers found that going braless increased the elasticity of the breasts making them perkier. This study goes against previous reports that bras support women’s breasts and fight sagging.However, keep in mind that this study only applies to women ages 18 to 35 who have never worn a bra before.


The study found that women who never wore bras had nipples on average seven millimeters higher (relative to their shoulders) than women who wore bras regularly., Consult a local health food nearby or a naturopath about taking natural female health supplements and herbs. These should help your breasts appear fuller and more-filled out. Try to stick to natural products, though.Marshmallow root, for example, is one natural herb that can help, apparently, breast growth. Be sure to consult your physician, though, as this particular herb can interfere with other medications you may be on.
Keep in mind that there is no evidence to support herbs helping with breast growth.
 Birth control pills contain hormones - most importantly estrogen - that will affect breast size. Hormones should, however, be considered a last resort.There are several reasons to start taking birth control pills in addition to decreasing the risk of pregnancy. The hormones in birth control pills can regulate your period, make periods less painful, and reduce the symptoms of PMS.
If you are a teenager who has not yet used birth control pills, then talk to your parents and doctor about monitoring your hormone levels.Note, however, that weight gain should not be the only reason you opt to start taking the birth control pill. It is a form of medication and will have other side-effects on your body, so think carefully about taking it.
 If you want your breasts to look bigger but don't really want to try any of the other suggestions, try wearing a padded bra or other stuffing inside your bra. Your breasts will appear larger but won't actually be any larger.Even standing up straight and keeping good posture will make your breasts look bigger.
 If you are currently going through puberty, there are several clues to help you predict whether your breasts will grow naturally.


Look at your mother and grandmothers’ breast sizes. If most women in your family have larger breasts, they are likely to get bigger as you go through puberty.Examine at your breasts in the mirror. Notice whether the areolas, the area around the nipples, "stick out" a little, meaning they look like little mounds on top of your breasts. If they do, then your breasts are still in their growth phase.Keep in mind that you may not reach your full breast size until you are in your late teens or even in your early 20s.