 Because prospective buyers aren't able to see the dress in person, you'll want to include as detailed a description as possible. Make sure to include the designer, size, and original price, and describe the style, including any embellishments, such as pearls, sequins, or beading.If you’re having trouble coming up with a description, try to find the designer’s description to help you along.
Certain keywords can help draw a prospective buyer's attention. Words like "Plus-Size," "Vintage," or "Lace" should go in the listing's title, along with the designer's name. For example, you might write "Plus-Size Short Sleeve Vera Wang Wedding Dress With Lace Details" or "Vintage Alfred Angelo Wedding Dress With Pearl Beading Size 8."
Prospective buyers will want to know if the dress is exactly as the designer intended, so be sure to mention any alterations that have been made and whether they can be reversed or not.
 It’s probably the most widely known e-commerce website, so you may already have experience with the company. While they don’t specialize in wedding dresses, they do sell 1000 to 2000 a week, so there’s definitely a market. Keep in mind that eBay charges listing and sales fees, so you won’t receive the full price that you sell the dress for.Make sure to include photos of the dress in your listing to catch the eye of potential buyers.
You can sell your dress on eBay via an auction style listing that allows interested parties to bid on it, which can sometimes help drive up the price. You don’t have to worry about losing it for a price that you don’t think is fair, though -- you can set a reserve price that must be met before the sale goes through.
eBay also allows you to sell items with the “Buy It Now” feature, so you can set a specific price. If you are determined to get a certain amount for your dress, that’s usually the best way to go.
 It’s a good option if you don’t want to deal with shipping your dress off to a buyer because the site is divided by locations. That allows you to sell the dress to someone in your area, and arrange an in-person pickup. There are also no fees to sell items on Craigslist, so you can expect to keep the entire sale price.Just as with eBay, make sure to include photos in your Craigslist ad. Buyers don’t want to take your word that the dress is in good condition. They want to see what it looks like with their own eyes.
Most of the shoppers on Craigslist are hunting for bargains, so keep that in mind when you price the dress.
 These days, there are a variety of companies, including PreownedWeddingDresses.com, StillWhite.com, NearlyNewlywed.com, OnceWed.com, and Tradesy.com, that are dedicated to reselling bridal items. Each site has different requirements for their listings and charge different fees, so you should do some research to find the best fit for your needs.While you’ll want to include detailed specs and photos of the dress as you would on other online commerce sites, you may also want to include a photo of the dress at your wedding on a bridal-focused site. It’ll give prospective buyers an idea of what it looks like “in action.”

