 Combine an equal amount of mineral or coconut oil with baking soda. Mix thoroughly with a spoon. The mixture should have the consistency of a paste when you are done., Microfiber cloth is ideal for sanitizing surfaces. Apply the mixture to a microfiber cloth. Use enough solution to cover one section of the cloth. Wash off and reapply as necessary when the rag becomes overly dirty.
 Rub with a circular motion. Clean until no dirt remains., Rub down the handrail with a new, clean, dry microfiber cloth. Continue until it has picked up all the moisture., If you have any serious rough spots or blemishes in the wood, consider using a sanding sponge. Start at the top of the rail and sand your way down, always rubbing parallel to the gain of the wood.A sanding sponge is flexible so it will conform to the shape of your rail. One side will be rough, allowing you to rub the surface and scrub out imperfections.
 To preserve the wood, use a three-inch wide foam brush to apply a polyurethane varnish to the surface. Dunk the brush into the varnish and then run the brush along the surface, applying a light layer. Do not apply so much that the varnish clumps up or runs., After about 8 hours the polyurethane should dry. Use 180-grit sand paper to lightly sand the handrail. Use a dry rag to clean dust off the rail., Begin by wiping the handrail with a clean cloth to pick up dust. Alternatively, you can attach and use a dusting tool on your vacuum., If any rust has accumulated on the wrought iron, rub down problem spots with steel wool. Scrub roughly until all of the rust has been picked up., Use a mild cleaner, either an all-purpose cleaner or a combination of baking soda and water. Rub down the whole handrail.For a baking soda solution, mix 4 tablespoons of baking soda with a quart of water.
 Use a new, clean cloth to wipe down the handrail. Be sure to pick up all moisture and soap from the surface., Use a soft cloth to spread liquid car wax over the iron. This will protect it from the elements and help prevent the formation of rust., Use an all-purpose cleaner to rub all parts of the handrail. Be extra careful to get to the hard to reach underside of the rail., For hard to pick up spots, use a plastic scouring pad that is non-abrasive. Apply EHC handrail cleaner to it and spot clean the tough stains., If the handrail is not moving, there are parts that you will not be able to reach. You will need to rotate it to reach all parts of it.