 In general, the darker the better for work appropriate denim. Go for darker shades, like blacks or dark blues, over light blue shades of denim. Darker colors can often pass for work pants or suits, keeping your look comfortable but professional., Denim is a very versatile fabric. Denim outfits range from the very casual to the very professional. When selecting denim outfits, remember the dress code at your office that's already in place. Select denim clothing that is otherwise work appropriate.


Straight cut jeans are generally a good option. Many denim jeans come as flared jeans, which may not look professional in an office setting.If you want something like a denim dress, wrap dress are generally your best bet. They are professional for most settings and do come in denim., Remember, denim is a very versatile fabric that is used in a lot of different outfits. When going through your denim collection, think about how you dress on the weekend. Avoid any items that are part of your regular weekend rotation. Light, torn denim jeans, for example, are probably not the most work appropriate option., Denim clothing is often appropriate for a variety of different settings. When picking out your denims for work, select items that can pass for both professional and casual.If you're wearing denim pants, for example, opt for dark, stretchy denims. These can look like work pants or even suit pants. If, say, your CEO stops in, you can throw a blazer over a button down shirt and greet the CEO in denim.
Pick items that are easy to accessorize with. Part of what makes denim work appropriate is that you can accessorize with more professional wardrobe pieces. Select denim items that are somewhat played down, as you can pair these with more professional attire.
 A blazer can make any denim wardrobe shine. You can throw a professional blazer over a denim dress. You can also pair denim jeans with a button down top or blouse and a blazer.Select a blazer that would be otherwise work appropriate. A blazer that's too casual does not look professional when paired with denim.
 A button-down shirt is almost always work professional. If you opt for denim jeans, or a denim skirt, a button-up shirt will make your look professional while allowing you to embrace denim.Make sure your shirt is work professional. Stick to neutral, business-like colors.
You can add a tie to your shirt for extra professionalism.
If you're not into button down, a business appropriate blouse can also work.
 Do not neglect footwear when assembling an outfit with denim. Black boots or denim boots pair well with denim, as do conventional dress shoes.High-heeled shoes can go well with something like a denim dress for a professional-looking outfit., A nice sweater can look good with denim jeans or a denim skirt. Something like a turtleneck sweater can look very professional, even if denim is a major part of your wardrobe.As with any other item in your wardrobe, make sure the sweater itself is professional-looking. Keep your office's dress code in mind when selecting a sweater to pair with denim.
 If you're wearing a printed top with something like denim jeans, like a printed sweater, a cardigan can add some professionalism to the outfit. A plain colored cardigan can easily be thrown over a variety of tops to give your denim clothing a more work-friendly feel.If you're wearing a top that's not printed, however, you may want to add a cardigan with a pattern. This can add a little excitement to your outfit while keeping it work professional.
 If you wear ties, they can usually be worn with denim. A denim blazer can be paired with a tie. A tie can be added to a button down shirt worn with denim pants. Just because you're wearing denim does not mean you have to neglect a tie if it's part of your usual work outfit., Denim may not be appropriate for every office. Some offices have very strict dress codes and do not consider denim to be appropriate for the workplace. Before assembling a denim outfit for work, check your offices dress code to make sure it's okay.
 Some denim items are sold faded or worn looking. Unless you have a very casual office, this is generally not appropriate. Avoid things like faded or torn denim jeans when selecting denim for work.However, such items may be okay for days like casual Fridays. Check your office's dress code if you have a pair of faded jeans you want to wear on casual Fridays at your office.
 Denim clothing fades fast. If you have denim items you want to wear to work regularly, do not wash them too often. When possible, have denim items dry cleaned.