 It’s the third from the final quest of the Thieves Guild storyline. After completing the “Trinity Restored” quest (where you become one of the “Nightingales” of the guild), travel to Irkngthand and talk to Karliah.


To get to Irkngthand, travel to Windhelm (the easternmost city on the map) and exit the city through its western gates. Travel west off the road for a few miles until you come across a river.
Cross the river and continue for a few more miles, which will lead you to an old abandoned dwarven ruins. This is Irkngthand.;
, Enter the ruins through the front entrance. Once you are inside, turn right and follow the path across three more rooms to find Karliah and Brynjolf. Speak with Karliah, and she will tell you that you need to stop a man named Mercer Frey from taking the “Eyes.”

, Continue to the next room and you’ll eventually spot the man you’re looking for. A short cut scene will play. Once the cut scene is through, follow wherever Mercer went until he leads you to the last room of the ruins.
 Once you enter the last room of the ruins, a short cut scene will play again showing Mercer taking some gem off the face of an elf statue. After taking the gems, he will make a short speech and he will then use the “Invisibility” spell and vanish.


By this stage of the game, you should already have learned the “Detect Life” spell, which allows you to see the life force of other characters. Open your Spell list form the in-game menu and choose “Detect Life” to reveal where Mercer Frey is.
If you somehow manage to make it this far without learning Detect Life, you can just simply buy a “Scroll of Detect Life” (which has the same effect as the spell) from any mage merchants in any city in Skyrim before you go to Irkngthand. Open your item inventory, and choose the “Scroll of Detect Life” to use it and reveal Mercer Frey.
 After revealing where he is, attack Mercer with whatever weapon or spell you frequently use to fight enemies until he dies. After he’s dead, approach his body and press the “Search” button on your controller to retrieve the Eyes of the Falmer from his body.
 The chamber will start filling up with water right after you get the eyes. When the water goes high enough, a rock will fall off the head of the elf statue where Mercer removed the gems, revealing a path. Follow this path that leads to a cave, which leads to the outside world.
 Speak with Karliah once you’re outside again to mark the quest of retrieving the Eyes of the Falmer as completed.

