 Take a walk through several cemeteries to get an idea of the shapes, sizes, materials, and designs available. Use this to develop a rough idea of what kind of headstone you want.


Try taking photos that you can show to the cemetery, funeral home, or monument dealer.
 Selecting, purchasing, and installing a headstone can be expensive. Knowing what your budget is before you visit a monument dealer, funeral home, or cemetery can cut back on unneeded stress and help you make a decision you feel good about.The average cost of a tombstone is between $1500 and $2000.Did your loved one set aside money for funeral expenses? If so, determine what part of this fund can be used toward purchasing a headstone.
 Headstones can be purchased from cemeteries, funeral homes, monument dealers, and the internet. Take time to explore your options and make sure the supplier has headstones that meet your guidelines. Cemeteries tend to have the highest prices, followed by monument dealers and funeral homes. Internet dealers can be more budget friendly.Talk to friends and family to get referrals for headstone suppliers in your area. Ask about the company's dependability and integrity.
If shopping on the internet for a headstone, be sure to carefully read all customer reviews.
 Headstones come in a variety of types and styles including upright, flat, and kerbed. An upright headstone is a popular, yet traditional design and is usually made from granite, marble, or limestone. A flat headstone is usually made of granite or bronze.


If you are seeking a more personalized expression in a headstone, try a kerbed headstone.
 The material out of which a headstone is crafted affects its longevity and durability. It also contributes to the overall aesthetics of the headstone.


Choose granite for overall adaptability and price as it comes in many colors and is generally on the lower end of the price scale.
Avoid limestone if you are concerned about weathering over time, as this will affect the readability of the stone’s inscriptions.
 The finish you choose for the headstone will affect its durability and appearance over time. Some cemeteries forbid polished headstones because of their reflectiveness, but partially polished, honed, and pitched headstones are all good choices for long term durability.Try a honed finish to give depth to a tombstone with three or more colors.
For a rustic look, go for a pitched finish. Created with a hammer and bolster, headstones with pitched finished often appear in older cemeteries.

