 Locate the trip planner on the upper left-hand side of the Maryland Area Regional Commuter (MARC) site. Enter your starting address in the top field and your destination in the bottom field. Below that, choose the date and time that you need to arrive or depart by. Click “Get Directions.” A personalized Google map will be generated for you., Navigate to the center of the MARC homepage. Look for the Camden or Penn line. (The trip planner will tell you which line you should take.) Each line will be in bold font followed by links to its timetable. Click the printable version for easy printing or saving to your mobile device as a PDF.


Note that only the Penn line offers weekend service. You can choose to download a full timetable or one tailored just for the week or weekend.
 Navigate to the fares page. Click the link for either the Penn line chart or the Camden line chart. Find your starting station in the “Departure Stations” column. Locate Washington, DC in the horizontal list of “Arrival Stations” at the top of the chart. Your fare will be listed in the box corresponding to your starting point.For example, if you’re traveling on the Penn Line from BWI Airport, your fare will be $7.00.
 MARC accepts cash and all major credit cards. You can buy your ticket through many convenient methods. Purchase online or by phone (410-697-2212 / TDD: 800-828-1120) to have your tickets mailed to you.Other options include:


On board the train from a conductor. Note that conductors accept only cash.
An Amtrak vending machine
A ticket agent at select stations
A commuter store, Avoid bringing large bags, which are barred during rush hour. Place carry-on luggage in designated areas. If you have a bicycle, you can only bring one that folds and store it in the designated area.


Penn line trains have designated bike cars available only on the weekend. This is the only time you may bring a non-collapsible bike.
Strollers and other baby carriages are not allowed on board., Small pets may be brought on board in their carriers. Keep them with you for the duration of the trip. Larger animals are allowed only if they’re service animals., You may sit wherever you like. Safety rules mandate that you don’t sit on stairs or stand in vestibules. If seats are available, you’re not allowed to stand in the aisles. Unless you need to use the restroom, remain in your seat until you arrive at your destination.
 The MARC station is located below the historic Union Station. After disembarking, follow the signage to your intended exit or transfer. From here, you can transfer to the DC Metro (bus or rail service). You may buy rail tickets from designated vending machines.


Visit the Metro website for more information.