 Use a shovel to dig into the soil, and grab a handful of it. See what the soil seems to be made up of. It might be sandy or have a lot of clay, or it may be good rich dirt. Soil with too much sand or clay will not usually grow garden plants very well.


The soil should feel fluffy, like it is full of air, because this means it gets plenty of oxygen.
This is also a good time to see if there are lots of worms and insects in the soil, as this usually means the soil is fairly rich.
Depending on what the soil is like in your area, you can add soil amendments later to get it to the proper makeup.
Generally, dark brown or nearly black soil is best because it tends to mean the soil has a lot of decomposing organic matter and is rich in nutrients. Pale brown or nearly yellow soil tends to be less nutrient rich.
You can get a better understanding of the makeup of your soil by taking samples from several places. Place the samples in a mason jar and mix them together. When the soil settles, you'll be able to better see the soil's makeup.;
, For the best results, take a sample of the soil to a garden store or county extension office so they can test it to see what nutrients are lacking, and see what the pH level is. You can also buy a home test kit, but this will not be quite as thorough.Ideal pH for most vegetable plants is around 6.0-7.5.Adding lime is a common way to adjust the pH of soil, but it is a long process that take about six months to fully take effect in the soil.
You can make up for other lacking nutrients with fertilizer and compost, which will be discussed more later.
 When you are first starting a garden, especially if you’re starting it at the beginning of Spring, you need to wait until the soil has dried out enough. If you squeeze a handful of the soil and it stays packed together, it’s probably still too wet.You can perform this test once a week or so until the soil is dry enough to begin garden preparation.
Soil that has a high clay content will pack more, but this does not necessarily mean the soil is too wet.

