 Hoarseness is a relatively common symptom of LPR. Hoarseness and related symptoms occur because your stomach contents reflux up into your larynx (voice box). This irritates your throat and larynx, resulting in a loss of voice.You might have a weak or shaky voice. For instance, your voice may sound lower than normal.
You might also experience a lumpy feeling in your throat.;
, A sore throat is the most common symptom of LPR. Ultimately, like with hoarseness, your throat becomes sore because it is irritated by the reflux of your stomach contents. Your sore throat may be accompanied by:Problems swallowing
A persistent cough

, Your reflux may be exacerbated by consumption of particular foods. After consuming these foods, you’ll likely exhibit common symptoms of LPR. Some foods that might produce a negative reaction are:Spicy and fatty foods. This could include foods with pepper or fried foods.
Alcohol. Even a small amount of alcohol, like one glass of red wine, may aggravate your LPR.
Caffeinated beverages like tea, coffee, or soda.
Chocolate.
 Many people who suffer LPR notice serious reflux when they lay down. This is because lying down allows your stomach contents to move up into your esophagus. This may be a problem if:You feel as if you are throwing up when you lay down.
You experience common symptoms, like sore throat, after a long period of sleep.
 LPR has many similarities to another condition, gastroesophageal reflux, or GERD. The notable difference is that GERD causes heartburn, which feels like a burning in your chest behind your breastbone. If you are experiencing the above signs and symptoms and also experience heartburn, then you likely have GERD and not LPR., As with other conditions, certain groups are at higher risk for developing reflux. While certain factors do not necessary cause reflux, they are associated with it. Some factors include:Old age — people over the age of 50 are at a higher risk of developing LPR
Being overweight — talk to your doctor about steps you can take to reach or maintain a healthy weight
Having a diet that is high in fatty or greasy foods
Excess stress

, Your doctor will be able to evaluate your symptoms and conditions and help you arrive at a proper diagnosis. If necessary, your doctor can refer you to an otorhinolaryngologist or ENT (ear, nose, and throat doctor) to help accurately determine if you have LPR or another condition.
 When meeting with your doctor, they will ask you to describe your symptoms. Make sure to describe them in full and to explain anything you think is relevant. Often people can be diagnosed based on a description of symptoms alone.Answer questions with as much detail as you can. For example, if you feel your stomach contents moving up your throat, explain how it feels. Say “when I lay down, it feels as if food is moving up my throat back into my mouth.”
List all your symptoms. If you have a cough and sore throat, tell your doctor.
Be proactive and ask them questions if you have any.
 A laryngoscopy is a procedure your doctor may perform so they can see the inside of your upper digestive tract. This will help them determine if you have LPR. Note that it is very unlikely this procedure will be necessary, as most cases of LPR can be diagnosed by your description of symptoms.


The doctor will use a small camera called a laryngoscope.
They may perform a biopsy if they find any abnormal tissue in your upper digestive track.
 If the upper endoscopy does not provide enough information to complete a diagnosis, your physician might run a barium swallow test to see how substances move through your digestive system. This is very unlikely, and your doctor will determine if this is a necessary step.They will ask you to drink a liquid containing barium, which is easily tracked by X-ray tests. The doctor will take X-rays to see where the barium has traveled in your digestive system.
The barium swallow test is often used if a physician is unable to navigate the endoscope in your upper digestive tract.
 Smoking aggravates LPR because it irritates your esophagus and increases the amount of acid in your stomach. By quitting smoking, you'll take an important step to controlling your LPR.Plan to quit smoking in the very near future. For example, enroll in a plan or club like Smokers Anonymous.
Consult your doctor about the safety of nicotine patches.
 A healthy diet may decrease the severity of your reflux. This is because a healthy diet will improve your digestive health and limit the production of stomach acid. Focus on:Foods high in fiber
Fresh vegetables
Fresh fruits
Lean meats, like chicken or fish

, Obesity is associated with LPR because it undermines the body's ability to digest food efficiently. Thus, by losing weight you can decrease the severity of your LPR.Talk to your doctor about a healthy weight target.
Try to track the severity of your LPR over time as it relates to your weight. You may notice that the more you weigh, the worse your LPR.
 People with GERD or LPR often have stomach valves or esophageal sphincters that don't function as they should. As a result, food backs up out of the stomach when they lay down.Put an extra pillow or two under your head when you sleep.
Sleep reclining in a chair, if possible.
Use a bed that elevates or can be adjusted instead of a normal coil mattress.
 Under rare circumstances, your doctor will recommend surgery to treat your LPR. This occurs only when other treatments -- such as diet change and medications — have not been effective.Your doctor will recommend surgery if your LPR is causing other medical problems or threatening your overall health.
During surgery for LPR, your surgeon will try to tighten the valve that connects the stomach and esophagus.
Your doctor may or may not try to implant a medical device to help tighten your valve.
 LPR is a digestive condition that allows food and stomach material to move out of the stomach into the esophagus, throat, and even your nasal cavity. The movement of this material upward is called “reflux.”LRP commonly occurs in people who have gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). GERD is also referred to as “heartburn” — a “burning” feeling that occurs in the chest after eating.
If untreated, LRP could develop into cancer of the esophagus or voice box.

