 Since oils are already quite watery and apply well to skin dry, you don't necessarily have to wet your skin. Water might even repel oil from your skin since oils don't mix well with water. Instead, you can wet a wash cloth with hot water and place it over your skin to open up your hair follicles and soften your skin.


It's best shave 10 to 15 minutes after you've been in the bath or shower. The water and heat helps to soften your skin and open up your hair follicles for a better, closer shave.
You can also exfoliate your skin before shaving using exfoliating scrubs, a wash cloth or a loofah.
 Shaving can be made easier if you trim your hair before shaving. It won't clog up your razor when you're shaving and you will use less product in the end.
 Be generous and thorough when rubbing oil into your skin. There are many types of oil that can be used to shave. The oil acts as a lubricant to help glide your razor across your skin while also moisturizing your skin. Some oils you can use are:



Coconut oil: It can come as liquid or as a solid. Simply rub the coconut oil between your fingers or hands to melt the solid coconut oil and apply it to your skin. Coconut oil is very moisturizing, safe to use and keep on your skin, and has anti-fungal and antibacterial properties to help protect sensitive skin.

Olive oil: Olive oil is known for its many health benefits. For skin in particular, it's studied to play a protective role against skin cancer development.Baby oil: Baby oil has no odor and often contains aloe vera extract which helps with inflammation and soothing skin irritations.
 As you shave, be sure to rinse your razor often to get rid of excess oil and hairs.


Always shave with the grain. If you shave against the grain, you risk pulling hairs off your skin harshly and getting your razor's blades stuck on your hairs.
Shave slowly in sensitive or curved areas such as your neck, under your nose, armpit, genital area, the curve of your ankles and under your knee.
Razors with multiple blades will shave closer to the skin. Choose the best razor for your skin type.
 If you have particularly sensitive skin or you're shaving in a sensitive area such as your genital region, it's best to remove oil residue from your skin. However, you can always leave the excess on to work as moisturizer, rubbing it into you skin once again.

