 Your feet should be a shoulder width apart. Make a fist with your left hand and pull your left arm into your body. The left fist should be at hip level with the knuckles facing up.


This is called the draw back position.Keep your draw back arm very close to your body.
Your elbow should be facing straight out behind you.
 It should be even with your right shoulder. Open your right hand, so that your fingers are fully extended and your palm is facing the floor.Your torso should remain straight and facing forward.


Your head should not move.
Keep your eyes fixed on something in front of you.
Your left arm should still be in the draw back position.
 As you do so, make a fist and begin to slowly rotate your hand 180 degrees to the right. While you are pulling back your right hand into the draw back position, simultaneously start pushing out with your left hand to make the punch.


Keep your left knuckles facing down, palms up.Keep both wrists and arms as straight as possible.
 As you slide your left arm forward and simultaneously pull your right arm back, they should meet in the middle, lining up side by side. When your arms become parallel, they will both have palms facing up. Your right arm should have rotated the full 180 degrees at that point.


The knuckles of both fists should be facing the floor.Keep your arms in close to your body.
Every time you slide an arm out of the draw back position, your forearm should brush lightly against your torso.
 Extend all the way and then snap your wrist to the right so that the palm side is down. By the time your left hand is in the punch position, your right fist should simultaneously be at the draw back position at your hip. Your right knuckles will be facing the floor, palms up.That was your first straight punch.
The punch should follow a straight line. Keep your upper arm and the tip of your fist perfectly level.
When you practice the punch, there should be no bends in your wrist or arm.
 Now your right hand is at your hip in the draw back position and your left is extended in a punch. Just like before, you will push the hand at your hip straight out into the punch while simultaneously pulling your left hand into draw back position.Don't forget to twist your wrists.
When your arm is extended in a punch, fists should be knuckles up.
When your arm is in the draw back position, fists should be knuckles down.

