 Probate is generally filed in the Circuit Court in the decedent’s county of residence.It may also be in the county where he or she owned real property or real estate. For property in multiple states, administrations may also need to take place in those states.
 The personal representative of the estate should file the probate petition with the court. The will should have named the personal representative.


If for some reason the person nominated in the will is not qualified to serve, then Florida law provides that a person selected by a majority of those in interest of the decedent’s heirs. If that person is not qualified, then any devisee under the will may serve., If you find yourself serving as the personal representative, you must begin by finding the appropriate County Clerk’s office. Visit the County Clerk directory.
 If your Clerk does not provide all of the forms or instruction you need, check the Clerk of a surrounding county’s website for information. You may use forms for one county in another by changing the name of the county on the form.
 Follow all instructions.


If you have questions while filling out the forms, ask the Clerk for help.
Also consult an attorney if the Clerk cannot assist you. Your local bar association may have information on low cost legal help programs in your area.
 Find out how many copies of each form they need. A filing fee will also apply, so ask about the accepted forms of payment., Make the correct number of copies of each form. Make one extra copy for yourself. Take them, along with your filing fee, to the Clerk’s Office. Ask the Clerk for help filing your pleadings.


Always get a form stamped as “filed” along with the date. This is your proof that you filed a particular document on a particular day.
 Check with the Clerk to see if the court takes care of mailing the notices. Mail them yourself if not.
 As the personal representative, you will be responsible for safeguarding the estate’s assets, objecting to improper claims and defending the estate in lawsuits, filing and paying taxes, safeguarding assets, and publishing a notice to creditors.These tasks are complicated.


According to Rule 5.030 of the Florida Probate Rules, a personal representative is required to have an attorney unless he is the sole beneficiary.The attorney is paid out of the assets of the estate.