 Using a tape measure and notepad, record the length and width of the room, including the dimensions of each wall if the space is not rectangular. Measure the width of each doorway or other entrance to the room, as well as the distance each door extends into the room when open.


If you do not have a tape measure, use a ruler to measure your foot from heel to toe, then walk heel-to-toe along each wall, multiplying the number of foot lengths by the measurement of your foot.Measuring your ordinary stride length and walking normally will provide a quick but less accurate number.
If you plan to use the wall space for items such as large paintings or a wall-mounted television, measure the height of the ceiling as well.
You do not need to measure the length of a door that opens away from the room.
 If you are arranging existing furniture, measure the width, length, and height of each one, or the length of each side for non-rectangular furniture such as corner sofas. Record this information carefully so you don't get the height confused another dimension.


If you plan to purchase new furniture, read Selecting New Furniture, then return to this section.
 Refer to your measurements to create a map of your living room. Use your measurements to make it proportional: if the room's measurement is 40 x 80 (in any unit), you could make your map 40 squares by 80 squares, or 20 x 40, or 10 x 20. Choose the largest scale that will fit on your graph paper.


Include a semicircle for each door that opens into the room, showing how much room it takes up as it opens.
The easiest useful scale to remember is 1 graph paper square = 1 foot, or 1 square = 0.5 meters if you are used to the metric system.
Write your scale (e.g. "1 square = 1 foot") outside your map on the same sheet of paper so you don't forget it.
If your room has a wall that isn't at right angles, draw the two walls that connect to it, mark the two points where that angled wall hits the other two, then draw a straight line between them.
If your room has a curved wall, you may need to sketch in a rough estimate of its shape after mapping its end points.
 Refer back to your earlier measurements and cut out two dimensional outlines of your furniture. Use the same scale you chose for your graph paper map.


If you are considering buying new furniture, play around with paper models of different sizes and shapes to try out a variety of possibilities.
If you'd like a rough idea of color scheme, cut each one out of fabric similar to that piece of furniture's appearance, or color the paper with markers.
Represent wall hangings, flat screen televisions, or fireplaces with rectangles 0.5 to 1 square wide placed over the wall of the map.
 Remember not to block the path of the doors. For each arrangement that you like, plan out how people would walk across the room through each pair of doorways, as well as how they would reach the couch, bookcase, or other functional furniture items. Make adjustments or reduce to smaller or fewer furniture items if these routes seem circuitous or narrow.


People typically require 3–4 ft (1–1.2m) for a comfortable walkway.

