 As always, expect one type of produce to have different requirements than others. Research each type that you plan to store to find out if pieces can be layered side by side as is or if each piece should have a protective covering. For example, onions can be placed side by side without any barriers, but apples should each be wrapped in newspaper., Again, anticipate each type of produce to need a different style of container for safe storage. Find out the recommended container for each type that you’re storing. For instance:Onions need air circulation, so netted bags are preferred over a solid plastic container.
Dried beans need the exact opposite and should be kept in airtight containers.Tomatoes that are still on the vine, meanwhile, can be hung as is without any containers.
 If you’ve chosen produce that requires high humidity, but you aren’t confident about your root cellar maintaining that humidity consistently, use sawdust or sand as filler in a solid container. Drip water over the surface periodically. This way, the filler absorbs the water and carries it to the produce. Items that benefit from this include root crops like beets and carrots., Be aware that some types of produce should not be kept in close proximity with other certain types. Read up on each type of produce to be included in your root cellar to learn if one should be stored well away from the rest. Consider apples and broccoli, for instance:Apples should be stored in cardboard containers or wooden apple crates, neither of which are airtight. Broccoli meanwhile needs to be stored in perforated plastic bags, which also allows air circulation.
This is a problem because apples emit ethylene gas, which accelerates spoilage in broccoli. Since both containers allow gas to pass through them, apples and broccoli should be kept far apart from each other.
 Remember: cold air descends, while hot air rises. Consider the recommended temperatures for each type of produce. Store those that the need the lowest temperatures on the floor. Stack those that require higher temperatures either on top of those or on shelves., As you package and arrange your produce, keep each one's shelf life in mind. Remember that some produce may only last a matter of weeks, while others will last for a year. To make things easier on yourself, don't bury the more time-sensitive goods underneath the others. Keep them easily accessible since you'll be using these very soon.