 Buy a roll of thick, plastic sheeting that is between 6 and 12 feet (1.83 and 3.66 meters) wide and 100 feet (30.48 meters) long. You can cut the plastic down shorter, if you want to, but don't make it narrower.


Get thick plastic, around 6-mil. Don't skimp and get the cheap stuff—it will' tear.
 It would be better if you unroll the plastic sheeting on a hill, even if it is a short one. The slight incline will help give you more speed on the way down.


Smooth out any wrinkles or ripples with your hands.
 They need to be right on top of the plastic, a few inches/centimeters away from the edge. Keep the pool noodles 6 to 10 feet (1.83 to 3.05 meters) apart.You will need noodles along both of the long edges.


Pool noodles are long, colorful tubes made from foam. You can find them in many stores during the summer.
 Start with a pool noodle at the beginning of your slide. Roll the plastic around the noodle twice. Hold the pool noodle steady or have someone do it for you.If you don't have landscape anchor pins, place the pool noodle 1 foot (30.48centimeters) from the edge of the plastic sheeting., Hold the noodle in place, then drive a landscape anchor pin through it. You will need a pin at both ends of the noodle. Be sure to drive the pin straight down through the plastic and the noodle, right into the lawn.For extra security, add one in the middle as well.


If you don't have landscape pins, fold the edge of the plastic over the pool noodle, and secure it with duct tape or packaging tape., The noodles will help create a barrier. Not only will they prevent you from going outside the edges of the slide, but they will help keep the water in the slide as well. If you want to, you can add a pool noodle at the end of the slide as well to act as a buffer.
 You can use dish soap, if you like, but baby soap would be even better. Run the soap down the middle of the slide. This will help lubricate the plastic and make it even more slippery., Grab a hose and turn the water on. Spray the water onto the slide. You need just enough water to make it wet. Do not fill the slide like a mini pool.

