 Hummingbirds are energetic, territorial birds. They are among the easiest birds to attract to your home. To encourage hummingbirds to visit your home, they need sunlight and shade, perching areas, nectar and insects. Native plants and shrubbery are a key to attracting hummingbirds, so learn which plants to add to your garden.;
, Native plants which hummingbirds appreciate in the wild are most appealing and offer sanctuaries. Certain businesses can landscape your garden with native plants and shrubbery, but they aren't cheap. Hummingbirds need shelter to look for predators or potential mates. Native plants provide shelter as well as their own nectar sources, reducing the cost of buying nectar.
 Nectar plants and insects are hummingbirds' favorite food sources. Contrary to the popular belief that hummingbirds live on nectar, hummingbirds need nutrient-packed insects and spiders to fuel themselves. Providing native plants will provide native insects and arachnids as well as nectar. You can decide which kinds of plants hummingbirds like by observing them in the wild or in your garden. Sometimes just providing an insect populated plant will be enough to attract hummingbirds. Perhaps they may enjoy the nectar of the exotic plant that you bought more than the native plant.
 Perching areas are important. Native plants can easily provide a perch which hummingbirds are accustomed to using in their natural habitat. They can preen, scout, and impress on their perches.
 Sunlight is a major factor in attracting hummingbirds. Hummingbirds have tiny, colored reflectors on the barbules of selected feathers, which produce a dazzling color when reflecting sunlight. A dark feeding area may be rejected, as there is no sunlight to reflect off a hummingbird's feathers, rendering it difficult for the males to find a mate. Bright areas allow hummingbirds to show off their dazzling colors, giving them better opportunities to impress mates.
 Most likely, you will have only one resident hummingbird because hummingbirds are extremely territorial, and will not allow others into their feeding grounds. Don't be discouraged if they do not discover your backyard right away.
 If you have suspect the parents have abandoned their babies or eggs, watch the nest from a safe distance, so as to not discourage the parents from returning, for about 30 minutes or more. Hummingbirds have a very high metabolism, so they must eat consistently to fuel their bodies, especially when incubating the eggs. They may be foraging more often when babies are present. One of the worst mistakes anyone makes is to directly pick up the birds, eggs, or to detach the nest, to "help" these abandoned creatures.
 Such signs can be key to figuring out what's wrong. A distressed parent may be mourning over the loss of a baby or egg, or may spot a predator. If the hummingbirds are not eating, there could be a simple fever, or mites could be plaguing the nest. Avoiding the nest can be interpreted as signaling that a predator is near. The hummingbirds may feel threatened.
 Depending on the birds' age, it may be suitable to put them in a soft cloth in a box (as dark reduces stress). Most likely, the birds will be too young, and you will have to delicately remove the nest from its placing, and put the nest in a dark, room-temperature box (some people go over the top trying to keep the birds warm, or cool and end up killing the birds). If you have enough training, "nuking" the nest rids it of mites, but do not attempt this unless experienced. Eggs should also be kept in the nest, but hummingbird eggs are unbelievably fragile, so don't directly manhandle them. Birds should also be handled with extreme care.
 Explain what you have done for the birds or eggs, and depending on preferences, you may have to drive to the Rescue. Drive carefully, because smashing the eggs or killing the birds would not be a great way to end this.
 Approach the bird slowly, so as to not distress it any more (it is possible for a bird to die from stress). Gently pick the bird up. These birds are so fragile that picking them up as you would a ball would crush it, or rupture an air sac. Place the bird on your hand, to make sure it is not injured more. Do not attempt to wash the bird; the air sacs will rupture if not treated correctly.
 If the bird enters a state of torpor, quickly make sugar water, and attempt to feed it with an eye dropper.


Sugar water is one cup sugar for every four cups water.
 Tell them what you have done, to alert them of what they must do. Depending on preferences, you may have to drive the bird to the Rescue, so drive carefully.

