 They come with a word processor, spreadsheet, a presenter (akin to PowerPoint), an illustrator, and a database manager. Alternatively, if you only need a word processor and spreadsheet application, AbiWord is a fast and lightweight word processor and Gnumeric is its counterpart spreadsheet program. LibreOffice comes installed on many Linux distributions.



 ;
, It works on Windows. Another e-mail client to consider is Mozilla Thunderbird.






Mozilla Lightning and Sunbird provide shared calendars, and Evolution, also available for Windows, is a "groupware" application that works with Novell GroupWise and some versions of Microsoft Exchange Server.
 Firefox is a free, cross-platform web browser that offers greater privacy and prevents pop-ups, spyware and viruses. It is also customizable to large degrees. Google's Chrome browser renders pages very fast, though it includes some proprietary (non-open-source) components. Try out Chromium, which is an open-source version of Chrome.
, It is available for Windows as well as Unix-like systems. There are many GIMP tutorials available on the Web; wikiHow has a category devoted to this.
,,, You don't need to know any HTML, PHP, or any other language to manage your own websites. There are plenty of free themes and add-ons available on the Web for these, too.
, It works on Windows, Unix and Linux.
 This is one area in which open source still has not beaten the proprietary software world. Nevertheless, there are still some excellent and fun projects out there. Sauerbraten is an incredibly fast-paced, fun and compact first person shooter (and AssaultCube is a genetically-related, slower-paced version with more "realistic" weapons), and Freeciv is an empire-building strategy game. Nexuiz is a big download, but also a great first-person shooter. BZFlag, a multi-player tank game, is one of the most downloaded games on SourceForge.net with a very active community.
 These days, it is a very viable alternative to Windows and runs on almost all hardware out there, including obsolete hardware on which current versions of Windows will run poorly or not at all. There are also the various open source BSD projects. Also, Google's Android smartphone and tablet operating system is, and its upcoming Chrome operating system will be, open source.





