 When you bring a dog into your home, it can be overwhelming. Try to make a space that's just for the dog. It's a good idea to pick an area where the dog can't do much damage if it forgets its house training, as dogs tend to do in new environments. An area with easy-to-clean floors is a good idea.Keep in mind that your dog may become accustomed to sleeping in that area, so pick a place you don't mind your dog living in permanently.;
, Once you've decided on an area, it's a good idea to make it dog proof. That means you need to remove any chemicals or plants that could be toxic to your dog. In addition, tape down cords so that your new dog can't chew or pull up the cords. Finally, remove any items that the dog could break and injure itself on, as well as any items you don't want destroyed., When a dog is in a new environment, it will want a safe place to retreat to when it feels overwhelmed. A dog bed is a good example, but a crate can be even better, as your dog will view that as its "home" within your home.However, it is important to use the crate for training purposes only. Do not just get a crate and leave your dog in it. Your dog should only be in the crate for short lengths of time.


Get a large enough crate. A crate gives your dog a safe space to call its own. However, it needs to be large enough to accommodate your dog. Your dog should be able to stand up, sit comfortably, and lay down. Otherwise, the dog may find the crate uncomfortable.Never use a crate for punishment. If you put your dog into the crate as a punishment, then this defeats the purpose and your dog will no longer feel safe going into the crate.
Do not leave your dog in the crate for more than a few hours. You should never leave your dog in the crate overnight or for extended periods of time because this can cause them to feel anxious and depressed due to a lack of exercise and interaction., You'll need the obvious items, like food and water bowls, food, a leash, and a collar. You'll also need things like an ID tag for the dog (with your information on it), brushes and shampoos (to groom the dog), and an enzymatic cleaner (to clean up after the dog).If possible, talk to the previous owner or shelter about what food the dog was on. It's best to keep the dog on it, at least for a little while.