 It is important not to do all your projects at once, because it will be chaotic for the company and you are paying all your variable costs at once. Assigning 1 person to lead the outsourced project and doing things slowly will result in fewer mistakes and risks.
 The person who leads the project should be aware of the cost when choosing a contractor. Keep aside a portion of the overall budget for employee training and materials, if necessary.
 There are an increasing number of contractors or freelancers in the workforce today, so the rule of supply and demand is on the small business' side. Many people work from home, so they have fewer overhead costs and can charge affordable prices.


Post an ad online. Use Craigslist, Angie's List, Simply Hired, Indeed or another website to post your contract job. You will get many responses, so be sure to keep the application time between 2 weeks to 1 month. Instead of writing "Depends on Experience (DOE)" in your salary section, ask the contractor to bid on the proposal. Choose someone with experience that fits within your budget.
Get recommendations from other businesses. Many small businesses are already outsourcing. If you like the look of someone's marketing, graphic design or another portion of their business, ask if they are using a contractor. Recommendations are the best way to find experienced people quickly. You can go to the contractor directly and ask for a quote or offer a job.
Look online for a service. A simple Internet search will list dozens, if not hundreds, of providers. Ask for a quote, a demo and ask to speak to people who currently use their product. If you are outsourcing something that you plan to use throughout the year, such as IT, web hosting or customer service, make sure there is a satisfaction guarantee, so that you can get out of a contract if you are not happy.
 Have your project leader communicate regularly about progress by email, Skype, phone and/or in person. In most cases, they will be happy to work with you and adjust their schedules if there are problems.


Advocate an on-time delivery of the contract. If the contractor is providing a product, such as a website, press release, or brand, make sure you stick to a schedule. Allowing a contractor to operate without a time limit is a costly mistake.
 This is often the case with websites or IT. Make sure a few people in the company know how to use the information or product that has been provided, so that you aren't relying on 1 person or the freelancer, if an issue arises.
 Launch your next freelance project after the last 1 is completed. Once you have the process in place, you can begin scheduling freelance projects on a yearly timeline, according to what your business can afford.

