 French people take pride in how they look, and they take pride in how they dress. You won’t see them dressing down for comfort outside the home.


For example, don’t wear yoga pants or hoodies to go to the coffee shop or grocery store. Pay attention to your dress at all times when outside the house.
Take pride in what you’re wearing even for mundane activities and on typical days. It’s about an attitude. Even in casual wear, a Parisian is more likely to toss on a blazer (over a T-shirt) than wear a hooded sweatshirt.
Carry yourself with confidence, and walk with your head held high and your posture straight, knowing that you’re dressed well and will command respect as a result.
 Parisians are not afraid to keep and show small physical imperfections, even though their clothing is impeccable. They are all about natural beauty.


Don’t worry if your nose is a bit big or your teeth crooked. For example, Vanessa Paradis is considered one of the world’s great French beauties, and she has never fixed the prominent gaps in her teeth.
Along those same lines, don’t pluck your eyebrows too much or augment your lips with fillers. Try not to have more than two colors in your hair.
The key to the entire style is to augment your natural beauty subtly and to do so in a way that doesn’t look like you are trying too hard.
 For French women, it’s about working with what they naturally have, not changing who they are or their overall look. French women eat what they want, but they exercise portion control and are known for their slim physiques.


They take great care of their hair and skin. French women grow bored by indoor workouts. They are not into the American workout regimen. You won’t see many of them in the gym.
Instead, drink a lot of water. A key to beautiful skin is to drink water all day long. Mineral water spray can also spruce up the skin. The hair, skin, and body are the base for the overall Parisian style. Take care of your skin using cleanser, gel cream, and cleansing milk suitable for your skin type, oily, combination, normal, dry etc..Eat organic food with little sugar. This will keep weight in check, but it also is good for your skin. What you put into your body will dictate whether your hair shines and your skin glows, not what you slather on or into it.
 French women know that to make a statement, you need a signature scent. They are well aware of the power of smell and use it to create sex appeal.


They will leave the house with a touch of perfume that they apply lightly, and they usually stick to a scent once they discover it.
Dab perfume on the hair, behind the ear, on the back of your neck. Try to choose a scent that is not too overpowering and that you wear consistently.
Chanel No. 5 is, of course, one of the most famous French perfumes. French women like perfume that is vanilla based or has a floral smell. They use it as a signature, and it helps form an identity.
 In Paris, less is more. French women aren’t going to leave the house with too much bling. French men won’t be seen with gaudy gold necklaces.


Before you leave home, try to remove one accessory. Don’t overload the look with too many pieces of jewelry, statement handbags, etc. Do try to have one accessory per outfit (belt, bracelet, etc.)
French women keep their nails clean and sometimes wear polish. The French manicure is not really worn in Paris. Pedicures are important, though. French women will wear polish in neutral colors or even use clear gloss and won't be seen in neon.
Instead, think of accessories from the standpoint of one great piece. Dramatic red lipstick might be your only needed accessory! It was fashion icon Coco Chanel who said you should remove one accessory before leaving the house.
 Great style in Paris is about how you put together the look and the quality of the clothes and fit. It’s not about the name brand.


Avoid the American temptation to flaunt labels on everything from handbags to blue jeans. That's considered tacky in Paris.That doesn’t mean the French don’t have some iconic brands. They do. Think Louis Vuitton. It’s just that flaunting logos is not the key to Parisian style.
Parisian style is about high quality clothing with great seams, classic lines and colors. It’s about achieving a vibe and look.

