 Add the contents of the yeast sachet to a small bowl and combine with the sugar. Add the warm soy milk gradually, stirring to assist the combining of the ingredients. The yeast will form small bubbles. It is very important that the water is warm and not hot.;
, Make a well in the centre of the bowl and add the yeast mixture.
 Mix well to combine the ingredients evenly.
 If the dough is too dry, add a little more soy milk or warm water; if it is too wet, even out with a little more flour. As the mixture stiffens, you may find it is easier to mix with clean hands.
 Knead for 10 minutes.
, Put it in a warm place to allow it to double in size. Provided there are no cool breezes, placing the bowl near a warm oven works well; a pantry is also often a good choice, or the top outside area of a fridge (fridges give off a lot of heat through the top). Keep an eye on the doubling process - it will take 1 - 2 hours.



Pour the sifted flour into a medium bowl. Add the margarine and rub into the flour quickly, using your fingertips only.
Add water gradually. Judge the consistency of the mixture as you rub it; you only need enough water to bind it and create a dough.
Roll out the cross dough thinly. Cut into evenly sized strips. These will be combined on top of each bun in a cross shape.
 Punch it down and turn it out onto the floured workspace. Knead again for 5 minutes.
 Roll into a ball and place onto a baking tray. The buns should be left aside in a warm place to rise. Cover with a clean tea towel (turn the one used earlier over and reuse) and leave for half an hour.
 Cook over low heat until the sugar dissolves, stirring constantly.
, After the buns have risen, remove the tea towel and glaze each bun using a pastry brush. Place the dough strips across the top of each bun in the shape of a cross. Use the glaze to keep the cross in place and tidy each cross as you go.
 Cook for 20 minutes or until golden brown. Watch the crosses to avoid having them turn brown.
 Hot cross buns are scrumptious if served warm from the oven. Otherwise, these hot cross buns can be served toasted/grilled, warmed in the microwave or served cold if preferred. Suitable toppings include margarine, jam, marmalade or sweet chocolate spreads. If you have vegetarian or non-veggie friends sharing the buns, you might also include butter as a spread.

