 Perform a book fold to begin. The best type of paper to use is an ordinary 8 ½ in (21.5 cm) by 11 in (28 cm) sheet of printer, or A4 paper.Smooth out the crease after you’ve folded the paper to make it stronger, and make the folds easier to align.
Unfold the paper after you crease it so the you now have a piece of paper with a vertical valley crease.;
, You want to fold you paper into the center to create triangles that meet along the middle crease.









Run your fingers along the outer edges of the triangles to reinforce the folds with a crease.
Make sure that your two smaller, folded triangles come to a point at the top, forming one larger triangle.
 Turn the paper over so that the triangles are facing down. Then fold the triangle you have just formed back.









Fold the triangle back over its flat bottom edge. The triangle should now be pointing downward.
The paper will now be more in the shape of a square.
Position the point to stay inline with the center crease, which is now in a mountain fold., You will now repeat your initial corner folds on top of the two triangular folds you already have in place.









This will create two thicker triangles that meet along the middle crease.
Underneath you should see your original folded triangles creased to form two downward facing triangles at the edges, and two triangles facing outward (both forming a diamond) in the center.
 From the tips of the three triangles you now have folded over, comprising of the the one in the center, and the two on either side, create three small triangular folds. These folds will help secure the wings of the plane.









The size of the folds should be small. You want to make them equilateral triangles with sides about half an inch long.
 Fold the paper in half in a mountain fold along the original crease. The triangular folds you have just made should be on the outside.









If you fold it the wrong way, the triangles will be facing each other inside the fold.
You should now begin to see the base of your jet airplane forming. The triangle folds forming the bottom, and the wing tips of your paper plane.
 Take the diagonal part of the paper and fold it downward until it lines up straight with the bottom edge of the paper.









If you hold your paper with the nose of the paper jet pointing down, the fold should resemble something of an ice cream cone.
 Fold an identical wing on the other side of the paper. Repeat the fold you made for the first wing, aligning the bottom of the fold to the bottom, straight edge of your paper.









Before you crease your fold, make sure that it is not only aligned to the bottom edge of your plane, but that the tip in the back aligns with the one from your first wing. By making sure they are even you’ll get a consistent flight.
 Grip the thick part of the paper below the wings and fan out your wings. Now you can throw your plane in the air and watch it fly. Throw it parallel to the ground or in an upward arc. Don't throw it toward the ground or straight up as it won't stay in the air for very long.









Pinch the paper jet towards the front, near the nose.
Your plane will have three parts, the base of your jet which is formed by the initial crease, and on either side, two flaps with two triangles pointing upwards followed by wings at the top. You can choose to hold the two flaps between your fingers when you throw your jet, or fan them out. You may find one method works better than the other.

