 Haruhi is always studying. See How to Get Straight "A"s. She has a lot of common sense. Try to study and work hard in school, be sensible and do what you think is the right thing. But Haruhi works hard in other things besides school, like housework. Try to work hard in both areas.;
, This and hard work go hand-in-hand in Haruhi's personality--she is the kind of girl who does things for herself. You can try to get things done by yourself such as cleaning your bedroom, doing your homework, cooking, or cleaning. This will show responsibility and independence.
 Haruhi can easily understand how somebody feels. By not being rich, Haruhi is more down to earth than the other members of the Host Club. You can try to be more understanding by listening to others, try to picture yourself in their shoes, understanding situations, and seeing how somebody is feeling.
 Haruhi is very informed, and she sometimes looks down on Tamaki, who is not. Don't rely on watered-down soundbites from 24 hour news channels and Comedy Central as your source of information on what's happening in the world.


Haruhi isn't materialistic. She's really not girly in any way, she tries to save her money any way she can, like getting freebies from the store. Work hard for your money and save it.
Haruhi is more mature than other girls her age, mostly because her mother died when she was young. Haruhi had to grow up faster and be more independent. Try to be more mature.
 Pick up the clothes on your floor. Wash your dishes after using. Don't reuse the week old socks. Walk the dog. Feed the dog. Study. Get a job. Look for ways to show that you're responsible.
 If Haruhi's voice was too high pitched, then she would have been immediately been recognized as a girl. If it was too deep, she might not ever been discovered as not being a boy. Meaning: you can't sound too high pitched or too deep. Test your voice change. If it sounds like a girl's, then make it deeper, but if it sounds like a boy's, make it higher. Practice and soon you'll get the hang of it.
(optional) You should be completely flat. A sports bra may work if you are very small, but for anyone over an AA it won't work. You will need some sort of binder. If you are about an A or a very small B you can use Under Armour, which is intended for men who are athletes. You should be able to find their compression vests in a sports store. For anyone above that, you'll need a binder. Underworks, Mango and T-Kingdom make these.
 (optional) Try using hoodies, vests and button down shirts.
 Haruhi is more of a tomboy than a girly-girl. Although Haruhi mostly wears mens clothing, she can wear girls clothes around people who know her true gender. Try purchasing baggy clothes that don't show off your figure too much. For example; baggy jeans or cargo pants/shorts, a long sleeve white t-shirt and sneakers. Don't wear make-up and make sure any hair accessories you wear are pretty plain-looking.
 Preferably in shades of grey, blue, black and red.
 What other people think of you is not anything to be extremely concerned about. Many people may assume that constantly worrying over others' opinions on themselves and trying to make everyone like them more is the key to seeming superior, but it is not. You do not want that image.
 One thing Haruhi is really good at is complimenting other girls. Now Haruhi actually looked like a boy, so don't flirt, just compliment. Don't feel pressure to say something because some girls are just plain mean. If you're friends with her or don't know her, then she's a pretty good candidate.

