
Check that the cooling device is at least 5cm (2 inches) away from the wall, and that the air can circulate well.
Increase the inner temperature of the cooling devices. 7째C (45째F) is enough for the fridge and -18째C (0째F) is enough for the freezer.
Keep the cooling devices tidy; label the items in the freezer, so that you can get to the food as quick as possible. It's not working efficiently whenever the door is open so standing there with the door wide open digging for the cholchlate-fudge sundaes isn't a good idea.
Fill unused space with padding such as polystyrene, newspaper or just a blanket.
Keep the doors of these devices closed.
Check the sealing gasket of the cooling devices: Put a switched on torch (or flashlight) in the fridge and close the door. Can you see the light? Check if the sealing gasket is damaged, and buy a new one if necessary.
Act energy efficient. Let food cool down before you put it in a cooling device and slowly defrost food from frozen food in the fridge.
Defrost the freezer if there's a layer of ice.

Paint your rooms in a bright color. More light is reflected by brighter walls and so you need less light to make your room bright.
Replace regular light bulbs with compact fluorescent bulbs. It is economical to replace a light bulb if it burns for more than half an hour a day. Use high quality L.E.D. - Light Emitting Diode (Best type) or C.F.L - compact fluorescent bulbs.
Don't use ceiling floodlights, unless they are L.E.D. types.
Install and use dimmer switches at less than full brightness for incandescent lamps and other types (CFL, LED, etc.) that are specifically labeled as suitable for use with a dimmer.
 Use pots with a diameter that is as small as possible. Put these pots only on hobs that fit to them or are smaller. Try to use a pressure cooker if you're cooking for a considerable time. Check that the bottom of the pot is even. Keep the pots closed as long as possible. Without a lid you'll loose about 2/3 of the energy.
Reduce the amount of water you use while cooking.
Turn the stove off 5 minutes before you reach the cooking time.
Choose a gas stove, if practical, or an induction cooker if you buy a new stove.
Boil water with an electric kettle instead of the stove.

Bake with circulating air.
Use the oven several times if it's already hot.
Keep the oven's door closed as long as possible.
If the oven has already reached the final temperature turn it off 10 minutes before the food is ready.
Use a toaster or the microwave if possible instead of the oven.

Make the devices as full as possible.
Reduce the water temperature and use energy and/or water saving modes.
 You need 3 times more energy per degree to cool a room than to heat a room.


Ventilate during the night or early in the morning in order to store the coolness for the day.
Keep the coolness in the house during the day. Close the shutters and keep your windows and doors closed.
Use a fan instead of an air conditioner.
 While electric heat is the most efficient, it is often the most costly. If you use another energy source (natural gas, propane or heating oil) you can save money on electricity.
 Dry your wet clothes on a laundry line. If you are unable to follow this step because you don't have access to a clothesline, fill the dryer reasonably full, but not so full that air cannot circulate, and use the mode "iron-dry".
 Modern PCs can be set up to enter energy saving modes from both the BIOS settings page and directly from the Windows Operating system. Enable "Sleep" and "Hybrid Sleep" for desktops and "Hibernation" for notebook PCs running Windows.
 You will want to have these on hand so you can see how much you are saving.
 LED and CFL bulbs use a lot less electricity and last a long time, several times longer than incandescent bulbs. They do cost more than regular bulbs so you probably don't want to change them all at once. The high purchase price is compensated by their long life and low energy consumption. Your local utility may offer reduced price or even free CFLs from time to time. Check with them before purchasing. See warnings for important information on fluorescent light bulbs and their safe disposal.
 A 100 watt light bulb used 6 hours per day will cost in excess of $25 per year (.12 / kWh rate). If you can get by with a 40 watt light bulb, that cost will be about $10. Imagine if you did that to every light bulb in the house.
 Use the above costs to determine how much you can save. Remember to count the total number of bulbs as many light fixtures will have 2 or more light bulbs.
 You can easily waste hundreds of dollars a year leaving these on when not being used.
 Most homes have programmable thermostats and if you don't have one, it would be well worth it to buy one. There is no reason to heat or cool your house when everybody is at work or school. Many homes are empty for 8 or more hours a day and there is no reason to have the house at the same temperature that you want it when you are home.
 You can get a tube of caulk for a couple dollars. If you seal up all those cracks around the windows that let the outside air in, you can realize substantial savings.
 Cold water can be used for laundry, washing hands, dishes and almost all other everyday uses.


Taking a very short shower isn't really hard to do. First, flip up the tub lever so that it will hold water. Then, turn the shower on warm and wet down for about 5 - 10 seconds. Turn water off. There will now be a small puddle in the tub. Use a bath brush or washcloth to lather up by using the puddle of water in the tub. When lathered up good, shampoo hair last. Doing this last prevents the shampoo from dripping down into your eyes while you're lathering up. Then, flip the tub lever so the water can drain out and then turn the shower on warm for about 15 - 20 seconds to rinse off. All done! You have now saved water and saved on your power bill.
 Check the resources section for more information.
 Sometimes, you will want to compare your bill to the previous month to get a good comparison. Sometimes, you will want to compare to the same month the previous year.

