 If you're nervous about entering a party when you don't know anyone there, it's a good idea to calm yourself before trying to meet anyone. Take a deep breath, breathing all the way down to your belly, and breathing out slowly through your nose. Repeat this slow, deep breathing several times. Make sure your feet are placed firmly against the floor, so that you’re well-grounded.Bring to mind a positive visualization. For example, imagine yourself looking sleek and sexy on the dance floor, or someone attractive laughing at your sense of humor.
Realize that no one’s paying attention to you, so there’s no need to feel self-conscious. After all, most people attending parties are also nervous.
Repeat this process anytime you start to feel nervous at the party.;
, You may be feeling terrified, but if you smile you’re more likely to look confident. Even if you don't know anyone else at the party, you can increase your social abilities through smiling. In addition, if you're feeling nervous, smiling can help to improve your mood, and reduce stress.People often respond to a smiling person with a smile of their own, which will make you feel even better.
Even a slight smile will be enough to help your facial muscles relax, and your appearance seem less threatening to other party guests.
When you look confident, you’ll start to feel confident.
 What kind of party is it? Social interactions will vary depending on the reason you’re gathered together. If you’re attending a frat party, you’ll need different social skills than you might at a Christmas carol party held by your mom’s church choir.Remember that other people may not know one another either.
Considering the nature of the party, try to gauge how likely it is that many people may be making their first introductions.
 It will help you feel at ease to figure out the physical layout of the party, if it’s unfamiliar to you. Figure out where the bathroom is, where the food is, where the drinks are, as a way to get comfortable at the party.


Making your way around the party will also help you take stock of how many people are there, and what kind of party it is.
There might be different activities going on in different parts of the space. If this is the case, you can start with the area in which you feel most at ease.
 Are people seated at tables in small groups? Or are there lots of people walking about? You can model your physical behavior on what others are doing. For example, if people are dancing, notice if they’re dancing alone or if they’re paired up.
Try to position yourself in a part of the room where you’re likely to be most comfortable.
 If you focus on what you have in common, you’re likely to start to feel more confident. One of the reasons that strangers often talk about the weather is that it’s one thing we all have in common. This isn’t a bad place to start, but try to think of other options. For example, you might notice that someone’s wearing a tee-shirt of your favorite band, which makes for a good conversation starter.If you’re feeling self-conscious, finding similarities with others can help you calm down.
Even in a new city or a country where you don’t speak the language, you’ll be able to find similarities if you’re focused on finding them.
 This can be a good way to get adjusted to the party, especially if you have a social connection to the host. Asking what you can do to help with the food or drinks is often appreciated, and gives you a good way to circulate through the party as well.Even if the host doesn’t need your help, she may pick up on your unspoken apprehension and provide something for you to do, or someone to introduce you to.
If you’ve brought some food or a bottle of wine with you to the party, this provides an instant project for your arrival. Upon arrival, you can ask where would be the best place to put it, or where the host would like you to put it.
 Food makes a great topic of conversation between people who don’t know each other. Find someone who looks friendly at the buffet table, and make a pleasant remark about the food. For example, you might say something about how much you like one of the items or how glad you are to see that they’ve included vegetarian options.Asking a question about the food is another good conversation starter. You might say, “Everything looks so good. Which kind do you think you’re going to pick?”
You can follow up by introducing yourself or making follow-up statements. If the other person doesn’t reciprocate, it’s quite easy to move along.

