 Popping out and scaring someone can come off as goofy if you just look like yourself, but if you're dressed all in black with your face covered in fake blood and creepy clown makeup, you'll be scary.


If you know your target well, you can exploit their biggest fear by dressing up as whatever will scare that person the most, whether it's the dentist, a giant spider, or a ghost.
Though the quick scare will still be effective if you just look like your regular self, you will frighten your victim at a whole new level if you dress up as someone scary.
For more specific costume suggestions, skip to the next section for tips.;
, Being in a group helps to bolster your bravery, so it'll be easier if you wait to freak someone out until they're alone. The fright will be much stronger and more real. There are a variety of ways to make this happen, but here are some easy ones:


Text your friend to meet you somewhere at a specific time, but have your creepy surprise waiting for them instead. This will give you the chance to set up beforehand.
Wait until you know your friend or sibling will be alone and distracted. Alone in their room playing video games, or focusing hard on homework? Perfect.
If you want to scare your sibling, set up your frightening scene while they're asleep and let them wake up to it. Super terrifying.
 The best scares combine a moment of your victim thinking, "Wait a minute, that looks creepy" right before you pop out screaming to terrify them. Wherever you're planning your scare, and whatever it will include, it's a good idea to hide somewhere and wait for your opportunity to jump out and add a last-minute scare. Good hiding places include:


Under beds
Behind doors
Behind trees or cars
Under staircases
In the dark basement
In the attic
In plain sight, but in the dark

, Find out what gives your friend nightmares and use it to your advantage. This will vary, depending on your friend and what scares them the most, but it's a good idea to do a little digging and find out what will freak them out the most. Think about the following little freaky props:


Fake snakes, wetted with Vaseline to look really creepy
Rusty knives
Fake blood
Raw meat
Worms or cockroaches
Static noise on television or radio
Broken baby dolls

, After you set your trap, let your victim walk into it, and let it spring into action. Scream, growl, grab the person's arms, and laugh maniacally while enjoying the person's sheer terror. Then, run off into the night, all the while cackling with your head thrown back. You can hide in the distance to watch complete fear overwhelm your victim until he realizes he has been fooled.


Alternatively, you can also leave a recording of creepy noises to startle your friend instead. Set up an old boombox to play a recording of you coughing and wheezing creepily, timed to set off when they walk in.
When your victim is thoroughly frightened, it's a good idea to start backing off. You don't want to freak them out too much, or risk getting the cops called. Once they scream once, you got your fun, and now know when to call it quits.

