 Using less hot water on a daily basis is an important way to conserve energy. Start these new hot water-saving habits:


Wash your clothes with cold water. Unless you're doing a load of clothes that is caked in dirt, it's not necessary to use hot water to wash them; in fact, hot water wears your clothes out much faster.
Take showers instead of baths. Filling a bathtub requires gallons and gallons of hot water; taking a shower uses much less.
Take cooler showers. Do you really need to take a steaming hot shower every day? Try reducing the temperature just a bit every time until you get used to a lukewarm temperature. Save the hot showers for a special treat.
Insulate the water heater. Water heaters that aren't insulated waste energy that gets released from the heater instead of being used to heat the water. Make sure the one you have is insulated, or buy a new model that is designed to conserve energy.
Insulate the pipes in unheated and uninsulated areas of your home, such as the basement by fitting them with pipe sleeves. This is important in climates where winter temperatures can go below freezing because uninsulated pipes can freeze and burst, leading to costly repairs. Even if you don't have freezing winters, be sure to insulate at least the first 3 feet of water pipes (both the cold inflow and hot outflow) from your water heater to reduce heat loss. According to the United States Department of Energy, insulating your pipes with pipe sleeves can save up to $8-12 annually. , It's important to make sure your house isn't releasing too much air-conditioned air during the summer or heated air during the winter. If you have cracks in the frames of your windows, under your doors, in your houses basement or foundation, in the attic, or anywhere else in your home, you may be leaking electricity and money.


Have a contractor inspect your home to determine whether additional insulation may be needed.
Use caulk and door seals to seal the areas around your window and door frames. You can also buy plastic sheeting to cover your windows during the winter.
 It's tempting to keep the house nice and cool during the summer, but this comfort comes at great expense. Leave the air conditioner off for most of the day, and use it to cool down rooms only when the heat becomes uncomfortable. Use alternative strategies to cool yourself down whenever possible.


Take a cool shower during the heat of the afternoon.
Open the windows and let the breeze come in.
Drink plenty of water and eat ice cubes to keep cool.
Spend time outside near a lake, river or pool.
 You can save a lot of money by turning the thermostat a few degrees lower during the winter instead of heating your house until it's toasty. Set it just low enough so that you're still comfortable while wearing thick layers of clothing. Wear wool socks and sweaters to keep warm instead of relying on your home's heating system.

