 Scoop your jellyfish into a plastic bag filled with tank water. Place the bag in a smaller, separate quarantine tank and pull it down and away from your jellyfish. The quarantine tank should have water of the same temperature, pH, and salinity as that of your main tank. Removing your jellyfish will allow you to change the water and clean the tank without disrupting or hurting them.


Always be gentle with your jellyfish. Since jellyfish are 90% water, they can be hurt very easily., Water changes are important because they remove excess nitrates -- toxic ingredients that can harm your jellyfish if they build up over time.For instance, if your tank holds ten gallons, you should remove two gallons. Use a measuring cup or siphoning hose to add and remove the water.
 After removing 20% of your water during your weekly cleaning, use an algae cleaner magnet to scrub the walls of your tank clean. You should also use this time to remove and scum or debris that might be at the bottom of the tank or floating on top.Attach a specialized aquarium cleaning cloth to a short pole (often packaged with the cleaning cloth) ti help you scrub the inside of the tank.Use a filter sock and protein skimmer to remove yucky bits from the tank that you may scrape off., Add new water equal in amount to that which you removed to the tank. For instance, if you removed two gallons, add two gallons back into the tank. Ensure the water is of a ph, salinity, and temperature equal to that of the rest of the tank.Place your jellyfish back into their tank, using the same plastic bag method that you used to move them to the quarantine tank.
Keep your jellyfish submerged at all times.
Once each month, perform the same cleaning process but empty and replace 50% of the water, rather than just 20%.
 Jellyfish require a pH level of between 8 and 8.4.Buy a hand-held pH meter and check the pH at least once a week. If your water is deionized and at the appropriate salinity, and your pumps are working properly, you shouldn’t have any trouble with pH levels.


You should also add a chemical filtration to maintain pH levels. Chemical filtration is an additive you can use to remove phosphates and other organic compounds that can discolor your aquarium water, produce unpleasant odors, and encourage algae to grow.Activated carbon and resins are the most common types of chemical filtration media. You can obtain these at local pet stores or online.
If you continue to have trouble with you tank’s pH levels, change the water and check your pumps. Consult a veterinarian if you continue to have problems with your jellyfish habitat’s pH levels.

