 For this method, you will need one to two yards of fabric covered boning, fabric scissors, thread, a sewing needle and fabric pins, enough Grosgrain ribbon to fit around your waist with at least an extra 10 inches (25.5 cm) to spare, and two hook and eye clasps., Fit the ribbon around your waist, with 2 to 3 extra inches (at least 7 cm).This is what will make your waist stay.
 These ribbon patches will be used to sew the boning into place., Many strapless dresses come with boning already in them; however, this boning is usually of poor quality and very flimsy. Take your fabric scissors and carefully cut a small hole into the lining so that you can pull the boning out.


Do this carefully! You don’t want to damage the dress lining too much.
Skip this step if your dress does not have boning already.
 Don’t worry if you didn’t have boning in your dress before. You can simply sew the boning to the lining of the dress.You will need to use at least four pieces of boning. Two pieces will go in the front and two pieces will go in the back. Be sure to space the boning evenly!
If you are sewing the boning directly onto the dress (and not using the old boning spaces), make sure you leave at least 1/4 inch of space (3 cm) at the top and at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) before the bottom of the waist. Do not sew the bottom of the boning, but leave it free (and not sewn into the dress).When sewing boning to the dress lining, make sure you do a line of stitches on the top of the boning to keep it from poking you. Be cautious when sewing, you don't want your needle to go all the way through the liner to the outer fabric!, You will need this “extra boning” in order to sew it to the stay (made from the Grosgrain ribbon).
 You can do this by using the small patches you cut out earlier and placing the boning between the stay and the patch. Sew backstitches from the top layer (the stay) through the fabric of the boning and then through the patch.


Grosgrain ribbon has a smooth side and a ribbed side, make sure the smooth side is facing out so that it does not create lines in your dress., Before you move on to sewing the next piece of boning, try the dress on and pin the stay to make sure you will sew the boning to the right part of the stay., Once you have completed the boning, you will need a way to keep your waist stay closed. To do this, sew one half of the clasp to one end of the ribbon and the other side to the other end. Repeat this with the second clasp.This will allow you to clasp the waist stay together, similar to how you would do with a clasp bra.

