 While there are general minimum restrictions that apply for all airlines, most have their own requirements for unaccompanied minors on international flights. Ages and documentation may differ depending on the airline and the destination country.In particular, some airlines won't accept unaccompanied minors as passengers on international flights at all.
Other airlines allow unaccompanied minors on international flights, but won't take children under a certain age, such as 10 or 12.
Depending on the child's destination country, airlines may have further restrictions that are based on safety concerns or cultural traditions in the destination country.;
, Try to book a nonstop or "through" flight if possible, and look for flights early in the day so you have the least possible chance of flight delay. Some airlines do not allow unaccompanied minors at all on evening flights.A "through" flight is one that makes a stop for refueling or other reasons but doesn't require the passengers to change planes. These may be your best option if your child is flying to a country a significant distance away, for which nonstop travel is not an option.
If you can't find a direct flight, look for a flight in which the child needs to change planes but stays with the same airline.
Since all airlines require positive identification to hand off unaccompanied minors to another airline attendant, connections that require the child to switch from one airline to another can result in significant delays.
Some airlines require only interline connections for children traveling alone, or restrict unaccompanied minors to nonstop or direct flights only.
Keep in mind that some airlines don't allow unaccompanied minors on flights where weather may be a significant factor. Pay attention to heightened weather issues during particular seasons for certain geographic areas, such as flying from the northern U.S. to Canada during the winter months.
 Most airlines require unaccompanied minors to have a reserved seat on all necessary flights to reach their destination, rather than flying on stand-by. If you're planning a round-trip, this includes the return flight or flights as well.Keep in mind that if you want to make reservations for an unaccompanied minor, many airlines require you to call their reservation call center or make reservations in person at the airport reservation desk rather than booking your flight online.
Reservations for unaccompanied minors also typically cannot be made through third-party travel websites or discount outlets.
 Airlines charge an extra fee for services associated with flying an unaccompanied minor and taking on responsibility for the child's welfare for the duration of the flight.Unaccompanied-minor services mean a member of the flight staff escorts your child on and off the aircraft and looks after him or her until arrival. If the child's itinerary changes, such as due to a flight delay, you will be notified and have a say in the child's alternate arrangements.
Many airlines don't require unaccompanied-minor fees for children over the age of 12, although this age may be 14 or 16 for international flights. However, even if unaccompanied-minor services aren't required, you may want to consider requesting them and paying the additional fees anyway, particularly for an international flight.
If you don't pay for unaccompanied-minor services, your child will be responsible for making their own alternate plans if their flight is delayed, cancelled, or diverted, and you will not be notified of the change in your child's itinerary (unless he or she calls you).
Unaccompanied-minor fees vary from $100 to $200 round-trip, and may be even higher for international flights.
Airlines also may charge additional unaccompanied-minor fees if the child has to make a connecting flight, because a member of the flight staff typically must accompany the child through the airport to board the other plane.
 In addition to the airline's requirements, different countries have their own rules regarding the type of identification and information unaccompanied minors must have to enter the country.For example, some countries require unaccompanied minors to carry a signed consent form from their parents or legal guardians stating that they have permission to travel abroad and listing details of the child's itinerary.
Some countries require the consent form to be signed in front of a notary public.
Different countries have different identification requirements for children to pass through customs, and may have different requirements for entering and leaving the country. Make sure your child has the correct documents both to enter the country and to come back home again.
You typically can find out a country's entry and exit requirements for unaccompanied minors by contacting an embassy or consulate of the destination country. You also may be able to find the same information on the embassy website.
 Even if your child is checking a larger piece of luggage, he or she should have a carry-on bag that includes any necessities the child will need for the duration of the flight.If your child has prescription medication that he or she will need to take at some point during the flight, check with the airline regarding its procedures. Flight staff typically aren't allowed to administer medications.
Make sure your child has plenty of activities he or she enjoys to keep them occupied during the flight, as well as snacks. You also may want to buy the child a bottle of water at the gate after you've passed through security.
Your child should have boarding passes, a copy of his or her complete itinerary, and names, addresses and phone numbers for you and the person he or she is meeting in the destination country.
Your child also should have the required identification documents such as passports and visas sufficient to allow him or her to enter and exit the destination country and return home.
If your child is old enough to handle it responsibly, consider giving your child an international mobile phone so that they can call you or the person meeting them in the destination country in the event of an emergency or a change in itinerary.
 Typically you must be present when your child checks in for the flight so that you can complete the airline's procedures and prepare your child to board the plane.The airline may require your child to be present for check-in a half hour earlier than the recommended check-in for adult passengers on international flights. Even if there isn't a specific requirement, make sure you arrive early enough to complete all the requirements and get your child safely to the gate well in advance of boarding.
You must bring a government-issued photo ID for yourself, and you may need to present the child's birth certificate to prove his or her age. Plan on doing this anyway if your child appears younger than his or her age.
 Most airlines have a form that you must fill out that provides your name and contact information as well as similar information for the person you have designated to pick up your child in the destination country.Keep in mind that you must have the person who will pick up the child in the destination country confirmed. Flight staff typically won't hand off an unaccompanied minor to anyone other than the person you name on this form.
Check with the person picking up your child in the destination country before you take your child to the airport and make sure you have the correct address and contact information to put on the airline's form so there won't be any problems.
The form typically requires you to fill out details regarding the child's travel itinerary. Should any of this information change, airline staff will update the form accordingly.
 You typically will need a gate pass if you want to accompany your child through security and help him or her find the correct gate and get ready to board the plane.Plan on staying with your child until he or she boards the plane. A flight attendant will escort your child on the plane and get him or her situated before the other passengers begin boarding.
Tell your child only to go with or follow instructions from uniformed flight personnel.
If the airline gives your child a special "unaccompanied minor" badge, place it conspicuously on the child's clothing and make sure he or she knows not to take it off. Don't put this badge on an article of clothing such as a jacket or sweater that your child might take off during the flight.
Since you can't take liquids through security checkpoints, you may want to purchase your child a bottle of water or juice to have on the flight. You also may want to purchase snacks, particularly for lengthy flights.
If it's your child's first flight, prepare them for the trip by explaining basic airplane safety and explaining what will happen as the plane takes off and lands, what might happen if there is turbulence, and how the body responds to changes in air pressure.
 Airlines typically require you to name someone who will be responsible for picking up your child at the destination. The person who arrives must match the identification information you provided.The person you designate should generally be available by phone on the day the child travels, so they can be contacted in the event the child's flight is delayed or diverted.
If something happens and you have to use another person to pick up your child than the person you originally named, contact the airline as soon as possible to find out what you can do.
Be aware of local customs in the destination country that may impact your choice. For example, in some countries it is inappropriate or even forbidden for a female child to be picked up by an unrelated male.
Make sure the person picking up your child has complete, up-to-date information regarding your child's itinerary and can contact the airline if necessary to get a status update on the flight.
 The person responsible for picking up your child at the destination must have a gate pass so they can pass through security and meet your child at the gate when he or she gets off the plane.Individual airline regulations differ, but typically the person picking up your child is responsible for getting their own gate pass. The airline may charge a fee for gate passes.
Most airlines require the person picking up the child to meet the child at the gate, which means they must have the ability to pass in and out of security and customs themselves.
Make sure the person picking up your child can arrive at the airport at least a half hour before your child's plane is scheduled to land. This gives them a chance to complete any procedures related to picking up the child and find the correct gate before the plane arrives.
Keep in mind some airports require the person picking up your child to meet them at the baggage claim area rather than escorting the child through customs. Ask the airline staff about this beforehand.
 Your child must have the appropriate identification to enter the country, and the person picking your child up must have the identification necessary to verify that they are the same person you designated.Identification requirements not only vary among airlines but also may vary by country. In addition to checking the airline's requirements, check with the destination country's embassy or consulate to make sure both your child and the person picking him or her up have the correct documents with them.
Specifically, some countries require an unaccompanied minor to carry a government-issued photo ID in addition to a passport, while others do not.

