 In order to remind yourself that you are more than your Tic Disorder, write down all the great things about yourself that you can think of. This will help you have confidence in yourself and confidence in pursuing romance.


Write down all the things you can do, your personality traits, hobbies, and interests.
You can even include your Tic Disorder on the list because it makes you unique.
For example, you might write, “I’m funny, smart, and full of energy. I have a tic and I’m athletic. I’m also good at writing poems.”

, Your tic may seem worse to you than it actually is.Don’t be embarrassed by something that you think everyone is noticing. They probably have accepted it and I doesn’t bother them. Accept that you have a Tic disorder and that it’s not that big of a deal.


Making a big deal out of your Tic disorder by being embarrassed or stressing about it can cause your tics to be worse.
When your tics are happening notice how many people are ‘’not’’ paying attention to you instead of how many people are paying attention.
 Spend time with friends and family that care about you and not about your tic.Being around people that accept you and your Tic Disorder can increase your confidence in yourself and give you the courage and support you need to pursue romance.


Join a local support group for people with Tic Disorders.
Volunteer at a local community center or for a cause you care about. Helping others will also help you feel good about yourself.
Hang out with friends and family doing things that you all enjoy.
 It can be hard to have confidence in yourself and to manage your tics if you are tired, hungry, or just don’t feel well. If you are taking care of your health in general it will be easier to manage your Tic disorder and easier to have confidence in yourself.


Your tic can be worse when you are tired so make sure you get enough sleep at night.Eat healthy meals and snacks that promote brain health and give you energy. For example, have plenty of vegetables, fruit, and limit your sugar.
Get some physical activity. It helps you be healthier in general, but there is also evidence that when you are focused on physical activity you are less likely to tic.

