 First of all you need to ponder about a basic thing : Why do I need a phone? Will it help me in anyway? Having problems to cite some points? Better write them down on a piece of paper. Make two columns and list the pros and cons of having a phone. Do try to put as many cons as pros, don't be biased . Some points may be that : It teaches you the responsibility to handle an electronic item and can be even helpful in contacting parents, when you have a stay back in school, safety reasons.;
, Yes! If you have a good report card for a semester then, be rest assured 99.9% of your task of convincing your parents is done. Rarely they would deny it.
 It is recommended that you do this when something good has happened like you got a good grade in the exam or your parents are in a good mood. Expect a 'NO' however if they agree, don't be excited. There is a 99% probability that they may change their decisions later .
 Your parents can make a one time investment on handset and SIM card, then you may pay for the monthly expenses from your monthly allowance.
, They are also human beings, whatever they say is generally for your betterment only.
 This may be that when are you allowed to use your phone, how many megabytes or kilobytes of data you can use, how many minutes and texts.
 Chances are that you will have to wait longer or you may not get it only.
 Begging in a whining voice implicates you aren't mature enough to have one.
, etc.
 Take out some time and visit top online shopping stores like : Flipkart, Snapdeal. etc . It is your phone, so choose the phone model you want . Remember Choose a model which is really affordable . Average Indian parents won't be in a mood to purchase a high end model like an iPhone 5 (as of now) or Samsung Galaxy Note 3.
 This means that try to reduce your monthly costs of having a cell-phone. Some ways maybe to get an Instant Messenger Accounts like WhatsApp or WeChat. Better get an Android Phone because majority apps are supported on that platforms. You can get many android phones in the market. All you need is an unlimited Data Plan or a Wi-Fi connection.
 As the old saying goes " The fruit of patience is always sweet "!

, Don't go on Texting, talking for hours. Use it at some specific intervals of time. Make sure that it does not distract you while you are studying. It should not affect your academic performance.
 Usually this does not work and will annoy your parents .
 At least it is better to have something than to have nothing .

