 Having coworkers on your side confers a wealth of benefits. When you get along with your coworkers, you have people at your level who can empathize with your day-to-day experience, which helps keep your stress level down on the job. Coworkers who like you are also easier to ask favors of, and more likely to provide favors for you without being asked. Finally, coworkers can give you advance warning about management changes, upcoming reviews, and anything you're doing or not doing that might result in disciplinary action.


Experienced customer service veterans often say that any customer service job is bearable, and can even be enjoyable, as long as you and your coworkers like each other. Feeling as though you're a valued part of the team drastically increases your job satisfaction.
 In particular, smile and say hello to every one of them, even if you don't like them or care about them, and even if they don't smile back. People are awash with insecurities, but nearly everybody appreciates a person who seems to like them enough to smile at them without trying to hide it.


You should also follow the rule of leaving your “self” at home when interacting with coworkers. Don't get emotional with them. Keep conversations light and inconsequential.
Don't assume your coworkers agree with your opinions. Instead, ask them what they think of something, so you can respond with your opinion in a way that won't offend or alienate them.
 Even if you aren't much for socializing, fake it at work. Once you've settled into your job, invite your fellow shift workers to come have coffee or a beer with you after ward – and keep doing it every week until people start to say yes. Agree to spend time at other people's functions, if they invite you. (If they don't, try not to sweat it – it's probably nothing personal against you.) Make conversation with coworkers whenever you share a break or have some down time.


There's no call to put pressure on people to spend more time with you. Sometimes, your coworkers won't be interested. That's fine – again, don't take it personally. Ease off the social invitations if someone keeps refusing them; reduce your small talk to a simple “hello” if someone seems intent on having a quiet break instead of chatting with you.
 At the end of the day, the best way to endear yourself to your fellow workers is to be a good employee. Find things to do when there's downtime, to reduce the burden on your coworkers later. If you can, always be ready to go out of your way to assist your coworkers with whatever they need to get done. Don't wait to be asked; offer your help instead. Ask more experienced coworkers how they do things so well or so fast, and then take their advice to heart – everybody loves feeling respected for their practical skills and knowledge.
 There's no need to tell other people not to gossip (as it only upsets them), but don't do it yourself. In particular, when you feel the need to talk about someone else and they aren't around, speak as though they could walk over and hear you at any moment. Maintain neutrality when one person complains to you about someone else by saying things like “I don't know, I don't mind working with him/her.” You can sympathize with other people's problems, but don't make them your own.


If you have interesting or useful information about a coworker that you want to share, that's fine as long as you leave judgments and negative emotions out of it. State what you know, and let others fill in their own emotional response.
 There's more to getting along with your coworkers than just being nice. You also need to be able to address issues calmly and clearly as soon as they arise. Your fellow employees already know you as someone who smiles at them and seems happy to speak with them; now let them know that you can't be walked across just because you're friendly. If a coworker is taking credit for your work, obstructing an important walkway, or otherwise disrupting the flow of your job, tell them immediately.


Again, leave emotions out of the equation. Explain yourself clearly and coolly. For example, “I've seen you ring up a few of my customers without asking them who helped them, and it's costing me money. I always ask my customers who helped them, and I give commission credit to whoever they say. All I ask is that you do the same for me.”
In some cases, you may not be comfortable speaking to a coworker about such matters. It's fine to go through managerial channels to resolve these situations. Just remember that if you feel safe doing so, speaking to your coworker directly will often be seen by that coworker as more upstanding and honest on your part, since you aren't alerting management to the issue before giving him or her a chance to resolve it.

