 Just as your computer has a task manager that allows you to see what active programs are using the most memory, Chrome has a Task Manager that does the same. This can be a powerful tool to use if you have several tabs open and want to quickly identify and close the ones that are slowing your computer down the most.


Click on the three vertical dots in the upper-right corner of your browser.
Hover your cursor over "More Tools" and click on "Task Manager" in the menu that appears.
Click on any tab that displays in the task manager and hit "End Process" to close it.;
, If you like to visit sites like YouTube, Yahoo, or Wikipedia which have their own search engines, you can skip the step of navigating to the home pages of those sites and search them straight from Chrome.


Type the homepage (ex. www.youtube.com/) into the address bar.
Press the Tab key.
Enter your search and press enter to search using that domain's search engine.
 If you ever find yourself accidentally closing a page that you were working or reading in - or you'd like to see what someone else was doing when they used your computer - you can quickly reopen a recently closed tab with a keyboard shortcut. Use this shortcut multiple times if you'd like to open more than one recently closed tab.


Mac: ⌘+⇧ Shift+T

Windows: Ctrl+⇧ Shift+T


, Browsing data can be helpful to keep if you want to revisit pages that you can't remember the name of, but they also take up valuable storage space that can slow down your browsing experience. Rather than going to your History options from the Chrome menu, you can bring up an option to clear the data with a keyboard shortcut.


Mac: ⌘+⇧ Shift+Delete

Windows: Ctrl+⇧ Shift+Delete


, If you're a tab hoarder and want to organize your tabs, you can drag them to be next to each other in the same window, or in a new window altogether.



⌘+Click (Mac) Ctrl+Click (Windows) on the tabs you'd like to move or organize. You'll see your selected tabs highlighted.
Click and and hold your cursor on one of the highlighted tabs.
Drag your cursor away from your current window to place the current tabs on a new window.
 You can quickly change the view of your browser to display more or less of a web page at a time. Use this shortcut if you'd like to see a larger view of a page or if you have a hard time reading the size of the text you're looking at on a page.


Mac: Press ⌘++ or ⌘+- while on any webpage in Google Chrome.
Windows: Press Ctrl++ or Ctrl+- while on any webpage in Google Chrome.
 If you're on a large page and want to get back to the top quickly, you can do so without endless scrolling. This can be especially useful after getting to the bottom of a long article or blog.


Mac: While clicked onto a text field or webpage, press ⌘+↑ or ⌘+↓ to move instantly to the top or bottom of the page.
Windows: While clicked onto a text field or webpage, press Ctrl+↑ or Ctrl+↓ to move instantly to the top or bottom of the page.
 By default, Chrome opens any link you click on in your current tab. The only exception to this occurs on sites that embed their links so that clicking on them opens a new tab or window. If you'd like, you can open links in a new tab without having to manually open a new tab in which to copy paste the link you're opening.


Mac: ⌘+Click on a link. It will open in a new tab.
Windows: Ctrl+Click on a link. It will open in a new tab. You can organize your tabs by their memory usage by clicking the "Memory" banner.
 Ever come across a word while browsing that you've wanted to know the meaning of without interrupting your workflow? Chrome has a dictionary built into it that allows you to quickly find the definition of any word without leaving your current page.


Click and drag your cursor over a word on a webpage to highlight it.

Ctrl+Click (Mac) or right-click (Windows) on the word.
Click on the "Look up """ option. You'll be shown a dictionary definition of the word as well as a thesaurus entry for the word.
 You can type a search into your current webpage's address bar and have the search appear in a new tab instead of taking you away from the webpage you're currently on. This can be especially useful if you'd like to make a search now but look into its results later.


Click on the address bar at the top of your browser.
Type in your desired search.
Press Alt+↵ Enter to open the search in a new tab.

