 Mix a half cup of vinegar with a gallon of water. Stir to ensure that the solution is evenly mixed., Dishwashing detergents and liquid laundry detergents are gentle enough for use on fiberglass shower pans. They are also generally cheaper than specialized bathroom cleaning products.Do not use bleach based products or scouring powders to clean fiberglass.
 Mix half a cup of baking soda with a few tablespoons of water. Mix the water and baking soda until it develops the consistency of paste., Bathroom cleaners and all-purpose cleaners are generally gentle enough for use on fiberglass surfaces, but are sometimes reputed to be unnecessarily expensive., Magic Erasers are soft sponges with cleaning solutions inside. They only need to be wet to be used. They are gentle enough for fiberglass and very good at picking up heavy stains. , Use a sponge made of nylon, polyester, or polyethylene. Other cleaners can be too abrasive for fiberglass. If you are using a Magic Eraser, wet it instead., Depending upon the solution, either spray it on the sponge or dunk the sponge in it. If you are using a Magic Eraser, skip this step., Rub the pan with a set pattern, to ensure that you do not miss any spots. Begin, for example, in the far right corner, then work your way to the far left corner. Scrub back and forth this way, moving closer each time you hit the end of the pan until you reach the corners on the opposite end., Squeeze your sponge out into a nearby sink and then rewet it. Apply more cleaning solution to the sponge before going back to cleaning the tub. Clean the sponge like this a couple of times during the process of scrubbing the tub.
 After you have scrubbed the entire tub, turn on the water to wash out the cleaning solution. If this does not sufficiently clean out the pan, use a new sponge to wipe up the remainder of the solution.
 Use a sponge to spread the cleaning solution you selected throughout the entire pan. Follow all the preceding steps, except washing out the pan. , If you allow the solution to sit, it will continue to remove dirt. This will get the pan cleaner than if you remove the solution immediately after wiping it down. , After the solution has sat for about an hour, turn on the water to wash off the solution. Use a clean sponge to pick up any of the solution that remains in the pan.
 If there is a stain that remains despite all your best efforts, cover a white cloth with nail polish remover. Rub the spot lightly with the cloth until the spot has been removed. Then, wash the nail polish remover off the pan with a clean sponge or cloth.Although nail polish remover is not bad for the fiberglass, it should be used as a last resort because it can be bad for you. It is highly flammable, so do not use it near fire, or a heat source.
Because the substance is toxic, do you not allow it to wash down the drain. Use a cloth to pick it up after you are done.
 To maintain the shiny finish of the fiberglass, apply automotive white wax. Wash the pan down with a wet rag and then use a rag to lightly apply the wax to dull or scratched areas.Some manufacturers recommend that you perform this treatment twice a year.
 If you want your pan to keep its shiny appearance all the time, keep a squeegee in the shower. When you finish taking your showers, use the squeegee to pick up moisture and dry off the pan., Fiberglass is fragile and can easily be scratched up. Never use scouring powders, scouring pads, steel wool, scrapers, or bleach to clean fiberglass.