 Print or write your spine label on paper or cardstock that is sturdy. This will make it much easier to insert into your binder than a thin piece of paper.


If you design your label on the computer, make sure the printer you use can print on heavier paper. Check the manual or do a test run with thicker paper first.
If you can’t print or write on heavy paper, you can always glue down thinner paper onto another piece of paper or cardstock to make it thicker. Just make sure the edges and corners are glued well and lay flat.
Note that a very thick label will actually take up too much space in the plastic cover on the binder spine, so it can be even more difficult. Aim for a material that is sturdy but still thin.;
, Measure the exact length and width of the spine of your binder, but just the space within the plastic covering. Subtract a few millimeters from the width to make it easier to insert the label later.


Note that it’s best to cut out the paper before you design your label so that you don’t accidentally make your writing or decorations too large.
Use an existing label as a guide for size, if you have one. A new binder will typically come with a paper insert that describes the size, brand, and other details of the binder. You can copy the exact size of this insert for the new label.
If you’re typing your label, make a box that has the exact dimensions of your binder spine in the word processor program you’re using, then fill the box with your text and decorations. When printed, you can then cut it out exactly along the lines of the box.
 Type up or write out any text and decoration you want on your binder spine label. Make sure you've already cut out or know the size of your label so you don’t create a design that is too large.


Use pens, pencils, markers, crayons, etc. to design a label by hand. Just note that any material that is still wet or is prone to smudging will get ruined when inserted into a binder.
In Microsoft Word, select File > New From Template…. If you search for “binder” in the top right search bar of this window you will find several templates for binder inserts, which include spine labels for a variety of different sized binders. Customize these however you wish for an easy way to create a typed label of exactly the right size.