 It can be helpful and comforting to bring a trusted friend or relative with you to your doctor’s appointment, especially if you are very ill or if you are worried that you might get some bad news.Additionally, that friend can listen to and/or take notes during your appointment. A friend acts as a second set of eyes and ears. This reduces patient-provider miscommunication.;
, If you have been newly diagnosed with a disease, disorder, or other health condition, it can be helpful to spend some time educating yourself about the diagnosis. Though you shouldn’t believe everything you read on the internet, having a bit of background knowledge can make it easier to understand anything your doctor tells you. You could also go to a local library to see if there are any books on the subject, or search the internet for local support groups that might be able to provide information.If you are looking for a local support group (or even an online one, which can also be useful) try searching for “online support groups” and the name of your health condition or “support group” plus the name of your town or city and the name of your condition.
If you look for your information on the internet, try to use websites that are associated with a well-known hospital. For example, the MayoClinic website offers a lot of useful (and credible) information on various health conditions. Additionally, you can also look for websites that are created by supporting organizations. For example, if you have been diagnosed with a disease such as cancer, you can use the American Cancer Society’s website (www.cancer.org) to search for credible information.
 Don’t assume that your doctor will have a spare pen and piece of paper to take notes with. Bring along a pen or pencil and a notepad to write down what your doctor tells you. You might also consider taking notes on your smartphone, but for most people, it is quicker and easier to simply write down the key points on paper.


It is not necessary, but to be polite, you might begin your appointment by asking your doctor if it is alright if you take notes so that you can remember everything later. It is highly unlikely that any respectable doctor would have a problem with this, but it is courteous to confirm that it is ok with them.
 It is a great idea to bring in a list of all the medications, herbal supplements, and vitamins you are taking. It is very important that your doctor is aware of everything you are taking, and it can be easy to forget about one or two medications when asked to list them from memory. Be sure to write down how often you take the medication, the dosage, and how long you have been taking the medication.It is important to know why you have been prescribed the medication. Prescription medications are often prescribed for more than what the Food and Drug Administration has approved.Alternatively, many doctors recommend simply bringing all of your medications with you in a bag. The labels on medications often contain important information that you might not think to write down.You should also write down any allergies that you have, or any past reactions you have had to medications.
Bring a separate list for yourself that contains any questions or concerns that you want to discuss with the doctor. You may think that you’ll remember all of your questions, but chances are, you’ll forget one or two of them, especially if you’re also trying to remember everything the doctor is telling you.
Today’s managed care environment limits the time you have to spend face-to-face with your physician. Good organization and preparation can also help decrease stress and help you make the most of your time.
 If you have copies of medical records available from outside facilities, bring those with you to your appointment. It is also important to know about any serious health conditions that run in your family. A history of cancer, cardiovascular disease, and so on can be helpful so your doctor knows what to look out for and if you are at increased risk.
 You don’t need to write down what your doctor is saying word-for-word. Instead, just jot down the things that sound important to you. For example, write down the name of any health conditions that your doctor mentions. Write down medications you need to take, and how long you should take them for. Write down questions that come into your head.Ask your doctor to spell out or write down any words that are important, but that you aren’t familiar with.
You can take your notes on your pre-made list of questions and concerns that you’ve brought in. If your doctor answers a question you had on your list (whether or not you’ve asked it yet), write down the relevant information underneath the question.
 When your doctor has explained something to you, try to summarize what they have said and repeat it back to them. In some cases, you may think you understand perfectly what your doctor is telling you, but after repeating it back to them, you might find that you missed an important bit of information. Even a small misunderstanding could potentially make a huge difference.For example, let's say that your doctor has instructed you on how to take a new medication being prescribed to you. From what the doctor has told you, you understand that you are to take your medicine two times a day for three weeks; however, when you repeat what you think you have heard back to your doctor, it turns out you are supposed to take the medication three times a day for two weeks.
 In your appointment, your doctor will likely want to explain everything that is going on as clearly as they can. While this is good, it can make it difficult to remember everything, especially if you come across things you don’t understand. This is why it is important to ask questions and clarify new information during the appointment instead of trying to remember to look it up later.For example, if your doctor explains that you have hyperthyroidism, but you have no idea what that means, then simply say that. For example, “Doctor, I haven’t heard of hyperthyroidism before. Could you explain what that means?” You should also ask them to spell it out for you if you’re not sure how to spell it. This way, you can also look the word up on your own later, if you like.
Always ask for copies of diagnostic records such as lab work or x-ray results. Many medical offices offer lab diagnostics online through a secure website. Ask if that option is available.
 If for some reason, you are unable to take notes yourself, and you were not able to bring along a trusted friend or family member, politely ask your doctor if they can make a list of key points. If it is not obvious why you can’t do this yourself, politely explain.


For example, if you are unable to write because of severe arthritis, you could say, “I’m sorry doctor, but it’s very painful for me to write because of my arthritis. Would you mind making a simple list of important points that I can go through on my own after the appointment?” If the doctor agrees, make sure you thank them for going out of their way for you. Alternatively, the doctor may be able to send you their own notes from the appointment to help you.
 If you weren’t able to take notes during the appointment, try to jot down what you remember as soon as possible. It doesn’t have to be perfectly written to start off with. The idea is simply to get the information out of your head and onto a piece of paper. You can then go back through what you’ve written to pick out what is important, and perhaps reorganize the information so that it is clearer.


This can also be helpful if you are very worried or anxious about the things your doctor has said. This practice of writing down what your doctor has said not only serves to help you remember what the doctor told you, but it can also serve as a way to get your thoughts in order. Thus, you shouldn’t be afraid to also write down any emotions or thoughts you are experiencing at the moment.
 If you took notes, if a friend took notes, or if the doctor wrote down everything for you, be sure to go over these notes as soon as you get home. This way, you can see if there is anything that doesn’t make sense. If the notes were taken by someone else, try to go over the notes with them there. If necessary, rewrite the notes in your own words to make them easier to understand later on.


It may also be a good idea to make a to-do list of things that you need to take care of. For example, if your doctor has diagnosed you with a medical condition, you might want to do some internet research on your own to better understand your diagnosis.On your to-do list, you could write down, “Learn about my diagnosis.” If your doctor has prescribed you many medications, you could write something like, “sort medications into a pill box.”
If your appointment resulted in stressful or shocking information, going through your notes and writing down things you need to do can help give you a perspective on where to begin learning to manage your condition.
 After going over what you’ve been told, if you find that there is something that you feel you’ve forgotten or something you don’t understand completely, don’t hesitate to call your doctor for clarification.


It’s better to be safe than sorry when it comes to medical advice. Don’t feel like you’re being a nuisance by calling. Simply explain that you want to double check what you’ve written down to make sure that you understand correctly. Be polite with the person you speak with, and they’ll likely be happy to help you.

