 Start with your feet facing forward, and then turn them out to the side by approximately 10 degrees.Turning your feet out slightly will open up your hips and allow you to squat lower.;
, Your body weight should rest in your heels as you sit back. Lifting your toes will force your body to compensate.


As you rise from your squat, imagine your feet are spreading wider as you drive the heels into the floor.
 Most people don’t distribute their weight back far enough. To train yourself, you can squat down onto a low chair or a box.In this position, you lean slightly forward to distribute your weight into your hindquarters. As you move your butt lower, your torso should lean forward in a straight line.
 Start your squat parallel to a mirror, so that you can view whether your knees go past your toes. If they do, squat less deeply and hold the squatted position longer until you develop strength.
 Never drop your head down or look up at the ceiling. Keep a faraway focal point and never break your gaze.
 This is especially important if you are using a bar and lifting weights as you squat. As you place the bar across your shoulders, make sure you are pulling down until your elbows are just below your shoulders and it will help your chest stay lifted.


Your upper body should never round forward. A rounded back can cause a lower back injury.
 You should never overarch your back; however, keeping a slight arch, similar to the amount that remains when you stand, will help distribute the weight. Keep your lower abdominals pulled in and up during the duration of the exercise to keep the lower back steady.
 Use the breath to handle the resistance of the weight. Always follow this rule and reset your breath for each repetition., Form your squat position in front of a pole or bar. Hold onto the bar and let it absorb some of your body weight so that you can go into a low squat.


Move slowly until your hamstrings are parallel to the ground or slightly lower. If you have knee problems, don’t go further than parallel.
Repeat in three sets of 10 every other day for a few weeks. Then do squats without assistance.
If you can place your pole near a mirror, watch yourself as you make each of these changes so that you can confirm your form. Pay attention to how it feels so that you can replicate it without assistance.

