 An organization must have a strong mission statement. This identifies its purposes, what it hopes to achieve and its constituents. An organization also must determine what its needs are in order to meet its mission statement. Keep in mind that an organization's needs and its fundraising goals may differ. It's always a smart idea to overshoot one's needs when setting a goal for a fundraising campaign.;
, Take an inventory of the methods already utilized to raise funds. If your organization currently uses direct mail and telemarketing, evaluate the results of these efforts by comparing hours worked and costs to contributions pledged and received. Each fundraising method used by any organization should be evaluated by its effectiveness compared to its difficulty or cost to complete.
 People can't contribute to an organization unless they know about it. Submit press releases, create media events and contribute columns to the local media. By creating media attention for your organization, you will effectively put it on the minds of the public. This helps significantly when preparing to conduct a fundraising campaign.
 Every non-profit organization should have a database of current donors. These donors are the ones to turn to first with any fundraising requests. Because of their established relationship with your organization, they are the most likely prospects for contributions. Also, they may be the easiest prospects to cultivate immediately when looking for a boost in meeting a fundraising goal.
 As the saying goes, "Think out of the box." Brainstorm new opportunities and strategies. The strategies don't have to be entirely new, but must be new to the organization. If you learn of other strategies that work well with similar organizations in other geographic regions, it's perfectly acceptable to fashion them to help your group. It is important to carefully analyze the new methods' effectiveness after each use.
 Companies often have funds they use to donate to non-profit organizations. Solicit these companies for funds to help meet your organization's mission and goals. Companies use their philanthropic contributions as good public relations to let their constituents know how much they do to help the community.

