 This is one of the basic tasks of a GPS navigation device, so it should be effortless.


Most models also have point-of-interest (POI) programming so you can find the nearest restaurant, gasoline station or tourist attraction. POI databases range from basic to huge.;
, You should have audible and visual directions.


Does the device speak directions clearly, including the use of street names? Text-to-Speech functions use actual street names, instead of distance, in directions. Will the device tell you what lane you need to be in?
If you're viewing the directions or a map on the screen, is the font type and size legible? Do maps show easy-to-read visual directions with realistic visuals?

, Buyers once had to load the maps using CDs or from the Internet, but today's devices should come with them already installed or on an SD card.


Most U.S. devices cover the 48 states in the continental U.S., but other maps should be optional.
See if your navigation system provides map updates, because road systems change.
 Some available options are:


Avoidance of toll roads or other routes.
multi-destination routes.
An auto rerouting indicator that calculates a new route when a driver misses a turn.
 In 2011, 4.3 inches (10.922 cm) in diagonal length is most common, but you can get screens from 3.5 (8.89 cm) to 7 inches (17.78 cm).


Larger screens make things easier to see, but they also take up more room in the car.



This feature can be helpful for claiming business expenses to your employer or at tax time.



Does it rely on historic traffic data that has been programmed in?
Another option is real-time traffic information received through a traffic receiver, although it may be a subscription item.



This feature also may require a subscription with some systems.
, Some devices include extras like these:


Bluetooth hands-free calling through the unit.
A music player that plays audio files stored on an SD card.
An iPod interface that allows you to control an iPod on the GPS touch screen.
A video player to play videos saved on an SD card.
Wi-Fi/Cellular connectivity to obtain data from computers and cell phones.

