 From this point on, though you can certainly continue to teach yourself, you'll see faster and more technically sound results if you practice under the tutelage of an experienced player. Harmonica lessons vary in price and frequency; feel free to try a few lessons from a teacher and then move on until you find one who fits your needs.









Even as you take lessons, continue to rely on guides and books to help augment your playing. There's no reason to drop all your other material just because you're supplementing it with professional lessons.
 It's easy to fall into a pattern of constantly forcing air in and out through your harp, but as you begin to play more advanced songs, you'll need to practice skipping over some holes to reach others. Play songs with notes that require you to jump a hole or two, such as the American traditional tune, “Shenandoah,” which has a jump from the 4th to the 6th hole near the end of the second phrase (on a standard C diatonic).









Practice skipping by pulling the harmonica slightly away and then returning it to the appropriate position (to further your familiarity with the position of each hole) and by stopping your airflow without removing the harmonica (to give you more practice with breath control).
 To start with, you've probably been holding the harmonica with the pointer finger and thumb of your left (or non-dominant) hand and sliding it as you play. Up your game by adding your right (or dominant) hand. Rest the heel of your right palm under your left thumb, and then lay the blade of your right palm along your left to that your fingers can curl up around your left pinky finger. This creates a “sounding hole” that can be used to affect the sound coming from your harmonica.









Add a soft warble or wail by flapping your sounding hole open and shut. Use it at the end of a verse to add emotion, or just practice it anywhere you like.
Create a train whistle effect by starting with the sounding hole open, then tapping it shut and open again once.
Play a muted, soft sound by leaving the sounding hole mostly closed.
You'll likely find that this position forces you to hold your harp at an angle, with the left end pointed slightly down and inward. This position actually lends itself to other techniques as well, so embrace it.
 Tongue blocking is a great way to roll single notes into beautiful chords without breaking the original note. Using the side (blade) of your tongue, you'll block some notes of a chord, and then lift off partway through the note to add them. This technique takes practice, but your sounding hole position should help present the side of your tongue to the mouthpiece naturally.









Start by opening your mouth to cover the first four holes of your harp. Using your tongue, block holes 1 through 3 and play a straight-position note on hole 4. If you did it right, you should only hear (up) 4 being played. Once you can do this with ease, play a sustained note and then lift your tongue off halfway through to introduce the full harmony.
Tongue blocks can be used to add a waltz- or polka-like airiness to songs by alternating them with individual notes, or in any of a number of other different ways. They're very flexible. Practice using them until you're comfortable improvising them from song to song.
 Probably the most advanced technique in terms of the sheer amount of practice it takes to master is note bending. Note bending is the art of actually changing the notes your harmonica produces by making airflow tighter and sharper. Master harpists can turn a diatonic harmonica into a de facto chromatic harmonica just by note bending. For now, practice using it to produce flat notes to increase your repertoire.









The basic technique for bending a note is to make the opening in your lips very very small, and sharply suck air through them into the hole you want to bend. Draw a cross-harp note and gradually pinch your lips together until you begin to hear the tone change. By pinching your lips more or less, you can further control the tone of the note.
Be very careful when you practice note bending. Because the air crosses the reeds so sharply, it can easily loosen or bend them, ruining your instrument. Patience and care are required to find a happy medium between not bending a note and bending it too harshly.

