 Hobbyists who wish to preserve the usability and value of a puzzle, but still wish to display, will need a specialized frame. While these frames are often described as "500 piece puzzle frames" or "1,000 piece puzzle frames," purchasing one based on actual length and width measurements is recommended for more accuracy. Because the frame will be the only thing keeping your puzzle in place, it is important to find a frame that will fit your puzzle as securely as possible.
 Some frames called "jigsaw puzzle frames" are just ordinary frames made to fit common puzzle sizes, and will not hold your puzzle together without glue. Instead, you'll need a specialized frame, which is often more expensive. While you may attempt to use any frame with a solid back and front portion, finding one specific to jigsaw puzzles is recommended, as a jigsaw puzzle is thicker and more fragile than the posters and photographs ordinary frames are usually used for.


Try the glass-fronted, aluminum MyPhotoPuzzle frames, or the adjustable-size Versaframe.

Note: there are a couple cheaper options for displaying your puzzle, at the end of this section.
 The exact design of a jigsaw puzzle frame varies between brands. For MyPhotoPuzzle frames, carefully press the glass onto the puzzle surface, flip the glass and puzzle together face down, then lower the backboard over the back of the puzzle. Make sure one of the hanging attachment on the backboard is located at the top of the puzzle, or it will be upside down. Lower the frame over the backboard and glass, then lower every clip around the backboard's edge to fasten it to the frame., The Jigframe comes with a sheet of acrylic plastic, protected with paper on both sides. Briefly warm the sheet in the sun or near a heater if necessary to help peel off the paper. Slide or construct the puzzle on top of one of the included "Jigsheets." Slide open the drawer in the frame, place the Jigsheet with the puzzle face-up on top of it into the drawer, then cover the puzzle with the acrylic sheet. Slide it back into the frame.


Instead of sliding the puzzle, You can use one of the Jigsheets to lay over the puzzle and help keep it steady while you flip it over, then lay the other Jigsheet over the back of the puzzle, and flip it face up again.
If the puzzle is much smaller than the frame, a small piece of cardboard is included to place on the Jigsheet, below the puzzle's lower edge, to center the puzzle.
 Other companies may use a different system than the ones described above. An adjustable frame may be sold in two pieces, which are slid together over the puzzle and locked into the correct position., Some coffee tables have an additional glass surface that can be screwed on and off the table. Place a jigsaw puzzle under this layer for display.
 These envelopes are typically made of polypropylene, and may be labeled "archival grade." This will keep your puzzle safe from moisture and other sources of damage. However, these are more typically used for prints and photographs, and may be hard to find in sizes appropriate for medium or large puzzles.

