 One of the keys to successful fundraising is to make people want to donate money to you. A good way to do this is by establishing a connection with people. In other words, make them feel like they know a little bit about you.You probably have an interesting story about how you became involved in your cause. Did you rescue a stray puppy as a child? Use that story to describe why you became passionate about helping animals.
Use your personal story in all of your fundraising materials. For instance, if you post flyers in your community, include a brief bio that explains your passion.
Fundraising letters are a great way to solicit funds. In your letter, describe your personal experience with your chosen cause. Talk about what it will mean to you personally to help make a difference.
 Fundraising events are an excellent way to raise money. Plan a fun event where people can socialize and learn about your volunteer opportunity. Try an ice cream social. Invite people to your house to make sundaes and talk to them about your fundraising campaign.Make it clear in the invitations that a donation is not required, but much appreciated. You don't want your friends and acquaintances to feel pressured or uncomfortable.
Have a garage or yard sale. Ask your friends and family members to donate unwanted items. When you advertise the sale, note that all of the proceeds will go towards funding your volunteer experience.
Host a fashion show. You can come up with a fun theme, such as Grunge or Retro, and have people make a donation to see the show.
Organize a tailgate party at a local sporting event. Grill up some hot dogs and burgers and raffle off some sports memorabilia to raise money.
 When you are soliciting donations make sure to let people know exactly what they are funding. Be as descriptive as possible in describing your volunteer abroad plan. State where you are going and when in all of your fundraising materials.Be prepared to answer questions. Many people will want to gather more information before making a donation.
Let your donors know how you will use their funds. For example, state whether you need money for travel costs or to pay for your living expenses when you are abroad.
 When you are fundraising, it is important to reach out to as many people as possible. Make a list of individuals who might be receptive to your cause. Then use different ways to contact them.Fundraising letters are a great option. In the letter, detail your goals, where you will be volunteering, and what you will use the donations for. Don't forget to include your personal story.
You can send these letters to anyone that you know. Reach out to family, friends, neighbors, co-workers, and anyone else you can think of.
Make phone calls. You can call people to ask them for a donation. Many people are receptive to this personal approach.
Use social media. You can use all of your social media accounts to spread the word about your campaign.
 Local businesses are often a great source of financial support. Try going to businesses in your community and asking for a donation. Make sure you ask to speak to the manager or owner, as they are the ones who will have the authorization to make a donation.Be professional, polite, and prepared. Consider having a letter or fact sheet to offer so that the business can evaluate your information.
If the business is not interested or able to make a financial contribution, ask if they can assist you in other ways. For example, maybe your local coffee shop will let you post a flyer advertising your fundraising events.
Accept donations other than money. Ask a local clothing store to donate items for a silent auction.
Make it easy to donate. Be willing to accept cash or check. You could also consider setting up a website to process payments. Be prepared to offer receipts for each donation.

