 Indie people are individualists. Become aware of what you are really interested in. For example, if you like hardcore folk, Google it and try to find as many hardcore folk bands and learn about the genre. Being yourself is the main point of being Indie. It's about being yourself. If you love football, try out! Don't worry about what people say because they are not helping your pursue dreams or become independent. Being indie doesn't mean you can't join in on your school's activities. It's if you like them or not. If you don't like pep rallies, then don't cheer at them. If you like swimming, then try out for the team. Participate in hobbies that you like, not because someone else likes them. Also, read books that you don't see or think about many other people reading; things like old comics, Rolling Stones and Beatle Biographies - anything! Or, ask your local librarian if she recommends any uncommon series, and if you like it, tell your friends!;
, Indie means to an independent style. You're not copying a popular style or attempting to conform into any trend. If you see something from a store that YOU truly like, buy it! It's not a big deal if you buy brand name stores clothes, just as long as you're applying your individual style. Don't get obsessed about non-conforming. That's ignorant because no one is truly a non-conformist. By claiming you are a non-conformist, you are conforming, so stay away from that ignorance. Places that are good for clothing are thrift shops, yard sales, and hand-me-downs. Dress individually, but don't get obsessed with being individual. Be brave about what you wear. Not everyone's going to like it, but you should love it! Remember that you can find some awesome things at thrift and second-hand stores for relatively cheap!

, There are tons of accessories you can add to your outfit. You could wear little beret hat, long beaded necklaces that you can wrap around your neck a few times, or sliver bracelets rings and cute earrings. Triangle necklaces are really indie.
 Curly or wavy hair is very indie, and so are bangs. You can add headbands, or put your hair up, but leave it slightly tousled.


Work on your hair. Your hair will complete any look. If you're having a bad hair day, wear a hat. Other than that, your hair can be any length and any natural color. Having a few layers looks good but don't go overboard because that will make you look scene not indie. A side fringe suits most people, but so does a full fringe so pick whichever you prefer.
 It's hard to be considered indie without an awesome assortment of eclectic jewelry! Places like Target sell great jewelry that easily completes any indie girl wardrobe, but if you don't want to shell out the cash for your bling, try DIY-ing. Go to a bead store and get whatever unique beads you can find. Not good with beads? Try attaching small objects like an old key to a chain. Invest in gold bangles, earrings, rings and maybe a few anklets.
 Indie girls are nice and fun to be around. Because they are willing to be individual, they respect others' individuality and never make fun of it. People may object to how you dress or what you listen to, but the point of being an indie is to be brave enough to be who you want and what you are. When hanging out with people, don't be afraid to voice your opinion or join in the conversation. Joke around in a way that doesn't hurt anyone! Have fun and be fun!

, Join art classes if you don't think you're great at art. Start photography, Garden, Make ink paintings, or Read old books.
 Indie girls are smart. They pursue what they're interested in, even if it isn't popular amongst their peers. You don't have to be a genius or have a 100% average in all classes, but focus on your education and try to get at least decent grades! Don't be ignorant and act like you don't care about school to be "cool".
 You can draw your ideas and fashion from these people. Some indie celebrities include Christofer Drew, Zooey Deschanel and Alison Sudol.
 Wear sunscreen (tanned skin is very mainstream, therefore try not to tan), exercise and eat well.


Find an exercise you're good at and like, to help you keep in shape. A vast majority of indie girls own old or retro bikes, which are also great for the environment!

, Music is very important to indie girls. Research about your favorite genre's past, and have a wide variety of jams to listen to on your MP3 player. You don't have to like what's deemed "indie" music. Once again, Indie is your own independent style, so if you feel a song, listen to it, and don't be ashamed of it!

