 If you want to play a player, you have to get his attention. Do you get his attention by fawning all over him, running your hands through this hair, and telling him how hot he is? Absolutely not. To play a player, you have to start off by completely ignoring him -- be an ice queen if you have to. If he walks into a room and tries to charm you and your girls, look away, stare into your drink, or barely say hi before you check your phone or disappear to the girl's room.


He'll notice you precisely because you didn't notice him. Players expect to be worshipped by every woman around, and he'll wonder why his magic didn't work on you.
You don't have to be outright rude to him. Just look completely uninterested, like you have better things to do than to talk to him. But that doesn't mean you should insult him or call him names, either.;
, After a while, whether it's a few weeks later at the same party or a few hours later at the same bar, you can start to open up a bit. You should let him know you see him, but just enough to make him curious and to want to get to know you and win you over. You can do this by introducing yourself, repeating his name when he introduces himself, or by smiling at him from across the room.


Don't let him make you laugh, ask you to dance, or lavish you with complements.
If he insists on buying you a drink, you can let him, but don't let it be an excuse for him to spend the night trying to charm you. Take the drink, thank him, and walk away.
 Now that you've got his attention and have shown some minimal interest in him, you need to remind him that you have better things to do than to be with him. Let him see you having a good time with your girls by laughing it up with them, hitting up the dance floor with them, or just having a general good time without him.


You can do this anywhere, not just out at a bar. If the player is in your school or someone from town, let him see you having fun with your girls no matter what you're doing, whether it's eating lunch or going shopping. Just make one thing clear: you do not need him.
 To reinforce the idea that you don't really need the player in your life, let him see you hanging out with other guys. Whether you're hanging out with your guy friends or if another guy is showing interest in you, you should let him see that every guy wants some of your time and that you like all of the attention -- as long as it's not from him.


Just by chatting or laughing with other guys, you'll be showing him that you don't need him. You don't have to grind with another guy on the dance floor to show that he's not needed.
Don't look over at the player to make sure that he sees you having a great time. He shouldn't even consider that you're trying to get his attention by ignoring him.
 Once you've acknowledged the guy only to mostly ignore him with your girlfriends and other guys in your life, it's time to reel him back in again. After you think you've driven him crazy enough, it's time to have a quick, flirtatious conversation where you let him fawn all over you and show him that you may be interested.


Play it cool. Don't flatter him. Just let him know that you like talking to him.
Keep things light and fun. That'll make him want to talk to you more.
Tease him a little bit. Don't let him take himself too seriously or think he's all that.
 Let him see that while you like flirting with him, you're not going to fall for his usual lady-killing tactics. You can make fun of him, call him Romeo, or refer to the pack of girls behind him as his girlfriends. This will only drive him crazy and make him want to prove how different he is.


If you don't let him charm you or flatter you, he'll only become more persistent. That's exactly what he wants.

