 The following are general guidelines for writing a cruise ship resume:


Use an accepted electronic format, such as Microsoft Word, Portable Document Format or Rich Text Format. Keep your resume to a length of 1 or 2 pages with no less than 10 point font.
List your work experience in reverse chronological order. People with extensive work experience should list it before education on their resume. Include the skills under each job that directly apply to the cruise ship position you are apply for. Don't assume that any human resources person will know the company or job, since they may be hiring from a different country.
List your education starting with the highest level of education you have received. Include any honors you received. People who have little work experience may need to list their education first. They may also want to apply for entry-level jobs in order to gain experience.
List all languages, including your level of fluency. Create a section for special skills that relate to the job. You may even want to list travel experience. Highlight any skills in the hospitality or travel industries.
Include a photograph of yourself, if asked. Although this is not generally done in the United States, it is required by some companies. Make it a professional, flattering photo. Choose 1 that does not include other people.
Include 2 to 3 business references. They should be people who can vouch for your good work ethic, customer service skills and integrity. Make sure to include the numbers in international format that includes the country code.
 In 400 words or less, highlight your experience, skills and education that mean you are an ideal fit for the position. Make sure to customize the cover letter for each different position you are applying for.
 If you have experience working with youth, you may have a better chance of getting a job on a Disney cruise. If you have experience working with seniors, adventure travelers or other niche markets, use it to your advantage in your resume and cover letter.
 Make sure you are using a legitimate site or company before paying any money to search.
 If you don't get a cruise ship job the first time around, look for jobs with hospitality experience and reapply for new positions as they are listed.

