 Department store outlets, for example, are always good for a bargain, and you can usually find a pretty good deal in a vintage or secondhand shop.;
, You should also factor in your budget (see step 1) and plan accordingly. Accessories can add up quickly, even if you only intend on getting a few of them. You might not be able to purchase everything you want in a single excursion, so decide what you really need and what you can do without until you've saved up some more money. Here are a few ideas as to what you should buy if you're trying to focus on accessories:

, Shoes are the ultimate accessory--a single pair can be worn with a huge variety of outfits, and they can add excellent flair to an outfit that would otherwise be pretty blah.


If you like flat, comfy shoes, either buy some simple flats or a cute pair of boots.
If you prefer heels, think about what kind of heels you will be able to walk in and select a pair. Black and nude are the most adaptable colors for heels, especially if you often wear tights or pantyhose with them. However, in that case you should also remember to only get close-toed heels, since open-toed will reveal your nylon-covered feet.
 Try on a couple to find a good one for you. Black, brown, and gray belts are easy to match, but if you're feeling extravagant you might want a more brightly colored or boldly patterned one.
 If you can afford it, get more than one! A plain leather bag is perfect for everyday use, while a more shiny or sparkly clutch might be more suitable for a night out.


If you have an outfit in mind, try to choose a bag that will compliment your outfit.
If you're a fashion-forward person, never buy a knockoff purse.
 Glittery earrings, a beaded necklace, or a chunky ring--whatever you think reflects your personality. For example, if you are confident and have daring taste in clothing, big jewelry will work well on you. If you're girly and a bit shy, try pearls, lockets, and smaller earrings.
 There are lots of different styles and looks to go for; again, make sure to pick one that suits you.


Don't be afraid to try your hat on before buying it! Look in a mirror or ask a friend for advice about what looks good on you.
In addition to being a solid accessory a hat can also be used to cover up bad hair days.

