 In addition to the steps in Method 2, most states require additional steps if you want to change both your name and gender legally. Many states require a Change of Name and Gender form in addition to the state’s standard petition or order for a name change.For example, in California, applicants must fill out Form NCC-200 in addition to the standard name-change document Form NC-110.Other documents vary by state. Look into your local laws.
 Most states require a licensed physician to provide documentation that you have undergone the respective change of gender. Your doctor may be able to write his or her own note or use a form provided from the state.In California, for instance, your physician can use the Declaration of Physician Attachment, which is officially Form NC-210.Each state has different requirements for what constitutes change of gender. In California, Oregon, Washington, Vermont, and Washington, D.C., the clinical treatment does not necessarily need to be surgical., You’ll still file your forms in your jurisdiction’s civil court and attend your hearing as with Method 2. If the judge approves your request, then you will receive a court order allowing you to change not just your name but also your gender on state-issued documents., Again, each state differs on its approach to changing your name and gender when it comes to legal documents. Some states may not even allow a change of gender on particular documents.


For example, in California you do not need a court-ordered gender change to change your driver's license or birth certificate. Other states, such as Ohio, Idaho, and Tennessee, do not allow gender changes to birth certificates at all.You can find a complete list of instructions for state-by-state birth certificate changes at: http://www.drbecky.com/birthcert.html

For a federal document, such as a social security card, you must provide a court-ordered name change document in order to be issued a new card. Gender details do not appear on social security cards, but to change you gender filed with the Social Security Administration, you can show a state-issued amended birth certificate, a physician’s letter certifying clinical treatment, or a ten-year U.S. passport showing the appropriate gender marker.To receive a ten-year U.S. passport, your ID and passport photo must resemble your current appearance, and you must submit a letter from a physician certifying that you have completed your transition.