 Rosacea is a common skin disease that appears as a tendency for reddened skin, primarily on the nose, cheeks, forehead and chin. It can also appear on the ears, chest and back. There are four main types of rosacea:Erythematotelangiectatic rosacea: This type involves redness and visible blood vessels that appears like a spider web
Papulopustular rosacea: This type involves redness and swelling along with acne-like breakouts.
Phymatous rosacea: In this type of rosacea, the skin gets thicker and bumpy.
Ocular rosacea: The eyes are involved in this form of rosacea where the eyes are reddened and irritated. The eyelids can be become swollen. Ocular rosacea is often described as if the person has a sty., There are a number of symptoms that are commonly associated with rosacea. Take a look at your skin in the mirror to see if you are experiencing any of the following:Flushing and redness in the center of the face.
Spider veins (broken blood vessels)
Swollen skin
Sensitive skin
Skin may sting and burn.
Skin may be dry with some roughness or scaling.
In Papulopustular rosacea, acne like breakouts are common, especially in areas where the skin is very red.
In Phymatous rosacea, the skin and nose can become very bumpy and the skin pores may be very large.
In Ocular rosacea, the eyes appear watery or bloodshot and may sting, burn and feel like there is a foreign blood vessel. The eyes can be very sensitive to light.
 Rosacea is quite common and generally occurs between the ages of 30 to 50 years. Individuals tend to be fair-skinned and have someone in their family with rosacea. Women are slightly more likely to be diagnosed with rosacea. Also, people who tend to blush more easily than other people are more likely to develop rosacea.
 Rosacea is diagnosed primarily by a physical exam. A doctor may recommend treatment with medications, moisturizers and antibiotics. You do not need to use these treatments, but a professional diagnosis is a good idea.


If thickened skin is present, laser surgery may be used to remove the extra layers of skin.
 Even if you are trying natural remedies and skipping medications altogether, you should still inform your dermatologist or doctor about your skincare routines. He or she can work with you to find a good solution and to caution you about adverse effects of certain natural remedies.