 If you are embarking on a comprehensive review of customer satisfaction, it's a good idea to begin by establishing some baseline figures. Having a clear picture of where you are starting from will enable you to effectively track your progress and improvements over time. A baseline survey will also pinpoint the key areas you need to focus on.A baseline survey can establish the expectations of your customers.
It can also demonstrate how important your customers consider the service to be in their decision to return to your business.
You will obtain a clearer view of the relative importance of service, price, convenience, and various other factors.
 The main tool in quantitative analysis of customer satisfaction is the survey. You can do in this online, through the post, or on your business premises.Surveys enable you to gain a broad range of information, but the depth of the answers will be a limited. Have a clear objective in mind when you are preparing a survey.

The broadest questions would concern levels of overall satisfaction, how likely the customer is to buy from you again, and whether or not they would recommend your business to others?
Other questions can be grouped according to specific parts of your service to focus on individual elements of the customer experience.For example, you might have questions on customer service in store, the quality and price of a product, delivery times, and the ease of completing the transaction., As well as asking people if they will return to your business, you can monitor customer loyalty more objectively by tracking payments and transactions. Metrics from credit card transactions, for example, can be monitored to show who is buying what from your business. This might not be be appropriate for smaller businesses, but larger firms will use this data to develop a clearer view of customer habits and loyalty., As well as analysing the feedback you have generated through your surveys, don't forget to look out for unsolicited feedback. Regularly look online for comments and reviews of your business, and include these in your broader analysis.


If a customer has left a bad review, you could contact them and ask some follow-up questions, in order to get a fuller picture of the bad experience they had with your business.
Websites and social media are an increasingly important and influential forum for customer satisfaction surveys, so you need to engage with this area.