 Create three sections of hair – one in the front from ear to ear, one over your crown, and one with the rest of your hair – and tie each with a clear elastic band to form a row on top of your head. Hairspray and tease the bottom two ponytails. Wrap the middle one around the back of the bottom one, and secure it with a bobby pin. Next wrap the bottom one around the front of the now-forming bun and pin. Take out the front ponytail band, tease the hair, smooth the top layer, pull it back to the bun, pin it, and wrap the rest around the bun, securing it with a bobby pin or two tucked underneath.


Before pulling the front section back, you can use a small amount of pomade to smooth the bun, and use pins to tuck in stray pieces.
Give it a good, all-over misting with a medium-hold hairspray to complete the look., Create a deep side part and use either a 1-2” barrel or triple-barrel curling iron to create waves, section-by-section, throughout your hair before letting your hair cool. Gently pull back the hair from just above your crown down to your ears and secure it with a clear elastic band into a loose ponytail just above the nape of your neck. Pull the band down so there’s space between it and your scalp and tuck the tail and the band underneath your hair, holding it in place with bobby pins.


Use a light or medium-hold hairspray and lightly spray all of your hair so curls don’t become weighed down.You can loosen the curls in the front by carefully running one or two fingers through them.
For more volume in the front, finger tease the curls at the root and then set with hairspray.
 Wind 1-2” sections of hair around a 2” barrel curling iron held vertically to create large curls for texture all over your head. Let them cool and then tease the hair at your crown. Take a 1-2” section of hair at both temples and pin them at the lower part of your head with bobby pins. Continue pinning back sections randomly – you’re going for loose, not stiff and tight. Curl any strands that fall out at the bottom and any long pieces in front to frame your face.


Finish with a light-hold hairspray.Make sure you apply a thermal heat protectant to your hair before brandishing the curling iron.
 Tease the top of your hair, smooth it, twist it in the direction you want the twist to go, push up on it for volume, and secure it with a bobby pin. Take all the hair on the other side, pull it to middle of your head, and secure with a vertical row of crisscrossed bobby pins. Take 1-2” sections of hair from the other side, starting at the top, and smooth each over in a curved fashion to cover the bobby pins before securing each with a bobby pin hidden underneath the twist. Create a small bun from the remaining tail hair, tuck in the ends and pin it against your head.Spray hairspray on your hands or rub a dab of smoothing serum or argan oil between your palms and run them other the front and sides of your hair to smooth.
Add a hair clip to the seam of the twist to glam it up or to hide areas that are a bit short and aren’t cooperating.
 Curl the ends of your hair using a 1-1¼” barrel curling iron to keep them from popping out of the tuck. Then apply a very small amount of a light-hold styling cream to the ends for extra hold. Position an elastic headband 1-2” behind your hairline and pin it in place. Starting on on one side in the front and moving down, take 1-2” pieces of hair, twist them back and up, tuck them into the headband, and secure each with a bobby pin if needed. Do this all the way around your head.


Spray well with a medium-hold hairspray.
You can also lightly tease and then smooth hair before twisting and tucking if yours is particularly fine.