 If your deck of cards came with jokers, extra cards, or instruction cards, remove them from the deck so there are only the 52 standard cards. Shuffle the deck to mix up the cards before dealing.When dealing, deal one card to each player in succession until every player has the right number of cards.
Always deal in a clockwise direction, starting with the player to the left of the dealer.;
, Turn over the top four cards in the deck and lay them out in a cross-pattern on the table with one card each facing north, south, east, and west.If any kings come up, move them to one of the corners (the open spaces left between the four cards of the cross). Fill the space left by the king with a new card from the deck, face-up like the others.


The piles created by these four (non-king) cards are called the foundation piles.
Place the remainder of the deck in the middle of the four foundation piles.
 In Kings Corners, players hold their cards in their hands, concealed from the other players., There are many methods you can use to determine who will go first in a game of cards, including:


The oldest or youngest person
The person whose birthday is soonest
The person to the left of the dealer
Drawing straws
Rock, paper, scissors

, Each turn begins with the player drawing a single card from the top of the deck.Player one can then begin to discard cards. The object of the game is for each player to try to get rid of all their cards before the other players do.
 There are two ways a player can discard. For one, if a player has a king, they can place the king in an empty corner to start a king foundation pile. Otherwise, a player can discard cards onto any of the foundation piles on the table:


To discard onto any pile, the discarded card must be the opposite color of the top card, and it must be one number smaller.The sequence of cards in the game is king, queen, jack, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, ace.So, for instance, on a black king, you could only place a red queen. On a red five, you can only place a black four. On a red two, you can place a black ace.
When a player discards on top of a foundation pile, make sure the cards overlap so all the cards underneath can still be seen.If the last (or only) card in a foundation pile is an ace, nothing can be played on this card: the pile can only be merged with another pile., Any player (when it’s that player’s turn) can merge piles on the table if the cards complete the sequence. Once a foundation pile has been moved, the player who moved it can fill the empty space with any card or card sequence from their hand.


To merge piles, they must match the red-black alternation, and the pile on top must complete the numeric sequence. For instance, if you have a foundation pile containing a six, five, and four, you can place those cards (in that sequence) on top of another foundation pile with a seven as the top card, as long as the seven and six from the separate piles are opposite colors.
When a pile is completed and contains all the cards from king to ace, that pile can be shuffled back into the deck in the center., When player one has discarded all the cards possible, merged any possible piles, and filled the space with any empty cards, it is time for player two to have a turn, followed by any subsequent players, before play returns to the original player.


Always remember to pick up one card at the beginning of each turn.
Player two is to the left of player one, so that the game is played in a clockwise direction.
When it’s any player’s turn, if they cannot discard after drawing from the deck, play passes on to the next player.
When the center deck runs out, continue playing without drawing cards., Since the object of the game is to discard all your cards, the game is over as soon as a player is able to discard every card from their hand, including the last card picked up at the beginning of the final turn.
 In some versions of the game, players only draw a card if they cannot go, and do not pick up a new card at the beginning of each turn., Kings Corners can be played with multiple rounds, so that when one player goes out, penalty points are allotted based on the cards left in the other players’ hands, and then another round is played.Allot 10 points for every king left in a player’s hand and one point for every other card.
The game ends once a player reaches or exceeds a certain score, such as 25 or 50 points.
When a player does reach or exceed the given score, the player with the fewest points wins.
 As another form of keeping score, you can also use poker chips that get paid into a communal pot, and the player who wins each hand wins the pot. In this case, each player would start with the same number of chips, such as 50 each, for instance.To begin every round, each player puts one chip into the pot.
If any player has a turn but cannot discard any cards, that player pays another chip into the pot.
You can also play so that players have to pay a chip for each card left in their hand at the end of each round, similar to the point system (10 chips for a king and one chip for every other card).

