 A more expedient method of climbing involves using a rope, sarong (a length of fabric typically worn as a sash) or strand of natural plant fiber. The rope or other material should be between 3-5 feet long, depending on the girth of the tree. Fashion a circle out of the rope and tie it securely. You will be using the rope as a brace for your legs, which will enable you to scale the tree quickly and easily.Using a rope or another similar device increases surface area contact with the tree, which means you can use the strength of the tree to support much more weight with minimal effort.Test the knot you tied in the rope and confirm that it will hold before using it to climb.
 Twist the rope over in a Figure 8 configuration. This will ensure that the two sides of the rope stay together, and that it is strong enough in the center to hold your full body weight. Drape each looped end of the rope over the outer edge of your foot, near the ankle. Try not to let the rope drift out of place as you climb.Doubling the rope over in a Figure 8 shape also neatly creates two little stirrups, one for each foot.Once you’ve begun climbing, the rope loops should rest directly under the midpoints of your feet.
 Move in close to the tree and grip the back of the trunk with both hands. Hop up quickly and place both feet on either side of the trunk so that the rope is stretched tight across the front. With the high amount of tension on rope, you can now “stand” on the trunk as you climb. This will be even easier if the tree you’re climbing has grooves.Practice jumping onto the trunk and “standing” on the rope a few times near the bottom of the tree before going any higher.
The further your upper body is from the tree trunk, the more weight you’ll be able to rest on the rope. If you were to stand completely vertical, you would simply slide down the tree.
 Gain elevation by using little hops to bring your legs higher up on the trunk, then extend your body and reach to take a new grip. It’s important that you hold on tight and push into the tree with the rope in order to steady yourself. Time your movements so that your feet are in a stable position when you reach, and you’ve got a decent handhold before you bring your legs up.Your feet should be pointed at a downward angle so that you can grip and press into the trunk with your toes.
Just like the walking method, the key is finding the right balance in tension. The legs push away from the trunk and give you room to move, while the arms pull you towards it and upwards, keeping you on the right track.
 Continue hopping and pulling to climb to the top of the tree. Take your time and be certain that the rope is anchored before reaching for your next handhold—rushing might cause you to slip. If at any point you start to get tired, you can rest by crouching with your weight over the rope and hugging the tree tight with one or both arms.


Make each hop controlled and concise. Only try to move 1-2 feet each time.
Think of the climbing motion as two repeated steps: hop, reach, hop, reach.
 Getting down from the top of the tree is as easy as sliding down. Let your hands grip the sides of the trunk loosely to help you control your weight on the weight down. Don’t let your knees or forearms rub up against the trunk as you slide, or you might scrape them. You may have to use a combination of sliding and scooting motions to descend quickly if the tree is grooved.It’s a little easier to slide down if you’re climbing with the aid of a rope or sarong, as there is less risk of scraping up your feet.
Never drop from so high that you can’t make a safe landing.