 One way to consolidate your debt is to use a bank loan or a loan from another type of private lender. Loans come in two types - secured loans, which are tied to an asset like a house or car, and unsecured loans, which are not. Simple, direct personal loans, as described in this method, are unsecured loans. These types of loans are available through numerous banks and commercial lenders, but also "under the table" from family and friends. Your first step should be to contact prospective lenders and explain your situation.


Each lender you contact should be able you to tell you whether you're eligible for a loan, and, if so, should tell you the loan's interest rate. You will want a loan with as low of interest as possible - it must at least be lower than the rates on your current debts to be "worth it".;
, Your credit score is based on your financial history and is essentially a "grade" of your financial stability. Nearly all commercial lenders will perform a credit check before agreeing to give you a loan. If you have a history of bad financial decisions, you may be unable to obtain an unsecured personal loan from a commercial lender.
 Getting an "under-the-table" loan from a friend or relative can be quicker and easier than getting a personal loan from a commercial lender, but it's far from risk-free. Being in debt to someone who's close to you can change your relationship with this person by creating a power dynamic that didn't previously exist. It can make interactions with this person tense or awkward, especially if you're having difficulty paying off the loan. Additionally, because informal loans are difficult or impossible to legally enforce, disputes over the loan can become long and messy. As a general rule, only turn to family and friends for loans as a last resort.
 Unsecured commercial loans often (but not always) have lower interest rates than credit cards, while the interest rate of a loan from a friend or family member is decided by that person. If you can get a low-interest loan that lowers the size of your monthly payments, take it. For instance, if you have multiple maxed-out credit cards, it's wise to consolidate the relatively high-interest credit card payments under one low-interest personal loan.


Once you've consolidated your debts under a new loan, it's imperative that you make all of your new loan's payments on-time. Late or missed payments can lead to legal action or bankruptcy.

