  Journal about this.  When did you first start feeling like this?  In what situations have you felt the feeling kick in?  Have you done bad things that make you feel this way or are you taking the word of others that you are not good enough?  If you have done bad things, please see method #2.  This might be painful, but stick with it.  You are doing this to let go of these feelings.;
,  Where did this overvaluing of talents come from?

,  A mala is a Hindu or Buddhist necklace of 108 beads.  You can find them on online; do a google search.  Catholics call them Rosaries.  There are also Muslim prayer beads.  Other types of beaded necklaces can also be used - just make sure there are about 100 beads and a way to tell that you've completed the necklace (like a stopper or counter bead).
,  This is a statement that hits at the heart or the core belief that you are not good enough.  A good one to use is "I'm okay; you're okay."

, When you are going to sleep or just waking us is called the hypnogogic or hypnopomic state respectively.  These are very special times.  When you're half-asleep, your ego defense mechanisms are mostly offline.  This means that you can access your subconscious mind and change its contents.   So take your beads to bed with you.  For each bead on the necklace, say your affirmation or mantra.  Make it heart felt.  Don't say it without meaning.  -- You are not going to believe it at first.  It is new programming for your brain.  But keep saying it.
 You are going to come up with reasons why the mantra/affirmation is not true.  For example:  "I am not okay because I'm fat, I don't work hard enough,  I don't keep in touch with my family enough....."   or "I'm okay, but you're an a**hole."    This is old brain programming that you need to rewrite.  Remember, that in the eyes of the universe, we are all equal.  The spirit of life runs just as much through others as it does through us.   Remember that people who act in hurtful ways are themselves suffering. Try to imagine what is going on from their point of view. #  Journal about these intellectual objections, and come to peace with them.  It is important that you not let them stop you.  (If you start thinking of ways in which you have hurt others, use method #2)

,  This is unprocessed emotion that you have stored in your body.   You have got to let it come up and fully experience it.   Cry it out.  This is vital to the healing process.  Things are going to get worse before they get better.


This whole process should take about 3 months of nightly practice - but if you're digging it, keep going for as long as you choose.   When you have processed all the stored pain, your brain is going to physically feel different.  It's like moving into a different house in a different country.  Your outlook on life will be completely different - and you will automatically treat others differently.
  You have completely changed your life and saved a bundle on therapy!

