 A good understanding of English spelling and grammar is essential to becoming a proofreader. You'll also need to be able to focus for long periods of time, and be attentive to details.A degree in English can be helpful, but is not required.
You must have good vision.;
, While there is no formal licensing procedure for becoming a proofreader, you may wish to take a course on the topic in a community college or university. Potential employers may be attracted by your coursework, and you will learn more about the technical aspects of proofreading.Some courses or programs offer training in proofreading different kinds of materials, such as journals, books, or magazines.
You may opt for a certification program in proofreading to improve your chances of finding employment.
 Most publications follow this sequence: a writer submits her work to a publication; an editor checks for word clarity and suggests changes; the writer then revises. The final step in the process is to proofread the text prior to publication. Your primary job as a proofreader will be to read through a text for accurate matching to the edited text.If you're a proofreader, you won't be making any editorial changes to the text.
The only queries you'll make regarding the text should be in response to inconsistencies that don't appear to have an immediate fix.
 A good proofreader must be able to work alone for long periods of time. You must be able to read quickly, recognizing mistakes as you read. Having knowledge of specialized subjects can be useful for proofreading for certain industries.For example, proofreading legal documents or pharmaceutical texts can be quite lucrative, but require specialized knowledge in the field.
Your written communication skills should be strong.
 If you're proofreading in a specialized field, chances are you'll be expected to know the citation guidelines specific to that field. Professional journals may require working knowledge of Turabian (or Chicago) citation, MLA citation, or APA style.Make sure you're familiar with a variety of style guides as you enter the proofreading market.
If you're proofreading screenplays, you'll need to be able to recognize slang or phonetic spellings meant to indicate dialect or accents.
Your particular employer is likely to have her own house-style, or guidelines that writers and editors are expected to follow.
 Nearly all proofreading jobs require the use of track changes in Word. Other highly recommended software includes Perfectit, and Grammarly. Reference Checker is a software program that automatically checks to see that citations are listed correctly.The software you choose to use will vary based on your proofreading job.
Most software offers a free trial period before purchase. It's worth taking time to get familiar with these programs as you make your way into the proofreading market.

