 A behavior therapist specializes in creating, modifying, and enforcing behavior plans. A behavior therapist can work with you (and/or your child) to create a plan that leads to better outcomes in behavior and productivity. A behavior therapist may work to modify responses to anger, use role playing, social skills modeling, and activities to promote focus.Meet with a behavior therapist to create a behavior plan and track progress over several weeks.


For more information, check out How to Get the Most out of Behavioral Therapy.;
, The therapist will ask what desired behaviors or goals are needed. Think beyond “I want better behavior” or “I want to punish my child less.” Reflect on where the struggles are, such as completing homework or work projects. Then, set small goals. You can set goals for getting work done (“Work for 20 minutes, then I get a break”) or for behavior (“Share toys with your friends” or “decrease impulsivity during playtime.”)Think about what goals you may have, then try to break them into smaller parts. For instance, you may want a clean room. Break this into smaller parts by saying, “All shoes will be put away, all laundry in the basket, toys picked up off the floor, and bed made each day.”

, Work with the therapist to encourage immediate success. Criteria for rewards can become harder as the program continues, but keep motivation high in the beginning to encourage following the program.Have small prizes to begin with, such as a little toy or sweet treat (like an ice cream cone) as a reward for completing basic positive behavior.
 Decide what behaviors to reinforce and which behaviors to not reinforce. Then, brainstorm motivating incentives and/or consequences for completing (or not completing) tasks. Providing rewards or positive reinforcement is motivating and will encourage more positive behaviors.For children, some people use sticker charts, which allow the child to earn a sticker for positive behaviors displayed.
Rewards can be small toys or objects (which are good for small children, who respond best to immediate reinforcement), or a point system to save up for larger prizes (good for older children).. For adults or older teens, the reinforcement can be a treat (like an ice cream cone or brownie), or the ability to save up and purchase a desired item. Children may want to choose their own rewards, which can be beneficial in motivation.
Consequences can include taking away certain privileges (no tv if homework is not completed), or deducting points if using a point system.
 The key to implementing behavior modification systems (like a point system or behavior chart) is consistency. Don’t start the behavior system then gradually forget about it. Be consistent and persist with enforcing the behavior system. A behavior therapist will check in on the system each week during therapy. Respond to positive behaviors as they occur; don’t let time go by without positively reinforcing good behaviors in the moment. The faster you reinforce positive behaviors, the better connection is made to continue positive behavior.
Make time each day to go over the day’s behaviors, and discuss what can be improved. For instance, praise a good day filled with many positive behaviors. If one day does not include many good behaviors, discuss what can be improved upon for the next day.
 Behavior therapy is often useless if it’s only discussed and implemented for one hour each week during therapy. It’s important to bring the learned skills home. Many people with ADHD find it hard to stay on task and complete goals. Distraction is far too easy and before you know it, you’re in the middle of another task. Keep life simplified by having a daily schedule. Know your morning, afternoon, and evening routine, and keep it the same and predictable.This goes for children, too. Have a morning and after-school schedule in place so that the child knows what to expect. Keep motivations in the schedule, like setting aside 30 minutes of tv time once homework is completed.
The more predictable the day is, the better someone with ADHD will follow through and accomplish goals.
 Use bins, storage containers, baskets, or anything else that keeps you organized. If you constantly lose certain items (such as your keys or your cell phone), have a place for them in your home where they always go. For a child, have toy bins that help your child to know which toys go where. Sort clothes so that it’s easy to put them away.


For more information, check out How to Organize Your Life.
 Place clocks throughout the house so that you (or your child) can stay aware of how much time is left to get ready or to finish homework before dinner.Use a timer to motivate work getting done, such as homework or projects. Set the timer, and provide a small reward when the timer goes off.


If a task seems to big to manage, break it down into smaller parts. Use a timer to work for 20 minutes, then take a break for five minutes.
 This helps keep out distractions and allows for better concentration. Turn off the tv and have the workspace in a room away from noise or other people. If music is wanted, keep it with minimal or no lyrics, but something relaxing and not distracting.
 If you have a request for your child, make it clear that you are directing it to him or her. Say the request clearly and simply. It’s not enough to ask your child to “be good”; be specific in your speech and make sure that he or she understands.Say, “Aaron, please stand next to me” or “Sheila, please do not touch anything in the grocery aisle.”
A behavior therapist can help you practice or rehearse how to communicate more clearly with a child.
 When a child wants something, like to watch tv or play with toys while in the middle of homework, gently remind that the child that he or she must complete the task at hand first. Then, once the task is completed, he or she can have the reward.Be firm and communicate simply with the child, then drop the discussion so he or she cannot continue to try and get what is desired.


Say, “Yes, you can play with your dinosaurs when you finish your homework” or “Yes, first you will put away your toys, then you can have your dessert.”

, If you want a child to behave a certain way, model the appropriate behavior for your child. If your child has a difficult time monitoring aggression during interactions, show your child what kind and non-aggressive interactions look like. If you want a child to be less messy, model picking up your things before moving on to a different activity.If the child has siblings, have them model good behaviors as well. If you’re working on your child putting his or her shoes away, have everyone in the family put shoes away in a quick and organized fashion.
If you’re struggling to model target behavior, ask the behavior therapist to model it for you.
 A behavior modification system designed for a 3 year old will not work as effectively once the child is 5. Adjust the system as the child grows. Modify rewards and also target behaviors. Make sure the system continues to motivate the child to working toward positive behaviors.Younger children often respond well to immediate rewards and feedback, like a small toy. If your child begins to lose interest, ask for input on rewards. As the child gets older, he or she may want larger prizes, which can be earned with points.
The therapist will monitor progress and see if adjustments need to be made.
 Children respond to consistency in their environment. Talk to your child’s school teacher and inquire whether a behavior system is used at school, and if not, how you can help your child succeed in school by using a behavior system. Especially if your child struggles to complete assignments at school or has difficulty with impulsivity or social skills, a behavior system can help. The more it aligns with the system at home, the more consistent and predictable the plan, and the better the child can adhere.Ask a behavior therapist what recommendations he or she may have for following a behavior modification program at school. It may include reinforcing when the child raises his or her hand versus blurting answers out, waiting patiently in line, or not rushing through tests but taking one’s time.

