 Character profiles can be useful tools in a character driven book. As you begin to develop your major characters, consider writing up character profiles to refer to as you write your work.Character profiles list a character's personality traits, physical appearance, personal relationships and so on. You should try to write up a character profile for each major character in your book.
Start with the basics. Write down your character's full name and physical details like height, weight, eye color, hair color, and so on. Also, make sure to chart out basic relationship. Lists parents, siblings, friends, romantic partners, and so on.
From here, talk about deeper issues. Lists your character wants, fears, and needs. Talk about what your character likes and dislikes. What does your character want out of life? What about him or herself does your character want to change? Also, include things like religious and political views, as these are important insights to a character's personality.
You may find, as you begin to write, you do not include every detail in your actual book. However, knowing your character's intimately can be helpful for you as a writer. You may find you incorporate a lot of the information from your character profiles in the subtext of your work.
 A character arc represents your character's emotional journey throughout the course of a work. In a character driven book, a character arc is the driving force of your story. Your character's internal arc will be how you figure out the rising action, climax, and falling action of your story.Essentially, your character arc is how we get from Point A to Point B in your story. Let's return to the ballet dancer example. Your main character should go from obsessing over perfection and control to accepting life's ambiguities. How do you get your character to this point?
Think of events that will shape your character. In our example, the ballet dancer's estranged father resurfaces. As your dancer cares for his ailing father, you can include flashbacks to his childhood. This can reveal an amount of chaos that was frightening. You can also use the progression of his father's illness to drive the story forward, each stage of his father's sickness forcing the ballet dancer to recognize how much of life is beyond his control.
 Your character should come with a history attached to him or her. Try writing a brief biography for each character you create. Where was the character born? What was his or her childhood like? Where did he or she go to school? What important events occurred in his or her life? This information is all vital to a character's current personality.


Much like the information in your character profiles, it's unlikely that you'll include every detail of a character's backstory in your book. However, this information may be useful for you as a writer. You can add details subtly or burry them in the context.
 Character relationships are very important to a character driven story. Oftentimes, a relationship is of central importance to the realizations a character has that drive his or her story arc. As you develop your characters, focus on their relationships with one another.You may want to map out relationships between character. Use a big sheet of construction paper to write out all your characters. Draw color-coded lines between characters to represent relationships. For example, a red line is a romantic relationship. A blue line is a family relationship.
Grudges can go a long way in developing characters. A lot of tension in a character driven work comes from characters who dislike each other or have a troubled history.
Focus on how these relationships will change. Will characters grow apart, reconcile, or develop animosity as time goes by?

, Strong opinions can make for interesting, dynamic characters. They can also help move the story forward. How a character's opinion changes over time can be a focal point of that character's arc. Strong opinions can also foster disagreement between characters, creating compelling conflict in a story.Characters with strong opinions can be very driven. This can help keep a character driven story moving. For example, the ballet dancer is of the opinion perfection and success are vital to a life well lived. He may be dismissive of people he sees as lazy. This can create tension in his personal relationships, as his opinions may make him judgmental or overbearing.
Strong opinions often change during the course of a story. Your climax will seem more exciting if your character is forced to abandon opinions he or she has clung to strongly throughout a work.

