 Moment of inertia is the resistance of a body to rotational motion. Moment of inertia is dependent on both the mass and how the mass is distributed.


To clearly understand this, imagine two cylinders of the same diameter but different masses.
Imagine that you need to rotate the two cylinders at their centers.
Obviously, the cylinder with a greater mass will be harder to rotate than the other cylinder, since it is “heavier”.
Now, imagine two cylinders with different diameters but the same masses. To still appear cylindrical with the same mass, but at the same time accommodate different diameters, the shapes, or mass distributions, of both cylinders will differ from each other.
The cylinder with a larger diameter will look like a flat, circular plate while the smaller diameter cylinder will look like a solid tissue tube.
The cylinder with a larger diameter will be harder to rotate because you need a larger force to account for the longer moment arm.
 There are several equations available to solve for the moment of inertia.


First is the simple equation: or the summation of the mass and the moment arms of each particle.
This equation is used for points or ideal particles. A point particle is an object that has mass, but does not take up space.
In other words, the only relevant characteristic of the object is its mass; you do not need to know its size, shape or structure.
The concept of a point particle is commonly used in physics to simplify calculations and use ideal and theoretical scenarios.
Now, imagine objects such as a hollow cylinder or a solid uniform sphere. These objects have a clear and definite shape, size, and structure.
Therefore, you cannot regard them as a point particle.
Thankfully, you can use available equations that apply to some of these common objects:

, To begin finding torque, you need to solve for the moment of inertia. Use the following example problem to follow along:


Two small “weights” of mass 5.0 kg and 7.0 kg are mounted 4.0 m apart on a light rod (whose mass can be neglected). The axis of rotation is at the center of the rod. The rod is rotated from rest to an angular velocity of 30.0 rad/s in 3.00s. Calculate the torque produced.
Since the axis of rotation is at the center, the moment arm of both the weights is equal to half the length of the rod, which is 2.0 m.
Since there was no specified shape, size, and structure for the “weights”, we can assume that the weights are ideal particles.
The moment of inertia can be computed as:

, The formula, α= at/r or, can be used to solve for angular acceleration.


The first formula, α= at/r, can be used if the tangential acceleration and the radius are given.
The tangential acceleration is the acceleration that is tangent to the path of motion.
Imagine an object traveling along a curved path. The tangential acceleration is just its linear acceleration at any point along the path.
For the second formula, the easiest way to illustrate this is to relate it to kinematics: displacement, linear velocity, and linear linear acceleration.
Displacement is the distance traveled by an object (SI unit:meters, m); linear velocity is the rate of change of displacement over time (SI unit: m/s); linear acceleration is the rate of change of linear velocity over time (SI unit: m/s2).
Now, consider the counterparts in rotational motion: angular displacement, θ, the angle of the rotation of a certain point or line (SI unit: rad); the angular velocity, ω, time rate change of angular displacement (SI unit: rad/s); and the angular acceleration, α, the change in angular velocity per unit time (SI unit: rad/s2).
Going back to our example, you were given data for angular momentum and time. Since it started from rest, the initial angular velocity is 0. We can use the equation,, to solve:

, Simply replace the variables with the answers obtained from the previous steps.


You may notice that the unit "rad" does not fit in our units, because it is considered a dimensionless quantity.
This means you can disregard it and continue with your computation.
For the sake of dimensional analysis, we can express angular acceleration in the units s-2.

