 On easy, low-intensity training days, you'll want to build a well-balanced plate at each meal. You should include foods and beverages from each major food group.About half of your plate should consist of vegetables (both raw and cooked), vegetable-based soups, and fresh fruit.
Approximately one-quarter of your plate should consist of lean protein sources. This may include poultry, beef, fish, eggs, low-fat dairy, soy, nuts, and legumes.
The remaining one-quarter of your plate should include whole grains like pasta, rice, potatoes, cereals, bread, or legumes.
You should get about one teaspoon of fats that come from avocado, nuts, seeds, cheese, butter, or oils.
A good meal plan might include granola or oatmeal for breakfast, turkey lettuce wraps for lunch, and blackened chicken or fish with quinoa for dinner.;
, On moderate-intensity days, you'll want to increase your lean protein and whole grain sources. However, you should still balance each meal with a proportional serving of fresh fruits and vegetables.Approximately one-third of your plate should consist of vegetables. These may be raw, cooked, or in soup.
About one-third of your plate should consist of grains. These include pasta, rice, potatoes, bread, cereal, and legumes.
The remaining one-third of your plate should consist of lean protein sources. You may include poultry, beef, fish, eggs, low-fat dairy, soy, nuts, or legumes.
Add at least one to two servings of fruit. Your fruit can be fresh, stewed, or dried. You should also aim to get about one tablespoon of fats that come from avocado, nuts, seeds, cheese, butter, or oils.
A good meal plan might include a frittata for breakfast, a salmon pasta dish for lunch, and a casserole for dinner., On high-intensity training or competition days, you'll want to increase your consumption of carbohydrates. You can do this by eating more whole grains, but make sure you still round out each meal with adequate portions of lean protein and fresh fruits and vegetables.About half of your plate should consist of grains, including pasta, rice, potatoes, cereals, and bread.
Approximately one-fourth of your plate should consist of vegetables. These may be cooked or raw, or served in soups.
Approximately one-fourth of your plate should contain lean proteins like poultry, beef, fish, eggs, low-fat dairy, nuts, legumes, or soy.
Get at least one to two servings of fruit (fresh, stewed, or dried). You should also get two tablespoons of fats in the form of avocado, nuts, oils, seeds, cheese, or butter.
A good meal plan might include quinoa power pancakes for breakfast, sweet potato quesadillas for lunch, and spaghetti and meatballs for dinner., When you have snacks between meals, it's important to weigh your caloric intake against your training for that day. Talk to your trainer or a nutritionist to determine which snacks would suit you best on a given training or performance day. Some common snacks that Olympic athletes may go for include:


fruit and yogurtgranola and almond butter balls
roasted chickpeas
low-fat peanut butter cups
chocolate bark, cookies, or brownies

, Carbohydrates help fuel your performance. Without adequate carbohydrate intake, your body will grow fatigued more quickly and you won't be able to sustain continuous or high-intensity workouts.For moderate- to high-intensity athletes getting one to three hours of exercise each day, it's recommended that you consume 6 to 10 grams of carbohydrates per kilogram of body weight each day.
For very high-intensity athletes exercising four or more hours each day, it's recommended that you ingest 8 to 12 grams of carbs per kilogram of body weight daily.
Remember that pounds are roughly double the weight in kilograms. For example, a moderate-intensity athlete who weighs 150 pounds (68 kilograms) should consume 408 to 680 grams of carbohydrates each day.
 There are many different types of carbohydrates. Which ones you choose will depend on what period of your training you are entering. Some should be consumed every day, while others are best reserved for periods of intense physical activity.Nutrient-dense carbs should be part of your everyday diet. This group of carbs includes bread, cereal, grains, fruit, starchy vegetables, legumes, and low-fat dairy foods.
Nutrient-poor carbohydrates are high-carb foods with few other nutrients. This group of carbs, which includes soft drinks, sports drinks, energy drinks, and carbohydrate gels, should be reserved for intense training periods.
High-fat carbohydrates, such as baked goods, potato chips, french fries, and chocolate, are best reserved for occasional carb boosts. These foods should not be used while engaging in training sessions.
 Calculating when you eat your carbs is just as important as figuring out which carbs to eat. You'll want to time your carbohydrate consumption so that you can maximize your performance during your training or competition.General fuel-up carbs should be eaten about 90 minutes before you exercise. Be sure to give yourself enough time to properly digest your food.
Carb loading should take place about 90 minutes before sustained or intermittent exercise.
Pre-event fueling should take place at least one hour before a competitive event.
 Protein helps your body build and repair muscle cells and connective tissue. You also need protein to help transport nutrients throughout your body. Not getting enough protein can lead to your muscles breaking down over time, resulting in lower strength and energy.Elite endurance athletes should be consuming 1.3 to 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight each day.
Resistance athletes should be consuming between 1.0 and 1.7 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight each day.
Remember that pounds are approximately double the weight in kilograms. For example, a 150-pound (68-kilogram) endurance athlete should be eating about 92 to 108 grams of protein each day.
 Some foods contain more protein than others. How much protein-rich food you eat will depend on your dietary needs and the foods you choose to eat.To get 10 grams of protein from animal foods, you would need to eat either two eggs, 1.5 slices of cheese, one cup (250 milliliters) of milk, 40 grams of lean chicken, 50 grams of fish, or 200 grams of yogurt.
To get 10 grams of protein from plant sources, you would need to eat either four slices of wholemeal bread, three cups of whole grain cereal, two cups of pasta, three cups of rice, 120 grams of tofu, 100 grams of soy "meat," or 3/4 cup lentils.
 In addition to getting enough protein, you should ensure that you're consuming protein at the optimal times. You need protein throughout the day, but you should also boost your protein intake after training or competing.Ingesting large amounts of protein immediately after exercising helps your body take up and retain more amino acids. This, in turn, will help your body recover from exercise and repair muscle as needed.
Make sure you continue to eat enough protein throughout the rest of the day.
The increased uptake and retention of amino acids from protein consumed right after exercise will continue for up to 24 hours. This means that your protein source for breakfast will be used as rapidly as the protein you ate after a workout last night.
 Whether you're participating in an Olympic sport or trying to improve your diet and exercise regimen, you'll want to consult with your doctor first. A doctor will be able to advise you on whether your diet or exercise plan will meet your nutritional needs, as well as whether your body can handle the physical stress of such a regimen.
 Staying hydrated is crucial for your day-to-day survival, and it's particularly important when you exercise. To properly monitor your hydration levels, you should weigh yourself before and after every workout so you know how much water you lost through sweat.It's imperative that you stay hydrated before, during, and after training to prevent dehydration.


Prior to your training session, drink at least 16 ounces of fluids two to three hours before exercising, then another 8 ounces of fluids about 15 minutes before your workout. You should also weigh yourself before exercising.
During your training session, drink just enough water to prevent dehydration. Sip on water periodically whenever you feel thirsty.
If you are able to closely monitor your body weight before and after training, you'll know approximately how much of your body weight is lost through sweat. Aim to keep that figure below two percent of your total body weight loss.
Weigh yourself after training and drink 16 to 24 ounces of fluids for every pound of body weight you lost through sweat.
If you're out of shape or working in intense environmental conditions like heat and high altitude, you'll need to drink more water than someone who has a more developed level of fitness.
 If you do not drink enough fluids before, during, and after exercising, your body will become susceptible to dehydration.Some common symptoms of dehydration include:


darker urine color
muscle cramps
headache
nausea and/or vomiting
elevated heart rate
difficulty concentrating
fatigue early in your training sessions and/or difficulty recovering after training

, Alcohol generally impairs your body's ability to perform by over 11 percent the day after drinking. There are no benefits to drinking alcohol during training periods. For this reason, it's generally recommended that athletes avoid drinking alcohol within 48 hours of training or competition., Some caffeine can improve your performance by increasing your endurance while improving your concentration and reaction time. However, too much caffeine can leave you feeling jittery, sick, and unfocused. For this reason, it's best to use caffeine strategically and in limited doses.Everyone's tolerance varies, but it's generally recommended that you limit yourself to one to three milligrams of caffeine per kilogram of body weight. If you weigh 150 pounds (68 kilograms), that works out to 68 to 204 milligrams of caffeine.
There are approximately 95 milligrams of caffeine in one 8-ounce cup of coffee. By comparison, there are approximately 26 milligrams of caffeine in one 9-ounce cup of green tea and 47 milligrams of caffeine in the same size serving of black tea.
Drink caffeine approximately one hour before training or competing. If you will be training for over two hours, you may consume low doses of caffeine (80 to 120 milligrams) during your workout.
Avoid caffeinated energy drinks. These have very high concentrations of caffeine and may contain derivatives of banned substances like geranium or ma huang, which could disqualify you from the competition.
 Vitamins and minerals are an important component of your diet. When you're training and competing, you'll need iron to help produce red blood cells and oxygenate your muscles.You'll also want to get enough vitamin D, which helps foster healthy bones, well-functioning muscles, and strong cell regrowth.Athletes under 50 years of age need approximately 600 International Units (IU) of vitamin D each day and between 8 and 18 milligrams of iron. Vegetarians and vegans need almost twice as much iron (1.8 times the daily recommended intake).
Good sources of vitamin D include fish, mushrooms, and fortified milk, soy milk, or juice. You can also get most of the vitamin D you need by spending at least 30 minutes in the sun each day.
You can get rapidly-absorbed heme iron from animal products, while non-heme iron (which is not very well-absorbed) can be found in fruits, vegetables, legumes, and enriched grains.
Some foods and beverages inhibit your body's ability to absorb iron, and should therefore be limited in your diet. These include coffee, tea, cocoa, and foods rich in calcium.
You can increase your body's absorption of non-heme iron by pairing fruits and vegetables with foods rich in vitamin C. This includes citrus fruits and juices, strawberries, kiwis, tomatoes, broccoli, and peppers.

