 Thank the customer for their business up to this point. Doing so will start the conversation off on a happy note. Being friendly rather than angry may help to calm emotions., Make sure you understand everything they say. Don’t interrupt, but if there’s anything you don’t get, wait until they’ve finished speaking and ask for clarification. Don’t do that too many times, as the customer may lose their temper. If they respond to one of your queries with an outburst like “I just told you what I thought was wrong, aren’t you listening?” reply with “Yes, but it’s a lot to take in and I want to make sure that I’ve understood you perfectly so that I can fix the problem.”


Once they’ve finished, repeat back what they said to make sure they know you understand the problem. Try starting out with something like “OK, so just to make sure I’ve understood you, here’s what you’re concerned about.”
Figure out as soon as possible if you don’t have the authority to fix the problem. If that’s the case, find someone who does.
 An unhappy customer can be calmed by a friendly demeanor and a smile when the situation or problem is addressed. Displaying a negative attitude when you're attempting to win back your customer will not be effective. No matter how angry or annoyed the customer becomes, never lose your cool., Make sure the customer knows that you understand their problem. By expressing empathy, you can reinforce a sense of confidence in your company or product. This is often more effective than begging them to stay. If you appear confident despite the customer’s seemingly well-founded concerns, they may second-guess their decision to leave.Remember that you can best show empathy by listening carefully. Suspend your own judgments and try your best to imagine things from the customer’s perspective.Even saying something as simple as “I understand where you are coming from, and I see how frustrating you’re finding this situation” can help matters.
 Don’t wait to resolve a bad experience once the customer has told you what their concerns are. Waiting too long to resolve their concerns may show them that you don’t care as much as you said you did. Move that customer to the top of your priorities list., Carving out time to speak with the customer one-on-one will show them how serious you are about fixing the problem. Doing so is especially important if the customer left because of poor service. It will also help the two of you speak more freely with each other, which can help get to the root of any problems you haven’t yet discussed., Apologize for the situation. Specify exactly what you are apologizing for when you address the problem. Generic apologies that do not address the problem are not effective. Lots of businesses are rarely forthcoming about their mistakes. Therefore, by apologizing and being completely honest, you will stand out.A statement such as “Before I say anything else, I want you to know that we were fully in the wrong in this situation, and I take full responsibility” is a good way to begin.


Even if the customer still chooses to leave, by taking full responsibility you will increase the likelihood that they will refer friends and family to you.
Avoid trying to exonerate yourself by looking through the fine print of any deal for technicalities. That may save you money in the short term, but in the long term it will harm your reputation., Doing so will make the customer feel more empowered. It may also show you potential solutions that you weren’t aware of. Even if you wind up not taking the customer’s advice, asking them what they would do is a good way to get back in their good graces.Take this step before proposing any of your own solutions. Try saying something like “I understand why you’re frustrated, and I’m eager to hear what you think would work as a solution.”

, It may seem obvious, but customers are most likely to return if you make them an offer that gets to the root of their concern. Avoid the temptation to cut corners by offering them a plan that worked for someone else so you don’t have to spend time coming up with a new one.


Be generous with incentives. If you know the customer well, for example, you might consider throwing in a gift card to a restaurant or other business they like. If you can establish a sense of affection with the customer you will heighten your chances of retaining their business., Don’t hesitate to work with the customer on creating a written plan with as many specific benchmarks and other goals as possible. Doing so will show the customer how serious you are about retaining their business. Make sure they know that you’ll give them a full refund if you miss any of these steps. Remember that it’s on you to prove that you deserve the customer’s business., Establishing a personal bond with the customer can help to win their business back. But in the end, your customer won’t want to do business with you if he or she knows they can get a similar product elsewhere. Continually reinforce that the customer will be making the best possible financial decision by working with you., In some cases negative interpersonal relationships between individual managers and customers can sour an otherwise productive relationship. So if you think that a particular manager isn’t getting along with a customer, don’t hesitate to reassign that manager. Asking the customer if these sorts of personal politics are at play may help lead to a richer and more productive relationship in the long term.If you are a small business owner with no one to delegate customer relations to and you can sense that a customer doesn’t like you, do your best to work things out. Remember that you don’t have to like someone on a personal level to work with them professionally. Confronting negative personal relationships by asking the customer “Is it me?” may help to clear the air.
 Sometimes, you may have to declare the relationship a lost cause and move on. Beware of the sunk cost fallacy, which is when business owners justify pouring more resources into saving a lost deal because of all the time, energy, and money they have previously committed to it. Attempting to win back each and every customer is likely to be more trouble than it’s worth.


Some customers are more likely to return than others. Those who have never complained before, have referred others to you in the past, or whose prior complaints have always been resolved are often most likely to return.
Likewise, someone who threatens to leave because of high prices may be more likely to return than someone who leaves because of poor service. Those who leave because of a combination of those two complaints are probably least likely to come back., Whether or not you win the customer back, you’ll need to determine whether you stand to lose more business in the future because of the problem they uncovered. If your disagreement with the customer points to a systemic problem in your business, you should take steps to correct it immediately.


Fold the customer’s concerns into the SWOT method. SWOT stands for Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats. Try using this method to analyze your position in the market, utilizing the problem that the customer brought up as a method of better understanding how your company fares versus your competitors., You may find that ex-customers will want to come back after enough time has passed. This is especially true if your parting was amicable. Don’t pester them. But make an effort to keep them in the loop by occasionally notifying them of changes you’re making addressing the original problem that drove them away. You may find that they’re willing to give you a second chance after all.