 If you want to be an ally of the community, or if you simply want to learn more about it, then the first thing to understand is that sexuality and gender aren’t necessarily related.This means understanding and accepting that just because someone is born a woman does not mean that they should necessarily be attracted to men, or that someone born a man should be attracted to a woman.
This is not the same as gender identity. Just because someone is gay or lesbian does not mean that they don’t identify with their own gender. People who identify with a gender that is not their biological gender are transgender, If you are watching television and find a news channel or TV show saying things about LGBT people that you know is false, you can report that program to GLAAD, which works to build support for the community.This also applies if you feel that a TV show is portraying an LGBT person in a very offensive, inaccurate way.
You can report misrepresentation by contacting them here.
 You may not mean anything by it, but making jokes about gays and lesbians can be hurtful. Avoid making them, and if someone makes them around you, let them know that you feel uncomfortable with such jokes.You don’t have to do this rudely. Just simply say, “I know you only meant that as a joke, but I find it very offensive to the LGBT community, and I would appreciate it if you would avoid these jokes when you are around me, please.”

, Coming out is a very difficult thing to do for many people. They may feel afraid that the people they love will abandon them. Thus, you should never assume someone’s sexual preference.For example, if you have a great male friend, but he’s never given any indication about whether he is gay or straight then you should avoid trying to set him up on dates with girls you know.
If you have a friend who is gay that hasn’t come out, then your assumptions that they are straight may make the process even more difficult for them.
 Even if you whole-heartedly support the LGBT community, you might still have some biases against the community that you haven’t dealt with.For example, many people tend to assume that a gay man will be dressed in brightly colored clothing, have perfectly styled hair, and speak in a feminine way. Although this may sometimes be the case, it isn’t always. Gay men and lesbians come in all shapes and sizes, just like straight people.

