 Google's Family Link lets you create an account for your child that you can monitor via your Android device. In addition to needing to live in the United States, you'll need the following items to create a Family Link account:An Android phone running KitKat or higher.
A brand-new (or factory-reset) Android running Nougat
A Google account of your own;
, You'll find it at https://families.google.com/familylink/., It's a blue button in the middle of the page., Doing so will take you to an account page to ensure you're using the correct account., You'll do this in the middle of the page.

If you aren't currently signed into a Google account, first click SIGN IN in the middle of the page and enter your email address and password.
If needed, first click Use a different account? and select a different email account (or enter the details for one).
 To do so, you'll click Yes below a question, click the right-facing arrow, and repeat the process for each subsequent question., Doing so will send a request for an invite to the Family Link beta; once you're approved, you'll sign into the Family Link app (Google will provide you with access), create an account for you child, and get them set up with Google Family Link on their Android 7 device., This app is a red, green, yellow, and blue circle-shaped icon.

You'll need to be logged into Google Chrome with your Google account to create a supervised user. To log in, click the tab on the top-right side of the Chrome window, then click Sign in and enter your Google account credentials. If the tab displays your name, you're already logged in.
 It's in the top-right corner of the Google Chrome window.

On some versions of Chrome, the button here instead looks like this: ☰


, You'll find this toward the bottom of the drop-down menu here., This option is under the "People" heading toward the bottom of the page.

Make sure the Enable Guest browsing and Let anyone add a person to Chrome boxes are both unchecked.
 You'll do this in the box next to "Name:" below the list of profile images.

You can also choose a profile image by clicking an icon at the top of the window (or let your kid decide).
 Doing so will place a check mark in each of them--if you don't see a check mark, click again. These boxes include the following:


"Create a desktop shortcut for this user" - This option will allow your kid(s) to open their version of Chrome directly, which will minimize the possibility of accidentally opening an unrestricted browser.

"Control and view the websites this person visits from " - This option will allow you to directly monitor your kid(s)'s Internet usage.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the "Add person" window. Doing this will add your child's profile to your account as a secondary profile., It's in the bottom-right corner of the window. Now that your child's profile is live, you can proceed with setting it up., This link appears below row of buttons that are beneath the "People" window., You can do so from the dashboard in the middle of the page, or you can find it in the menu on the left side of the Chrome page., It's in the top-right corner of the "Permissions" window that's on the right side of the page., Doing so will invoke a drop-down menu., While you can certainly select All of the web to block individual sites, it's much easier to come up with a list of sites you'll allow your kids to use., To do so, simply type a site's URL into the "Add a website" field and press ↵ Enter. Some recommended sites to allow include the following:Google
YouTube
Wikipedia
The Learning Network

, It's in the bottom-right corner of the window. Your selected sites will be added to the "Approved Sites" list, meaning your kid(s) will be able to visit these sites (and only these sites).