 Before you get to performing the trick, ensure that you have practiced it so many times that it feels like second nature to you and you could practically do it blindfolded. Your own ability to see a difficult or even dangerous trick through to its conclusion comes down to your own confidence, a lot of practice, and a certainty that you're able to accomplish the trick properly and safely.;
, What is sharp, what bends, what can break, and what can fail? You should know all of the possibilities with the equipment you're using, including the ways in which it can fail on you.
 Are there props over which you don't have control, such as a table or chair, or lighting? Perhaps the venue has a stage you're unfamiliar with. Think about all of the possibilities and how you can manage them.
 For example, if carrying scissors, a sword, or any other sharp object, always carry them facing downward and away from yourself and other people. Alert people when you're moving objects that can potentially cause harm, whether it's during setting up, rehearsal, or the actual show. Have proper covers, sheathes, bags, boxes, and other containers to keep dangerous props carefully stored when not in use. Even balls and small objects can cause someone to trip over if left lying about.


Be very careful with anything that has a naked flame. Always extinguish it when not in use and never turn your back on it.

Always put away your props after use and label them clearly.
 Every time you have a magic show, do the setting up yourself or under very strict supervision. You should know exactly where each prop is, how it has been placed, and what condition it is in. If someone else sets it up, it may cause you to err when performing the trick or you might not notice any weaknesses or problems with the props until you're actually performing.
 Your props and your own abilities are something you can control. The audience is something that is much harder to control and while you should perfect the art of keeping the audience spellbound and quiet, things don't always go according to plan. Be prepared for such possibilities as:


Children running onto stage when least expected

Shouting or loud noise from the audience
Attempted exposure of your magical "secrets" (in this case, learn how to perform the "sucker" trick in which you appear to have given away the secret but you haven't)
Dangers to any audience member you've recruited as a volunteer should be completely removed. Ensure you know how to keep such participants completely safe during the performance of the trick.
 Whether it's bunnies and birds or tigers and horses, animals can be an unknown quantity. They must be very well trained, healthy, and in the case of dangerous animals, their trainer must be present at all times ready to take appropriate action should anything go wrong.


Obey all laws with respect to kind and humane treatment of animals. They are not props but living beings deserving of the same respect as you.

