 If there's someone you've got your eye on, make sure you know them so you're not wasting your time on someone you ultimately won't get on with.;
, You won't meet anyone, let alone attract them and end up with them as a boyfriend, if you don't at least communicate with other people. Start hanging out with your friends. Go online, join a dating agency if that's appropriate for you. Go to evening classes, school clubs, community social events, out for coffee on your own, jogging, walking etc etc. Get out and about meeting up with people you know so you can meet new people or be brave and have that coffee 'in' and not to go or head out somewhere people gather on your own.
 You don't have to wear your best outfit to nip down to the dairy for a packet of Tim Tams, but you're more likely to catch someone's eye if your walking tall in some nice jeans and an ironed top or whatever else makes you feel good, than if you scuttle about, head down, clad in jogging bottoms, a scruffy vest top and jandals.
 Don't glare at people who stare at you, you don't know why they are starring. Don't be the first to break eye contact. Don't stand around with your arms folded looking miserable. That guy asking you the time might not just want to know the time! Could be that's the only thing he could think of to say, so, smile tell him the time, and if you like him, say, 'Hope you're not late for a date'

, No need to grin like a loon but try to have a happy, friendly expression on your face most of the time. Even if you're not feeling too flash, try not to show it.
 You might meet 'The One' on a day you skipped cleaning your teeth or a bad hair day, sure, but, you'll feel more confident talking to any potential boyfriends if you're looking and feeling clean and healthy. Being sweaty at the gym is fine, having one pimple is NORMAL, scars, birth marks, moles, wheel chairs, walking aids, hearing aids, big ears, green hair, pierced lips, tattoos, all NORMAL! Nothing about your physical appearance is any more or less likely to stop you getting a boyfriend unless YOU let it by feeling self conscious about it and letting it bother you.
 It could be a scent, an item of clothing, a lipstick, some underwear, a bag, a belt, anything. Have this be your talisman for feeling Great. Know that whenever you have your chosen thing with you, you're on top! You can wear this whenever there's a chance of boyfriend material around, even on line!

, Don't hold out for a Brad Pitt lookalike if there's a kind, genuine, funny guy next door. Realise that you won't meet the man of your dreams down to the finest detail! Don't reject guys on the basis of their height, skin colour, income, eye colour, preference in clothes, parental status etc. One date won't kill you, as long as you are sensible, and, you might meet Mr Practically Perfect while you're out with Mr Not So Perfect.
 If you are Scene, Emo, Preppy, Country, Death Metal or whatever else, realize that you may be putting off a lot of nice guys who aren't Emo, Preppy, Country etc. It's fine to label yourself and identity yourself however you wish to. None of the popular 'looks' are wrong or right, but realize your look may mean you only attract others who like this look and people are very likely to make assumptions about your personality, rightly or wrongly, based on what you look like.
 Don't assume you need a certain personality to get a boyfriend. Shy people have boyfriends, outgoing people get into relationships, quirky people get married, boring people aren't found boring by everyone, witty people have love affairs, there's someone out there who will like you enough to be your boyfriend despite any little flaws you may think you have. Adapt by all means but you need to feel comfortable to say and do what you like with anyone, let alone a potential boyfriend.
 When you meet a boy or man you like, in real life or on line, don't assume he knows you like him. Some guys are terrible at picking up on subtle hints. A guy who doesn't know you like him will NEVER be your boyfriend unless you can find a way of letting him know, beyond any doubt, that you are at least interested in him. Try flirting, but make sure he knows you really want to playfully show him you are sexually attracted to him and not just being friendly. Try being direct and asking to see him again. You can do this without asking for a date by saying, 'So, if I stop by here again, am likely to see you?'. Pay him a compliment, see if he pays you one back. Make eye contact and have a good conversation instead of just passing the time. All of these are more likely to get you a boyfriend!

