 As you twist, you will usually notice that you will favor one side more than the other. If you moved one foot forward at the start of the dance, odds are, that will be the side you twist to more dramatically. To switch directions, simply slide your original forward foot back and bring your original back foot forward. Your body will naturally begin swinging more dramatically to the new side., Gradually bend your knees more as you twist which will lower your body further. Hold this position for a few beats, then rise back up by raising your knees to the starting position. Both the dropping and rising part of the move should be slow and steady.
 With the normal twist, both feet move in synchronized harmony. Instead, hold one foot still while twisting the heel of your other foot as your hips shift from side to side.


The leg of the stationary foot will not rock from side to side, but the knee will bend forward and back in response to your body movement.
 As you shift your weight to one side, bend the leg of your other side at the knee and lift it up. Hold it up for the entire beat and gradually lower it back down as you shift your weight back to that side.


Continue twisting the leg you lift as you hold it up. In doing so, your leg will usually kick back or to the side in response to the overall movement.
 You can throw a little flair into the dance by raising your arms above your head and waving them to the beat. You do not need to keep your arms above your head the entire time. Instead, mix things up by doing this for part of the dance and keeping your arms in the standard bent position for the rest of the dance.
 For a different type of arm movement, keep your arms bent at the elbows and swing the forearm portion in a circular motion in front of your body. Keep your arms in sync with each other as you swing them.


This move was first made popular by the "peppermint twist.", Consider clapping to the beat as you twist the rest of your body. This is one of the easier ways to make the dance your own, and it can be a good move to use if you are still new to the dance. Clapping can help enact the beat of the twist.


This is another move first exemplified in the “peppermint twist” version of the dance.
Mix up your clapping to make it more interesting. On one beat, clap once; on the next, clap twice. Alternate back and forth between one clap and two, maintaining this pattern for the duration of the song.
 The usual twist requires you to keep your body low. If you want to really stand out, gradually rise up from your low position and give a quick jump straight up on one beat. Afterward, shift your body back down to its usual position.

