 Swipe down on the notification panel, and tap the Settings button that is at the top-right corner. This acts as a shortcut to the Settings menu.


Alternatively, you can tap the Apps drawer button and launch the Settings app from there.;
, Scroll down the Settings menu until you see the Language and Input option under the “Voice and Input” header, and then tap it.
 In the menu, you should see a list of installed keyboards. Swype can come pre-installed on your Galaxy device, depending on your carrier, but sometimes it isn’t. You should see Swype Keyboard in the list, along with Samsung Keyboard, under the “Keyboards and Input” methods header.


If you cannot find Swype, install the keyboard from the Play Store before proceeding.
 Open an app, such as a web browser or a messaging app that requires typing by tapping on its app icon.
 The cursor should appear, as well as the default keyboard. The input method selection notification should come up in the status bar at the top after the keyboard appears.
 Swipe down from your notification panel. Then tap the “Choose input method” button in the panel.
 You should be taken to a menu listing the keyboards installed on your device. Tap on Swype to enable it.
 You will be taken to the Swype app to set it up for the first time. Enter your email address in the field under “Backup & Sync.” Tap “Register” to continue.
 The next screen should show you the terms of service for using Swype. Read through it and tap “Accept” if you wish to continue using the app. Then the Contribute Usage data should appear next, which tells you that you will anonymously send your data to Swype in order to help with statistics. Tap the “Accept” button again.
 The next screen should show you a welcome screen, indicating that the setup has finished. Tap the “Start Swiping” button at the bottom of the screen to get back to the home screen.
 Now you can use the keyboard to type using swiping gestures. Start by touching the first letter of the word you wish to type, then just drag your finger to the succeeding letters of the word. Once you reach the last letter of the word, simply let go and the word should appear in the text box. It is significantly easier to type this way when you only have one hand free.


When looking to customize the keyboard’s dictionary to include non-conventional words, first type the word using the regular tapping method. The word should appear in the top row just above the keyboard. Tap the exact spelling of the word to add it to the dictionary. Then you can swipe the word, and Swype will display the non-conventional word using the spelling you confirmed earlier when you added it to the dictionary.

