 Ensure that you are playing as Adult Link. Be sure that you have thawed King Zora in Zora's Domain and that you have Epona. Furthermore, it is also recommended that you familiarize yourself with the territory. Once you are ready, head to Kakariko Village.


It is also recommended that you obtain the Sun's Song. At one point, you will have to wait three days, so it can help decrease the wait time.;
, She will give you a Pocket Egg. You can either play the Sun's Song or wait one day. Once the day has passed, you will have a Pocket Cucco.
 Take the Pocket Cucco, and find the house in Kakariko Village where Talon is sleeping. Use the Pocket Cucco to wake him up. Bring the Pocket Cucco back to the Cucco Lady. Satisfied, she will give you her brother's Cucco, Cojiro, which she requests to have delivered to him.
 From the entrance, turn left. You will enter a room where you - playing as Child Link - will sell the Skull Mask to the Skull Kid. Afterwards, you will see a sad man sitting against the stump in Skull Kid's place. Give Cojiro to him, and he will give an Odd Mushroom to you with instructions to deliver it to the potion hag in Kakariko Village. She is located behind the normal potion shop. Because the mushroom spoils in three minutes, you must rush to Kakariko Village before time runs out.


Note that you cannot use Ocarina to fast travel.
 She will make you an Odd Poultice. Take it back to the Lost Woods. When you reach the place where the sad man was, you will instead discover a small Kokiri girl who says the Odd Potion is made out of forest mushrooms. She demands for you to return it to her. Once you give her the potion, she leaves you with a Poacher's Saw.
 Unless if you have defeated Gerudo's Fortress, the bridge over the chasm will be destroyed. You can cross over it by using Longshot or Epona. Afterwards, enter the carpenters' tent, and talk to the boss. After he takes the Poacher's Saw, he gives you a Broken Goron's Sword in return.
 Run past where the second set of boulders are falling. Using well-timed bombs, destroy the large rocks in your way with a couple of well-timed bombs. Jump from ledge to ledge until you reach flat ground. However, do not descend into the hole. Instead, move forward and roll past the flaming boulders. Shoot down the spiders before climbing the wall to the top. When you reach the rock clearing, run towards the wall on your upper right. A giant Goron (Biggoron) should greet you, but he is rubbing his eyes in pain. After talking to you, he says he will fix the Broken Goron's Sword in return for eyedrops. He hands you an Eyedrop Prescription.
 He informs you that while he does not have the eyedrops, he possesses the ingredients. He gives you an Eyeball Frog. Upon receiving the item, you will have three minutes to give the Eyeball Frog to the lakeside scientist. Otherwise, it will spoil.


Do not use Serenade of Water, as that will ruin the Eyeball Frog.
 Once he creates Biggoron's Eyedrops, you will have four minutes to reach the top of Death Mountain. If you travel through Darunia's room in Goron City, time stops as you pass through the crater. You can then pop out at the big Goron.


Refrain from using Bolero of Fire; otherwise, the eye drops will spoil.
 As a result, his mood greatly improves, and he promises to make you a sword in three days. He gives you a Claim Check. You can either wait three days or play the Sun's Song six times to skip time.
 After three days have passed, speak to Biggoron and receive your new weapon.

