 Avoid filling your day with too many meetings, events, or chores such that you have no "down time." Being busy is not a competition, and your mind shouldn't feel like it's on overdrive on a regular basis. Allow yourself to have time to yourself, so that you aren't overworked and overstressed.If you're a student, make sure that school work and extracurricular activities aren't consuming you. Remember to take breaks, particularly if you're looking at a computer screen for more than two hours.
If you're career-focused, make sure that you set boundaries about what is "work time" and "personal time." Don't let all your time become "work time."
If you're a parent or caring for someone, it's important that each day or week involves something that is specifically for you. Your life may be focused on caregiving, but to avoid burnout or high stress, you need to have "me time."

, Keeping your brain active through games or hobbies that stimulate focus and help you mental strength. While exercising the whole body keeps you healthy and reduces stress, try these activities to help you keep your brain healthy:Brain games and puzzles. Try doing a daily crossword, Sudoku, word puzzles, or other similar games that require mental processing and concentration.
Play music. Playing an instrument can help with concentration and learning, as you need to be focused on finding the right note or staying in tune with the music.
Read a book. Reading requires mental focus and stimulates the imagination.
 Be aware of your family medical history. Does your family have a history of dementia, a thyroid disorder, or a mental health condition? Openly discuss with your doctor about your current medications as well as your family medical history in order to address your risks for memory impairment.Some medications have side effects that affect memory. Talk with your healthcare provider about what medications you're taking and the risks for memory impairment.
Some medical conditions such as thyroid disorders impact mental alertness. Get a medical exam done to rule out any underlying medical conditions that may be increasing your forgetfulness.
Forgetfulness, lack of concentration, and fatigue may be due to an untreated (or under-treated) mental health condition. Consider discussing any symptoms of depression, anxiety, stress, or poor concentration with your primary doctor or a mental health professional.

