 Use white if you want to simplify the process, since you won’t need to color your frosting. Choose red, yellow, purple, blue or any other color.


Brown shoes can be made using chocolate frosting, rather than coloring white frosting.;
, The liners make up the platform of your heel, so they should be color coordinated to your frosting and decorations.
 Try something that matches the color of your frosting. You can also use toasted coconut., Preheat your oven to the temperature specified.
 If you are using chocolate cake mix, but you don’t want your cupcake shoes to appear brown, use two cupcake liners for each cupcake. The oil in the cake can seep through the liner and make it opaque.
 Test them by poking a metal skewer into the center. If it comes out clean it is done.
 Your cupcakes should be at room temperature before you try to frost them. Set them atop a mesh cooling rack to help them cool off faster.
, Visit the Food Network’s Frosting by Numbers page to learn how to mix almost any color with traditional liquid food coloring.


You can also purchase gel food coloring at craft stores or online. It is pre-mixed to a certain hue and it can result in more vibrant colors. This is the best option if you want to make red or black frosting.
, You can also pipe the frosting onto the top of the cupcake if you are experienced with cake decorating.
 Dip the top of your iced cupcake into the sprinkles. They should be covered in an even layer, which will create the “fabric” of your shoe.
 This is where you will leave the finished product to dry.
 Take a rectangular piece of cracker from the box. Use a serrated knife to saw the graham cracker into an angled shoe platform.


You will need a base to connect with the cupcake and a thinner top edge to connect with the heel.
It will look like a long, thin triangle; however, both ends should have square sides for added support.
Repeat with your 11 remaining graham crackers.
Some crackers may fracture, so have extra on hand.
 Extend the icing along the edges of the cracker. Dip each edge of the graham cracker into the bowl of sprinkles.The sprinkles should look like the perimeter of the shoe.
You can also pipe matching frosting or decorative beads onto the edges of the cracker.
Set your iced crackers aside until you are ready for final assembly.
 Cut the top of the Russian cigarette cookies into an angle. The graham cracker platform will rest on the top of the cookie.


The shorter and more stout the cookies are, the sturdier the stiletto will be.
 You can also use a package of candy melts. Melt the candy or chocolate in 10-second increments and stir until it is liquefied.You will need to work quickly to assemble your cupcake shoes before the chocolate dries. The chocolate is the glue of your cupcake.
 It should be a small horizontal scoop where the cake and frosting meet the liner. Take away no more than one-half tsp. of cake.


Your spoon should scoop slightly below the edge of the liner, so that the liner will hold the platform in place.
 Insert the wide end of the graham cracker platform into the cupcake, where you made your indentation. Push until it feels fairly secure and hold it in place with your left hand.


Make sure your place your graham cracker with the frosted side up.
 Set the flat end on the baking sheet. Attach the angled end to the top of the graham cracker platform with the melted chocolate “glue.”


Ensure you use enough chocolate so that it will harden like glue. However, don’t use so much that it will drip down the cookie.
Hold it until you feel it is secure, and then leave it to dry.
 Let them dry for several hours. Then, decorate them with additional piping or cake decorations before serving.

