 Jealousy is a destructive negative emotion. It will eat at you and make you miserable, while making you feel terrible about yourself. Holding on to your jealousy can make you feel bad, act angrily, and make decisions you wouldn’t normally make.One way you can let go of jealousy is to stop comparing yourself to others. Accept that you can't change your crush's mind right now. Stop obsessing about your crush and focus on other things, like yourself, your friends, or your interests.
You can repeat to yourself, "The negative energy of my jealousy is not worth my time. I am better than this."
Your jealousy may cause you to talk bad about your enemy or your crush. You may confront your crush or your enemy because you are angry and jealous. This can cause a lot of problems. Letting go of the jealousy or ignoring it can help you avoid these situations.;
, Your crush may be dating your enemy because the two of your will never work out. Just because you have a crush doesn’t mean the person will like you back. This is just an unfortunate part of life. One way to avoid getting jealous is to accept that maybe it was just never meant to be with you and your crush.


You can take the time to be sad and get over your crush. You won’t be able to just let it go immediately. In the long run, it will be better for you if you accept this and move on.
 One way to avoid jealousy when your crush starts dating someone you don’t like is to move on from the crush. Unfortunately, maybe your crush doesn’t like you. That doesn’t mean there is anything wrong with you, it just may mean you two are not compatible. Take this opportunity to look for other potential crushes that may work out better.

If you spend your time being jealous of your crush and your enemy’s relationship, you may miss an opportunity to start dating someone really great because of your jealousy.
Look around at the people you interact with. Are there people that you have things in common with or find attractive? These people may be your next crush.
 If your crush starts dating your enemy, don’t instantly feel jealous. Jealousy means you feel bad because someone has something you don’t, which often makes you feel bad about yourself. Instead, take it as a reason to really look at your crush. Really look at them. Objectively think about whether they are as great as you thought.If your crush is dating your enemy, maybe your crush is someone you might not like. Why do you not like your enemy? Are they mean or a bully? Did they do something to hurt you? If your crush is dating them, maybe they are not a nice person like your enemy.
 Take a moment to step away from your jealousy and think about your crush. There is probably a reason they like your enemy. Maybe they find your enemy attractive, share similar interests, or have fun when together. Your crush is a person who has interests just like you.


Just because your crush likes your enemy instead of you doesn’t means there is anything wrong with you. You shouldn’t feel jealous that your enemy got your crush when you couldn’t. There is just not one person for you.
 Just because your crush is dating your enemy now doesn’t mean they will be dating your enemy next month or even next week. If you can’t get over your crush, you should be patient while the two of them date. When your crush breaks up with your enemy, you will still be there with your crush.Even if your crush and your enemy date for a long time, that doesn’t mean they will date forever. If you don’t like your enemy, maybe your crush will realize they’re not worth it, too.

