 If you want to build a strong core, you can't neglect the plank. This basic exercise remains one of the most efficient ways to build strong abdominal muscles, and has plenty of variations to keep you challenged and interested.If you're new to core exercises, you may want to start with a half-plank. Your elbows, forearms, and knees will support your body weight on the floor. Raise your feet and make your body a straight line from your rear to the crown of your head.
Progress to a forearm plank, in which your body weight is supported by your forearms and your toes. Your body should form a straight line. Make sure your elbows are directly below your shoulders. This is also called low plank and forms the basis of many plank variations.
For high plank, your arms will be extended straight with your palms and toes on the floor. Your wrists should be directly under your shoulders. Cup your palms and press your fingers into the floor to ease the pressure on your wrists.
 Even if you've mastered a regular plank and can hold the position without shaking for a couple of minutes, you still may find the side plank challenging. The side plank targets your inner core muscles and the obliques on your sides.You can do a low side plank (on your forearm and elbow) or a high side plank (on your hand, arm extended). Stack your ankles one on top of the other so your body is a straight line. Make sure you switch and do the other side.
 If you've done any work on your core, you probably know that it's difficult to avoid crunches. You can use crunches as well as reverse crunches to help burn belly fat and build a strong core.To do reverse crunches, lie on your back and bend your knees at 90-degree angles. Place your arms straight by your sides with your palms on the floor for support. Engage your core.
On an exhale, press your back into the floor as you crunch your knees towards your chest. On an inhale, lower your legs back to the starting position in a slow and controlled manner.
Do as many of these as you can do with good form during a 30- or 60-second interval.
 If you have a medicine ball or dumbbell, you can use Russian twists to add resistance and build strength in your entire core. This exercise is performed from a V-sit or boat position with your feet off the ground and your torso leaning back at about a 30 to 45-degree angle from the floor.Hold the weight in front of you at center and engage your core. Then twist side to side, touching the weight against the floor on either side of you with each twist.
Do this exercise from 30 to 60 seconds, completing as many twists as possible with good form.

