 To start being in control of your incoming emails, first close your inbox and think of the structure you want to apply. Use tools for filtering and organizing your emails. Decide how often and at what times you will be checking your emails. Depending on your job requirements, it can be anything from once a week to five times per day.
 Then process older unread emails. Once you have decided when you will be processing emails and task requests, for example once in the morning and once in the afternoon, apply the 4D method to all new incoming emails. Plan time in your agenda to work through older messages in reverse chronological order. At some point, you will have gone so far back that you can simply select all and mark as read., Ask yourself if this task request actually needs to be done, or can it be deleted? For example, if someone asks you to translate a certain document, but it has been decided that a translation will not be needed, simply reply to the sender informing them that this task is no longer a requirement. Mark the email as read, archive it and/or delete it., Does this task need to be done by you? If a task request needs to be done, ask yourself if you are the one who has to do it. For example, if someone asks you to give them a three dimensional drawing of an engine, and this is not your area of expertise, send a reply to the sender stating just that. Include the person responsible for this task and ask to either be excluded from all subsequent emails or be placed in copy only., Can this task be done right now? If the task request can be done in less than three minutes, do it now, even if you are extremely busy and have urgent deadlines. For example, if someone asks you for a certain reference number, look it up and reply immediately. This will complete the task and avoids another low priority bullet added to your to do list., If a task request can’t be deleted, it must be done by you, but you can’t do it right now, open your agenda and plan it. Take into account the timing requested, as well as your other priorities. Once you have scheduled it, reply to the sender, saying why you can’t do it right now and when they can expect your feedback.