 Cool water can help take the sting out of the cut.;
, Be gentle with your wound. Scrubbing too hard can open up the paper cut further.



In the absence of cool, running tap water, utilize a bulb syringe or poke a hole in a plastic bottle and squeeze.
 The properties that kill bacteria can also damage healthy cell tissue. While they rarely cause serious harm, they could slow your rate of healing., If the cut is bleeding a lot or it doesn't stop quickly, stop it by applying gentle pressure with a clean washcloth or bandage., Keep it clean. The air will help dry it out and within a day you’ll hardly remember it happened.
 It will easily heal on its own. However, sometimes bandages lessen the pain and make it easier for you to go about your day.
 While they do not help the wound heal faster, they discourage infection and encourage the body’s healing process.Some ingredients in antibiotic cream or ointments can cause an adverse, mild rash. If you see any sign of a rash, discontinue the use of the ointment.
 Use a clean bandage, especially if it is in an area that gets dirty easily, like your fingers or hand. This will limit the amount of bacteria you come into contact with. This will also protect you from knocking the wound open.Put your adhesive strip on snug, but not so tight you will restrict blood flow to your wound. You want your blood to have access to the wound to better heal you!

, You want to keep the area as clean as possible to encourage healing.
 Some products offer a topical anesthetic that helps to alleviate some of the pain. Check the pharmacy for those made specifically for minor skin wounds.


Super glue products can sting, but also cover the wound and dry to hold the edges of the skin together. These products are not intended to be used directly on skin, so they will sting and cause some burning if you choose to utilize this method.
 For most paper cuts, healing only takes a few days. Leaving the bandage on too long can prevent the cut from getting the oxygen it needs to heal properly.
 It’s important that the honey is raw; if it’s cooked, all the antibacterial enzymes are removed from it.


Home remedies are not substitutes for medical attention if you need it. The things in this section are simply things to try that may, according to some sources, help your cut to feel better faster. You still need to wash the cut properly, use precautions for preventing infection (cover the wound while it’s unhealed), and seek medical attention if it becomes infected.
 You can also use commercially purchased gel. Aloe vera is known for speeding up the healing process.
 Warm a mint teabag in boiling water, then lay the teabag across the paper cut. Or, stick your whole finger in cooled mint tea if the cut is on your finger. Mint has a soothing effect on inflamed tissue., Blend 3 cloves of garlic with one cup of wine, let stand for 2-3 hours and then strain. Apply to the cut with a clean cloth 1-2 times a day.
 All of these can be found in most health stores, and are known to help wounds to heal faster. Apply them directly to the cut or to your bandage 2-4 times a day.

