 This healthy afternoon snack is easy to prepare, but does need to be stored in a refrigerator or cooler. All you have to do is get a small jar with a screw on lid. Scoop some hummus into the bottom of the jar. Slice some veggies of your choice lengthwise so that you can easily grab them from the jar. Gently poke the vegetables into the hummus so that they stand up. Screw on the lid tightly and you’re ready to go.Just about any vegetable can go well with hummus. For example, celery, bell peppers, cucumbers, carrots, etc.
If you want to use vegetables, such as broccoli or cauliflower, that can’t really be sliced into long thin chunks then opt for a shorter squat container. For example, a small plastic container that you use for storing leftovers would work well.;
, In a small jar or container, add a scoop of plain Greek yogurt, followed by a spoonful of fresh berries or other fruits. Repeat this until you have added about 1/2 a cup of yogurt, and 2 tablespoons berries. Place the lid on tightly.Store this high-protein food in a fridge or cooler.


Frozen fruit should also work.
Top the parfait with a small drizzle of honey to add some sweetness.
Throw in a handful of nuts to add even more protein.
 Place the eggs in a small pot and cover with water. Heat until the water reaches a full boil, then immediately remove the pot from the heat and cover it. Allow the eggs to sit in the water for 10-15 minutes if you want them hard boiled. You can leave the eggs in for as few as three minutes for soft boiled eggs, but these will be difficult to eat on the go.


Peeled or unpeeled, eggs should be stored in a fridge or eaten within 2 hours at room temperature (1 hour in temperatures above 90ºF / 32ºC). To give yourself a little more time, freeze a gel pack or juice box and pack it with the egg to bring to school or work., Wrap up a couple of slices of turkey in a big piece of lettuce to make a low-carb, high protein snack. Add a few slices of carrot, cucumber, avocado, or red pepper with a teaspoon of mustard for extra flavor.Alternatively, if you don’t mind the carbs, you could simply make a turkey sandwich for your snack or you could use a tortilla to wrap up your turkey.

