 You can't have a party without them. For your Les Mis party, your invitations should look old fashioned (maybe written on aged parchment paper in a fancy font) and should quote some of the songs. Here's and example:


Do you hear the people sing the birthday song? The time is near! Eponine Thenardier is turning twelve! Come meet at the ABC Cafe (Eponine's house, 1234 Thenardier Lane) on October 2nd, 1815 to celebrate! Bring your best singing voices, Les Miserables (French Revolution era) costumes, and plenty of ammunition!;
, Obviously, you've got to build a barricade. You could go all the way out and build a ginormous one in your back yard with old junk (you could even ask your guests to bring old junk that they have, and then you guys could assemble it to "The Building of the Barricade" at the party) or pile up bits of furniture in the corners at home. Or, you could make each room of your a house a different Les Mis setting. Have your kitchen be the ABC cafe, and your living room be Thenardier's inn, and your garden be the streets of Paris.


Try to avoid balloons, streamers, or any typical party stuff, but if you absolutely need a birthday banner, then try having it be a neutral color with the Les Mis font on it.
 This is a fun one. Get some miniature sausages or hotdogs and stick toothpicks into them Put papers on the toothpicks labeling them "Kidney of a horse" and "Liver of a cat" Other food ideas: sparkling cider or apple juice in fancy bottles ("Grantaire put the bottle down!"), Loaves of freshly baked bread (Valjean stole a loaf of bread), and various French foods.
 There are many ways you could go with a Les Mis cake. You could A.) Have it look like cakes did in that era B.) Frost some kind of Les Mis design on it (barricade, etc) or C.) Use some kind of other French dessert instead of a cake. Whichever you choose, it should be easy to do at home or get as a special order in a cake shop.
 Okay, you're all ready for your party, decked up in your best Eponine costume, and the guests begin to arrive. Make sure that your guests know that they must come dressed up to the party and that there will be no talking, only singing (and some yelling when the battles come). If they break this rule, send them to Javert!


Have your Dad or brother or someone dress up as Javert and tie them to a tree for five minutes or so (nineteen if they try to run). Play your Les Mis soundtrack throughout the party, but don't watch the movie- some guests may not consider it appropriate (even if you fast forward through Lovely Ladies) and some may not be mature and awesome enough to appreciate the true brilliance of the movie.
 One idea for games is to tweak the names and rules of actual party games so that they're Les Mis themed. "Pin the tail on the donkey" could be "Pin the bread on Valjean" "Tag" could be "Running from Javert" You can come up with more on your own.


And, of course, the epic barricade battle! Have your guests help you build a barricade and then have a giant nerf-gun battle! If you get shot in the head, stomach, chest, or other fatal spots, you die and have to sing an epic death song. When the battle is over, rank each guest on how well they did with a character name. First to fall is Eponine, the one that stays alive the longest is Marius. Then, they have to sing one of that character's songs in front of everyone, or they get sent to the guillotine! If you have a karaoke machine and your guests don't know the songs, then you could pop in your CD and use that.

