 In order for someone to want to invest in your business, you will have to convince them that there is a profit to be made. Do your research and know the basic financial facts to support your position, and talk about the numbers. Some common numbers a VC will want to know include:


The cost of each unit of product. A unit is one product. For example, if your business is making and selling pens a unit is one pen, if your business is baking donuts one donut is one unit. Your cost per unit is the price you pay for the raw materials required to make your product. For example, if you make it costs $.30 for the ingredients to make one donut, your cost per unit is $.30.
How much you can charge for each unit of product. To determine what you can charge for your product, do some market research. See what the competition if offering, take note of how well their product sells at the current price, and compare and contrast your product to theirs. The price for which you can realistically sell your product is important information to a VC, and you should know this number before talking to one.
How much money you will need to make to break even. How much you need in order to break even, or have no income, but no loss, depends on how much you have already invested in your business, how much your product costs per unit, and how much you can charge for your product, and how much product you sell.;
, Without a good understanding of who your market is and what they want or who else may already be providing it to them, you may not be in a good position to sell a product. Make sure the VC knows that you understand your market by describing it to him or her. When describing your market, be sure to include:


Who your customer is and why they would want to buy your product. For example, is your product intended for general audiences, executives, children, parents, or pet owners? What problem does your product solve for your customers? For example, it may increase a customer’s productivity at work, entertain them, or help them to better care for their child or pet.
Who your competition is. Every business has a competitor. If your business does not, you may be too far ahead of your time. Visit the website or sales location of your major competitor(s), purchase their product(s), and learn all that you can about the company, what they do, and what makes them a success.
What makes your product or company better than the competition. If you are going to convince a VC that he or she should invest in your company, you will have to convince them that your product is better than that of the competition. Describe what makes it the product of choice for your market.
 Developing a business plan is an important step in creating a successful business. A VC will likely not take your business, or venture, seriously if you do not have one. Your plan should include:


An executive summary. This should be no longer than a page and should describe the business opportunity and explain why your business is going to succeed. You may want to use tables, charts, or other visuals to help illustrate your main points.
A financial projection. A financial projection is the business’s estimated budget, or Profit and Loss, for the upcoming year. Financial projections may use the previous year’s numbers or the financial manager’s educated guess, based on statistics, research, and his or her experience.
A description of the competition. Every business has competition. A business plan should identify the competition and provide a realistic description of the competitor’s product or service, pricing, popularity, strengths and weaknesses.
A description of any barriers to entry. Anything standing in the way of your product’s entry into the market is a barrier to entry. Common barriers to entry include trademark and patent issues and high start up costs.
A marketing strategy. Your marketing strategy should describe your advertising campaign, your pricing strategy, and your sales and delivery methods. For example, will you sell your product exclusively online and deliver via UPS, will your prices be slightly more than your competitors, and/or will you rely heavily on Google Ads for marketing?
A description of the team. This description should include the organizational structure of your company and a list of team members along with each member’s title, background, and experience. You should also describe how each member of the team will contribute to the project and what your estimated cost for the personnel will be.
 Use PowerPoint to create a visual presentation, which highlights the main reasons the VC should want to invest in your business or idea. Your presentation should be brief, no more than 10 slides, and should include:


Your company information. This includes your company name, logo, and tagline, if you have one, as well as the physical address and your name and personal telephone number.
Your mission statement. A mission statement or two-sentence summary of your company’s mission statement, if you have a long one, should be included in any sales presentation produced by your company.
An introduction of your product. Include photos or illustrations of the product and a brief description. You may also wish to add a video demonstration of the product.
The financials. A summary of your current budget, most recent profit and loss statement, and your financial projection for the following year should be included in the financials. Bar graphs and pie charts should be used to illustrate the most important points.
Your marketing strategy. Your presentation should include a summary of your marketing strategy from your business plan. Include only the most important points, and illustrate them with charts or graphs where appropriate.
A description of the competition. Name your competition, and describe their product and marketing strengths and weaknesses.
A summary of why the VC should invest in your company. You may choose to make a bulleted list of your company’s main attractions or write a paragraph selling your product and your company to the VC. However you format this slide, it is what will leave showing while you answer the inevitable questions to follow, so make it convincing!

, Keep your presentation short enough that there is time for the VC to ask you questions about your product and company. No matter how well you cover everything, someone about to invest in your business will have questions. Be sure you leave an appropriate amount of time available so that you may answer them.

