 If you’re worried about offending or upsetting the person, use an indirect compliment instead. Rather than pinpoint a specific body part or area where you think they have had work done, say something positive about their appearance as a whole. Focusing on their general appearance will allow you to compliment them without embarrassing them or putting them on the spot.For example, you may say, “You look great!” or “You are so glowing and vibrant today!”;
, If the person recently went on vacation or took time off, you may focus on that as part of the compliment. This way, the person can give out details as they see fit.


For example, you may say, “You look so refreshed from your vacation!” or “How are your vacation? Looks like you got some much needed relaxation time.”

, Another way to indirectly compliment the person is to focus on their outfit or their overall sense of style. This way, you are complimenting them as a whole, rather than focusing on their plastic surgery.


For example, you may say, "Love your look today!" or "You are looking so put together and confident today!"

, Once you have given the indirect compliment, allow the person to expand on their recent plastic surgery, if they want to. Leave the conversation open to talking about their plastic surgery. Do not pressure them or make them feel they have to tell you more.This may be a good option if you are broaching the subject with someone you do not know well, such as a co-worker or an acquaintance at school. You do not want the person to feel pressured or put on the spot by your compliment.
 If the person appears uncomfortable and is not responsive to your compliment, let it go. Do not try to pursue the conversation or discuss the subject any further. This will only make the person feel more uncomfortable and put you in an awkward position. Instead, apologize to the person for causing them discomfort and move on.Change the subject to something safe, such as a project you are working on at work or an assignment for school. Pick a topic that you know the person will relate to and enjoy talking about more than their plastic surgery.
For example, you may say, “Sorry if my compliment put you on the spot. How’s your day going?” or “Apologies if I made you uncomfortable. Have you completed the assignment for class today?”

