 Throws rugs are great for absorbing sound, as are carpeting and wall hangings. Even pictures, paintings, and prints on the wall will keep noise from reflecting and bouncing around the room. Installing double-paned windows will help keep the outside noise outside and if you have a noisy neighbor to one side, put a large bookcase (preferably full of books) against the wall between your space and theirs.Also try to make sure that your laundry area has its own door so you can close it and shut out those noisy machines.
Add 1” thick acoustic panels on your walls. These can be purchased in an array of decorative colors and design styles.Putting up curtains can help with sound absorption while making your home more pleasing to the eye.
Cork, cement, and floating wood floors all will help dampen the noise pollution inside your home.;
, This is a natural choice that serves two purposes: it eliminates unpleasant noise while filling the space where you are with sounds that give you pleasure. Put on your favorite music, the sounds of the ocean, or even a book on tape. Whatever you choose, it will be a marked improvement over the stress-inducing noises of the outside world., While it may sound counterintuitive, adding more noise on top of other noise, the drone of a fan can be a pleasant white noise if you have a quality fan. You can also have the hum of a humidifier or dehumidifier or a ceiling fan., Not only can it be a stressor and effect your moods and sleep but studies have found that children who grow up in noisier homes suffer from the effects of noise pollution. Their anxiety levels are heightened and their cognitive, physical, and emotional growth is affected as well. A little TV can be entertaining, just make sure it’s handled in moderation.In fact, turn off ALL electronics, particularly when you are not specifically using them.
 Meditation can solve or alleviate many issues in life and it is extremely effective in the relieving stress of noise pollution while simultaneously teaching you how to block it out. Try meditating twice a day for twenty minutes each time. Do this for at least one month and see if you start noticing the difference.Deep-breathing exercises can also assist in relieving stress and prevent you from noticing the noise pollution. Place the tip of your tongue against the ridge behind your top teeth. Inhale through your nose for a count of four, and exhale through your mouth for a count of seven. Do this for four complete breaths and repeat as necessary.Try guided Imagery by imagining a quiet and motionless place, such as a deserted beach or mountaintop. Fill in all of the details: the sights, sounds, and smells. Soon enough, this peaceful image will replace the world around you., Just like when you go to a concert and are intent on saving your eardrums from damage, these small, spongy devices can help block out noise at home too. From construction to a neighbor’s pool party, earplugs can turn all that noise into a soft, barely audible background hum.