 With all the perspective taking you've done, if there are changes you want to make, now is a great time to make them! Once you're aware of what has been making you unhappy, you're better positioned to make a positive change.Try not to think of these as resolutions, make them more than that and think them through.


Close your eyes and try and envision what you want your life to look like in the coming year. Use this to help you establish goals.
Go back to your reflections and if you reflected by month, write a goal for each month. If you reflected by areas in your life (such as family, career, etc.), list a change or a goal for each area.
 It is tempting at this time of year to make grand statements and promise big changes; however, it is not very realistic and by doing so you risk setting yourself up for failure and disappointment. It can be difficult to make changes at all if you are feeling depressed, so remember: this is not the only time where you can make changes in your life.Start now, start small, and set S.M.A.R.T goals for yourself.SMART goals are defined as the following:


Specific. Make sure the goal is specific to increase your ability to know when you meet it. Ask yourself the 5 “W” questions; who, what, where, when, and why.
Measurable. Set up a concrete measurement of what it will look like when you meet the goal. To help ask yourself questions like: How much? How many? How will I know when it is accomplished?
Attainable. When you are making your goals attainable, think of ways you can reach those goals. Consider your skills, abilities, time, emotional, and financial capacity to reach them.
Realistic. Make sure your goals are ones that you are willing and able to work towards.
Timely. Ground your goal within a time frame or a time table. Ask yourself: When do I want this completed? How often will I work towards this or check in on my progress?

, Take the time to start noticing patterns for how you are feeling. Are you usually more depressed before New Year's Eve or after? Is it a feeling that lasts all holiday season? Use this to help you determine what you might be struggling with. Look carefully at what relaxed you in the past that worked and take note of it. Set yourself up with a self-care plan for times when you see a difficult patch coming. Learn and grow from it.
 If you know you have depression or if you feel like nothing is working to help lift your mood, seek professional help.Depression and Seasonal Affective Disorder are common and completely treatable conditions. Treatment for depression can include therapy, medication, or lifestyle changes. Here are some places you can look to for help:


Mental health specialists.
Your general practitioner or primary care doctor.
Health insurance company.
Community mental health centers.
Through your employer.
Local hospital.
Religious leaders with training in mental health care.
Nearby university or medical school-affiliated mental health clinics.

