 One of the most sure-fire ways to figure out her ring size accurately is to have a ring she already owns sized. Choose a ring that she wears on her ring finger (or whatever finger you want to put your ring on), and take it to a jeweler. They will be able to tell you what size the ring is.Be careful when borrowing a ring, though! Don’t take her favorite ring that she wears every single day. She will notice that it is gone, and probably be very worried. Instead, try to take a ring that you have seen her wear on the correct finger (even if it is on the wrong hand), but that she only wears every now and then.
Take good care of the ring while it is in your possession! You don’t want to have to deal with the consequences if you lose or damage the ring.
 If you feel too nervous borrowing one of her rings for a day, you can also trace the ring on a sheet of paper. Lay the ring flat on a piece of paper and trace the inner part of the ring using a pen or pencil.You can then try to figure out her ring size by calculating the circumference. Use an online size conversion chart to figure out her ring size.
Alternatively, you can press her ring into a soft bar of soap to get an exact impression. However, this may leave a film on the ring, and the soap may get into the setting. If this happens, be sure to rinse the ring gently under running water. Don’t forget to plug the sink so you don’t drop it down the drain.
You can easily find a conversion chart by doing an internet search for “ring size conversion chart.” These charts will usually show you a list of various diameters (in inches or in millimeters) and the corresponding sizes in various countries.
 If you don’t want to borrow the ring for a day, and you don’t want to bother with the math, then try on a ring she owns to see how it fits your fingers. The easiest time to do this without getting caught is while she is in the shower or bath. Most people take their jewelry off while bathing so they don’t lose them.If you have similarly sized hands her ring might fit well on one of your fingers. If this is the case, you just have to remember which finger it fit best on. Go to a jeweler and ask them to size that finger.
If you have hands that are much larger, the ring probably won’t fit on your finger correctly. In this case, just put the ring on a finger as far down as it will go (don’t force it, just let it sit where it feels snug, but not too tight). Use a pen to mark the point on your finger where the ring fits. You can then go to a jeweler to find out the size, or measure your finger’s circumference and use a size chart to figure out what size she wears.
Note that if your hands are a lot smaller than hers, this method won’t work.

