 A shovel will dig and remove soil or sand from the ground to prepare for plants and crops, and will also help you remove vegetation from the ground after it has been planted.;
, A shovel and spade may look similar in appearance; however, a spade has a straighter and sharper head that allows you to cut underneath heavy sod or even into sidewalk ice.
 A garden rake has strong aluminum or steel tines that will break up lumps of dirt and evenly distribute small stones and pebbles across the surface of a garden.


Turn the garden rake over so the tines are facing upward, then use the tool to level out the soil so you can effectively plant seeds and other types of vegetation.
 The tines of a leaf rake are lightweight and made from a flexible material such as plastic, rubber, or bamboo, and can help compile leaves, twigs, and other light debris in your garden.
 A garden fork looks like an enlarged version of a kitchen fork, and can be used to turn and aerate clay in addition to soil. This tool is also strong enough to work fertilizer and other matter into your soil.
 These tools will allow you to cut weeds carefully out of the ground, especially those that are close to your plants.
 A trowel resembles a small hand shovel, and is ideal for creating small holes that seeds can be placed into.


Remove shallow breeds of weeds using a trowel instead of a hoe or hand weeder to avoid digging deeper than necessary and disrupting the soil around your plants.
 A tiller is a high-powered tool that loosely resembles a lawn mower, but is used to prepare the ground for gardening in large-scale areas.


Use a tiller if you are planting rows of crops or vegetation that cover a wide expanse of area.
 Small gardens or potted plants can be watered with a watering can; whereas large gardens or yards will require the use of a watering hose, watering wand, or a sprinkler.
 A wheelbarrow can be used to transport soil, mulch, compost, large plants, and other gardening matter from one location to another within your garden.

