 If your box is a rectangular prism or a cube, the only information you need is the box's length, width, and height. You can then multiply them together to get volume. This formula is often abbreviated as V = l x w x h.



Sample Question: "If I have a box with a length of 10cm, width of 4cm, and height of 5cm, what is the volume of the box?"
V = l x w x h
V = 10cm x 4cm x 5cm
V = 200cm3

"Height" may be replaced with "depth." For example, "The box has a length of 10cm, width of 4cm, and is 5cm deep.";
, If your are looking down at your box, the top appears to be a flat rectangle/The length the longest side of this rectangle. Write this number down as "length."


Make sure you use the same measurement for each side -- if you measure one side in inches, you need to measure them all in inches.
 The width of the box is the other edge next to the length. If you are looking one side of the box, the width is the side the forms an "L" with the length. Write down this measurement as "width."


The width is always the shorter side.
 This is the last side you have not measured, and is the the distance from the top of the box to the ground. Write this measurement down as "height."


Depending on how the box is laying, which side you call "height" or "length" might be different. However, it doesn't matter what side you call the length, just that you measure 3 different sides.
 Remember, the equation for volume is V = length x width x height, so simply multiply all three sides together to get your volume. Be sure to include the units you used to measure with as well, so you don't forget what your numbers mean.
 Volume is a measurement, but if you don't know what the measuring system your number will be meaningless. The correct way write out volume is with your type of measurement cubed. For example, if I measured all the sides in inches, my final answer would be in "inches3." For example.



Sample Question: "If I have a box with a length of 2 feet, width of 1 foot, and height of 3 feet what is the volume of the box?"
V = l x w x h
V = 2ft x 1ft x 4ft
Volume = 8ft3


Advanced Note:' This is because volume tell you how many small cubes you could fit in the box. In the previous example, this means we could fit eight separate 1 foot cubes in our box.

