 As soon as you believe your Boxer may have lymphoma, take him to the vet. The earlier you catch the lymphoma, the better chance your dog has for survival.


If you feel any swollen lymph nodes, take your Boxer to the vet even if he is not showing any symptoms. Lymph nodes may appear without any other symptoms.If your dog shows signs of general declining or poor health, you should take your dog to the vet immediately since those signs might be due to a number of serious conditions.
 The first thing your vet will do is perform a thorough physical examination. The vet will feel the abdomen to check for enlargement of the spleen and any enlarged lymph nodes.


The vet will also listen to the chest for any signs of difficulty breathing. She will also check to see if the heart is muffled as a result of lymph node enlargement.
 After the physical exam, the vet will perform a blood test to check organ function. The blood test will also look at the balance of red and white blood cells in the body.This cannot diagnose lymphoma, but it can point to a problem. If the numbers of lymphocytes are abnormally high, the cause will need looking into.
If the physical examination turns up anything in the abdomen or the chest, the vet may arrange an ultrasound. Ultrasound scans of the abdomen or radiographs of the chest will check for enlargement of inguinal lymph nodes and also organ enlargement. This helps the clinician decide how far advanced the cancer is, which helps decision making with regard to treatment and survival times., A definitive diagnosis is made by either biopsying one of the enlarged lymph nodes, or by taking a fine needle and sucking up a sample of cells through it. Then, the vet will examine the sample under a microscope to look at the cell types.This allows the histologist to see which cells are present and if they are normal or abnormal.


The dog will be put under anesthesia to perform the biopsy. Pain is usually minimal afterwards, but a vet can prescribe pain meds if your dog is in pain due to the biopsy.In the event of a sample being inconclusive, there is now a blood test available which can confirm if lymphoma is present. The cBLT looks for biomarkers given off by lymphoma. It is also a useful way of giving advanced warning of this condition even before lymph node enlargement happens or as a warning that a relapse is about to happen.