 The human eye is very sensitive to alignment. If the outer edge of a graphic does not line up with the outer edge of the brochure, a reader may be distracted away from the brochure. A grid tool can help you make sure your elements are aligned. If you are using Word, use the Ruler feature.;
, You can have more than one graphical element on each page of your brochure. This just means you should focus on one centerpiece image and all other elements should support or draw the reader to this point of focus. In a newspaper article, this single visual element would be the main article picture.
 This principle can also be remembered as the Rule of Thirds. Divide the page into thirds both vertically and horizontally. Where the lines cross are excellent points on your page for important visual elements like an image or even a headline. Use the other lines to line up body text, graphics, or other page elements as you have opportunity. Note that a tri-fold brochure automatically incorporates the Golden Ratio, but you cannot put too much content along the fold so use the horizontal lines across the page for important graphical elements.
 A general rule is that your footer margin should be the largest, the outside or right-side margin should be the second largest, followed by the top margin, with the smallest margin being the inside or left-side margin. This creates an interesting visual arrangement on the page. Perfectly centered tends to be uninteresting. On a tri-fold brochure, your inside margin will change. For example, when the brochure is fully opened, the left panel content should be closest to the fold, shifted towards the right. On the right panel, content should also be nearest the inside of the brochure, so shift the content to the left., The eye of the reader will look at the image first, followed by a headline. Without a headline, the reader will simply move on. You want your readers to read the rest of the brochure and eventually make a purchase. Use headlines to draw them to the rest of the text and ideally, a completed sale.

