 Pour water that has just boiled over your Barbie’s hair, or dip her head into boiled water for about 10 seconds. Be very careful when boiling and handling hot water, and avoid getting it on anything other than the Barbie’s hair.


Boiling water and handling boiled water should be performed by an adult. Children should get help from a parent, teacher, or guardian for this step.
If you cannot get adult supervision or you can’t or don’t want to boil water, you can simply use the warmest water from your sink. There’s a chance your Barbie’s curls won’t last quite as long, but it should achieve about the same effect.
 Let your Barbie cool for a few minutes after applying hot water to the hair. Then put her into your freezer to allow the hair to cool and set.


Leave your Barbie in the freezer for about 30-60 minutes, or until the hair is hardened/frozen, before removing it.
Ensure that the doll isn’t near open food items or anything else that could stick to it in the freezer.
 Set your Barbie on a bath towel or paper towel and allow the hair to thaw out and dry completely. Be prepared to wait several hours for this to happen, otherwise the curls will not hold.


Start this process before bed and leave your Barbie’s hair to dry overnight for an easy way to wait patiently before your final results.
To speed up the drying process, you can also blot at the hair periodically with an absorbent towel. Just make sure you don’t pull out any of the braids or curlers while doing so.
 When the Barbie’s hair is dry, carefully undo the braids or remove the straws, foil, or pipe cleaners you used as curlers. Do this gently without straightening out the resulting curls.


Remember to unfold the ends of pipe cleaners or aluminum foil, or remove the bobby pins from either end of a straw, before pulling them out.
Take out your first braid or curler slowly and check to see if the hair is still damp. If it is, redo the braid or curl as best you can, and leave the whole head of hair to dry for longer before taking everything out.