 While it's important to stay active with exercise, if you're shooting for high stamina it's just as important to stay well-rested. A good night's rest should leave you refreshed, energized, and focused, ensuring that you'll be able to physically give your all. Inadequate rest, on the other hand, can leave you groggy and under-performing. Bad sleeping habits have also been linked to a number of health problems that can negatively impact your stamina: weight gain, high blood pressure, and illness, to name a few.While everyone's sleep needs are different, the National Sleep Foundation recommends 7-9 hours of sleep per night for adults.Getting less than 6 hours of sleep per night is generally considered unhealthy and has been linked to the health concerns listed above.
 Any attempt to improve your stamina through exercise should be approached somewhat gradually - try to do too much too early, and you may exhaust yourself or give up. Instead, set simple, specific goals as stepping stones to your major goal, like first running 1 kilometer, then, in two weeks, 2 kilometers (1.2 mi), then 5 kilometers (3.1 mi), and finally 10 kilometers (6.2 mi). Celebrate each milestone you reach as an achievement. Build up: Don't give up!


For cardiovascular exercise, start out slowly, mildly increasing your heart rate and maintaining that heart rate for no more than 30 minutes the first time. Increase the intensity and duration of your performance by small, realistic intervals until you reach your goal. Within a few months, you'll likely have made serious improvement while barely noticing the change!
For strength-building exercise, begin at a weight or resistance level that's easily manageable. Add only a few small weights to your barbell or exercise machine. Alternatively, if you're doing a body weight exercise, you can usually modify the exercise to make it easier in some way - dropping your legs to make a push up easier or doing a crunch instead of a sit up, for instance. Gradually increase the weight, resistance, or intensity of your exercise to smoothly build strength over time.

