 It can be an already established (canon) character from any fandom you enjoy, a canon character with certain aspects altered (AU) or a character of your own creation (OC).


Whether playing an OC, canon or AU character, be certain of your character's backstory before getting started.;
, Generally an an actor who will represent the look and actions of your character although people have been known to use cartoon face-claims particularly for cartoon characters. If you're playing a TV or film character there will probably be a face claim typically used however you are not required to choose them as your character's face claim.
 A common practice is to collect and/or create moving images called gifs that will often be used to demonstrate an action or mood of a character during roleplays.


If you're not sure where to look for gifs try simply searching through the tumblr tag for your chosen actor/character and save any that you think might suit your character.
 Everybody is able to appreciate a good theme and when combined with a select gif or image that represents your character for the sidebar it can make for an intriguing blog that will appeal to potential followers and RP partners.


There are many tumblr users who create themes that are easy to use and install. Be sure to find one that meets anything you might want for your blog i.e. ability to display sidebar image, built in audio player, certain number of side links.
 Once you are set up you will need to find people to roleplay with whether inside or outside of your fandom. If you don't already know some, try searching various character or fandom names followed by either 'rp' or 'roleplay in the tags.


Some roleplayers will write a following starter if you follow them, some won't. Not all roleplayers are multifandom/OC-friendly be sure to read their information pages to check before you try to start anything with them.
 When you start to get followers, write starters (using a gif or a whole paragraph) prompting your characters to meet. You don't have to write one for every new follower and some people may not respond but making an effort to reach out to people is the best form of self-advertisement.
 People will warm to you a bit more if they feel they know you better as a person. Plus many other people on the site are roleplaying to have fun and make friends.
 It's common practice to track your username so that people can tag you in posts/starters they want you to see. And when looking for replies you'll find tagging your own posts with whoever you're roleplaying with invaluable.


Tumblr does not support tracking tags with dashes in them. As such if your username has dashes like "your-user-name" use spaces between the words or have them all as one word e.g. your user name/yourusername

,