 If you’re headed to Spain from another country, you’ll obviously need a passport or visa. You’ll also want to carry a Pilgrim credential to track your progress along the way. Put all travel documents in a plastic case that you have easy access to so they stay safe.If you’re not sure how to get a passport in your country, contact your local government.
You can get a pilgrim’s credential at tourist offices, cathedrals, and pilgrim’s albergues in Spain. You can usually get one before you leave from a local pilgrim’s group in your area too.;
, Hopefully, you’ll have a safe trip and stay healthy the entire time but you need to prepare for health emergencies just in case. Bring your health insurance information in case you need to see a doctor or go to the hospital while you’re on the road.If you’re getting treatment for specific medical conditions, make a list with your doctors’ contact information and all of the meds that you’re taking too.
Keep your medical papers with your travel documents so you don’t lose them.
 Travel insurance can cover the costs if you get sick or hurt, lose your bags, or have to cancel your travel plans while you’re traveling. Keep the insurance information in a secure location that’s easy to get to in case you need it.You can Get Travel Insurance from the travel agency or booking site that arranges your trip, or buy it from an independent broker.
 You’ll obviously need money, debit cards, and/or credit cards to pay for expenses while you’re on the road. It’s a good idea to split up your money and cards, though. Stash enough for the day in an easy to get to pocket, and store the rest in a secure bag, like a waistpack.In most cases, you shouldn't need to carry more than 35 euros (39 US dollars) for daily expenses, such as lodging and food. Costs will vary based on the location, as prices in larger cities will be higher.
 Print out the confirmations for any flights, train rides, or accommodations after el Camino de Santiago before you leave for your trip so you have proof. Keep them in the case with your other travel documents for safekeeping., You don’t want to be lugging a heavy bag around on your trek, so invest in a lightweight backpack with multiple pockets on the outside. Look for one with hip straps too, so you don’t wind up with sore shoulders.Going with a smaller backpack is a good way to keep you from overpacking. If you don’t have room in your bag for everything and the kitchen sink, you won’t be tempted to bring stuff you don’t really need.
 You never know what the weather’s going to be like on your journey, but you’re probably going to find yourself in a shower or two. Keep your backpack and belongings dry by bringing a backpack rain cover and a pack liner for rainy days.You’ll have the driest pack if you use a silicone rain cover.
A pack liner can also keep your stuff protected if your shampoo, sunscreen, or other toiletries leak while you’re hiking.
 El Camino de Santiago can include some pretty rocky terrain. Bring along some trekking poles if you want a little help scaling mountains, moving more quickly, and making the declines a little easier. Look for a foldable style so they’re easy to stash in your pack.Be prepared for anything by wrapping some duct tape around the ends of your poles. You can pull the tape off and use it to make quick repairs during your trip.
 You won’t always be traveling in good light on the Camino. A headlamp leaves your hands free so you can light the trail and hike without any issues. Pack a mini flashlight too, so you can find things in your bag at night.Don’t forget to bring some extra batteries for your headlamp.
If you don’t want to lug around more batteries for the flashlight, go with a hand-crank model.
 You may not have a bed every night of your Camino, so you’ll definitely want to bring a good sleeping sack. Worried about bedbugs? Take a silk sleep sheet treated with a bug repellent like permethrin and a zippered pillowcase.Don’t take a sleeping bag. It’s too bulky to lug around with you across Spain.
When you’re sleeping in a dorm-like situation, it can be really hard to fall asleep. If you’re a light sleeper, throw a sleep mask and some earplugs in your bag for the trip.
 It probably goes without saying but you can’t go weeks without taking your prescription meds. Count out the exact number you’ll need for the trip and keep them in a plastic pill case.Toss in a couple extra of each pill just in case you lose any along the way.
Even if you’re not on prescription meds, you may want to bring some allergy, cold, and/or stomach medicines just in case you get sick during the trip. To be safe, bring enough medication for each day.
 All the walking you’re doing will definitely take a toll on your feet. Make sure you have a box each of bandaids, blister protectors, and moleskin padding to save yourself from serious foot pain., With all the walking, you’re bound to get some annoying aches and pains along the way. Bring a full bottle of your favorite pain reliever like ibuprofen to deal with sore muscles., It can get cold if you do your trek later in the Camino season. Bring a jacket made of fleece to keep you warm on cool nights. You’ll also want a lightweight rain jacket and pants to keep you dry on rainy days.Sunburn easily? Throw a foldable sunhat in your bag too. Sunglasses can also come in handy.
 You don’t want to bring a ton of clothes on the trip, so stick to just a few shirts that you can wash and dry in a hurry. Two short-sleeve and one long-sleeve is a good combo.You can’t go wrong with technical shirts. They dry fast, block the rays from the sun, keep bugs away, and draw sweat away from the skin.
Hiking shirts with sleeves you can roll up to the elbow are perfect if you can’t choose between long- and short-sleeve shirts.
 Just like with your shirts, you want to bring pants or shorts that you can wash and dry in a hurry. Take three pairs of pants and/or shorts that are comfortable and breathable. A pair of zippable long pants gives you the best of both worlds.Bottoms made from technical fabric can be pretty costly, but they’ll give you more options on your trip.
You may also want to pack a pair of thermal pants to double as pajama bottoms.
 You can’t forget comfortable undies and socks for your Camino. Limit yourself to three pairs of each and be ready to wash them daily.You can keep track of your freshest pair of undies and socks if you bring three different colors of each.
Ladies, don’t forget to bring a couple of bras too. Sports bras are the comfiest and easiest to wash.
Hiking can mean big time chafing. Look for anti-chafing underwear and sports bras to keep yourself comfortable.
 If you’re going to invest in anything for your Camino, a good pair of hiking boots is the way to go to save yourself from blisters and sore feet. Get them fitted at the store if possible, and break them in before your trip so you don’t screw up your feet.Depending on the route you’re taking, you may be able to get away with walking or trail shoes. It’s best to play it safe with hiking boots, though, just in case you run into any uneven surfaces or muddy areas.
Don’t forget a couple of extra laces for your boots. They can even double as a clothesline when you need to dry some stuff.
 Hiking boots are a must when you’re on the move, but you’re definitely going to want to get out of them once you’re done walking. Bring a comfortable pair of lightweight sandals that you can throw on in the evenings to let your feet breathe., You’re probably going to be bathing in communal showers, but you don’t want to come down with athlete's foot on top of all the blisters and other injuries your feet will suffer. Toss in a pair of inexpensive, lightweight flip flops to wear in the shower and protect your feet., You’ll want to be able to grab all of your shower stuff in a hurry so it helps to put all of the items in a single bag. Find a small mesh bag to throw your toiletries in so you can easily see what's inside.Look for a bag with drawstrings. That way, you can hang the bag in the shower while you bathe.
 Of course, you’ll need a towel to dry off after you shower. Look for a lightweight one that dries quickly. You may also want to bring a smaller, wash cloth size towel for face washing., You can get away with only washing your hair every few days on your trek, but you’ll still want to bring some shampoo and conditioner. Take small travel-size bottles, though, so they don’t make your pack weigh a ton. Remember a comb, hair elastics, and bobby pins if you use those too.Stick to simple styles on your Camino -- ponytails, braids, and buns are the way to go.
 A basic bar soap will last a long time and weigh less than shower gel or wash. Don’t forget deodorant either -- you’ll be sweating a lot and you don’t want to wind up with a nasty case of B.O. on your journey.A small travel-size deodorant should last you an entire two week trip. If you think you’ll be on the road longer, bring two along.
 Don’t neglect your teeth while you’re on your trip. Bring a full-size tube of toothpaste and a brush so you can keep your teeth clean the entire trip.Bring some dental floss along too. You may not floss every day, but you don’t want to go a whole two weeks without doing it at all.
 Under the sun all day, you can easily wind up with a nasty burn if you don’t protect yourself. Bring a tube of sunscreen for your face, and it can double as a moisturizer. Add a solid stick of sunscreen for your body.Make sure the sunscreens are at least SPF30.
Keep your lips protected from the sun too with a good SPF lip balm.
 You’ll probably have bigger concerns on your trip than facial or body hair, but you might want to bring a razor with you to clean up when you feel the need. Don’t worry about bringing shaving cream -- use conditioner or shampoo to make the blade glide over your skin., No one wants to be completely out of touch for a week or more, so don’t leave home without your cell phone. You’ll need to bring your charger along too, though, so you can keep it juiced throughout the trip.Check with your cell carrier before you leave to make sure that you’ll have service in Spain.
You may need a Western Europe plug adapter for your cell phone charger.
 What trip would be complete without fabulous photos of all the sights you see? Cell phone cameras can be pretty sharp these days, but you may want to bring a dedicated camera for really impressive photos.Don’t forget the charger cord for your camera.
 Hiking out in the sun all day, you’re bound to get dehydrated. You’ve got to drink plenty of water as you go, so you definitely want to bring a couple of plastic water bottles that you can refill along the way. You’ll want two in case one tears or suffers damage., On any hiking trip, a Swiss Army Knife multitool can come in pretty handy. You can use the scissors for cutting, file for smoothing your nails, screwdriver for making small repairs, and bottler opener for opening beverages.