 It's time to get started! Lay down some newspaper on the floor, grab your shoes, turn on some music and sit down to start creating. You'll need:









Masking tape
Your paints
Sponges (one for each color, ideally)
Paintbrushes
Paint tray
Water

, This is to keep any paint from getting on them. You could risk it, but tape will give you a nice, symmetrical (clean!) line when you're finished.









If you don't have masking tape, electrical, painter's, or medical tape work well too.
 You know how to do that part, right?








, This is where a tutorial can't really guide you -- you'll have to decide where which colors go and how much color to put on. The important thing to do is to start with dark colors, end with light colors, and to blend them together. Experiment with combining colors, too, to produce gradients.









White can be used to provide a hazy effect, like the Milky Way.
If you're using black shoes, you may need to use a thin layer of white as a primer to make your colors show up more intensely (especially the lighter colors, like pink).
 A good way to create details is to paint as normal then blot with a paper towel to create a softer look. Continue adding details around the shoes, using whatever method you think looks best.
 Using a toothpick, toothbrush, or small paintbrush, flick little specks of white paint onto your shoes. To avoid creating a masterpiece all over your floor, hold your device just a few inches away from your shoes. If you mess up, just rub it in! Tada, cloud! But when it comes to the universe, there's very little "messing up."









It may be necessary to mix the white paint with a bit of water -- acrylic paint can be a little thick and hard to flick.
Once you are done with your stars, leave the shoes out where no one can mess with them and let them dry for a day or so.
 Grab a blow dryer and blast the shoes to speed up the drying process. If you don't have one, let them sit for an hour or so before you move on.
, Keep a notebook handy to count your compliments.








