


You must be at least 18 years old to buy a pistol from a private seller. You can not buy a pistol from a dealer, however.
You must be 21 years old or older to buy a pistol from a federal firearms licensed dealer.

Only Michigan residents may purchase a pistol in Michigan.

;
, That's a Federal Firearm Licensed dealer. If you are purchasing from anyone else, you will need the permit unless you have a concealed pistol license(CPL).If you are a CPL holder and are purchasing from another person all you need is a RI-60. This is also called a license to purchase a pistol, or an LTP. It is valid for 30 days as of December 18th, 2012.


Complete the application for a pistol purchase permit at your local police agency. If you reside within municipal limits, go to your city police department. If you live in a rural area or outside municipal limits, go to your county sheriff's department.
Bring valid identification with you. You must present police with a current ID that shows your photograph.
 It's not super invasive -- they're mainly checking to see if you're mentally stable or if you have any restraining orders to your name.This generally takes 24 hours.


Take an oath before a notary public. You must swear that you comply with applicable federal laws and Michigan state laws for owning a pistol in Michigan. The laws stipulate numerous circumstances that prohibit applicants from receiving a purchase permit. You can see the complete list at the Michigan State Police website at www.michigan.gov/msp.
As of last year, the Basic Pistol Safety Questionnaire is no longer given. Just for the record.
 You can usually get the permit the day after you apply. The police can only deny the permit if you've been convicted of a felony or have displayed a history of violent or mentally unstable behavior.


You'll also receive a PSR -- Pistol Sales Record in triplicate. One will be for you, one will be for the police, and one will be for your seller. Don't lose these!

, The dealer's identification number must be on the PSR in addition to information on you and your pistol. You must send the completed police copy of the PSR to the nearest police agency.


This goes for both those who are purchasing from private sellers and those purchasing from FFL's. The only difference is that if you are purchasing from a private seller and do not have a permit, the PSR will be given to you then. Otherwise, go to your local police station and request a PSR form in triplicate.
 The permit is valid for 30 days, but you need to fill it out within 10 days of purchase. When you are buying your pistol, have the forms with you to fill out.


Make sure that you and your gun dealer sign the permit and PSR. This will be done when you buy the pistol. The dealer will retain a copy of each.

Keep a copy of the signed purchase permit and PSR for your records.
 They will then enter your information into their database. Their copy then gets forwarded to the following address (and then you're finished!):


Firearms Records Unit
Michigan State Police
PO Box 30634
Lansing, MI
48909-0634

