 These exercises help to tighten and release your vaginal muscles and the pelvic floor. When these muscles are stronger, you are less likely to experience tears in your vagina when delivering your baby. This can be done by tightening your vaginal muscles for a few seconds and then releasing them.You can also practice this exercise while you urinate. Hold your vaginal muscles tight while you urinate and then release them; this will cause you to pass urine in spurts rather than a steady stream.
 This exercise helps to strengthen the abdominal muscles. Kneel on a flat surface with your knees on something soft like a yoga mat or blanket. Place your hands out in front of your. Slowly arch your back towards the ceiling and then slowly lower it back down.Do not tighten the abdominal muscles excessively while doing this exercise.
 Doing this exercise will help to strengthen and loosen up your hamstring muscles. Lie on your side on a soft, flat surface; a bed works well. Life one leg and bend it gently, taking care not to overstretch your abdominal muscles.


Hold this position for 10 seconds, then repeat the exercise using the other leg while lying, facing the opposite direction.
 While you can’t do very strenuous exercises while you are pregnant, you can walk to both keep your strength up and get some cardio. Make sure to rest if you start to feel tired by sitting on a bench or pausing your walk for a moment.
 Some activities can be dangerous to you and your baby’s health because the activities can lead to excess strain. In particular:


Take you time and use caution when going up and down the stairs.
Avoid lifting heavy objects.
Balance the amount of rest you get with the activities you do.
Consider reducing the amount of work you are doing each day to make sure you are getting enough rest.
 When you have a high risk pregnancy, you are more than likely stressed about your health and your baby’s health. However, stress can raise your blood pressure, which can lead to pre eclampsia. To reduce your stress;


Talk to your friends and family about your concerns, fears, thoughts, and emotions.
Ask your doctor any questions that you have about your condition.

Practice breathing exercises, yoga, and meditation.

