 Because it is exposed to the elements on a daily basis, your flag will likely experience some wear over time. If you notice any fraying at the edges, that the colors are not as vibrant, or that it has become stained, it is time to retire your flag and fly a new one.Many flags can be washed or mended if worn. Be sure to follow the manufacturer’s guidelines when caring for your flag.
There are many online retailers who sell U.S. flags. You can also find them at most large retail stores.;
, Once you have determined that your need to retire your flag, you should begin researching how best to dispose of it. You may want to burn your flag, which is a popular way of retiring and disposing of old flags. However, most flags contain nylon, which releases hazardous gases when burned. If you want to avoid the hazardous gases, you might want to consider cutting up, bury, or recycling your old flag. Find a method that is safe and works for your needs.If you decide to burn your flag, be sure to follow all state and federal burn regulations. Contact your local fire department and discuss how to properly and safely burn your flag.
 When you take your flag down, be sure to lower it slowly. This is considered a sign of respect and will ensure that the flag does not fall to the ground. Quickly pulling the flag down from a pole is considered improper. If your flag is not hanging from a flagpole, simply take it down. There is no need to perform this action slowly in every instance.
 As you take the flag down, it is important that you do not let it touch the ground. Many consider this a sign of disrespect for the flag and what it stands for. If you can, have someone there to help you lower and disconnect the flag so that you can guarantee that it does not touch the ground., Once the flag is lowered, you will want to properly fold it into the recommended triangle fold. It is likely that you will want help folding the flag to ensure that it does not touch the ground. If you are folding the flag as part of a ceremony, you may want to have someone else explain the meaning and symbolism of the folding.