 If your tooth falls out while brushing or during other oral care, eating, or after an impact, be sure to handle it carefully by its crown or top. Closely inspect it, but don’t scrub or scrape away any debris. If you mishandle it, you’ll risk damaging the root and tiny fibers that’ll be vital to successfully putting it back in place.Make sure the tip of the root is intact and the tooth is not fractured.


Gently rinse it off by dipping it in a mild saltwater solution or milk. Don’t hold it under running water, as this could kill the root cells.
Use a quarter teaspoon of salt to one quart of water if you use a saltwater solution.
 After rinsing the tooth in saltwater or milk, carefully put it back into its socket in the correct position, but you need to move fast because the socket needs to be free of blood clots. Try to manually put it all the way back into place. If you are unable to get it into the socket, try biting down on wet gauze or a moistened paper towel., If you aren’t able to place the tooth back into its socket, store it in milk or saltwater. Once again, use the ratio of a quarter teaspoon salt to one quart of water to make a mild saltwater solution. If milk or salt aren’t available, storing it in your own saliva is preferable to storing it in water.Don’t hold it in a dry napkin or cloth, as this will cause the root to dry out and prevent its successful replacement.
 As soon as you have the tooth back in its socket or appropriately stored, go to the dentist. Time is essential, so don’t make any delays and find a dentist as soon as you can. The tooth will not successfully re-implant without professional care.The dentist can inspect the tooth to see if the pulp or root has been damaged, and can offer you treatments to spur tissue regrowth.
You will likely need a root canal even if the tooth is salvageable, but getting it back in place will prevent the need for a dental implant or bridge.
Go to the closest emergency room if seeing a dentist isn't an available option.
 You should still see a dentist if a tooth is knocked loose due to an impact, but you’re otherwise in good oral health. Before going to the dentist’s office, try your best to shift the tooth back into its normal position. This will help save the root and encourage the fibers that keep it in place to regrow.Your dentist needs to inspect your loose tooth and make sure the root and pulp are intact. You will probably need to have an Xray to check the bone and any other fractures.
After several days, a dentist can tell if you’ll require a root canal. In the meantime, they can offer you a temporary cap or tooth stints to help keep the tooth in place and promote healing.
A dentist can also apply medications that will encourage the root and connective tissues to heal.

