 Star naming services do not actually provide officially-recognized star names.Since you will not actually own the star, you should think carefully about how much the novelty factor of “buying” the star is worth to you.


Since the star-naming processes available to the public confer no official naming rights, you might choose to forego the star-selling service altogether. It’s easy to name a random star yourself and print out a certificate of ownership on your home computer.You’d save money and still get the joy of possessing or giving a certificate bearing a star name of your choosing.;
, Depending on the star-selling service you select, you could buy an entire star system, a binary star (two stars orbiting one another), or a star confirmed to have an orbiting planet in addition to naming just a single star. Each will be offered at different prices.
 There are many different types of stars in the universe, including (but not limited to) red dwarfs, red giants, blue giants, and neutron stars.


Red dwarfs are the most common type of star in our galaxy. They are red and cool.Neutron stars are born from supernova explosions and have extremely fast rates of rotation.Red giants are huge dying stars with temperatures only about half as hot as the sun.Blue giants are rare but extremely bright, on average 60,000 times brighter than the sun., Try to match the qualities of the person you are purchasing the star for to an appropriate star. For instance, if someone’s favorite color is red, you might want to buy them a red giant or red dwarf. Alternately, you might buy a star located in the zodiac sign corresponding to the individual’s birth month.
 There are a growing number of star-selling services available, including the International Star Registry, Name a Star, and Online Star Registry. Each offers unique packages and products when you name your star.


The level of quality each service provides varies. Research your chosen service thoroughly before moving forward.
Businesses dominate the star-selling marketplace. Pale Blue Dot, however, is one star-selling service operated as a nonprofit. Proceeds go to fund scientific research, though your star will still not be officially renamed., All the star-selling services provide you the chance to name your star and get a personalized, matted certificate with your star’s customized name on it. But some services offer more. Other potential options include:


star charts
engraved zodiac pendants
stickers
apps
keychains
online access to live telescope streams
an option to launch your star name and message into space, You can choose any name you want for the star; name it after yourself, your loved one, your favorite band, or anything else you desire. The star's name may not be changed once it's decided. Be as creative as you want when choosing the name.
 Fill out the necessary paperwork. You'll need to include the name of the star as well as your name, address and billing information.


If there are special spellings in your designated star name, make sure they are clearly indicated.
If you have special directions for your star purchase that you want reflected in the final certificate (for instance, a star named in memoriam), indicate them on the order form.
If you know the coordinates of a specific star you want to have named, contact the company to see if it’s available. Try your coordinates with different companies, since each has its own database of available, unnamed stars.
 If you’re buying a star for a loved one, you’ll want to maximize the romance by carefully picking the time and place you unveil your gift. Typically, you’ll want to give him or her the star certificate and related materials on an anniversary, Valentine’s Day, or a birthday.
 Once you order your package, the certificate, astrological chart, and whatever else you chose to purchase will arrive in the mail.


If you named the star after a friend or loved one, be sure to surprise them at an appropriate time with the gift.
If you named the star for yourself, share it with your friends and family. They will surely be curious and impressed.
If possible, find your star in the night sky with a telescope. Online virtual telescopes like SkyView are great for locating stars with specific coordinates. For something more robust, you could download the program Cartes du Ciel, a virtual star chart. 