 Nasal congestion can point to many different causes. The most common causes are infections like cold, flu, and sinusitis and allergies. Environmental irritants like chemicals or smoke can also cause congestion. Some people have chronic runny nose — a condition known as vasomotor rhinitis or VMR., Viruses are difficult to treat because they live in the body's cells and reproduce very quickly. Luckily, the most common viral infections are cold and flu, which resolve on their own with time. Treatment is essentially about managing the symptoms and staying as comfortable as possible. To prevent the flu, get an annual vaccination before flu season begins.The symptoms of cold and flu include:Fever
Runny or stuffy nose
Clear, green, or yellow nasal discharge
Sore throat
Coughing and sneezing
Fatigue
Muscle aches and headaches
Watery eyes
The flu has additional symptoms: a higher fever (over 102 °F or 39.9 °C), nausea, chills/sweats, and loss of appetite

, Most bacterial infections are diagnosed clinically or occasionally by a nasal or throat culture. The doctor will be prescribe the antibiotic most likely to treat the most common bacteria. The antibiotic will either kill the bacteria or stop it from reproducing, allowing the immune system to fight the remaining infection.


Always take the full course of antibiotic treatment, even if you feel better. If you stop taking the treatment before the doctor recommends it, the infection may return.
 It can be caused by a cold, allergies, or bacterial or fungal infections. Though it can be irritating, sinusitis can usually be treated at home without medical intervention. More severe or persistent sinus infections are usually treated with antibiotics. Symptoms include:


Thick yellow or green nasal discharge, often found in the throat as well
Nasal congestion
Tenderness and swelling around the eyes, cheeks, nose, and forehead
Lowered ability to smell and taste
Coughing

, The eyes and nose are closely related, so stress on the eyes can affect the nasal cavity as well. Try dimming the lights in your home or work environment slightly to see if your nose clears up at all.
 Make an appointment to get tested for allergies at your doctor's office if you have chronic or severe nasal congestion, especially with itching or sneezing, or think you may have allergies. The doctor will perform a test in which he injects tiny amounts of common allergens into your skin. Only the patches of skin with substances you're allergic to will swell up slightly, like a mosquito bite. This will allow you to either seek treatment (oral or nasal medication, or even injections) or avoid those allergens. The most common allergens include:


Dust mites
Foods: milk, gluten, soy, spices, shellfish, and food preservatives
Pollen (Hay fever)
Latex
Mold
Peanuts
Pet dander

, Every single time you inhale and exhale, you're dragging your external environment through your nose. If the air around you is the source of your nasal irritation, you can take steps to change your environment. Common irritants include:Tobacco smoke
Exhaust fumes
Perfumes
Dry air (buy a humidifier)
Sudden changes in temperature

, You may be taking a medication to treat a condition that has nothing to do with your nose, but a side effect of that medication may be causing your nasal congestion. Provide your doctor with a list of all prescription and over the counter medications you're taking. If one of the drugs is causing your congestion, the doctor may be able to suggest alternate treatment. Congestion commonly arises from:


High blood pressure medicationsOveruse of decongestant nasal sprays
Drug abuse

, Hormonal changes and disorders can have an impact on your ability to drain your nasal passages normally. If you are pregnant, have thyroid disorder, or in any way suspect hormonal changes, speak with your doctor. He or she may be able to help you control your hormones and reduce the impact on your congestion.
 It could just be the way your nasal anatomy is constructed. Ask your general practitioner to refer you to a specialist if you are unable to get your nasal congestion under control. A specialist will be able to diagnose whether a physical abnormality is interfering with your breathing. Common anatomical problems include:


Deviated septum
Nasal polyps
Enlarged adenoids
Foreign body in the nose

This is especially common in children. This often causes a thick nasal discharge with a bad odor, and it is often only on one side of the nose.



