 If you already know they will play Exodia, volunteer to go first, or choose first if you win at rock-paper-scissors, coin flipping, etc. Exodia, unlike most OTK decks, is perfectly capable of winning on the first turn, because their win condition does not depend on attacking. If you go first, you will be able to set up the anti-Exodia cards mentioned later in this article.
 Seeing them add an Exodia piece using Pot of Duality or Sangan is a dead giveaway. When they do, be sure to remember that card. You can also tell if they are playing: a lot of draw cards (like One Day of Peace, Upstart Goblin, or Magical Mallet), deck thinning cards (like three Toon Table of Contents), or pieces of popular draw engines (Royal Magical Library and Spell Power Grasp, Heart of the Underdog with a bunch of normal monsters)., Time your discard cards for when you know you can hit one of the pieces. You can tell when your opponent has Exodia by watching the cards they play from their hands. If they are activating spells and setting traps as soon as they get them but always have a few cards left in their hand, they are probably Exodia. Also, if they play Magical Mallet, the cards they don't shuffle in will likely include the pieces. If they haven't won yet but have less than ~5 cards in their deck to go through, start panicking., Mind Crush is a versatile card which is included in most decks or side decks and is effective against the rest of the current metagame, something that does not apply to most of these other options. It is a trap card who's effect allows you to declare a card name. The opponent will have to discard all cards with that name from their hand. The best time to use this is when you have seen your opponent add an Exodia piece - usually with Pot of Duality or Heart of the Underdog, but maybe with Sangan or Witch of the Black Forest in Traditional format. If not, simply call an Exodia piece when your opponent seems to have a large enough hand. Mind Crush will force your opponent to reveal their hand for verification, so memorize any Exodia pieces present., Cards such as Deck Devastation Virus or Dragged Down into the Grave can be helpful, as they will be able to send the Exodia pieces to the graveyard. If they run cards that can retrieve Exodia, banish them with D.D. Crow, Soul Release, or D.D. Designator. If you want a surefire way to remove Exodia, use Exchange. This will allow you and your opponent to swap a card from the hand, and there is no way to get a card back from an opponent's hand., Null and Void is a good card for this, since it forces the opponent to discard all drawn cards when they draw. If they are running some sort of draw engine, try to negate the engine. If they play Hope For Escape, include ways to negate trap cards. If they use Royal Magical Library, negate the Library's summon or effect, or destroy it. You can also negate their spell cards with stuff like Cursed Seal of the Forbidden Spell, Light and Darkness Dragon, and Magic Jammer., If they aren't playing stall cards like Swift Scarecrow and Battle Fader, just attack them with powerful monsters. Chances are, if they are getting bad draws, they'll lose soon enough. Battle Fader's summon can be negated, and Swift Scarecrow can be negated with Mind Drain.