 The territory you are about to embark on comes with its advantages and disadvantages. You will not, NOT, be totally and utterly free however. There is still the law to think about as police don't like homeless travelers. This brings you to your first step: you must have common sense and a decent aptitude to learn new things and know how to behave in social situations.;
, parents, girlfriend(s), boyfriend(s), partner(s), grandparents, friends- that you're going on an "extended vacation", so as to prepare them and mostly yourself for your absence from society.
 Only the strong at heart can survive this path in life but it ultimately brings peace to those who do it correctly. This brings you to the next step: you must ask yourself, are you running away? If so, what from? What are you tired of? What do you want to do with your life? These are the kind of questions you want to ask. On the road you will have all the time you need to sort through the answers.
 You will need these things in order:

1 large metal framed or military issue backpack. If it is not metal framed then you will need it to have straps; lots of straps for your waist, straps for your gear. Any hiking store/army surplus store should have them.






a durable sleeping bag, preferably a 0 degree one so if it's cold outside you're covered, while if it's warm you can unzip it accordingly.






a tent so you can urban camp if you find that perfect sweet spot where nobody will ask questions: behind a truck stop on a buggy night, if it's raining, if you're at a hippie gathering, if you feel like laying low for a while and getting a weekend job or for any reason.
a decent large tarp for rain/cover.






a knife in which size is up to you.






nylon rope.






poncho.






a magic marker for writing signs.






pocket money to be used SPARINGLY! you do not have a constant job any longer; your only income now is erratic and probably low.






anything else you will want for pleasure. No electronics -this is a self searching journey- and those will only hinder your mind on its quest for self. Pack sparingly; you can also bring a dog because people will give you more kick downs but remember, two mouths to feed are more difficult than one!







, Quit your job. Move out of your apartment ant put all you money away in the bank save for a few hundred. You're officially homeless. For those of you with cars, park it at a friend's house or leave it at your parents/relatives' because you can no longer afford it. You might be able to afford a small motorcycle but there is still gas/insurance/upkeep, so you might as well leave it behind.
