 You'll need metallic acrylic craft paint, an art paintbrush, and a wet sponge.


Look for a deep gray metallic paint. One labeled as "gunmetal gray" will usually be a good choice.
Depending on the look you want to create, you may also want to use a copper metallic paint. The copper paint is only optional, though.
It's also a good idea to have a supply of water ready since you may need to rinse the sponge periodically throughout the process. Consider standing next to a sink. Alternatively, keep a bucket of clean water nearby during the process.
To prevent things from getting too messy, cover your work area with plastic sheets or newspaper. You may also want to wear an artist's smock or apron to protect your clothes.
 Dip the paintbrush in gunmetal gray paint, then apply the paint to the sides of the stainless steel object using even strokes.


Pour the paint into a disposable paint dish for easy access.
Apply the paint along the grain of the steel. Cover the entire surface you wish to antique, but do not allow the paint to dry.
 Dab at the applied paint using the wet sponge. Work your way around the surface, essentially "messing up" the perfect coat of paint you just applied.


Using a wet sponge instead of a dry sponge should prevent the pattern of the sponge from imprinting itself into the paint.
You need to remove some of the paint, but you shouldn't wipe all of it away. Much of the paint should still remain after you complete this step.
As you dab away at the paint, you should notice some spots where the paint smears and others where the paint develops a splattered appearance. Both effects are what you need to retain.
 Work back and forth between the previous two steps. Apply paint with your paintbrush, then dab some of the paint away with your wet sponge.


As the sponge gets loaded with paint, you may need to rinse it with clean water. After rinsing the sponge, gently wring it out before returning to the steel piece. You should work with a damp sponge, not one that is dripping wet.
Continue alternating between painting and sponging until you create a naturally worn appearance.
 Set the stainless steel piece aside and allow it to dry completely before handling it further.


Examine the dry piece. Most of the natural metal should show through beneath the coat of paint. Determine whether or not you are satisfied with these results.
 If desired, you could try adding a coat of copper metallic paint on top of the gunmetal paint. Apply this second coat with the same painting and sponging technique used for the first.


This second coat is only optional. Understand that it will cover more of the natural metal, and if you don't like the results, you will need to clean off the paint and start from the beginning. It will be impossible to salvage the first layer you applied.
Avoid adding any coat beyond the second. Adding too many layers may make it more obvious that the piece has been painted instead of naturally aged.
Once you achieve the desired appearance, the project is complete. Note that the antique effect will last for a long time unless the paint is washed away.

