 They won't like the process, but the results can be amazing. Swaddling recreates the coziness of the womb, and may enhance the calming impact of other soothing steps.Once swaddled, turn baby on their side and jiggle them. Shush them loudly - make sure they can hear you over their own screaming. Think about how loud the vacuum cleaner is — that's the kind of volume it might take to get their attention.;
, The recurring motion may soothe your shrieking baby and get them to stop crying, at least briefly.While it’s tempting to let a crying baby sleep anywhere they please, experts recommend not letting babies sleep in swings, carriers, car seats, etc. — try to get them to sleep in a safe, secure crib.
 Driving, strolling, or even carrying your baby around may provide some relief to both of you. Some people swear by car rides as a colic remedy -- bundle the baby up, buckle them in, and within ten minutes in the car, their cries might be quieted.Or, if you prefer fresh air and exercise, going for walks with a baby carriage can also work.
If you have tasks or chores to do, try using a baby sling or carrier that holds the baby close to your body, yet leaves both hands free as you walk around the house.
 The vibrations can be calming to a baby. Secure the baby properly in a car seat or a baby bouncer.Do not ever leave your baby on a washing machine or dryer unattended.
 Try the vacuum cleaner. It sounds odd, but many parents swear it works. Just set the baby in the bassinet or car seat and let them become fascinated by a sound louder than they're making.Or, turn on a floor fan or window air conditioner. Make sure it’s an older, roaring type, not some new whisper-quiet model.
You might also want to invest in a sound machine that mimics a mother's heart beat (or makes other white noise sounds). This can be a lifesaver for both parent and child.
 Lay the baby on their stomach across your knees — but remember to support the head at all times. Jiggle your feet up and down and pat softly. This vibration can be very soothing., Instead of over-stimulating your baby's senses, see if reducing external stimulation works. Lie on your back in a quiet, dark place. Hold the baby firmly on your chest with their head over your heart. Raising your knees with your feet flat on a solid surface, rock yourself, calming the infant.