 Most boats stored outdoors for the winter are either shrink-wrapped or have a tarp covering the top of it protecting it from the outside elements (snow, sleet, ice). Depending on the size of the boat, often people will create a framework in order to support a tarp or when shrink wrapping a boat.

Uncover the boats tarp or shrink-wrap carefully, avoiding rips or tears.
If needed, take pictures and label parts of the framework so it can be reassembled and reused the next year.
Disassemble the framework and store materials.



 

;
, Performing a general inspection of the exterior of the boat can be very helpful when determining what things need to be done. If the boat had been covered properly for the winter, a general cleaning, waxing, and painting should be the only necessary procedures needed to make the boat look good again.

Check the condition of the fiberglass for light dirt, dark stains/streaks to determine the type of cleaner needed.
Inspect the exterior wood to determine if it needs to be refinished.
Check the bottom of the boat to see if it had been painted with an anti-fouling paint (this procedure is necessary if the boat stays in the water during the summer season).
 Make a list of supplies you think you need based on the assessments made and head to your local marine store. If you are unsure of the right supplies you need, the employees at the store can help you choose the right products to complete each task.

Take inventory of what supplies you already own.
Compose a list of supplies you do not possess and what you may need more of.
 Boats can be made of different materials (fiberglass, plastic, wood). For each type there are different ways to protect it and keep it looking new. The most common material used to build boats is fiberglass. If the boat is made of fiberglass, it is necessary to reapply wax yearly to keep it protected from the elements of the water and the sun.

Wash the exterior of the boat from top down with a mild boat soap and water (for the stubborn spots, there are stronger spot cleaners you can use).
Let the boat sit and wait until it is completely dry before moving on.
Apply the protective coat of wax, either by hand with a rag or using an electric buffing tool (wax can be in a paste or liquid form, choose what is best for you).
 Many boats are made with the bottom half of the exterior covered in paint. This acts as another form of protection against external elements. When preparing your boat, another way to protect the outer layer of the boat is to reapply a fresh coat of paint to prevent things such as algae growth if the paint is either chipping away or fading. If the bottom of the boat needs painting first get the boat ready to paint.

Use blue masking tape to tape off the top edge of the paint line.
Scrape off any loose paint and lightly sand the bottom.
Rinse off the bottom and let it sit to dry completely before moving on.
Paint the bottom using the proper paint, brush, roller and clothing for the job.
 Many boats have accent wood pieces (such as teak wood) located around both the inside and outside of the boat. A lot of times with the sun beating down on them, those pieces can start to fade, looking dull and slightly grey. They can be restored by sanding and staining them. You can usually mask off surrounding fiberglass and restore small accent pieces without trying to remove them; however, some larger sections may need to be removed and restored outside of the boat.

Unscrew and remove any large pieces of accent wood.
Use masking tape to tape off surrounding fiberglass (if you plan on leaving smaller accent pieces in place).
Sand all pieces of wood (large and small) either by hand with sandpaper, or with a small electric palm sander.
Clean away dust particles with a small vacuum and wipe with a dry cloth.
Apply the new finish of your choice based on the manufactures specifications.
Remove masking tape and reinstall the pieces that were removed.
 Now that the exterior of the boat is prepared and ready for the upcoming season, the next step is to perform a visual inspection on the boats engine(s) and mechanical systems. If your boat has an internal engine(s) it is typical that these engines were filled with some type of antifreeze to protect them from winter temperatures.

Perform a visual inspection of the engines, looking for any leaks (if leaks are present this could be a result of improper winterization).
Contact a mechanic to determine what repairs are needed (if leaking occurs); or if there are no present leaks, proceed on to next inspection.
Open and close the water supply valve(s) located down in the hull (typically at its lowest point) to make sure the valve(s) operate properly.
Leave the valve(s) in the open position (if they operate smoothly).
Inspect all cooling system hosing for cracks.
Check engine fluids for proper levels.
 Many modern boats have more than one battery that are typically located deep in the hull. Depending on the type of charging system you have the batteries can either be left on the boat or they may have to be removed, which can be difficult because they are so heavy. Most larger boats have an onboard charging system, that when plugged into a power source, can maintain a fully charged battery, thus preventing it/them from freezing or breaking. If the batteries have to be removed it is important to store them somewhere inside to keep them warm.

Check to confirm the charger is still in operation and inspect the batteries for any cracks or leaks (If the batteries are left on board).
Re-install all of the batteries, making sure all of the connections are tight (If the batteries were removed and charged elsewhere).
 If your boat is equipped with an outdrive, trim-tabs, or both, your boat has at least one hydraulic system. These systems are typically very reliable year after year, but occasionally an O-ring or rubber seal could fail, causing hydraulic fluid to leak. It is better to know if something is malfunctioning on the outside of the boat before it goes in the water!

Operate either the boats outdrive or trim-tabs with someone standing outside at the back of the boat to make sure they are operating properly.
 A boat typically has a ½ inch screwed plug that screws into the hull from the outside. This plug is usually left out when out of the water (during the winter) to allow any accumulating water to run out.

Re-install the drain plug.
Tighten securely with a wrench.
 Most of the time larger boats have some type of fresh water system (a sink, ice maker, or toilet). These systems would have had to be winterized to prevent freezing. The process of winterizing can be different for every boat based on how complex the boats water system is. Sometimes the water lines or sections are disconnected to allow water to drain out.

If any hose or fittings had been disconnected during the winterization process, reconnect these sections.
Tighten securely with the proper tool.
 Built-in electronics are becoming more and more common in newer boat models (radars, GPS, etc.) However, older boat models normally had separate devices mounted on or around the driver’s helm station. Typically, these devices were removed from the boat during the winter months to prevent possible damage or potential theft.

Re-install these devices (if removed).
 All boats are required to carry certain distress signals including, flairs, fire extinguishers, life jackets, an anchor and anchor lines for the safety of everyone on board. For each distress signal there are different requirements so it is important to make sure all safety equipment is up to code and then you should be good to go!

Check flairs for expiration dates (if expired, purchase new ones).
Check the fire extinguisher (purchase a new one if it is discharged).
Provide life jackets for everyone on board.

