 Go to UberEATS, open the menu (≡) in the upper left corner and click “Cities” to open a list of cities where UberEATS service is available.


You will also be notified if UberEATS is available after entering your address into the app.;
, Tap “Install” and then “Open” once installation completes.
 Tap “Sign in” to bring up the entry fields, enter you username and password, and tap “Sign” in again.


If you already have the Uber app installed and are signed in, the login, address, and payment information will be automatically imported into the UberEATS app.
 UberEATS will automatically predict a delivery location as you type it. You can change the location by tapping the address display at the top of the screen.


If UberEATS is unavailable in your delivery location, you will be notified once it is set.
 Tap the search bar and enter restaurant names or cuisine to search for restaurants. Nearby restaurants will also be displayed on the main page once the location is set.


Delivery time estimates will display above each restaurant listing. Note that these are just approximations.
 Swipe to scroll through dishes or tap the “≡” button in the lower right to jump between sections.
 Options might include extra sides, substitutions, or special preparation.
 Some dishes may require some options to be set before they can be added to the cart (e.g. level of spice). Not all dishes will have special options.
 The quantity arrows are located at the bottom of the dish details page.
 This button appears at the bottom of the details page of a menu item. You can continue browsing to add more dishes before you check out.
 Once an item is added to the cart, this button will display at the bottom of the screen and will take you to the cart details page.


This button will persist across different pages on UberEATS until you remove items from your cart or place an order.
Optionally, you can tap “Add delivery note” to include specialized instructions for you order (e.g. extra sauce).
 Your order will be placed and moved to the Orders page.
 Tap “≡” in the upper right to open the menu and select “Orders”. Tap your order to view details and track the progress of your order.

