 If you are offered a severance package and asked to sign an agreement, you should ask for time to review the materials in greater detail. You should then review all of your employment and benefit information to make sure that the agreement includes all of the benefits to which you are entitled.


Employment and benefits information may be contained in employee handbooks, an employment agreement that you signed, and any ERISA-governed separation plans or agreements., Even if you only hire an attorney to review the offered severance package, you will receive a benefit from an experienced employment attorney’s review of the materials. An attorney can provide you with the following benefits:


Insight into whether the agreement is equitable, meaning that you are being appropriately compensated for all of the things that you are giving up, such as the right to bring a lawsuit.
Provide advice on which provisions you should negotiate for different language.
Explain all of the provisions and how they may help or harm future employment prospects.
Engage in negotiations on your behalf., If you have a case for wrongful termination, breach of contract, employment discrimination or another claim, you should assert your claim in a demand letter. Valid legal claims can be used as leverage in a severance negotiation.Your demand letter should also include a “spoliation notice,” which is a warning to an employer that they can not destroy any evidence related to your claim.
You should provide enough detail in the letter that the employer takes your claim seriously and can recognize that you have a valid claim.
To view a sample demand letter visit: , In most cases, the severance agreement provided to you by the employer includes language that benefits the employer and is harmful to the employee. These agreements may unnecessarily limit your future employment potential, waive rights to unemployment insurance or other compensation. Think of the severance agreement as a first offer and you should present a counteroffer that is more balanced and protects the employee’s interests., While you can certainly negotiate over every provision in the severance agreement, there are certain provisions that are particularly important to an employee and protecting his or her employment opportunities.


Before beginning negotiations, a terminated employee should think about what he or she wants and needs as the outcome of the negotiation and where he or she is willing to compromise if the employer refuses. The most difficult question is whether the employee is willing to forego the severance package and move forward on a legal claim. A person should only move forward with a legal claim if there are facts to support his or her position.
Termination reason. Every severance agreement will specify the reason the employee was terminated. This can be very damaging to the employee’s ability to secure future employment. As an employee, you are looking to strike a balance between language that will allow you to receive unemployment benefits but clearly state that you were terminated. An employer may be willing to compromise on this language if you are willing to waive your rights to bring a lawsuit.
Most employers will insert a non-disparagement clause in the agreement, which generally states that you cannot speak ill of the company or other employees. An employee wants to negotiate a mutual non-disparagement provision whereby the employee agrees not to disparage the company and the company agrees not to disparage the employee.
The waiver of lawsuits and claims provision should have an exemption for any benefits for which the employee is vested by law such as worker’s compensation benefits, indemnification for loss that has already occurred, and any vested benefits such as pensions. The agreement should also include an affirmative statement that the employee is not waiving his or her employment insurance.
The employee should disagree with any provision that limits the potential for the employee to be rehired by the company in the future.
The employee should negotiate a limit on any reduction in severance payments if the employee finds another position quickly. This is referred to as a mitigation provision.
The employee should demand that any waivers of claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act and the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act are clearly explained. The employee should reject any waiver of potential future claims should the employee be rehired.Request that the terms of the severance agreement remain confidential.
Request a positive letter of reference from your employer and that all detrimental information be removed from your personnel file.
Negotiate the amount and form of your severance pay so that you can get the most favorable tax treatment. It may be worth consulting a tax specialist and have them devise the most beneficial structure of severance benefits to minimize your tax liabilities.