 Infants enjoy sound. Talk to, read, and sing to your newborn. You can also use baby rattles and musical mobiles with a newborn. If the newborn seems a little fussy, you may sing, read a nursery rhyme, or talk while you hold and rock the baby.If the newborn turns away, cries, or seems startled by talking or singing, your baby may be sensitive to noise. Lower the volume or use a softer tone to see if this helps.
 Swaddling keeps a baby warm and makes the baby feel safe and secure.Spread out a large blanket and fold one corner. Place the baby face up with the head at the edge of the folded corner. Bring one side of the blanket across the body and tuck it underneath the baby. Fold the bottom portion of the blanket to cover the baby's feet. Hold the baby in place and bring the other side of the blanket across the baby and tuck it.Only the head and neck should be visible once you are finished.
Swaddling is only recommended for babies under two months old.
Do not fold the blanket too tight. Babies should have room to move their feet, hips, and knees. Folding the baby too tight can cause breathing problems and hip development issues.
If you are swaddling to help your baby fall asleep, only place your baby on his back.
 This will be hard at first, but a newborn is crying to communicate a need. As time goes on you will know the difference between each cry. Common reasons a newborn will cry include:Sleepy or tired
Hungry
Gas
Too much noise or activity
Sick or in pain
Needs a diaper change

, If you newborn is crying and you cannot figure out why, go through the five S's to comfort your baby. These activities mimic the womb environment and will help calm the baby.Swaddle
Side or stomach position — hold the baby on the side or stomach. Remember to always put your baby on or her back when it is time for bed.
Shush — Drown out some other noises by running the vacuum cleaner, hair dryer, fan, or clothes dryer.
Swing — Rock the baby or take your baby for a car or stroller ride.
Suck — Have the baby suck on a pacifier.
 If your baby is crying and you begin to feel frustrated, take a timeout and then try to soothe the baby again. Your baby can pick up on your emotions and will respond. If you are upset, your baby may be upset as well.


Place the baby down in the crib or bassinet and walk around the house for a few minutes.
If you can, leave the baby with someone else so you can get a break.
You can also count to 10 and take a few deep breaths. Tell yourself, "Everything will be alright," or "I can do this."

, If your baby cries for more than three hours a day for more than three days a week, the baby may have colic. All your attempts to soothe the baby will seem unsuccessful. Colic usually ends when the baby is around 12–14 weeks old. Colic usually stops on its own, but take your baby to the pediatrician if you are concerned.Be as patient as possible and continue to soothe your newborn.
Try to get help from a partner, family, or friends during this time.

