 Only spend what money you have. If you have to put it on a credit card to afford it, then it is not worth buying. You should not go into to debt to buy clothes. If possible don’t use a card at all when purchasing a clothes—not even a debit card. Instead, use cash. Using cash will make the amount feel more real than simply swiping a card.It is also not recommended to avoid using a credit card because you will have to pay interest on the original amount if you don’t pay the payment on time.
Stores like Nordstrom Rack and TJ Maxx offer credit cards that offer rewards for purchases. If you decide to use any credit card, it is a good option to consider signing up for a store credit card.
 Shop during big sales. Large department and mall stores usually have an annual or semi-annual sale. It is the best time to buy quality clothing during these big sales. You can check out online deals, or look for sale advertisements in newspapers.Flash sales will sometimes pop up during the year as well. Stay mindful and don’t get too excited when you encounter one of these sales. It is easy to buy a lot because it seems cheap, but the amount will add up quickly.
 Join an e-mail mailing list to be informed when big sales are happening. Many stores will send you a reminder when sales or discounts are being offered if you enter your email on their website. Try to only sign up for stores you are really interested in, or your mailbox can become overrun with emails., If you see an item of clothing that has a small, but removable stain, or has a missing button that can be replaced, ask for a discount. Take the item of clothing to the register, show the damage, and ask if it is possible to take some money off of the full price. Often, the store will discount at least 10%.Make sure the stain can be removed before asking for a discount.
Don’t argue with the employee if they say that a discount can’t be made on the item.
 Ebates is an app that will send you cash back on your purchases. Simply use Ebates to get to the retailer you want to purchase from, and then you will receive some money in PayPal, or a check. You can also find coupons and deals through the Ebates website.Don’t expect a large portion of your money back on purchases. The amount you get back on a purchase may not be a lot, but it will add up over time.
 Even when sales aren’t going on, you can find clothing for a discounted price. Sign up for mailing lists, search the newspaper, and check out websites to look for coupons. You can also look at websites like RetailMeNot to find promotion codes and coupons.Check the receipt for a coupon when you make a purchase.

