 The road most travelled, most of the folks who join Twitter try this route. There’s nothing bad in being humorous, but you must be original if you really want that huge fan base at your command, otherwise you will be flamed for plagiarizing tweets. The viral nature of Twitter is your best friend here; if you really have it in you to make people split up in laughter, then there’s no stopping you. And you need not worry about the subject of your jokes at all, as there’s always something or someone to poke fun at on Twitter. In short: Be funny. Be original. Be different.


On any given day, there will be at least one hashtag where you can join in and show your funny side. You could engage in some playful banter with those who are participating in that hashtag. The more you communicate with people, the more you get noticed.
Also, having your own brand of humor works really well. While Ramesh Srivats and Avinash Lyer are famous for their puns, the Pagal Patrakar comes up with his own take on breaking faking news. And who can forget the inimitable Fake Rakesh Jhunjhunwala and his I-Am-God egotistical style of humor?;
, What are you an expert on? Is there any topic where you have a strong foothold? Is it politics? Marketing? Cricket? Music? Knitting? Be it any topic, you will find thousands of folks who share the same interest as you do.


A simple search on followerwonk.com using your industry keywords will help you find all those people who are just like you. You will see them creating and sharing content that is relevant to your niche. Now all you need to do is to strike up a conversation with them and let your ability shine through.
Connecting with influencers from your niche will speed up the growth of your audience. But the bottom line is, if you are genuinely an expert on something, you are bound to get noticed by your colleagues and competitors if you network effectively.
 On Twitter, every day someone is out there looking to connect with a person who can be of some help. Not a single goes by where you don’t see people looking for PG accommodations, designers, developers, blood donors, dog adopters, and so forth. A connector is someone who is highly networked and knows people from most (if not all) walks of life. He or she is up-to-date with all the info about the folks he or she is connected with and helps them find each other. Apart from getting noticed, connecting two people who are in desperate need of each other also generates that holy goodwill that will give you the best seat in heaven.


For example: The original author found a lady who urgently wanted to talk with employees from a certain IT company. The author stumbled across her tweet through an RT and immediately connected her with 6-7 employees of that particular company, one being the COO. Result? Goodwill aside, the author is now connected to an influencer and a senior executive from that IT company.
Another connector is Social Samosa’s very own Ankita Gaba.
 This is something that very few people do on Twitter. And it shocks me as to how people who want to build a meaningful network around them are so lazy when it comes to helping others. Social media is all about giving and sharing (no, this is not about sharing links to your blog post here). The more you give, the more your receive. Someone is looking for guitar tutorials? Do an online search to find the best guitar tutorial out there. Of course, it might take some of your time but who said everything in life’s easy? The time and effort you spend helping people will one day prove immensely fruitful to you. However, the true essence of helping lies in not expecting something back in return.


Note: Always a keep a tab on the #help hashtag, a lot of people ask for help using it.
 Can’t crack jokes? Don’t have time to connect people? Not an expert in anything? Too lazy to help others? No problemo, amigos y amigas! Twitter is also the place where all the haters meet and have fun trolling their least favorite celeb. Just go out there and start trashing that one famous personality whom you hate more than mathematics. You will be surprised to find that your views are echoed by a thousand others. The perfect examples of trolls-who-got-famous are Satan Bhagat (who is a big time Chetan Bhagat basher) and Bollywood Gandu (trolling the entire Bollywood). And they aren’t famous for trolling alone. They have fused trolling with their own brand of humor and look how famous they are now!

