 People’s bodies often follow a certain standard in the media. Women may be unhealthily skinny and men are lean and muscled. Celebrities and actors on commercials, TV shows, and movies all appear to have flawless skin and perfect hair. Educate yourself on skewed media images in order to embrace your own body.The truth is, much of what you see in the media is altered by cameras, retouching, and special lighting. Even celebrities have flaws.
Take a look at the people you see around you every day. More than likely, very few of them meet the media standard. That’s because media portrayals of human bodies are unrealistic. Real human bodies come in all shapes, sizes, and colors.
 The TV shows and movies you watch, the social media feeds you follow, and the magazines you read all have a significant impact on your body image. If viewing these media cause you to feel upset or self-conscious, it’s probably best to cut out your exposure.


Make a list of TV programs, social media pages, websites, and magazines that cause you to play into unrealistic body images. Cancel your subscription or stop following these sources.
Consider replacing your negative media with body-positive content. Look for shows, websites, and magazines that focus on staying happy and healthy, rather than looking a certain way. Alternatively, you could focus your media on hobbies or world news.
 In today’s digital world, ads are everywhere. A large portion of the advertising industry consists of weight loss ads that promise an unrealistic, quick fix if you only take a pill or buy a product. Teenage girls and guys may interpret these claims as true, and expect a similar outcome. Weight loss claims on television are rarely rooted in science or truth. These ads are endorsed so that you spend money.Although ads are basically inescapable, start criticizing the claims they promise. The only science-backed way to lose weight is by consuming a healthy diet and exercising.
 You can feel positive about your body when you log onto social media or browse the web by finding media sources that reinforce a variety of bodies. Look for specific bloggers or social media personalities that emphasize self-love and healthy living.Websites like KidHealth.org, GirlsHealth.gov, and DoSomething.org are all positive, healthy influences.