 These superstars are key figures in the ECW storyline and will therefore not be eligible to play as in the ECW storyline.;
, These superstars are key figures in the opposite Road to WrestleMania and will, therefore, be automatically eligible to play as in the ECW storyline. Otherwise, the steps below explain how to unlock the storyline as someone else on the Smackdown roster.
 John Cena and Rob Van Dam will accuse each other of running down Smackdown general manager Theodore Long. Agree with Van Dam's claims that Cena is acting defensively.
 In week three of 'Torrie's contract', Torrie Wilson will ask you to be the special referee in a match between Cena and Van Dam. Make sure Cena wins.
 Torrie books a triple threat match between you, Cena and Van Dam, and Judgment Day (week four in 'Torrie's contract'), with her contract on the line. Be the one who gets pinned, submitted, or disqualified.
 John Bradshaw Layfield books a 3-on-2 handicap match between you and a partner of your choice (Van Dam or Cena) against Orlando Jordan and the Basham Brothers in week five of 'Torrie's Contract'. Choose Van Dam as your partner.
 In week three of 'Urning your spot', Eddie Guerrero arranges a tag team match with you and him taking on Booker T and Kurt Angle. Lose the match.
 After the match, Eddie offers you the chance to team up with him to 'go all the way back to the top', using the Undertaker's urn. Refuse his offer.
 In week five of 'Urning your spot', you attempt to win the Undertaker's urn from Eddie in a ladder match. Lose the match.
 In week one of 'Ready to Rumble', Mr. McMahon makes you an offer to improve your Royal Rumble number of 15 by participating in an ironman match or a triple threat match. Choose the triple threat match.
 You will know if you have unlocked the storyline before the Royal Rumble match, as the WWE champion will come out with Mr. McMahon in week three of 'Ready to Rumble'. If the champion is Rob Van Dam, win the Royal Rumble match to unlock the ECW storyline.

