 If you aren’t the celebrity's number one fan and don’t know much about them, learn about them before the meet and greet. Maybe you won the meet and greet tickets on the radio, but don't know their work or you love the celebrity but you don’t know much about them. If this is the case look up information about who they are. Watch their movies and TV shows, or listen to their music before the meet and greet so you are prepared.


You might find out information about them that you can relate to (such as where they grew up or that you both love dogs) to help create a natural conversation.;
, You can tell them your name and a little bit about yourself. Celebrities are likely to want to feel like they are having an opportunity to meet and get to know someone too. Make sure to tell them your name and a little bit about yourself when you meet them.


For example, “Hi! I am Lisa. I am from Wisconsin and am a junior in high school! I have been a big fan of your music since I was 11.”

, If you are at a meet and greet, it is usually expected that you can take photos with the celebrity. You can politely ask them for a photo on your phone. They also might have photographers at the meet and greet. Be confident and polite when you ask for the photo.


Say something like, “Can we please take a photo?”
Make sure to say thank you for the photograph.
 If you know you are going to meet a celebrity, you can bring something for them to autograph. Don’t bring too much stuff, otherwise that might be overwhelming for them. Bring something that is merchandise of theirs, such as a poster or shirt, for them to sign. They will likely have a pen for autographs, but just in case they don’t, bring a pen or marker with you.


You can simply ask them: “Can you please sign my poster?”

, Before you get to the meet and greet, think about what you want to talk to the celebrity about. You can tell them how much you love their music or acting. You can ask them insightful questions about how they come up with songwriting ideas or what it was like playing a certain role., They might seem divine to you, but remember they are just another human. Try not to stress about meeting them and treat it like you are meeting any other person. The celebrity will probably appreciate it if you treat them like anyone else and not like someone special., Many celebrities appreciate the thought of a gift from a fan. Don’t get a celebrity something strange like a personal item of yours, but you can get them something thoughtful. Some celebrities love gifts from fans; for instance, Taylor Swift posted a sweater a fan knitted for her on Instagram.If you are a big fan of the celebrity and are worried you are going to get tongue tied when you meet them, then write them a short note. You can tell them how much of a fan you are and appreciate their work, just don’t go overboard.

