 When you tell your family about your bipolar depression, you need to explain exactly what bipolar depression is. Explain that bipolar depression is a mood disorder that causes extreme mood swings, from emotional highs, also known as mania, to depressive lows.


Tell them that these moods shift back and forth will little to no pattern.For example, tell your family "There will be times when I am extremely happy or excited about things. There may also be days where I can't get out of bed or that I'll lash out at you because I can't deal with anyone else."

, Each person's bipolar depression manifests in different ways. When you tell your family about your condition, you should explain what they can expect from your particular situation. This may be hard to explain, but you will likely understand at least the general outline of how your condition works since you have been diagnosed and are likely working with your doctor or therapist.


Let your family know if you tend more toward mania or depressive episodes and how you are likely to act during each.Also let them know this will change and may be unpredictable. Just let them know the basics of what to expect from your particular case.For example, say "I tend to have longer bouts of depression where it is really hard for me to leave my house. If I don't call you back for days at a time, it is not because I don't care. I just can't."

, When you tell your family about your bipolar depression, make it clear that it isn't their fault. Many family members may not understand the way you act during these episodes and may take it as a personal affront to them. They may also think that your behaviors were caused by something they said or did to you.


Do your best to explain that you may do or say things during these episodes that may upset them, but that it has nothing to do with them in most cases.Let your family know "When I lash out at you or ignore you for days on end, it isn't because you did something to me. I am likely dealing with a depressive episode and I can't help the way I feel."

, When you are going through a manic or depressive episode, you need someone you can call on to help you. Once your family knows about your bipolar disorder, they can help you in ways that they were not able to before they knew about your disorder.


You can designate family members you can call if you have a particularly hard depressive episode or someone who can deal with you if you are in a manic episode.
There are some people with bipolar disorder that may suffer from suicidal thoughts during depressive episodes. If you suffer from major depressive episodes, especially severe ones, make sure you have a family member that will look in on you and help talk you back from these thoughts. Have them check in on you and make sure you are in the right head space.Ask your family, "If you don't hear from me after three phone calls or texts, could you come and check up on me? Maybe drop by my apartment and see if I'm alright?"

