 The one in the photographs uses 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) scrap plywood, 1⁄8 inch (0.3 cm) Masonite composite board, and 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) Lauan plywood.;
, Since you need to be able to scribe a pretty neat circle, you may want to use an inverted 5 gallon (18.9 L) bucket, as in the photograph.
 Cut these with a jigsaw, following the line as closely as possible, since these will be mated pieces.


Other approaches:
Cut the circle with router or bandsaw instead.
Make or purchase a circle-cutting jig for better accuracy.
Use a plastic bucket or a tambourine as the banjo soundbox.
 Leave some wider places on opposite sides for attaching the instrument's neck. Cut these with your jigsaw, as well as some blocks about two inches long and 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) wide on roughly the same radius for spacers.
 If they are not very round, make marks on their edges, so they can be refitted in the same position when they are fastened together permanently.
 Note that this forms a structural round box (the banjo's sound box) so it should be solidly assembled.
 You can scribe it with the box itself, or the bucket or other item you originally scribed the first rings with, and if you like, allow it to be slightly oversized so it can be sanded to fit nicely.
 Attach one end near where you think the instrument's neck will be attached, then wrap it around the frame, securing it will glue and small wood screws.
 Make it about 24–26 inches (61.0–66.0 cm) long, tapered from 3 1⁄2 inches (8.9 cm) on one end to about 1 1⁄2 inches (3.8 cm) on the other. Attach this to the sound box through one of the blocking spacers you have previously added, using heavy wood screws pre-drilled through the sound box. Bevel the last two inches of the opposite end to attach the end piece.
 Attach this with two wood screws, keeping it aligned with the neck.
 Plastic, fabric, or even natural animal membrane can be used for this. In the example in the pictures, a faux leather was purchased for this purpose. Note that the material must be stretched very tightly.


Materials Pros and Cons:Clear plastic: Bright, loud, thin sound. Can make it yourself by cutting a large PET-01 plastic bottle.Frosted top plastic: Common choice for bluegrass. Crisp notes with less sustain than clear plastic.Fiberskyn: warmer, old-time "plunky" sound, but fairly versatile.Calfskin: the original old-time classic, but expensive and vulnerable to humidity.
 Attach a simple block on the end of the sound box opposite the neck, and attach eye screws here, also. Do not tighten these screws all the way down, as they may need to have space on the screw thread to turn for tuning the banjo (tightening the strings).
 You will need to cut them a few inches longer than the distance from the eye screws on each end, allowing for tying a simple knot to secure them. Use varying sizes of string, for example, if you use nylon monofilament fishing line, use 100 pound, 60 pound, 30 pound, and 15 pound test lines, to vary the pitch of each. Larger diameter (higher pound test) lines will produce a lower pitched sound, and adjusting the tightness of these strings by twisting the eye screws allowing the strings to wrap the shank will fine-tune the pitch.


Store-bought alternatives:Metal: Banjos use plain metal for most strings, so the material advertised is only a wrapping on the fourth string. Phosphor bronze is warmer, while stainless steel and nickel-plated steel are brighter.Nylgut: a synthetic imitation of gut strings; warmer and quieter than other materials. May snap if they hit a sharp edge.
 These can be spaced depending on your preference, but experiment to locate a convenient fingering location, which will depend on how you grip the neck when playing.
 This will bridge the gap between the strings and the diaphragm, transmitting vibrations from the strings, which are acoustically modified and amplified by it.
 Keep in mind, this is intended to be a fun project, so limit the amount of rules you impose on yourself.
