 Yes, a boy/girl can be the parents' "little prince/princess" Outside of one's own home it is harder to impress people. Avoid being helpless, putting on a "baby voice", pouting and making puppy eyes, or downplaying your ability to do work that may get your parents to serve you, but may appear a bit socially awkward. Don't act as if you are incapable of taking care of yourself in public/social situations.



Avoid making snobs your friends: Faking something you are not -- attracts fakes to you, as a leading faker yourself. People that are your friends when you are faking are just friends of the fake you. Make friends that are not very impressed by expensive or brand named stuff. Avoid clichés based on snobbery.;
, You should be extremely clean: Keep your hair perfectly combed/brushed; fret over keeping your nails and cuticles soft, dirt-free and neat. So you must clean up to seem as if you have others to do menial or dirty work. Expect and ask others to get and bring food and drink to you, and say "Thank you" and share to seem to have plenty. Brush your teeth and bathe/shower. Avoid excessive use of perfume/cologne, despite popularity of body-spray go light on it. Of course, being grubby isn't classy and isn't conducive to getting people to serve you, as you're acting spoiled. Never have gross, greasy hair.
 Spend less on trendy fad pieces. Do not wear the usual popular logo clothes and accessories. Spoiled kids don't need to wear logos to prove that they can afford expensive tastes. This is why you may see them in ripped jeans while wearing impressive jewelry.
 While it is preferable to wear well-made designer clothing, any clothing that you wear should be of good quality brands, well ironed, and clean. Prefer pink, tan, white or baby blue colors. Avoid black because it tends to fade in the wash and end up looking cheap.
 Buy somethings because they look simple and "designer".



Develop a dressy image; it's everything. Aside from good hygiene, you have to dress classy/posh. T shirts and sweatpants will not make it. A golf shirt and plaid shorts will work at the least, or some designer ones. If you cannot afford a lot of designer clothes, get some "look like designer" clothing. Some examples are Isaac Mizrahi, Mossimo, etc. A bit cheap sometimes, but some will work.
 Excellent presentation is half the battle. Wear accessories which flatter your self image, and never wear anything you feel unclassy in. It is important to remember that modesty/refinement is key in earning the respect of others. A bit of cleavage may be fashionable, but classy gentlemen will appreciate public modesty more than street walker light exposure.



Wear quality but simple jewelry. Gold has a wealthy aura. Owning one decent piece is better than a box full of junk pieces. Earrings should be little gold or silver studs, or maybe precious gems. Use real pearls; these are the only acceptable sort for the wealthy look.






You may buy inexpensive accessories but try to find pieces that look simple, but not cheap. Stay away from overly clingy fabrics, last year's trends, and obvious knockoffs. (Knockoffs are okay, if they look authentic).
 However, not much is needed. Look for ways to get enough money. Post ads on a neighborhood website offering babysitting and pet sitting. If you have a lawnmower, offer to mow peoples' lawns or rake leaves, but avoid being seen by friends from more elegant neighborhoods see you doing so. Do something to get money whether that is simply asking your granny or charming your aunts and uncles out of gift cards or cash.


With the money you have collected (anywhere from about $250-$2,000) you need to go shopping. Perhaps, go to outlet malls where clothing is a bit cheaper than at the retail stores. Tommy Hilfiger, Armani Exchange, Dolce and Gabbana clothing can be purchased for a lower price. Also, check wholesale stores that sell gently used clothing for a much cheaper price then at the brand-name store (check tips for a minor addition to this section).
 You do not need to copy outfits exactly, but let yourself be inspired.



Be preppy, too. Wear Lacoste polos, Tommy Hilfiger sweaters, Calvin Klein jeans and Burberry scarves. Don't try to show-off that you wear expensive clothes. Rich people don't show others what they wear. Most of them buy designer clothes because they like them, not just for the label. Also, buy a Louis Vuitton purse. If you cannot afford it, buy a cheaper one. Avoid flimsy knock-offs, that look low in quality.
 Convince your mum to dress elegantly. Some good wardrobe basics would be a Louis Vuitton handbag, a Burberry scarf and a pair of pearls or diamonds. Also, convince your dad to dress like a trendy-golfer or yacht owner. Some good choices would be Lacoste/Tommy Hilfiger/Nautica polos and 2 or 3 Pierre Cardin jackets. An Armani suit would also be good. If you can't afford these, just convince them to always look elegant.



Get parents to help dress up the house. So, when friends come over, you have your ordinary house looking 'rich' by printing poster sized pictures of famous paintings, or of you and your family dressed in beautiful clothes, your parents' best pictures -- and frame them. Then hang them up. On your desk keep all your things neat and tidy. Have a pastel or white bedspread, and for your computer, put a cover, (pink or white), over it. The house should have no clutter/mess kicking around; so sort out extras/junk into laundry-baskets, to stack and stash them out of sight in a closet.







Display what fine dining and etiquette mean. As clichéd as it sounds, learn about wines and cheeses. Learn how to pronounce words like Béchamel and Beaujolais. And learn good table manners -- otherwise you will look like a complete fool at dinnertime. Read and follow etiquette books.







Be generous with little things, mints, simple treats. Be pleasant, somewhat coy but approachable.




Be above physical conflict: Never let anyone bully you. If someone is bullying you in any matter, you do not put up with it. It is disgusting behavior, and you don't let anyone walk all over you.







Have a few possible peacemaking comments to respond with kindly, if someone is insulting you. If you cannot think of anything, the insults will come depending on the person. Always be nice to other people, unless you have something to say that will control them in a simple way.







Be polite and non-flustered. You mustn't be mean, because nobody likes a snobby, rich person. Rich kids are often trained (though unwillingly) in manners, and it shows. Learn some basic table manners for lunches at restaurants with friends. Never be rude to waitstaff, manicurists, sales clerks, etc. as this makes you look like you are not accustomed to being waited on by others. Rich kids often have personal trainers, tutors, drivers, and nannies, and are taught by their parents to be kind to those who serve them.
 It is a must. Use big words. Rich people are often well-educated and thus have good vocabularies. Learn a new word phrase every day like: "aberrant (nutty or abnormal) behavior"; "she is culpable" (to blame); "that is capricious (uncalled for)", but don't say the meaning that is given here in parentheses. Having a vocabulary like this increases apparent elegance, charm and wit, which can be considered a must in higher circles.


Frequent bookstores and cafés: Being seen browsing a trendy book shows a sign of class. Having coffee or tea at hand also makes you look classy.
 Don't throw big, crazy parties; throw intimate gatherings, inviting only your better, classy friends. This way, you will save money but still get the reputation of throwing parties. In addition, your invitations will become more of a commodity in that people will hear about your exclusive parties and not automatically be able to go.


Don't be picky about every little aspect of everything. Rich girls can afford to be picky (or 'selective' as they would probably say), but if you complain about every bit of things, you just seem pretentious and annoying. Choose a few items that you really are selective about. For example, most wealthy people don't mind wearing clothes from Gap because everyone knows they can afford designer clothes. However, for example, many rich girls will never use cheap make-up. Most wear very little makeup preferring the natural look. They will say it will ruin the skin and they are right. They also will not be stingy in the matter of footwear, because better quality footwear molds to the feet for the most comfort, and they are the higher quality. Be picky about things that matter.
 People will respect you. Good posture is always a must.
 Be healthy, not into fad diets or other unhealthy junk food eating attitudes.
 Don't make comments like "Her sweater is so cheap". A rich girl who is well raised (not tacky) and would never say that, and this way if it is discovered that you're family is not wealthy, people will be more sympathetic.



Suggest that you are rich, but do not lie about it outrageously. Don't say that your dad is a partner in a law firm, that you have a driver and a summer home when you do not.







Don't talk about money. Seriously, it's tacky. Don't say "This sweater cost $200". It makes it sound like that is a big event for you and just sounds arrogant.







Never boast about your new styles. Wear them. Friends will compliment any new trappings without pointing them out rudely. If they don't notice, most likely they don't really care, and wouldn't be impressed anyway. So, they can be real friends.
 Don't act embarrassed or too amazed or impressed by yourself.