 When a ram backs away, it usually means that it is planning to charge you. In nature, another ram would also back away to accept the challenge. If you walk toward the ram you may be able to disorient it long enough to make an escape.Your main objective is to get to a gate and get out of the situation, so if walking toward the ram means walking away from a gate, you may need to take a different approach.
Don’t run toward the ram as it may see this as a charge. Simply walk at an even pace toward the animal.
If the ram backs up and you keeping walking toward it for long enough, it will most likely charge at some point, so be ready to perform another defensive technique.;
, You’ll probably need to carry the stick into the pen with you ahead of time. A stick that is three or four feet long and a couple inches thick is ideal. As the ram charges hold the stick out in front of you and swing it in a downward motion.


This may stop the ram in its tracks, but you should also be prepared to dodge in case it does not stop completely.
 It may be scary to stand still while the ram charges you, but running away is not an option since they can run up to 40 mph. When the ram gets close to you, it will get onto its hind legs, meaning it can’t move side to side. This is the moment when you dodge to the side.Since the ram is expecting to butt its head against something after it lunges, it will be confused when it only hits air. Use this time to make your next move.
 If you are able, grab the ram’s horn as it gets near to you and let its momentum swing the ram in a circle. If you can grab its back leg you may be able to bring it to the ground. This is a risky maneuver and should only be done in dire circumstances.Grab either the right horn with your right hand or the left horn with your left hand and swing the ram around the same side of your body as the hand you grabbed with.
As the ram swings in a circle, you may be able to grab a hold of the other horn and twist the ram’s head in a way that will bring it to the ground.

