 At your local arts and crafts store, you’ll see a choice between powder, spray on, and liquid glue. Unless you are comfortable mixing your own glue, it is best to choose the liquid variety.Pick a size that is suitable for the size of your jigsaw puzzle.You can also find jigsaw puzzle glue online.
If you want to make your own glue, just mix one-part water with one-part white glue. Shake the mixture and you have puzzle glue!If you pick the 8 ounce (236 milliliter) bottle, you should be able to glue between 8 and 12 puzzles, depending on the size.;
, Cut a piece of parchment paper one inch (2.54 centimeters) larger than the size of your finished puzzle. By using parchment paper, you can avoid gluing your puzzle to the work table.Although you may be tempted to use newspaper for this purpose, it is strongly discouraged. It will likely get stuck to your puzzle in the gluing process.
 Since you don’t want to disturb your finished puzzle, it is best to carefully slide the parchment paper underneath the puzzle. Align the shape of the parchment paper with the shape of the finished puzzle. Place one edge of the parchment paper underneath one edge of the puzzle and gently slide it undernearth the puzzle.You could ask a friend to hold the puzzle while you pull the parchment paper underneath.
 Since you’ll need the puzzle to be completely flat before applying any glue, you should make sure there are no edges sticking up or missing pieces. Use a rolling pin to press down any raised edges and to ensure the puzzle is completely flat., You can pour some glue directly onto the picture side of the puzzle. Alternately, you can use a brush to apply some glue to the puzzle. You should start with a small circle of glue, and then add more as needed.Avoid adding too much glue at once, since it can lead to swelling., Use your paint brush to spread the glue evenly across the picture side of the puzzle. If you don’t have a paintbrush, you can use a business card or a piece of cardboard to spread the glue. Make sure you cover all of the pieces of the puzzle!At this stage, you may see some air bubbles. This is fine, since they will go away when the glue dries.
 Look on the bottle of glue to find out the drying time for your puzzle glue. Typically, it is around 5 hours. Let the puzzle dry completely., Use your paintbrush to apply a second layer of glue. Let it dry completely., Slide the puzzle onto a piece of cardboard. Use the cardboard to flip the puzzle over onto the work table with the back of the puzzle facing up. Spread a thin layer of glue over the back of the puzzle. Let it dry completely. At this point, your puzzle should be sturdy and ready for display!