 The jerk mainly focuses on moving your arms in time to the beat of whatever song you are dancing to. To get this dance move started you will need to pick an arm to begin the movement with. Either arm will work just as well when you are starting the jerk.








Start with both arms at waist level.
Place both arms in front of your waist.
Pick and arm to get started with.;
, After you decide which arm to start the move with you will begin to move that arm upwards. The overall aim of the movement is to swing your arm up from waist level to a point that is by your head. Keep some of the following tips in mind as you move your arm:








Your arm will be extended in front of you. However, don't keep your arm too tight or straight.
The motion should be loose. You will swing your arm up from waist level.
Bring the arm all the way up to head level.
At the peak of the motion your arm will be bent at a ninety degree angle and your hand will be next to your head.
 After your one arm has gone up to head level it's time to bring it back down. However, you will be moving your other arm up at the same time your first arm is coming back down. Your other arm will swing up in the exact same way as you did with your first arm. The arm going down should stop at waist level, ending a bit behind your waist.








Try to evenly switch your arms, bringing your first arm down and the other up at the same time.
Your arms should be meeting halfway through the movement.
Bring your arm up just like you did with the first arm.
Keep switching arms.
 Although the jerk focuses on your arms you will also need to move your head and chest. These movements will both be small and will be timed with the motion of your arms. Keep some of the following tips in mind as you work to add these head and chest flourishes:









Push your chest out whenever an arm is swung up to your head level.
Sink your chest in when switching arms.
Turn your head to face whichever hand you are swinging up to head level.
 There is no footwork for you to learn when practicing the jerk. However, you will still need to have some leg movement in order to make the whole dance flow. Try to incorporate some of these leg motions into your jerk dance:








Slightly bend your knees when switching arms.
Straighten your legs out when an arm is up at head level.

