 Never look at her body, she might think that you are a flirt. Also, eye contact is considered important when communicating in most western cultures.;
, If she smiles back at you, it means she is paying attention to you now, and wants to talk to you.
 Just think: you have nothing to lose. Therefore you can do anything. It doesn't matter if the girl you are trying to talk to, doesn't want to talk to you. Especially if you are in a place you won't go too often, chances are you'll never encounter this stranger again. So go ahead say "hi" or ask "Excuse me, what's the time?" or ask anything from heart. Never rehearse before you actually do it because if you rehearse, at the time you need it,you will eventually lose every single word you wanted to say. And, unfortunately, people you talk to won't follow your imaginary script, so it's no use rehearsing a conversation.
 Most girls do not like it when you are wearing smelly, dirty clothes. Therefore, take a shower regularly. Use aftershave (boys) and deodorant (boys AND girls). Comb your hair. Use a daily face cleanser. Brush your teeth twice a day, at morning and evening. Also, try to have a little bit of facial hair (If you're a boy, of course), but don't let it grow into a tangled mess.
 Don't be nervous, even when you start talking. Answer her questions naturally, don't speak too fast since she will think you are scared talking to her. Also, answer smart and without too many interruptions.
 Just look her in the eyes. Your eyes can say more than you actually want to say, and so can hers. But do it only when you are actually talking to her, don't stare at her from the distance, this would probably freak her out a bit. Remember, only look at her eyes and face, never look at her body!.
 For example, if you meet a stranger girl at a bus stop, look for weather conditions. If it's hot, say hi and after a pause, say: "It's a pretty warm day, right?". Always observe. Look for something to speak about, like the weather, or politics (not always a good idea as your opinions on politics might be very, very different, leading the conversation into argument). Always look for a topic which can be debated, don't just ask her something which could be answered with a simple "yes" or "no". You could try to outsmart her, but make sure not to hurt her feelings. And this really helps because you can actually talk to her for a much more time.
 Do not stare. Do not start a conversation by saying,"Hey you look so beautiful!"

, And whenever you say something, say it with positive energy, it will make them believe you are very optimistic. For example,if you hate something, try saying "I prefer avoiding it" rather than saying "I don't like it".
 Some girls are likely to confuse guys a bit so that they know them better in different situations.
 I mean, just look at your stunning eyes!"

, Ignore such girls afterwards, most of them will come back to you, if you avoid them like you are a wanted guy and you are not always behind her.
, This might really help you feel more secure if you're a bit shy.
 If you think she has pretty eyes or a nice smile, it is alright to tell her so. Just make sure that the compliment is sincere.

