 Informational books are somewhat similar to how-to books. However, instead of providing step-by-step guidance, an informational book might simply cover a subject thoroughly enough that the average reader could walk away having learned something.If you're going to write an informational book, you'll need to know a lot about that subject. Most informational books are written by experts in that field.
If you're not an expert, that's okay. You'll just need to make up for it with exceptional and extensive research.
Informational writing should provide readers with clear definitions of terms, detailed descriptions of what something is and how it works, and information on how to engage with that object (using it, finding it, etc.).Make sure you'll be able to write a whole book on the subject you've chosen. Again, you don't need to know everything about that subject, but it should be something that can be written about at length if you want to fill a whole book.
 An academic book is usually written with the intent of being used as a scholarly textbook. This means that any academic book you write will need to be fact checked, proofread, and cover every aspect of that subject. Extensive and exhausting research should also go into any book that will be used for academic purposes.Think about the intended audience/readership for your book. You'd write a much shorter and easier to read book on history for elementary school or middle school students than you would for a graduate course, for example.
Academic texts should be written formally, avoiding any slang or colloquialisms. Academic writing should also include complex language that is technical and specialized when necessary.You'll need to make connections clear to the reader so that seemingly disparate concepts are explicitly related and clarified.
Remember that your textbook will be influencing the minds of countless students. Having any errors, omissions, or personal bias on the subject could affect those students' educational potential.
An example of an academic book would be a history or biology book.
 There are several different types of instructive nonfiction books. Two of the most common include how-to guides and cookbooks. Though very different in subject matter, both books must deliver complex information in simple, step-by-step instructions for readers of every possible background.Writing an instructive book will require a good deal of research as well, but it will be research that will help you relay steps in a project (rather than research that will create the definitive book of World History, for example).
An instructive book should break down the basic concepts of a project, define any unique terms, and give readers a thorough, step-by-step guide on how to complete that project.
Do your research, talk to experts, and take extensive notes. Then, when the time comes, you'll be able to break down those notes (informed by the research you've done) into a simple how-to guide.
An example of an instructional book might be a hunting guide, written for someone who's never been hunting before. The book will need to explain the ins and outs of hunting, from its most basic concepts to the most complex ways of preparing the meat, for example.

