 Float the starfish's temporary container in the aquarium. You should keep the water separate until the temperatures are the same. This should take about 10 to 15 minutes.While the starfish should have been shipped in a container that kept it at a reasonable temperature, it is likely that the temperature is not ideal. However, even if the temperature is not ideal, do not speed up the acclimation process. Your starfish needs time to get used to changes, even if they are for the good of the creature.
 Put 1/2 cup (.25 pt) of water from the tank every 5 minutes until the shipping container has been filled. This will get the starfish used to the new water's pH level.Adding the tank water in gradually will give the starfish the chance to get used to its new environment.
 Once you have the shipping container full, you will want to dump half of that water down the drain. Do not put it back into the aquarium, so that you don't disrupt the balance of the tank.


Removing the water will give you room to add more tank water to the starfish's shipping container. It is allowing you to continue gradually acclimating your starfish to its new water.
You can use the same cup you were using to add water to remove the water.
 Once again, add tank water to the shipping container and then dump some of the water in the shipping container out. Like before, add a 1/2 cup (.25 pt) of water from the tank into the shipping container. Do this every 5 minutes, so that the change continues to be gradual.Then dump half of the water out of the shipping container and begin filling it from the tank once again.
Repeat this process several times.
 Once you have acclimated the starfish to its new water, you can move it into its new home. Remove the starfish from the shipping container and place it on a rock in the aquarium.Do not expose the starfish to the air during the acclimation process, since starfish are very sensitive to changes in oxygen.
Watch to see that the starfish moves around on the rock. This could take a few minutes.

