 When planning this project, keep safety in mind as well. First, do not fly kites near power lines, near airports or where there are low-flying aircraft, near busy residential or industrial areas, or anywhere when there is a chance of lightning. Moreover, be sure to ground the antenna wire, as discussed, to avoid shock.;
, For this project, you'll need the following equipment:


Portable HF radio
Power supply (12 v battery) or mains
Lifting kite and line – the kite that you choose is very important, lifting kites usually use just one line and once in the air you have no control over the direction of flight. The type of kite can vary from a small box kite to a large lifting kite.
Antenna wire
Earth rod
RF choke or high value resistor
Antenna matching unit.
 This is the line that provides the security and keeps you kite safely attached to the ground. The line will need to be very strong for lifting kites, and you will need to see advice at the time you purchase your kite. One suggestion is climax Dacron it comes in various different sizes.
 In the United Kingdom it's 60 metres, 200 feet above the ground. In the USA, it is recommended to stay below 500 feet above ground level, as aircraft rarely flow that low but do check local regulations first before assuming this is okay., Taking the UK maximum height of 60m, 200 feet, we need to do some calculations. A kite doesn't fly vertical, so to get a kite 60m or 200 feet into the air you will need to let out, say around 80m, 262 feet of line.


80m, 262 feet of wire, makes for a good antenna on 1.9 mhz or 3.5 mhz. The antenna will also work on 7 mhz but you will require an antenna matching unit.
Look for lightweight but strong wire. Many electronic shops do large reels on single colour wire around 100m per roll "equipment wire". Be aware that some insulated wire is more prone to building up static charges than others. For example, kynar insulated wire wrapping wire picks up static very quickly. Surplus antenna wire, which consists of braided copper around a steel core, works much better and does not build up nearly as much static.
Get an earth rod. This is very important as voltages may be induced on the wire you are flying, and these need to be discharged safely to ground. You can pick up an earth rod from a DIY store.
It is recommended that you use of either an RF choke or a high value resistor (100k, for example) from the random wire input to the ground. This should be connected BEFORE launching the kite. Static can build up on the line very rapidly.
You will need some incidentals, such as a hammer to bang in the earth rod, a bungee cord and a couple of climbing style carabiners. The carabiners are used to attach the kite line to the kite, and also to get the kite down at the end of the day.
 As earlier stated, you should not fly your kite close to an airfield or in a busy residential area but this article assumes you have a nice suitable location in mind.


Lay out the kite, and run out the control line to its full extent. Do the following to prepare the kite and antenna for flight:
Beside this, run out the wire antenna. The wire antenna should be a good 5 to 10 meters ( longer than the control wire. Do NOT connect the wire antenna directly to the control line as this can cause the line to fail. The two lines should be separate; it is recommended that you use a small length of rope on the kite before attaching the wire antenna.
Secure the main control line to the ground. You won't be able to hold the kite because these kites pull far too much, so you need to locate a suitable fence or tree. You can use a ground stake, but these are not always strong enough and you won't be able to pull a tree out of the ground... hopefully.
Put the earth rod into the ground. In the first instance, attach the wire antenna to the earth rod.
Use the RF choke or a high value resistor from the random wire input to the ground.
Have the battery and radio and matching unit close to the earth rod.
At this point, you should be ready to go. Check once again that the weather is OK, with no lighting forecast.
 If the wind conditions are OK this should soar into the air taking the antenna wire with it.
 As it's 5 to 10 meters (16.4 to 32.8 feet) longer, it should sag down below the kite line. You can adjust this later.
 You may want to let out a little more kite line to take up the slack in the antenna wire.
 This allows the kite line to jerk in the wind, but dampens the pull on the antenna wire.
, This can be fun, depending on the strength of wind. Use a carabiner, and walk down the line. You will find the pull on the line is too great to wind the line in, and getting the kite down needs to be completed in a safe and controlled way. The line can be very dangerous if it pulls through your hand, causing burns or worse. The carabiner method keeps your hand and fingers safe, and does not cause wear to the kite lines.
 Flying kites can be dangerous, exercise all precautions to ensure it stays fun and is not endangering anyone. The safety of you and others has to be number one.

