 The facility may not be aware of abusive behavior on the part of employees or other residents unless it is notified.If the facility accepts Medicare or Medicaid, it is required to have a grievance procedure under federal regulations.
There should be information about the facility's grievance procedure in the information you or the patient received when he or she moved into the facility.
You also may want to tell the person's doctor, especially if the doctor is independent from the nursing home. The doctor can help you identify signs of abuse and back up your claims.;
, Although many facilities may allow you to make a complaint over the phone, submitting your statement in writing assures there is a record of your grievance.If you call and file a verbal grievance, you still should commit the details to writing and send that to the nursing home as well.
Stick to the facts, and be as detailed as possible. Provide dates and approximate times where possible.
If you know the names of nursing home employees who care for the person, or if you suspect someone in particular, be sure to mention that in your grievance.
Focus especially on any evidence you have of the abuse, such as changes in the person's behavior, and bruises or other injuries that can't be explained by accidents or medical conditions.
Make a copy of your grievance before you file it so you have a copy for your records.
 After you've filed your grievance, you may be contacted by a representative of the nursing home for further information about the abusive behavior.Typically a representative will speak to you as well as to the adult patient you allege is being abused. You also may receive a written notification of the grievance process.
Be polite and open with the representative, and try not to get angry – it probably won't help you. Maintain a calm, professional demeanor and avoid insulting or lashing out at anybody.
Stress that you want to see the situation resolved, one way or the other. If the facility finds no evidence of abuse, you still need to find out what caused the injuries or suspicious behavior you observed.
 Typically the nursing home will investigate your complaint and provide you with a written report of the facility's findings and actions that were taken.Expect to learn the results of the investigation within 30 days of the date you submitted your grievance. If you haven't heard anything by that time, contact the nursing home again regarding the situation.
Your notice of the results of the investigation also typically will include instructions on further action you can take if you are dissatisfied with the nursing home's resolution of the matter or if problems continue to occur.

