 Sometimes the goals that you set for yourself on vacation can stress you out and cause you to enjoy the trip less. This may include things like punishing itineraries where you try to see and do more than is realistic in one day. To minimize this stress, make sure that you do not overload your itinerary.


For example, you might set a goal to do one of the activities on your list each day, such as visit a world famous museum or take a trip to a local landmark. However, planning to do four or five of the things on your list in one day may be overwhelming, which could make the activities much less enjoyable.;
, You may end up stressing yourself out during your vacation if you start making plans to change your lifestyle dramatically. For example, if you try to set a goal of running five miles every morning or losing 20 pounds in two weeks, then you may find it hard to enjoy yourself.To decrease your stress and avoid feeling defeated after your vacation, make sure that you set realistic goals for yourself and allow yourself some wiggle room as well.
For example, you might set a goal to eat a serving of vegetables with every meal while you are on vacation or to get 30 minutes of exercise every day, such as walking or riding a bike.
However, be willing to give yourself a break if you slip. If you have an off day, try saying something like, “Oh well! I am on vacation!”
Setting a goal to just sit or lie down and relax for 15 to 30 minutes per day is also a great goal.
 Therefore, it might be a good idea to limit yourself to one indulgence per day and try to eat healthy for most of your meals on vacation.


For example, you might decide to try a beignet for breakfast while visiting New Orleans, or enjoy a gelato for dessert while visiting Italy. You can enjoy these indulgences as long as you balance out these things with some healthy choices.
However, remember that you are on vacation, so it is okay if you slip now and then. Try not to stress over how many calories you are consuming at every meal.
 One of the great things about a vacation is that you do not have to worry about being up at a certain time every day. You can sleep until you wake up if you want to. Take advantage of this while you are on vacation and get as much sleep as possible. This will help you to feel more rejuvenated and relaxed.


You might even allow yourself to take an afternoon nap each day during your vacation to get caught up on your sleep.
 To ensure that you feel rested when you return from your vacation, make sure that you set aside lots of time to just relax while you are away. Try to schedule in some relaxing activities during your vacation, such as:


Taking a yoga class.
Getting a massage or facial.
Swimming or relaxing in a hot tub.

