 Contact your bank’s customer service department if you do not have an IBAN or do not know how to generate one.
 You will need to enter the account information of the person or entity you would like to send money to. Typically, this includes the recipient’s bank account number and bank routing number.


Depending on the bank or wire service you use, you may also be asked to enter additional information such as a SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication) Code, which is used for identifying banks.Contact your institution’s customer service department if you have trouble locating such information.
 Many banks offer the option of sending money abroad in either your local currency or in the currency of the recipient’s country.If you choose to send money in the currency of your recipient’s location, your bank will typically use a current rate based on currency exchange markets, and let you know this rate before you complete your transaction. This option is a good choice if you need to send an exact amount in the recipient’s currency.
If you choose to send money in your local currency, the exchange rate may be set by the recipient’s bank. This option is a good choice if you want to know exactly how much money in your local currency will be debited from your account.
 Remember that recently-deposited funds might take a while to become available in your account.
 Typically, you can choose to have a transfer go through immediately, or at a specified later date and time. In many cases, you can also arrange to have a certain transfer be recurring (such as to pay a monthly bill).


Many banks will set a transfer time of immediately or same day by default, so make sure to check and change this if necessary., Once you have selected the kind of transfer you want to make, and have entered all of the required information, you should review the details of your transaction. Make sure that everything (recipient information, amount of money, etc.) looks correct, and click to complete the transfer transaction. Ordinarily, your bank will give you a confirmation of the transfer, through the Internet banking interface, by email or by text message.

