 Invest in a quality camera that can capture movement well. Before filming your skate video, learn how to operate the camera. Important things to know include: How to turn it on/off, how to start/stop recording, and how to upload to your computer. If you are a shaky camera holder, or are making a video alone, consider using a tripod. They keep the camera steady and their heights are adjustable.;
, If you already know a handful of tricks, it will make your video a lot easier to make. Write down the order your tricks will be done throughout the video. Make sure you can do the tricks well, and they won't come out too sketchy. When you film yourself doing a trick, try to do the best you can on camera!

, Before filming, get warmed up so there won't be so much to edit out later., If you are alone, set up a camera stand filming the area you will be skating. Check to be sure you are completely in the view of the camera by doing a test trick, then reviewing the film., Have a few shots looking up from the ground, and others looking down upon you. Having interesting camera angles will add pizzazz to your video and make people want to keep watching it.
 Move the location of the camera to capture different angles and scenery. The coolest videos have clips with the camera really close to the skateboard., Or, have the skaters do these. This will add variety and interest to your skateboarding film.

If you are with a group of friends, have them ride near you and film you as well as you filming them.
 Half the fun of skateboarding is making those killer edits and posting them for the world to see. Unfortunately, it takes more than just a camera balanced on a stack of books, and the edits make the video really what it is. Once you have finished filming your entire movie, upload it to your computer. Your video will be a lot more captivating if there are special effects and music. Try to find music that fits the tricks being done. Finally, burn your video to a blank disc so it can be watched on a DVD player,or upload in on a video site like YouTube.


Make sure it is not too long. If you want save some clips for your next video!
Be sure to add music, it helps the video a lot.
 You have just made your first skate video. Show your friends, your sponsors, whomever you want to show off a little to. You deserve it!

