 Many of the most respected people go into public service as leaders within a religious order. For instance, the Dalai Lama is widely praised for standing for world peace, and Pope Francis is popular for fighting for the poor. You don’t have to attain that level of stature to have the same effect. Become a religious leader in your community and fight for those in need of material as well as spiritual assistance.


Rabbis, pastors, imams, and priests can all gain admiration when they speak and act in concert with the teachings of their holy books.
If your advice is sought by politicians or other public figures, always use your platform to encourage positive change.
Join a monastery or nunnery. Monks and nuns live in a community with others who practice their faith in order to better understand their holy books and teachings. Becoming a monk or nun is a good path toward a future as a religious leader.
 If the religious life isn't for you, there are other ways to gain admiration. Inventions which create a better world earn their inventors great admiration and respect. For instance, Bill Gates and Steve Jobs are widely admired for the contributions they made to the development of home computers, which has led to a more connected, informed world.

Think about how you can turn your own creative or scientific ability to practical use.

Look at problems in your community and think of ways to solve them with science and technology.
If you’re not skilled in those fields, propose an idea to someone who can engineer a solution.
 If you want to become an activist, choose an issue or topic which you feel strongly about and locate a local nonprofit which engages in work related to the topic. For instance, if you feel strongly about poverty and food security, you could donate your time at a local food bank or soup kitchen.


If you want to be a respected politician, it helps to have a law degree. You could also have a political science degree, though any degree helps. It is unlikely you will be able to get elected as a politician unless you have a college education of some kind.
Run for local office as a mayor, state representative, or city council member. As you gain more experience, consider running for senator or representative at the national level.
To be a respected politician, be honest and do not engage in corruption or selfish behavior. Lead with vision and respect the will of those who elected you. Work tirelessly for the good of your community, state, or nation. Fight for justice, truth, and a better world.