 Tie the yarn onto your crochet hook using an adjustable slipknot. Make sure that you use a portion of yarn close to the tail end to cut down on the amount of excess yarn you will be stuck with at the end of the process.


To make a slipknot, create a loop near the tail end of your yarn.

Create a second loop next to the first and carefully insert it through the first loop.
Place your crochet hook into the top portion of the second loop and pull on the working end of the yarn to tighten the knot into the hook.
 Create the center of your heart by making two simple chain stitches from your slipknot.


To make a chain stitch, wrap the yarn around the top of the hook once and pull that portion of yarn through the loop previously on the hook.
 Work six single crochets into the second chain from the hook, which should also be the first chain you created.


For each single crochet, glide your hook through the stitch and catch the yarn on the other side.

Pull the yarn back through the stitch, and wrap the yarn around the top of the hook again.
Pull the top portion of yarn through the two loops on your hook to complete the stitch.
 Go back through the six single crochet stitches you just made and complete two more single crochets in each of those stitches.


You should notice the crochet piece taking on a round shape by this point.
 Make a single chain stitch off the end of your current round before moving onto the next round.
 Work two double crochet stitches into the next single stitch from your previous round. This will form the bottom tip of the heart.


For each double crochet, wrap the yarn over the top of the hook once before inserting it into the first stitch.

Wrap the yarn over the hook again and pull it back through to the front of the stitch.
Wrap the yarn over the hook once more, and pull this section through the top two loops on the hook.
 Single crochet along the side until you get to what will be the top of the heart. Use the following pattern:


Make two single crochets in the next stitch from your previous round.
In the stitch after that, work in only one single crochet.
 The first bump is formed by making one half double crochet and four double crochets in the next stitch from the previous round.


To make a half double crochet, wrap the yarn over the hook and insert the hook into the stitch.

Wrap the yarn over the hook again before pulling the yarn back through to the front of the stitch.
Place the yarn over the hook once more.
Pull the top portion of yarn through all three loops on your hook to complete the stitch.
 Make one single crochet in the next stitch and a slip stitch in the one that follows after that. Follow with another single crochet in the next stitch.


To make a slip stitch, place the hook through the next stitch and wrap the yarn over the hook.

Pull this top portion through all the loops currently on your hook to complete the stitch.
 The second top bump of the heart should be a mirror of the first. Make three double crochets in the next stitch along with one half double crochet. Finish off with one final single crochet in the next stitch.
 Connect the shape of the heart together by making one slip stitch in the next stitch of the previous round.
 Cut off a long strand of yarn and tie a knot onto the final stitch to secure the heart. Weave the excess yarn from the starting and finishing ends into the heart to hide it.


You may find it easier to use a darning needle, rather than a crochet hook, to weave the ends into the stitches of the heart.

