 Some comments may seem pretty insensitive or hurtful, but some are said because the person doesn't know have enough knowledge about people with visual impairments. It's important to understand that some comments are not trying to attack you and your child, and most of the time, they're not trying to be mean, it could be the person not knowing enough about other disabilities. You may want to use this opportunity to educate them about your child's visual disability so they can understand your child better and avoid being hurtful. It's important to note, however, that harassment is not someone who doesn't know about a visual disability, but rather, someone who is just plain ignorant. There is a difference between not understanding the way someone is and being unaccepted or insensitive towards others.
Understand your audience. Sometimes other parents or adults will question or make comments about your child since they find your child 'unusual', while other kids or teenagers near the same age as your child may just be curious and want to know more about the way your child behaves. ;
, Putting a smile on your face, take a couple minutes to explain the way your child is and clarifying clearly about their visual disability. You don't need to tell them all about your child's condition or all about your child's troubles, just mention the behavior that the person is commenting about. State the facts simply and positively. Some examples:


"Ruth presses her fingers on her eyes because she is is visually impaired and finds it a relaxing coping method when she's upset."
"Daniel's eyes wiggle because he has a visual impairment and can't see clearly."
"Edna has this white cane because she's blind and can't see obstacles in her way. The cane helps guide her and keeps her safe."

, You are not penalized for not responding to someone's comments and you won't get in trouble for ignoring someone's rudeness. If someone makes a comment about your child that you feel won't benefit you or them, calmly say that you appreciate their concern but you have to go now. Then hurriedly leave or do another task and carry on. Learn to be thick-skinned about these type of people and ignore any ignorance. , If the person is clearly not going to accept your child or you don't have the time to deal with hurtful people, you could throw in a bit of humor and play dumb. If the person asks what's wrong with your child's eyes you can say, "Really! You think there's a problem with my child's eyes?" and then laugh it off. Most of the time, the person will simply find you not a good enough person to communicate to, so they'll most likely end the conversation and leave. , A lot of people may tell you that you should 'discipline' your child correctly if your child gets upset, that they're sorry your child is such a 'burden', and that your child is socially unacceptable from the way they act. Learn to answer back to these comments with kindness, but at the same time, being assertive and keeping your ground. Some examples:


If someone goes up to you and asks, "What's wrong with your child?" you can simply state, "Nothing is wrong with him, he just has a visual impairment and his eyes tend to wiggle around sometimes."
If a parent starts to make harsh critics about your child you can say, "My child has a visual disability, but has feelings, too."
If someone tells you that you shouldn't bring your child out in public because of the way they are, you can kindly state "My child shouldn't have to stay home all day just because of her impairment, and needs to learn about the world around them."
If someone states to you that your child is weird, you can say, "I understand and respect your opinion, but I believe my son is very unique and special, even though Benjamin doesn't seem to look like any ordinary kid."

, If all else fails, and the person doesn't seem to accept your child, it's best to drop it and end it there. You don't want to cause a scene and arguing won't solve anything. Some people are just plain rude and insensitive, so it's not worth the time or effort to try to get them to accept your child. If they're not willing to accept them, leave and move on. These types of people should be avoided to not make an impact on you or your child's self-esteem. , Preparing yourself ahead of time for hurtful comments will make you feel more prepared when it does happen. You may want to write down a small paragraph or a set of questions and answers to practice with. That way, when people do comment your child, you'll be ready to respond back. , Your child, especially older children, may feel hurt by some of these comments. They might feel ashamed, angry, confused, upset, or sad and may feel hated and unloved. Set some time aside to talk about the experience, explaining that their comments aren't nice at all. Remind your child that they are okay and that people like them are not. , Communicating and connecting with other parents of blind and visually impaired children can boost your self-esteem and let you know that you're not alone. Most parents of children with visual impairments have dealt with hurtful comments about their child themselves, and may offer some tips on how to deal with it.


Try introducing and letting your child and meet other children with a visual disability as well so they can understand they're not alone with their visual impairment.
 Blind and visually impaired individuals have faced a numerous amount of hurtful comments themselves and are willing to share their word and advice on how to cope with it. They'll be willing to support and comfort you about it, as well as keep you on your toes and learn to ignore these type of comments. , Your child will most likely feel really hurt from other people's rude comments, so it's important to keep your child's self-esteem high. Praise their achievements and the things they can do well, and constantly remind them that you love them and care for them a lot.
 Your child is not broken, a burden, or weird. They seem abnormal from other sighted children, but they're unique and different, and pose different challenges than most sighted children. Don't worry about society's opinions, but instead, raise your child with the best of your abilities and cherish the happy moments with them. By accepting and loving them for who they are, you'll make life a whole lot easier for both you and your child.

