 Open the back cover of the device by prying the small notch located at the top left corner. Insert your SIM card in the SIM tray situated at the top right of the battery bay. Give the SIM card a slight push to lock it.


If the device has provision for dual SIM, insert it into the slot labelled as Sim1.;
, Insert the battery in the right position such that the silicon pins (yellow in color) in the mobile and in the battery are in contact. The side of the battery labelled as “Samsung” should be facing upwards.


Place back the back cover of your device when you’re done.
 The port for charging is situated in the middle of the mobile’s bottom edge. Connect the charging cable to the port and the other end to a power source, and allow the device to fully charge.


Once fully charged, a small light will glow green at the top left corner of the mobile.
 Press the Power button located towards the top right edge of the mobile for a few seconds to turn it on.


The words “Samsung Galaxy” will appear on the screen.
 Press the blue-colored tab under “Select language” near the top of the screen then search for your preferred language among the list of options and tap it.


Press the “Start” button at the bottom right corner of the screen to continue to the Wi-Fi Settings screen.
 Do this by tapping on a network from the available list. Enter the password for the Wi-Fi connection on the screen that pops up then tap “Connect.”


Once a message appears in the bottom of the screen that the mobile has been connected to the chosen network, tap “Next.”
If a Wi-Fi connection is unavailable at the moment, just tap the “Next” button at the bottom right corner of the screen. You can connect to a network later by going to Settings >> Wireless and Networks >> Wi-Fi.
 Do this by checking the tick box located in the middle of the screen.
 As a sort of feedback to Samsung, you can authorize them to get diagnostic information from your device.


If you don’t want to opt for this, select “No thanks” located in the bottom of the screen, otherwise select the other option then tap “Next” to continue.
 Select “Yes” at the bottom of the screen if you have a Google account. Sign into your email account by typing your Gmail ID and password in the fields specified as “Email” and “Password,” respectively. When you’re done, tap on the right arrow.


It may take a few minutes to sign in as indicated in the screen. Once signed in, a screen with Google Services as its title will appear.
If you don’t have a Google account, tap “No.” A screen will appear recommending that you create a Google account. Select “Not now” then “Skip.” You will be able to set your Google account from the Settings menu later. (Refer also to Part 2 on creating a Google account.)

, Next, tap the right arrow at the bottom right corner of the screen.


Wait till Google restores your account settings in your mobile. Once restored, a screen will appear asking for a username.
 Google apps that run from your account will be personalized with this name.


Tap the right arrow located below this fields to continue.
 Enter a name in the text box labelled “Device name.” Your mobile will be known by this name, and it be shown with this name in any device that recognizes your mobile (such as through Bluetooth).
 Select the “Finish” button at the bottom right corner of the screen to complete the setup.
 Choose the Settings app among the number of available apps in your App drawer.
 Tap on the Accounts menu present second from right at the top of the screen. Tap “Add account” then select “Google” from the list.


Select the “New” button located at the bottom of the screen to create a new Google account.
 Your phone and apps associated with the Google account will be personalized on this.


Tap the right arrow below to continue.
 Create your Google account by entering a user ID on the first screen then tap the right arrow.


Enter a password in the first box of the next screen. Retype the password in the second field to confirm it then tap the right arrow to proceed.
 Do this by tapping on the tab labelled “Choose a security question.” Type the answer for the question in the field below it.
 Scroll down and type a recovery email ID in the field below the security question’s answer. The recovery email ID is an alternative mail ID. This is to ensure that you can have access to your account if in case you forget your password.


Tap the right arrow below to continue.
 You can join the Google+ social networking site by selecting the Google+ app in the Apps drawer later.
 A screen will appear with captcha on it. Tap on the field below and enter the captcha.


Tap the right arrow below the textbox to continue.
 If you add your credit card details, you will be able to purchase apps from Google Play.


If you wish to skip this, tap the “Not now” button. You can add your credit card details later from the Google Play Store.
 Check the tick box that appears in the screen under “Backup.” By this the phone’s data can be saved and later retrieved from your Google account. Tap the right arrow located at the bottom of the screen to complete the setup.


You now have a Google account!

