 If you have never had a Social Security Number, you will need to apply for one. This process is the same for everyone over the age of 12.If you have immigrated to the United States and have become a citizen or are a permanent resident, you can qualify to receive a social security number.
If you are a United States citizen over the age of 12 and you have never had a Social Security number, you are entitled to obtain one.
 You must submit your application in person. Find your local Social Security Office by visiting the Social Security Administration website or calling 1-800-772-1213.


Be sure to check the hours for the office. They may have limited hours on certain days of the week.
 The Social Security Administration accepts only certain documents as proof of identity. An acceptable document must be current (not expired) and it must show your name, identifying information and preferably a recent photograph. Social Security will ask to see:


A U.S. driver’s license,
A state-issued non-driver identification card, or
A passport as proof of identity.
 Social Security will want to determine that you are either a citizen or that you are in the U.S. as an immigrant. If you are not a U.S. citizen, Social Security will ask to see your current U.S. immigration documents. Acceptable documents include:


Form-551, Permanent Resident Card (green card, includes machine-readable immigrant visa with your unexpired foreign passport);
I-94, Arrival/Departure Record, with your unexpired foreign passport; or
I-766, Employment Authorization Card (EAD, work permit).
 The individual’s birth certificate is the top choice for proving age. If a birth certificate exists, then you must submit it with the application. If a birth certificate does not exist, the Social Security Administration may be able to accept:


Religious record made before the age of 5 showing the individual’s date of birth
U.S. hospital record of birth
Passport

, Take the SS-5 form and all necessary documents to the proper Social Security office. Be sure to bring proof of identity, age, and citizenship or immigration status.
 Additionally, when you appear at the Social Security office to apply for a card, you will be required to go through an “interview.” This will establish that you have not been assigned another Social Security Number.Call your local office for information on the interview process.

