 College will be different from what you’re used to in high school. For one, your teachers will leave it to you to attend class and often won’t be there to remind you. It’s important for all students to attend regularly. It’s even more key for students with ADHD.Keep in mind that part of your grade is college is usually linked to attendance. You will automatically lose this part of this mark if you skip.
Skipping may also make your professors less apt to help you. If you show up regularly, on the other hand, they will see your dedication and will usually be willing to help.
 College is really fast paced, and it can be challenging for people when their mind wanders. Recording the session or even taking photos of the blackboard, in addition to taking notes, are useful tools for students with ADHD.


Talk to your professor before recording her lectures, as there are likely policies about when this is allowed.
 People with ADHD can find it hard to plan and have trouble remembering dates or assignments. But the need to manage your time will only increase in college. Avoid issues with organization by keeping your schedule written down. Plan things ahead — in writing — so that you can structure your school life.Buy a planner or calendar or download a scheduling app for your phone. Get into the habit of entering due dates for assignments into your schedule.
Your course syllabi should contain big dates for exams, quizzes, and important assignments. Enter these into your planner as soon as you can.
Make sure to check your planner everyday to see what you have coming up. Keep your planner somewhere you will see it, like on your desk or on the wall. If you have a scheduling app, you can program it to send you pop-up reminders.
 College campuses are full of all sorts of activities. This is good and gives you the chance to explore and grow. But, it’s also tempting. Students with ADHD often have to work hard to get good results, so it’s important that you prioritize your work. You should still have fun, but try to save it as a reward.Train yourself to work first and relax later. Try making a list of your goals and why it's important you get your work done and do well, and refer to it when you're feeling unmotivated or tempted to blow off work. Try to find quiet places to study where you will won’t be tempted by distractions. Look for a quiet nook in the library stacks, for example.
Turn off your phone or put it somewhere you can't see it while you're studying. Promise yourself you will check it once you have completed your task.
Consider installing software on your computer to help minimize distractions. For instance, "Stay Focused" is an extension for the Google Chrome web browser which allows you to set limits on how long you can spend on certain websites each day. Maybe you need to block social media sites during the hours you know you will be studying, or allow yourself only 10 minutes every day to use sites that are distracting. Using this type of software can remove the temptation and you won't have to rely on your own willpower to resist.
Think twice about drinking. People with ADHD have a greater risk for alcoholism and for using alcohol to “self-medicate.” Consider avoiding situations with heavy drinking, like joining a fraternity. It might even be best to avoid drinking entirely., College is a stressful time even if you don't have ADHD, and unmanaged stress can cause ADHD symptoms to get worse.You may experience stress because you are unable to focus or filter outside stimuli, or from anxiety caused by a heavy workload, approaching deadlines and tests, or procrastinating. Notice if, during periods of high stress, you are having more difficulty focusing or you are more hyperactive than normal.Finding ways to manage your stress and increase your threshold for handling stress will help you succeed in college with ADHD.

Exercise daily, if possible. It's likely there is a workout facility on campus available for students, making it easy to incorporate aerobic exercise into your routine. Working out is a great way to expend excess energy and aggression and is thought to be extremely beneficial for those with ADHD. It can also boost your mood by releasing endorphins and is known to help manage stress.Get plenty of sleep. Sleep deprivation makes concentration harder and can worsen your ADHD symptoms. Try not to drink coffee or other caffeinated products after noon, stick to predictable sleep and wake times, and make a bedtime routine for yourself (this may include a warm shower, reading a book, or other relaxing activities). Aim for at least eight hours per night and see the campus counselor if you’re having trouble sleeping.Listen to your body. Overlooking stress can lead to problems down the line, so pay attention to your body and notice signs that you are stressed out so you can do something that de-stresses you. Notice things like grinding teeth or clenching your jaw, chewing your nails, an upset stomach, or a tight neck and back — these can all be signs that you are stressed and need to practice some self-care.Consider strategies like meditation, progressive muscle relaxation, or deep breathing, which can be performed almost anywhere for stress relief. Breathing deeply in the few minutes before class begins may make a world of difference.

Work on worrisome thoughts. The stress and worry that often go hand-in-hand with ADHD can quickly elevate to serious anxiety if left unchecked. Try to tackle worrisome thoughts before they get out of control. One method is to set a 10-minute worry period for each day. Write down what is worrying you throughout the day and promise yourself you'll think about it during your designated worry period. Each time the thought creeps into your head, just tell yourself, "Nope, I'm not thinking about that until 7:30." This can help free you from those worries., College can be very difficult. You’ll find the workload, the material, and the demands on your time much greater than high school. Since you’ve got the added challenge of ADHD, be ready to seek out help if you start to struggle. Don’t wait until a crisis. The sooner you get help, the better.You should make sure to enroll in Student Disability Services before or as soon as you arrive on campus. They will help you get accommodations, like extra time for tests and assignments.
Talk to your professors and tutorial leaders early on. Let them know that you have a learning disability (you don’t have to offer details) so that you can work together to get on track, if a problem arises.
Reach out as soon as you realize that you’re struggling. There is not much professors can do to help if you wait until the end of the semester.
If you are having difficulties keeping up, consider becoming a part-time student. You can use this extra time to develop good learning, organizing, and studying habits. Talk to your academic advisor about your options.

