 If you think that your school needs improvement, you can start by talking to its administrators (a principal or headmaster, for example). You might also attend local school board meetings to voice your opinion. Getting administrative support is important not only because many projects will need official approval, but also because it is a way of communicating your concerns.Don’t be shy about asking to meet with your school administrators. If you are serious about improving your school and have some ideas, most will be happy to hear from you.
 Schools aren’t just places for students to learn—they are also an important cornerstone of any community. Families also care about schools and will want to be involved with any improvements that need to be made. Parents can get together at a Parent-Teacher Organization (PTO) meeting, school board meeting, booster club event, or other opportunity and consider ways of helping to improve your school., While some people may not think that social media have educational value, social networks can be a powerful tool for organizing people. Make sure that your school is active on all major social media services. If it isn’t, talk to your school administrators about getting started. Anytime your school has an improvement campaign or project going on, advertise it widely using these services to boost involvement., Many school improvements will need a lot of support. However, this doesn’t mean that everyone has to contribute in the same way. When raising support to improve your school, make sure that people understand there is room for everyone to help. For example:Some might be great at organizing people, while others will have talents in writing or design.
Some will be able to devote time during school hours only, while others will have more time after school hours or on weekends.
Some might be able to get involved on the school grounds itself, while others might be great at gathering support for your school within the surrounding community (by fundraising, for example).
 Efforts to improve your school will only have their full impact if they can continue in the future. Creating a sense of school history, or institutional memory, is important for to long-term success.Elect someone to be school historian. He or she can make notes about any improvements that are made to your school, and then pass the information along to the next historian.
See if your school can set aside a space for this purpose. This might be a place in the library or office to keep notes on your school history, and/or a memorial wall that can have photos, plaques, and other items to commemorate your school.

