 It's located at https://www.shopify.com/. Shopify is one of the most popular eCommerce builders to date.Shopify also comes with a free mobile app so you can view and manage your eCommerce site on mobile after you've set it up.;
, This black button is in the top-right corner of the page., This will include your email address, password, and store name.

Make sure you choose an email address to which you have access.
 It's the green button at the bottom of the page., This includes the following information:

Are you already selling?
When would you like to launch your store?
How much revenue does your business currently make in a year?
Depending on your answers to the above questions, you may have to enter additional information.
 It's at the bottom of the page., This will include your name, address, phone number, and business website (optional)., Doing so will open your completed Shopify dashboard., It's on the left side of the page., You'll see this option in the top-right corner of the page.

Once you've added at least one product, you'll be able to view a list of your inventory here.
 Depending on your product, this process will vary; however, most products benefit from having the following information:


Title - The name of your product.

Description - A product description.

Images - A picture (or multiple pictures) of the product.

Price - Your product's price. You can also add a "Compare at price" value to show the disparity between your product and a competitor's.
You can also add things like the product's shipping details, weight, SKU number, and so on.
 It's in the top-right corner of the page., You'll find this on the left side of the page., It's near the top-right corner of the Online Store page. This option will take you to your store's appearance page.

You can also browse for a new theme to install or purchase by clicking Visit theme store in the top-right corner of the page.
 The layout you see on the left side of the page is how customers will see your shop. You can customize this appearance in the window on the left side of the screen.

For example: to change the background image at the top of your site, you'd click Image with text overlay, click Upload image, and select an image from your computer.
Any changes you make will be reflected in the site preview that's on the right side of the page.
 It's at the bottom of the left-hand window. Doing so will save any changes you make to your site's appearance., This link, which is in the top-left corner of the page, will take you back to the Shopify Themes page., Once your fourteen-day trial expires, you'll have to open the Shopify plan page at https://www.myshopify.com/admin/settings/account/plan and select a plan to continue using Shopify.

Plans range from $29/month to $299/month, depending on the features you want.

