 The greatest way of happiness is to be enlightened. An enlightened person is hundred times happier than an unenlightened person. And his or her happiness lasts forever. It is independent from outer circumstances. And if you go the twofold path of enlightenment and all embracing love, you will be hundred times happier than an enlightened person. And your way to enlightenment will much more easier. In Christianity this way is called the love to God (to a life in God, in the light of God) and to your neighbor. In Yoga we speak of Karma-Yoga. In Buddhism it is called the way of a Bodhisattva.;
, Find your way to inner peace. Meditate, do kundalini yoga and work on your thoughts. Think positive. Train the five qualities of wisdom, peace, self discipline, love and happiness. Live with a daily spiritual plan. Bring as much spiritual exercises in your life, that you grow spiritually.
 See what you can do personally. Look at your living environment and your possibilities. Find your task in your life. Make your job to a way to do all people good. Do every day a good deed.
 Don't work as much that you loose your energy. Then you end in depression and not in enlightenment. Grow in your energy. Stay in rest. Live out of the rest. Do little, but with the right motivation. Do what you love. Find a task in your life that you love, that makes you happy.
 Find your enlightened master. Copy his or her picture on your desktop. Watch his or her videos on the internet. Read his or her books. Take his or her personal darshan (blessing, energy transfer). Visualize your master over you in the sky. Pray every day to your enlightened master. Put your hands together and mentally say: ”Om enlightened master. Om inner wisdom. Please guide and help me on my way.”

, There are many Bodhisattvas and Buddhas of love. There are many spiritual ways. You can orientate yourself on Buddha Amitabha, Avalokiteshvara (Chenrezig), the Goddess Tara (Kuan Yin) or someone else. Visualize yourself as your role model and think, "I am a Bodhisattva. I live in the light (enlightenment). I go the way of love. I wish a world of love, peace and happiness."

, To get enlightenment it is helpful to have a spiritual role model (Buddha, Bodhisattva), a spiritual teaching (practice) and a spiritual group. If you have no group, you can find a group on the internet or see all spiritual people as your group.
 The beings suffer from hunger, war, illness, death, sorrow and unwisdom. Take other people more important than yourself. Develop compassion. There is a way to overcome the suffering in life. This is the way of enlightenment. Send light to the whole world, move a hand in blessing and think, "May all people be happy. May the world be happy." This exercise will transform your life. You will grow in love and bliss.
 Relax in meditation.
 Get a fulfilled life. Plan your life as a spiritual winner. See your goal and your way to this goal. Do every day the necessary step. So you will succeed.

