 If you've never really networked before for your business, start with the people you know. Ask them if any of their friends or family would be willing to meet with you or if they are looking to buy property. It's easier to start with people you know and move outward., You can't network in your office. You have to go meet people. Go to business events. Have a drink after work at a swanky business bar. Volunteer at charities. Go to church or to the gym. Join classes or clubs that focus on your hobbies. Basically, you have to get out in the world to meet people., That is, if you volunteer, talk to the other volunteers. If you go to church, talk to people you meet there. The first rule of networking is just to meet people and start creating relationships with them., When you are networking, it's important not to try to get the person to buy what you're selling. If he or she thinks you are trying to sell rather than build a relationship, that person will likely not stay around long enough to be sold to. Rather, build relationships with people. Have conversations, and make a real connection. Get to know the people you meet for who they are, not what you can sell them., That is, learn how to start conversations and keep them going. One of the simplest ways to start engaging with another person is to smile at him or her. This nonverbal greeting can open the door for a conversation., One of the easiest ways to get people talking is to ask them about themselves. Ask about their work, their family, their pets, and their hobbies. Just pick one to get the conversation going., If you are trying to engage a person, one of the best ways you can do so is to really listen to the other person. You can show you are listening by using nonverbal clues (nodding and smiling) and repeating what the other person has said ("What I hear you saying is..."). Also, don't use the time the other person is talking to try to come up with a response; actually hear what she is saying instead., Of course, the main social media network for business is LinkedIn. You can meet people on social networking sites by engaging groups and discussions. It's also important that you have information filled out on your profile, so people can see who you are., Once you meet someone, make sure to continue that relationship. Ask for a business card so you can email or call the person to say you enjoy the time you spent with him or her. That way, you stay fresh in that person's mind. It's especially important to call or email if you say you will; people remember when you don't do what you say you will., Remember, the person you are meeting wants to use you for networking, too, so you need to be ready when he or she needs something, as well. Sometimes, it may just be that you can recommend a contact with another person, or maybe you hear about a job or a good real estate deal that you can pass on. Try to keep your contacts in mind, and provide services as you can, especially when someone asks for something specific., When you're establishing relationships, it's fine to let them know you are in real estate. In fact, you'll likely exchange business cards. If you continue contact with person, you'll likely be the person she calls when she has a real estate need.

