 From the home screen of your phone, tap on Settings. This will open the Settings menu of your iOS device.;
, Scroll through the list and tap “Mail, Contacts, and Calendars”. The “Mail, Contacts, Calendars” menu will enable you to add accounts.
 A new Accounts page will open where you will view several options to choose from, such as iCloud, Exchange, Google, Yahoo, Aol, Outlook.com, and others.
 Begin by tapping the “Google” option. Then enter your name in the first text box and email address on the second text box, and then enter your password to the account into the third text box. You can also enter a description of your Gmail account on the last textbox, but this is optional.


If you have already added your Gmail account, then instead of tapping “Add Account,” choose “Gmail” from the account list. Tap “Next” after entering all the required information in the text boxes.
 The calendar switch is found on the Accounts section. Calendar is the third option in the list. Toggle the icon to the right side to switch it on. The icon will turn to blue, meaning that it has been enabled. Syncing will start when you next open the Calendar app on your iOS device.
 At this stage you need to choose the calendars to sync to your device. To do so, open a browser in your mobile phone and go to google.com/calendar/iphoneselect. Tap “Add Account” on the middle of the browser page, and log in using your Google account details. Tap “OK” to view a list of all your calendars, each with a checkbox next to them.


Tap checkbox next to the calendars you want to sync with your iOS device. It’s important to note that shared calendars need selecting individually, and the default setting is “Off.” This means when a new calendar is shared, you must repeat these last few steps to ensure it syncs with your iOS device.
When you’re done selecting calendars, tap the save icon at the bottom right corner of the browser.
 Open the Calendars app on your iPhone or iPad, and wait for it to sync. Once done, you will be able to view the Google Calendars you selected earlier.
 You can add multiple Google accounts to your iOS device, and use the above steps to select which calendars you want to sync from it.

