 Kids need to understand that their body belongs to them and they don’t need to touch others in a way that makes them uncomfortable. Emphasize to your children that they don’t have to hug others or let anyone hug them – even well-meaning relatives and family friends – unless they themselves want the hug to happen.You might tell your child something like, “It’s nice to hug people in our family, especially if we haven’t seen them in a long time. But if you don’t want to hug someone, that’s okay too. It’s up to you.”
Understand the difference between teaching kids to be polite and teaching them that they have to hug others. You can teach your children to be polite and respectful without giving them the message that they have to allow unwanted physical contact.;
, It’s important for kids to learn polite ways to greet people and depart from them. If they aren’t comfortable with hugging, there are plenty of other choices. Handshakes, high-fives, and fist bumps are a few good alternatives to hugging.Teach children to make eye contact and smile when greeting someone. This is a respectful and friendly way to acknowledge the other person while keeping the child’s personal boundaries intact.
 Speaking up for what they want comes naturally for some people, but a shyer child may have to be taught this skill. Assertiveness is the art of using your voice to state your own needs while still being respectful of others.You can help your child slowly develop assertiveness by practicing at home.


You might pretend, for example, that you are a family friend or relative who comes to visit. You go in for a hug, and give your child a default script to state their needs like "Hi, Aunt Georgina. I'm not much of a hugger, but I love giving high-fives." Then, have your child raise their hand to signal that they are prepared to give a high-five.
After practicing at home with you, your child should feel more confident and capable of speaking up about their needs in the presence of strangers.
 Sometimes, well-meaning relatives may insist on a hug or try to force a hug on a shy child. When this happens, stand up for your child and explain to the other person that your child prefers not to hug. Although it might seem a little uncomfortable or awkward, it’s important for your child to see you reaffirming their right to their personal space.Keep your explanation light and friendly if you can. Say something like, “It looks like Josh is feeling shy right now. Maybe he’ll be up for a hug later!” or “Sarah isn’t much of a hugger, but she loves giving high-fives!”

, If your child has a long-standing preference not to hug others and you know that someone, like a grandparent or other relative, will expect a hug when they see your child, try to explain your child’s preference to them before you see them. This can prevent awkwardness and hurt feelings later.Explain your reasons for not making your child give hugs. Try saying something like, “Mom, I know hugs mean a lot to you, but Emily is shy about hugging people, and we don’t make her give hugs if she doesn’t want to. We’re trying to teach her that she has a right to set boundaries for personal space.”

, Many children who dislike hugging don’t hesitate to show affection in other ways. Explain this ahead of time to relatives and family friends. This will let them know what to expect and give them ideas for how to interact with your child.For instance, your child might not want to hug his uncle, but might look forward to playing with toys together. Ahead of time, mention something like, “Sam had so much fun playing with Legos with you last month. He talks about it all the time. I know he’s really looking forward to showing you his new Lego set.”

, Sometimes children are shy around family members they don’t know very well yet. To help your child feel more comfortable, arrange play dates or skype sessions between your child and this relative. This will help them bond with each other, and it may even help your child feel more comfortable with hugging in the future., When you and your child encounter family members or friends at a gathering, help avert any awkward situations by asking your child, “Hug, handshake, or high-five?” This avoids hurting any feelings while letting the child choose the level of physical contact they’re comfortable with., Many times, spending time together is more meaningful than a hug. Encourage a shy child to play a card game with Grandma or make a craft project with their cousin. Spending time doing things together will make good memories for everyone and help your child feel more comfortable with people they’re still getting to know., A child who doesn’t feel comfortable hugging might prefer to draw their grandparents a picture or send them letters. Help kids find their own ways to show relatives they care about them and are thinking about them. , Sometimes kids feel shy about hugging someone they don’t know well, but warm up to hugs after they get to know the person better. Avoid pressuring kids, but let them know that Grandma and Grandpa would like it if the child wants to hug them someday. If and when the child does decide to hug, the gesture will be more genuine and meaningful.