 With more than 900 flights per day and non-stop service from 130+ US cities, Las Vegas is easy on your time and budget. McCarran International Airport is conveniently located just one mile from Las Vegas Boulevard and 3.5 miles (5.6 km) from the Las Vegas Convention Center. Over 70,000 hotel rooms are within a 15 minute drive from the airport. The close proximity of Las Vegas hotels, in many cases, eliminates the need for transportation as delegates can walk to many destinations. When transportation is required, however, Las Vegas offers a myriad of options including bus, taxi, shuttles and the country's first automated monorail.;
, The Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority proudly offers complimentary convention housing assistance to associations holding a convention or trade show in Las Vegas. We are proud to announce our partnership with PASSKEY, the world's leading online group reservation system. With PASSKEY, housing reservations can be booked from any Internet-enabled PC. There are multiple benefits that PASSKEY offers meeting planners:


Customized website detailing event and hotel information and displaying association logos and banners.
Ability to view and download attendee lists and pick-up reports on-demand with the use of a meeting planner dashboard.
Ability to integrate registration and housing through Reg Link – resulting in a one-stop shopping system for attendees, maximizing attendee bookings in contracted hotel blocks, and minimizing book-around and attrition exposure.
Ability to create business rules implemented at all levels – attendee type, room type and sub-block.
Reservation acknowledgement letters sent via email or fax within 24 hours.
Ability to send out Group Campaigns – an innovative online technology that provides planners an easy and effective way to communicate with their group attendees via email.
 The Las Vegas Convention Center is one of the most modern and functional facilities in the world and is well known among industry professionals for its versatility. In addition to approximately two million square feet of exhibit space, its 144 meeting rooms (more than 241,000 square feet) handle seating capacities ranging from 20 to 2,500. A grand lobby and registration area (more than 225,000 square feet) efficiently link existing exhibit halls with new exhibit and meeting rooms, and allowing simultaneous set-up, break-down and exhibiting of multiple events. Fast Facts about the Las Vegas Convention Center:


At $.29 per net square foot per show day, the cost of Las Vegas Convention Center exhibit space is highly competitive with other facilities.
Las Vegas Convention Center encompasses 3.2 million square feet of total building space under roof.
Sixteen exhibit halls (1,940,631 sq.ft.) separable by movable walls.
Lobby and Concourse areas of 109,515 sq.ft. and 144 meeting rooms, with seating capacities ranging from 20 to 7,500 for public use, meetings, or convention trade show exhibit booth area. Room combinations offer meeting expansion versatility.
Parking for over 5,000 cars
Supplemental registration assistance provided by highly skilled, uniformed professionals at competitive costs.
Informational brochures, maps, service lists, rate sheets available.
Airline baggage check for select airlines
Free wireless Internet access available in all common lobby areas in the convention center and in Banners restaurant in the Grand Lobby and the International Food Market Restaurant in the South Hall.
ARAMARK Food and Beverage: Complete food and beverage service available. Two restaurants, Banners with seating for over 700 and Intel Food Market with seating for 650; 18 permanent concession stands, portable snack bars and group meal function space for unlimited numbers.
FedEx Office: Business center on site.
State-of-the-art convention housing reservation services available at no cost to associations.

