 For cross country skis, there are a few types of bindings that you may be working with. Because not every binding works with every type of cross country boot, you will have a certain type depending on the boots you have.


The main types of bindings are:

New Nordic Norm (NNN), or the Nordic Integrated System (NIS). These bindings feature two thin raised ridges that fit to matching grooves in your boots. The boot will have a metal rod at the toe which clips into the front of the binding and acts like a door hinge.
Salomon Nordic System (SNS) Profil bindings. These bindings use a single, wide binding ridge and a single matching sole groove.
SNS Pilot bindings. These bindings are similar to the Profile bindings. Except these bindings use two metal rods to click into two different binding slots. These bindings are thought to offer superior kick motion and flex while providing excellent stability.
 If you have NIS or NNS bindings, you can adjust the bindings with your NIS key. Insert the key into your binding and press down. This also works on skate skis with an NIS plate.


The key allows you to slide the binding up or down along the ski. There are slots under the binding which your binding will click into. Every time you place your binding correctly into a slot, you will hear a click.
On classic skis, moving the binding toward the tip of the skis will give you a better grip. Moving it back gives you better glide.
On skate skis, moving the binding toward the tip of the skis toward the tail gives you a lower gear which translates to a faster start up with your stride. Moving toward the tip gives you a higher gear and a higher maximum speed.
As of January 1, 2016, Salomon bindings will carry the NNN system. Meaning that you won’t have to screw holes and mount the bindings into the correct position. You will be able to adjust new skate bindings with an NIS key.
 With a screwdriver, rotate the screw located at the front of the ski binding until the number next to it matches your DIN number. Position a ski boot in the ski binding so that the toe of the boot is fitted into the front of the binding.


Make sure you have the right type of bindings for Nordic skiing. Cross-country touring bindings are lightweight and more narrow, intended for use on groomed tracks or relatively flat expanses of snow.
Metal-edge touring bindings are heavier and wider. These bindings are meant to be used in more rugged terrain.
 You can also adjust your back plate to match your bindings to your boot’s length.


Insert the key into your back plate and move it forward or backward to match the distance you moved your front plate.
 Nordic ski bindings attach only at the front of the foot, leaving the heel free and detached from the ski.


If you’ve adjusted the bindings correctly you should be able to move easily and feel like you have adequate control over the skis. Put on your ski boots and test your bindings.
You should be able to release your boots from the bindings by pressing down on a release near the toe with a ski pole or with your hands.
 If your boot doesn’t feel secure in your bindings you will have to adjust the bindings with your key again.


Move the back plate forward or backward to adjust for your boot’s size.
Repeat the process on the second ski. Barring rare exceptions, your DIN and binding fit on the second ski should be the same as the first.
Adjusting your skis should be done by a professional technician at your local ski shop. These professionals can make sure you have the correct gear setup. A professional will make sure that your skis are adjusted for your body and ability level.

