 Posture is the general term for the ways in which you hold your spine, neck, and shoulders upright. Your posture affects the way you walk, stand, sit, and lie down. It also has an impact on your digestive system and your heart and lung function. Poor posture can result in misaligned bones/joints, arthritis, pain, and fatigue.Practicing good posture will help you look and feel healthy and remain active.When standing, try to pull in your abdomen and keep your back somewhat straight. Let your shoulders relax, but don't let them slouch down or forward - instead, try to keep them back somewhat, so your arms fall straight at your sides. Balance your weight across both feet, and try to keep a stance approximately hip-distance apart.When sitting upright, keep your back straight and your shoulders pressed back. Try to keep your knees bent at a 90 degree angle and your feet flat on the floor. Avoid sitting in the same position for more than 30 minutes without standing, stretching, or adjusting your position.Try to sleep in a posture that allows for some curvature of the back. For example, lying on your side with your knees slightly bent is a good and natural position, whereas lying on your side with your knees pulled up towards your chest will be painful and uncomfortable.If you need to pick something big and heavy off the floor, practice good lifting posture. Squat down in front of the object with a wide stance, then grab hold of the object and stand straight up, using your legs (and not your back) to lift your body and the object upright. Avoid twisting your back while lifting, and never bend at the waist to lift something off the floor, as these acts may cause serious injury.Proper ergonomics is important to maintain back health.
 Slimmer clothing has a tendency to highlight an individual's body shape in a more flattering way. While overly baggy clothing may appear "frumpy," slimmer clothes can emphasize the hips, legs, or overall figure of the person wearing them.At the same time, though, some fashion experts caution that wearing clothes that are too tight may cause a person to look larger than they actually are.The trick may be finding the right degree of tightness for a slim, tailored look.


Pairing skinny jeans with a slightly looser shirt is one way of balancing your wardrobe to highlight your body's features without causing the wardrobe to appear constrictive., It's fine to wear tighter, low-rise jeans or a tight crop top, but if your body stores excess fat in the midsection and you combine low-rise pants and a crop top, your clothing will squeeze your body into a distorted shape. This may cause you to look heavier or more out of shape than you are, which may in turn affect your self confidence.If you are more comfortable and feel better about yourself wearing a certain style of clothing - say, tighter jeans or a more cropped top - then by all means, continue to dress the way you're comfortable. Making simple changes like the color of your clothing can make a big difference no matter what style of clothing you wear., Often times the colors of a shirt, dress, or blouse have a stark contrast with the skin color of the person wearing those clothes. While this may be intentional and could have a positive effect on some individuals, it could also make your skin appear very pale or discolored, which may look unhealthy or malnourished to the untrained eye.Try matching your shirt's color to your skin tone to achieve a healthier, more natural appearance.