 You can apply online at usps.com, or print out a form and take it into your local post office. Before you start, consider these questions:


Where do you want your post office box to be? Are there two branches near your house? Would you prefer one over the other? Or is there only one post office where it's feasible for you to rent a box?
What size do you want? Post office boxes come in five sizes. The smallest is 3 inches (7.6 cm) by 5.5 inches (14.0 cm); the largest is 22.5 inches (57.2 cm) by 12 inches (30.5 cm). Fees are based on size, so try to get the smallest one for your needs.
Note who is authorized to receive mail at your post office box. You'll be able to list names on the application.;
, Whether you apply online or in-person, you'll need to provide the U.S. Postal Service with two forms of identification. Here's what you need:Photo ID. For your first form of ID, you could use a driver's license, state identification card, passport, alien registration card, or any form of photo ID issued by a government, the armed forces, a recognized educational entity, or a corporate ID card.
Non-photo ID. Your second form of ID must be somehow tied to your physical address. Acceptable forms include your current lease or mortgage, your voter or vehicle registration card, or your home or vehicle insurance policy.
Be aware that your birth certificate, Social Security card, and credit cards are not valid forms of ID.
 You can reserve it for 3, 6 or 12 months.


Note that the fees for a post office box will vary by location. Not every branch will price them equally.
 You should receive two keys for every box. Expect to pay a security deposit for each key, which is refundable when you return them and close your post office box.


Some post office boxes can be opened with access codes, much like a public school locker. Write down your combination in a secure place, or memorize it.
 Given that there's limited space in your post office box, accumulation is a potential problem. If you let it get out of hand, the Postal Service could suspend your lease.


If you're going to be out of town or unable to pick up your mail for a significant period of time, make special arrangements with the postmaster. As long as you do this in advance, you shouldn't encounter any problems.
Make sure your post office box size can accommodate your mail volume. If you end up receiving large packages or a lot of mail, consider renting a larger box.
 If any of the information on the form you used to get a post office box is outdated (for example, you moved), be sure to update it as soon as possible. You can update it online, or visit your local post office.
 In some cases, you can get a refund for your post office box if you decide that you do not want to rent it anymore. Here's the general schedule:


3-month lease:

No refunds


6-month lease:

Within the first 3 months – half the fee paid
After 3 months – no refunds


12-month lease:

Within the first 3 months – three quarters of the fee paid
Within the first 6 months – half the fee paid
Within the first 9 months – a quarter of the fee paid
After 9 months – no refunds.