 Rolling a bag frequently can damage the insulation, making it less effective at keeping you warm. Most bags that come with a storage bag are actually meant to be stuffed into the bag loosely, not rolled. Check your owner's manual if you are unsure how to store your bag.


If the bag came with straps, either separately or attached near the head, it is likely meant to be rolled. These straps are meant to keep the bag rolled up.
If you need to save space, rolling your bag is the best way to compress it into its smallest shape. However, you should try to remove your bag from compression as soon as possible.;
, If possible, use your ground tarp of the floor of your tent to roll up the bag, as this will keep it clean and moisture from getting rolled into the bag, where mildew might grow.
 Zip it up completely, as an unzipped bag makes it hard to roll evenly.Smooth out the bag so that you get out as much air as possible, as air pockets will prevent an even, tight roll.
 Fold one side over so that it lines up with the zipper. Take some time to make sure the edges are lined up. They don't have to be perfect, but the closer you can get them the better., Use both hands to roll the bag up tightly, kneading it with your hands to push any air in the bag up and out the hole at the top for your head., If you are having trouble getting the bag tight enough, crouch down and use your knees to keep the roll tight and push out air. Then roll up another 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm), using your fingers to get the roll tight, and push some more air out with your knees.
 Most sleeping bags that are meant to be rolled have straps that cinch around the rolled bag and then tighten, keeping it rolled up. You should have at lease two, and they should be positioned roughly 1/3 of the way from each edge of the rolled bag.If you don't have straps, you can improvise one out of a belt, large rubber bands, or rope.
If your bag came with a bag but no straps, store the sleeping bag in the appropriate carrying bag and close the top tightly.
 If you are in the backcountry a wet sleeping bag isn't only uncomfortable, it can be dangerous. Water wicks heat away from your skin much faster than air, so a wet bag can lead to deadly cold temperatures if you aren't careful. Keep your bag in a waterproof bag, or improvise one out of garbage bags if you don't have one.