 Using a bullet point form, make several important points that you want to touch upon in your email. While there are so many feelings blooming inside of you, he can't handle all of them at once. Push away the unnecessary details, and focus on getting your story across.
 Throw some out and/or add one or two more until you feel satisfied with them. However, remember that less is more. You don't want to scare him off, but you don't want to send him a stiff, short email that doesn't express much.
 Once you have an idea of what you're going to say, form your ideas into words. As you write, weave a confident air into your phrases, sounding as if you know what you're talking about. This will potentially impress him, and you will appear as though you will still love yourself no matter what.


Avoid coming off as hesitant or uncertain about your feelings. He'll refuse to attach himself to you if he believes that you'll change your mind about him later.
Near the end of the email, let your crush know that you understand if he doesn't feel the same way. Request that you still be friends, if he is comfortable for that.
 Sometimes, minor adjustments and a little rearranging of words will do wonders and help your sentences flow. Also, keep an eye out for grammatical and spelling errors. While a typo here and there is acceptable, a nearly incomprehensible email will only cause annoyance to prick at him, and he may not take the time to be a translator.
 While you don't want a million tiny paragraphs, you want to avoid hauling a huge chunk of words over to your crush. If you feel that your email is too long, shorten your story and adjust your sentences so that you still get your point across.


Avoid being too wordy, and find different words to express your feelings.
Use simple words that won't send your crush scrambling for a dictionary, but don't limit your vocabulary too much. While sounding intelligent, avoid coming off as a know-it-all.
 If you feel uncomfortable about revealing who you like, erase any names from the email before allowing someone to read it. This way, they realize what you're doing, but they still don't know who your crush is.
 Don't worry about his response; you gained enough courage to complete a brave feat, and you don't need anyone's opinion to tell you who you are. Note that you may not receive an immediate response. Sometimes, it could take up to days for your crush to write out a reply, especially if he isn't sure how to react.


Before you send your email, check to make sure that you've got the right address. Otherwise, you may find yourself entangled in an awkward situation, and you may have to explain yourself.

