 Add 1 ½ cups (192 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (6 g) of salt, and ½ teaspoon (1 g) of ground black pepper to a large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together to ensure that they’re well blended.You can add other seasonings if you like. Cayenne pepper, paprika, garlic powder, and/or onion powder are good options.
 Add 2 egg yolks and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of vegetable oil to a separate small bowl. Whisk the two together until they’re completely blended.You can substitute canola oil for the vegetable if you prefer.
 Once the egg yolks and oil are mixed, slowly begin to drizzle them into the flour mixture. Mix the ingredients together until they form a crumbly dough., After you’ve combined the flour mixture and the egg yolk mixture, gradually pour 1 cup (237 ml) of beer into the bowl. Whisk the mixture constantly as you pour to create a smooth, thick batter.You can use any type of beer in the batter as long as you like the flavor. It will impart some flavor and color to the coating, while the carbonation helps make the fries crisper.
 Once you’ve mixed up the batter, cover the bowl with a piece of plastic wrap. Place it in the refrigerator, and allow it to chill for at least an hour.You can chill the batter for up to 4 hours before frying the zucchini fries.
 Add 2 quarts (1.9 l) of vegetable oil to a large Dutch oven, and clip a deep fry thermometer to the side. Heat it on the stove over medium-high heat until it reaches 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius).You can use a candy thermometer if you don’t have a deep fry model.
 For the fries, you’ll need 2 to 3 medium zucchini that have been cut into ½-inch (13-mm) thick fries. Dip the zucchini into the batter, making sure that they’re well coated.Don’t coat the zucchini fries in the batter until right before you plan to fry them.
 When the fries are coated in the batter, use a pair of tongs to carefully add them to the heated oil. Allow the fries to cook until they become golden brown, which should take 4 to 5 minutes.To ensure that the fries cook evenly, it’s a good idea to stir them periodically with a wooden spoon while they’re frying.
 Once the zucchini fries are golden brown, carefully remove them from the oil with a wooden slotted spoon. Transfer them to a plate lined with paper towel to drain for a minute or two., After you’ve drained the fries for a couple of minutes, place them on a serving platter. Bring the zucchini fries to the table while they’re still warm.The beer battered zucchini fries pair well with spicy mayonnaise or ranch dressing.

