 Unless you crack the scratch-off code or are extraordinarily fortunate, the possibility that you will make money playing lottery tickets is remote at best. By playing less often, you lose less often, meaning that when you occasionally do win you are likely closer to breaking even.


Cautionary tales abound of people who sink thousands of dollars into buying scratch-offs, hoping to strike it rich, instead of saving or investing that money.If you think of scratch-offs as a fun diversion and assume that the money you spend on tickets will be lost, you will almost certainly end up better off in the end.
 Despite the tips provided in this article, there is only so much you can do to even slightly improve your odds of winning on scratch-offs. Simply buying more tickets won't help very much, and will more than likely just lose you more money.


Will buying ten tickets for $10 and getting two, $2 winners be that much less enjoyable than buying fifty tickets and getting ten winners? In one case, you’ve lost $6; in the other, you’ve lost $30. Enjoy the fun of playing in moderation, and you will probably be happier in the end.
 The lure of a winning ticket can be strong, and can overwhelm even the best of intentions to stick to a scratch-off budget.


When you go to buy tickets, try taking only as much cash as you need to buy your predetermined number of scratch-offs.
Also, don’t scratch the tickets until you get home, so you won’t be tempted to immediately cash in your winner for more tickets.
 It is tempting to think of any winnings as “found money” that should be folded back into buying more scratch-offs, but this strategy is most likely simply to turn it into “wasted money.”


The best idea is probably to never reinvest your winnings in new tickets. Stick to your budget for ticket-buying whether you win or lose.
If you can’t help but try to extend the thrill of winning, however, limit yourself to using half of your winnings to buy new tickets. Sock the rest away for another time and another purpose., Playing scratch-offs can be fun, but it can also become an obsession for some people. Lotteries are gambling, and gambling can be an addiction. If you feel like you’ve lost control, or know someone else who has, there many organizations that can help.