 Your horse’s head can act as an indicator of his emotional state. When his head rises, he is tensing up and preparing for flight. A lowered head is a sign that he is relaxed and calm. You can teach your horse the drop-head response so he can learn to calm down on his own. This will ensure you have a smooth ride together and can rely on the cue in the event there is a tense or stressful situation during the ride., Practicing this technique on the ground first will allow your horse to get comfortable with the cue. Start by putting your horse in a rope halter with a training lead.Put your thumb and index finger on the knot just below your horse’s chin and apply steady, gentle pressure in a downward motion. Do not pull his head down. Instead apply pressure so he is aware of the cue.
Observe your horse. When he drops his head, release the pressure and praise him. Then, repeat the cue again. Be patient and move slowly, as getting him to drop his head a few inches during the initial practice can be challenging.
Over time, he will start to drop his head whenever you apply downward pressure. Encourage him to keep his head down towards the ground for a few minutes before rewarding him.
 Once your horse seems comfortable with doing the cue on the ground, you can move to practicing the cue in the saddle.


Tack him up and mount him. Then, have the horse stand still. Shorten one rein in your hand and lift the rein slightly to apply light pressure to your horse’s mouth. Wait a few seconds and do not increase the pressure so it is uncomfortable for him. You just want enough pressure for him to notice the cue.Observe him, as he may move his head a little to figure out the cue. Once he drops his head, release the reins and praise him.
 Practice the drop head cue on a frequent basis, perhaps during every ride, to get him used to the cue. You should also encourage your horse to do the drop head cue in any stressful situation during a ride. This will allow him to self medicate during the ride and react to a fearful moment in a calm manner.