 Many companies, especially larger ones, will already have policies in place that restrict when and under what conditions an employee can request an advance on their pay check. If you can’t find anything in your contract about it, don’t be afraid to approach your human resources department about the matter.Ask them about the conditions under which you could request an advance on your pay check, how long this process takes, and when the money you “borrowed” will be paid back. For example, will all of the money borrowed be taken out of your next pay check or can you split larger amounts up over several pay checks?
If your company has an employee website look there first. Some companies will post their guidelines online.
 If you work for a very small company, you will probably need to approach your boss. However, if you work for a large company, it is probably best to go directly to human resources without bringing your boss into the mix.This is more an issue for human resources since it relates to payment and not to the work you do on a daily basis. Thus, it doesn’t really need to concern your boss unless there is no one else to go to.
 If you work for a large company that has a standardized policy for pay day advances you may not need to explain why you need the money. However, you should be prepared for the reality that many bosses will want to know what is going on, especially if you work in a very tight-knit company.You don’t have to go overboard with details. If they tell you they need to know what the money will be used for, just give a simple and straightforward explanation. Reassure them that this is a one-time issue and that you wouldn’t ask if there was any other way around the issue.
 You want to be able to get your boss or human resource representatives full attention so don’t approach them when they are very busy. For example, you should probably avoid Monday mornings or Friday afternoons as they are likely to be busy catching up or trying to wrap everything up before the weekend. You should also avoid times that are particularly busy for your company. For example, if you work in a restaurant, don’t try talking to them about it during the dinner time rush. Instead, ask them in the mid-afternoon, before the rush comes in.Try asking on a Monday afternoon or a Tuesday. This way, you will be avoiding the Monday morning catch up, but there will still be plenty of time left in the week for them to handle your request.
 Many companies will require you to fill out some forms related to your pay day advance. This paperwork will document the amount you took in advance, when you took it, and when the money will be taken out of your normal pay check. Don’t fight your employer on this. Remember that they are helping you out, and having documentation of the transaction protects both of you.This documentation will probably also explain what will happen should you leave the company early (e.g. because you quit, are laid off, or fired).

