 Yukine has short messy blonde hair. Bleach your hair blonde or use spray on dye. You can also purchase Yukine's wig from an online cosplay store. If you're already a natural blonde skip this step.


Hair bleach or spray on dye can be purchased at any drug store such as Walmart.
For those who don't want to damage their hair Yukine's wig can be purchased from an online shop such as AliExpress and Amazon.;
, Find a light blue hoodie and some black jeans with a pair of grey shoes. Yukine also wears a white t-shirt with a green jacket. If you don't want to make a costume you can purchase one from an online cosplay store; however, it may be pricey.


You can find these clothes easily at local clothing stores.
The costume can be bought off EzCosplay and Amazon.
 Yukine along with the other Noragami characters are known for their stunning eyes. Use orange contact lenses to achieve this look.
 This is completely optional if you have clear skin but if you have any blemishes or scars you should consider using some concealer or foundation since the majority of anime characters have nice looking skin.
 Yukine has a red tattoo on his lower neck meaning snow. Use red face paint to carefully draw on the tattoo, you can also ask someone for help if necessary. Yukine's tattoo can be purchased from an online cosplay shop as well.
 In the first season of Noragami Yukine was often harsh to Yato since he didn't want to be his weapon and didn't like the fact that he was dead. When someone is talking to you try to look annoyed or like you don't care.
 Yukine steals things from people to do this pretend to steal items like money, a skateboard etc.
 When it's dark at night sleep under the cover and freak out.
 Even though Yukine was a jerk in season 1 in season 2 he became more caring towards Yato and Hiyori.
 Since Yukine is dead he never got to experience going to school so Hiyori started teaching him. Whenever someone talks about or mentions school get excited.
 If you have no clue who or how Yukine looks like then your cosplay won't be very good. Try to look up pictures on the Internet of Yukine so you know what you're doing.


Pictures of Yukine can easily be found with a quick google search.
 This may be hard for those who aren't like Yukine in real life or first time cosplayers. Try to picture what Yukine would do or say in different scenarios.
 Watching a few episodes of Noragami will give you a better understanding of Yukine which will make cosplaying him much more easier.


Noragami episodes can be found on kissanime.com.
 Get some buddies to cosplay as Hiyori and Yato. Take some photos together of your awesome cosplay and have fun!

