 You can use an empty paper towel tube or an empty toilet paper tube for this. The longer paper towel tube will allow you to make several napkin rings at one time, however.The wax paper will prevent the glue from sticking to the cardboard tube, and allow you to slide your finished napkin ring off easily.


You can also cut a piece of wax paper longer than the cardboard tube, wrap it around the tube, and then tuck the ends inside it., Choose some burlap or lace ribbon that is the same width as what you want the napkin rings to be. Wrap it around your cardboard tube, add ½ inch (1.27 centimeters), and cut it.


If you absolutely cannot find burlap or lace ribbon, you can use regular or lace fabric instead. The edges will not be finished, however, and will give the napkin rings and even more rustic feel.
 Overlap the two ends by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters), then stick a sewing pin straight into the cardboard tube, at the top and bottom of the seam., Use a foam brush to do this, and focus especially on the seam. Be sure that the Mod Podge or decoupage that you are using has a matte finish., This will take about 4 to 5 hours.If you are having troubles getting the tubes to stand upright, you can place them over a narrow salt or pepper shaker, the top of a long-necked bottle, or even a paper towel holder.
 Pull off the rubber bands and remove the sewing pins. Slide the napkin rings off of the tube; don't worry if the wax paper comes with it. Carefully peel away the wax paper, if needed.


Do not get impatient with this step. The Mod Podge must be completely dry.
 Thicker materials, such as burlap, might still be a little damp inside. If this is the case, stand the napkin rings up right, and let them finish drying.For extra support, you might want to brush on an extra layer of Mod Podge or decoupage glue over the outside and inside seam.
 Once the napkin rings are completely dry, they are ready to use. You can also decorate them further, however. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Hot glue some small, silk or felt flowers to burlap napkin rings for a rustic/fall look.Hot glue a large jingle bell to a burlap napkin ring for a cozy cottage/winter look.
Wrap some thin, jute string around the middle of lace napkin rings for a country-chic touch, and tie it into a bow.Hot glue a pastel-colored silk rose or peony to a lace napkin ring for a vintage look. You could also add some pearl beading to the edges.

