 If your vehicle did not come equipped with a turbocharger from the factory, you can install one on a normally aspirated motor to significantly increase power output. A turbocharger uses the exhaust flowing out of the motor to power a turbine fan that forces compressed air into the engine. Turbocharging a vehicle requires a number of supporting modifications to the vehicle’s fuel system. The internal components of your engine, such as pistons and rods, may also need to be replaced to withstand the added stress.Remember that adding forced induction like a turbocharger requires an increase in fuel to support the added air.
Kits for your specific vehicle may be available that include all of the components required to turbocharge it.
 A supercharger works by forcing compressed air into the engine just like a turbocharger does, but it is powered by the serpentine or an accessory belt instead of by the exhaust. Because superchargers are belt driven, they are not as efficient as turbochargers but are favored by those who value power at lower RPMs.Superchargers require supporting fuel modifications just like turbochargers.
Supercharger kits often come with a bracket and larger serpentine belt to support the addition of the supercharger pulley.
Unlike turbochargers, there is no need to wait for the turbo to spool. Superchargers produce power at all RPMs.
 Nitrous oxide contains more oxygen than atmospheric air, so injecting nitrous into your vehicle’s engine works in much the same was as a turbocharger or supercharger. “Wet” nitrous kits inject a combination of nitrous and fuel into the cylinders and can produce more power safely than “dry” kits which inject only nitrous. Most four cylinder motors can withstand up to eighty horsepower worth of nitrous oxide being injected without suffering any adverse effects.Make sure to order a nitrous kit designed for your vehicle if you don’t have the tools or skill set to fabricate the components you need to install the kit.
Unlike other forms of forced induction, nitrous oxide only increases wear on the engine while armed.
 After installing a form of nitrous or forced induction, it’s important to have your vehicle tuned to support the increase in power. Taking your vehicle to a professional tuning shop will allow them to use a dynamometer to test various air/fuel ratios at different RPMs, ensuring the maximum power output at each point in the vehicle’s power band.The price to have your vehicle “dyno-tuned” varies from location to location.
Dyno-tuning can free up significant amounts of power from the modifications you’ve already installed.

