 The foundation of any successful plan to make money with social media is good content, and lots of it. On Facebook, that means a stream of interesting links, images, and updates every day.


Search for a niche and fill it with quality content. It doesn't have to be a niche nobody else is filling, but it should be specific enough that it's clear to the casual observer. For example, maybe you'll post content for cat lovers, mothers, or people with a certain political affiliation. If you plan to market a product with your account, be sure to link the product to your posts in some way.
Consider opening up another Facebook account and keeping it separate from your personal account. Use this account for your posts, and link them on your personal Facebook account to let people know about them. Depending on the approaches you use, you might even consider using multiple extra accounts. NOTE: Facebook will not allow multiple accounts using the same email and/or phone number. You may even get a request to verify a new Facebook account through a code texted to your phone.
Give it time. Let your account build up interest over time by continuing to provide fresh and relevant content every day.;
, The only way to reliably make money using Facebook is through persistent work. Like any job, setting a schedule and sticking to it is the key.


Organize. Whatever strategy you plan to pursue, you'll probably have to take care of several things every day to make it work for you. Plan out the order and times you'll do them in advance.
Saturate your market. Making money with Facebook is more of a numbers game than anything else. Since marketing on Facebook costs nothing except time, you can market as much as you want – even to a point that would be prohibitively expensive any other way – and let the percentages and statistics work their magic one penny at a time.
Add aggressively. One of the best ways to increase the number of people looking at your page is to simply add people as friends as often as you can. Most won't accept, but some will.

