 It's a cliche, but it's true. People like to be the hunter, not the hunted. If you chase a woman too soon and too fast, she may think you are desperate and less of a catch. So, let her know you're interested - but not too much, at least at first.


Don't show too much immediate attraction. If you don't know for sure that she likes you, you do not want to scare her away by confessing your "love." End the date first. End texting first. End phone conversations first. Don't overdo this one, though. You also need to give her some encouragement or she might give up or get too insecure. Just don't always chase. For example, you should let her be the person to ask whether the relationship is exclusive.
If you are unpredictable, this will give you more control in the dynamic. For example, sometimes don't respond for three days. Then, respond right away. Most people actually find mixed signals alluring.
Don't drop every commitment to be with her. Women are attracted to men who have other things going on in their lives, like careers. Similarly, have a hobby. If she sees you have a passion outside of her, she will find you interesting and exciting. But don't always put other things ahead of her either. As with everything, it's all about balance. , If you find yourself squarely in the friend zone, you are probably going to end up stuck there forever. At least, it's more likely. Women tend to divide romantic interests into two categories: People they would date. People they only see as friends.


Not always being available will also help you stay out of the friend zone. Don't be too comedic, goofy, or self-deprecating. If you act like the class clown, there is a better chance she will friend zone you. Absolutely refuse to listen to her talk about another guy she likes. That will put you in the friend zone for sure. Tell her you like her yourself, so you can't be the shoulder to cry on.
Don't go too long before making a move. If you wait weeks to kiss her, she might think you only see her as a friend.
 Show her your lovable side. Hug her, tell her how you really feel sometimes, and so on. No girl can deny a guy who opens up to her and tells her how he truly feels if you're sweet about it.


Cuddling with her a lot has an extra benefit. Research shows that cuddling (and sex) release a chemical called Oxytocin into women's bodies. This chemical helps break down emotional barriers and creates a feeling of attachment in women because it is associated with pleasure. Show emotion in bed. It's important to women that you don't make them feel you're just interested in them sexually. But don't be afraid to take charge and show her a great time! Hold her after the act is done. Stroke her hair and face.
Offer her your jacket if it's cold outside. Hold her hand when you're walking. Women love these kinds of lovable actions. , Women love to feel special and unique, above all others. So if you show a sentimental streak, she will love it, as long as you don't overdo it.


Put a photo of her somewhere she will find it. Women like to know you think they're special. They also might look through your things at some point. This is wrong, but it happens.
You could put a photo of her in your wallet or use it as your screen saver on your cell phone. When she sees it, she will be flattered (as long as it's not too soon in the relationship. Wait until you're exclusive).
Put a photo of her by your bed on your nightstand. This will make her feel more confident that you aren't cheating.
Mention a specific song that was playing when you met or around the time you met, and tell her that it's your song together. Then, give her a CD with it for a gift.
Speak a lot about the details of when your relationship began. These will be positive details, and it will matter to her that you remember them. Don't forget anniversaries, how you met, the first conversation you had, and so on.
 Although women may have their own career and value their independence, there is a little piece, at least, inside most of them that appreciates a protector. Again, everything must be done in balance. You don't want to become excessively controlling.


Create a scenario where she realizes you're the one she can rely on. If her car breaks down, be there for her. If she can't fix something, offer to come over and do it. Be the guy she depends on.
Open doors, including car doors. Women love a gallant streak. Respect her. Your attitude and your actions should demonstrate to her that you have nothing but the utmost of respect for her. Don't be more than 30 minutes late. It shows her that you're indifferent to her.
If she's staying out of town at a hotel, prepare for room service or a bottle of wine to be sent to her room or order flowers.
If you live together or are married, do some of the housekeeping to give her a break. If you are single and don't live together, do your own housekeeping. If your apartment is a complete pig sty, she will know that's what she has to look forward to down the road.
 If you are a mess, it's going to be harder to get her to fall in love with you. Women (and men) are attracted to confidence.


If you hate your job, change it. If you hate your weight, lose it. If you hate yourself, seek counseling. You need to be centered in who you are - and happy about it - to attract a secure person.
It's really true that you need self-love to be loved. If you don't feel confident, fake it. People will perceive you are confident, they will react more positively to you, and then you will feel more confident. See how easy that is?!
Don't mistake arrogance for confidence. Talk about her, not yourself. Ask her questions about her job, her day, and her family. Don't just bombard her endlessly with conversation about yourself or your interests.
Although you should not chase her too hard in the beginning of a relationship, you should make the first move. Men who make the first move are perceived as confident by women. 