 Depending on the situation, you may have an opportunity to voice what you're feeling to others about being unappreciated or feeling like you don't fit in. Sometimes this can help others to understand where you're coming from. This may work best with friends and family, rather that classmates or co-workers who don't know you.Be polite and calm when you are asking for acceptance. Show that you're trying to find some common ground between you and others.
Consider saying, "It seems like we might have gotten off on the wrong foot. I hope you can accept what I'm saying and where I'm coming from."
For a more direct approach, consider saying, "I hope that you can accept me for who I am. And I will do the same for you.";
, Help others to understand what acceptance and validation look like. Be present and pay attention to others’ needs. By modeling this behavior, you may help others to understand how to act in return.Listen to difficult things that others are going through. Try walking in their shoes to understand where they’re coming from.
Learn to sit with emotions rather than feeling uncomfortable or judged. Consider using this an opportunity to connect with others.
For example, if there’s someone in your class that feel is less accepting of you or others, and you see that they’re having a difficult time, think about if there are opportunities to connect with them in a real way. Offer to share something with them. Or simply tell them, “I know it’s been a tough day. I totally understand. I’ve had a tough day too.” Even if they don’t reciprocate, you’re showing them what validation and acceptance look like.
 Rather than immediately reacting and assuming the worst, have an open heart. While some people may be outright mean, others may not realize that they are making you feel excluded or unappreciated. Before you react, take a step back and take an objective view on the situation.Realize that one bad interaction may not define your future interactions with that person or other people.
Avoid withdrawing yourself emotionally from the situation, particularly among people that you care about. Consider taking a risk and trying to make the situation work rather than feeling doubtful. It’s hard to be vulnerable, but sometimes it can help to show others what you’re feeling.
 And that's okay. You can’t control how others think or act, but you can control your own thoughts and actions. Learn to accept what you can change and what you can’t. Aspire to love and cherish yourself as a person, and share that love with others.Focus your efforts on those who care about you. Don’t worry about those who ignore you.
Keep and hold onto positive people. Avoid trying to be friends with those who are negative or treat you poorly. Rather than wishing they would be better, use that time to be happier with yourself.

