 You will need drawing paper, disposable paper cups, chipboard or cardboard, glue, a hobby knife, and adhesive paper tape cut into long strips. You will also need a method of dampening the paper tape without soaking it, such as a new clean kitchen sponge. Decorative materials, such as acrylic paint, are optional.Keep in mind that the size of the cups that you choose will partially determine the size of your letters. How tall your cups are will roughly correspond with how thick your letters will be. Likewise, you will need to make each portion of your letter at least as wide as the mouth of your cups.
 Use the drawing paper to sketch out your ideas. Draw a letter that is at least the width of your cups' mouth in all areas. Don't worry about erasing mistakes or making it neat; this paper will not be incorporated into your finished letter. Once you're happy with your letter's design and size, cut it out using either your hobby knife or a pair of scissors.
 Cut your letter out using a hobby knife. Do this twice so that you have two identical copies of the cardboard letter. Make sure that the two letters line up perfectly., Stagger the cups right side up and upside-down to pack them in as tight as possible. The more cups you use, the more structurally sound your final letter will be. Do not allow any part of the cups to go over the edge of the letter., Wait for the glue on the first letter to dry. Make sure to line up your second letter perfectly when gluing. Allow the glue to dry completely before moving on., Take a paper strip and moisten its adhesive. Wrap it tightly around your letter so that it sticks to both the top and bottom cardboard faces. Repeat with more paper strips, one by one. Continue until your letter has been completely wrapped in at least two layers of adhesive tape., You may choose to apply acrylic gesso to give you a white surface to work on and to seal the tape edges completely. You can paint or draw over this layer using most types of media. If you are making multiple letters, try to decorate them similarly to create a theme.