 The seams of the shoulders should rest on the edge of your shoulder. Make sure the shirt fabric does not squeeze you nor billow. This includes when you tuck in collared shirts. Cuffs should stop at the end of your wrist and be tight enough that your thumb stops the cuff from sliding while still allowing you to move comfortably.A rule of thumb for stiff shirts is that good ones give you enough space to allow you to fit exactly two fingers under the collar.
Tucked shirts should not become undone or feel tight when you bend over or move your arms.
Choose t-shirts that end at the middle of your waist and only ride up an inch above your pants during movement.
 Whether it is a blazer or a suit jacket, it should fit over your clothing well. The shoulder seams should be on the edge of your shoulder and the material should go all the way down to the zipper of your pants. Make sure the jacket is smooth around the shoulders and does not bunch up around buttons. You should be able to flatten your hand against yourself and slip it under the lapel.A tight suit jacket leaves an x-shape on the belly where the fabric is too tight.
The armholes should be high enough that they don’t cut into your skin or restrict your movement.
For a button jacket, the second to last button should fall right above your belly button and leave enough material that the jacket covers your behind.
 Coats follow the same rules as suit jackets. The seams should rest on the edge of your shoulders. The coat itself should feel comfortable against the clothing it has to cover, not restrictive despite lying close to you and showing your figure. The sleeve should go an inch beyond your wrist in order to hide any sleeve underneath.


Like jackets, make sure the coat is long enough that it doesn’t flare out over your backside.
 The right pants won’t need a belt. They’ll rest on your hips without falling but will stay loose enough that you can move. They’ll lay close to your legs without billowing. Long pants should have no more than one crease on each leg where they fall on top of the shoe. The fabric should go all the way down the back of your legs to t the top of the soles of your shoes.Look for jeans that are slim around your thighs but straight or tapered below the knee.
 Your tie will sit under your collar and not necessitate tightening the collar. Different knots can be used to compliment your clothing, but the tie should go no further than the center of your belt., Your shoes should leave enough room in the heel to fit at least a finger but still not leave too much space between you and the shoe heel. Your toes should barely touch the front, not press against it. Of course, walking should feel comfortable and the shoe should not cut into any part of your foot.


For formal shoes, choose round-toed shoes to achieve a better appearance.

