 You can do simple decorations, such as small decals of spiders and ghosts on your windows or major projects like decorating your entire truck and giving out candy from your car.
, You might choose one Halloween character and decorate your car with things that relate to it. For example, choose a witch theme and decorate with witch hats, cauldrons and broomsticks.


Do something scary, such as a vinyl monster that looks like he is sitting in your backseat, or something amusing like a pirate theme with treasures and swords on display.
 For example, if you are dressing as a clown, fill your car with balloons. If you are dressing as a vampire, place fang decals on your car.
, Celebrate Halloween by decorating it like a race car or a car from the movies and television such as K.I.T. from Knight Rider or the General Lee from the Dukes of Hazard.
 If you have a truck with a bed in the back, you will have a lot more flexibility than if you have a small car with limited trunk space.


Utilize all your space. Use your trunk, your seats and the outside of your car to complete the theme you are decorating around.;
, The more people you enlist in your car decorating, the more fun you will have and the quicker you will get it decorated.
 For example, turn your car into a zoo and decorate it with animals. Or, go with a graveyard theme and put some coffins in the back of your truck and turn seats into headstones.
 If your car is going to be stationary, you can surround your car with zombies. Open all the windows so vampires can peek out and place scary or funny items consistent with your theme on your hood and roof.


Visit a craft store or party retailer for supplies. For example, use thumb tacks to hang ghosts or webs from your ceiling. Pick up some spray paint to create a spooky or glow in the dark effect on windows. Silly string can make a convincing spider web, and so can a rope web, which can be found at Party City.
 Use your car stereo to play festive Halloween music such as "The Monster Mash" or "Thriller."


Take advantage of digital music services like Sirius XM. They often have holiday music stations that will be helpful.
 Halloween treats are essential in a decorated car.

