 Instead of just listening to the words someone is saying, understand them. If you notice that you’re distracted, silence whatever distractions are grabbing your attention, such as a cellphone, music, or noise. Give the person your full attention while they are speaking and do not interrupt them. Wait your turn to speak.Use reflective listening to communicate your understanding by saying things like, “So what I hear you saying is…” or, “Let me make sure I’m understanding you...”

, Don’t jump ahead or move on too quickly. Do your best not to interrupt another person if they are talking and instead, listen thoughtfully to what they are saying. Whether you agree with their perspective or not, you can be respectful and present in your interaction.Silence your “monkey mind,” or your thoughts that bounce around or jump ahead. Stay focused and not distracted.Sometimes silences are the best part of a conversation.
 Don’t get into the habit of talking about negative or depressing topics only. If discussions tend to take a negative tone, find ways to approach them from a different angle. Bring up topics that bring you hope or that you feel curious about.If discussions start out as negative, try to bring them full circle and ask, “What can we do to change this? Where can we discover hope or perseverance in this situation?”

, It’s not enough just to bring up deep topics; sustaining the conversation takes effort from whoever is involved. Pause and consider what the other person has said before you respond. Respond with a statement, story, or question that helps tie in what they said with something you’d like to add to the conversation.Find ways to interact in new ways about whatever is being talked about. Some deep conversations meander from one topic to another, while others stay pointedly focused.
 If you bring up a deep conversation and people are not interested in discussing it, let it go. Don’t try to continue talking if people are not interested. You may want to start a discussion at a different time or with different people.It’s okay to let a conversation fade out if people are uninterested in talking about it.

