 So you presented a gift and the receiver didn't really respond how you expected them to. Before you over-react, consider that you are bound to attach more meaning to something you made yourself than to something you purchased from a store.


It's possible the person could actually like the gift and simply not know how to express their gratitude. Or, maybe that jaw-drop symbolized them being amazed that you crafted something so perfectly "them"--not astonishment that you would give them something so horrific.
 It happens to the best of us—even seemingly expert gift-givers miss the mark every now and then. In the end, you had good intentions. So, remember it’s the thought that counts. Being too frustrated with yourself places you in the category of bad gift-giver.Getting caught up in whether someone actually likes your gift detracts from the point of giving. Don’t attach too much meaning to someone disliking the gift. Just be grateful that you were able to give. Besides, some people are just really hard to please.
 Becoming distraught because the person didn’t like the gift takes away from the positive gains you get from giving. In fact, researchers have found that givers receive even more positive benefits than those who receive.


Giving is typically a selfless act. In addition to boosting your connection with others, you feel grateful for having the ability to give and you can even start a chain of giving, in which others are inspired to follow your lead. What’s more, being generous even has a positive effect on health. Science shows us that giving can lower stress, increase immunity, and lead to a longer life., No matter how you save face after a lackluster response, it may still hurt your feelings a bit. That’s perfectly normal and human. Be kind to yourself in this moment and attend to your feelings.


Take some time alone to lick your wounds and show compassion to yourself. If you have a desire to cry, do so. If you feel slightly embarrassed, acknowledge it. Give yourself a hug, and repeat “You are a caring, compassionate person. Even though you didn’t get the reaction you hoped for, you still did a good thing.”