 Be sure to get multiple insights from several different types of doctors, each with a different specific knowledge set and treatment experience.See a urologist that specializes in studying diseases, including cancer, when they are found in the urinary system and male reproductive system.
See a medical oncologist who will be able to discuss chemotherapy and other medication-based treatment options. They may refer you to a radiation oncologist, if radiation therapy is appropriate in your case.
 Ensure that you have plenty of information and assistance in making your treatment decisions and developing a comprehensive treatment plan. Do not hesitate to see multiple doctors within similar areas of expertise, as additional perspective can both improve your ability to make cooperative decisions and make your more comfortable with the route you choose to take.Ask a doctor you trust, such as your general practitioner, who they recommend.
Also ask those whom you see about your cancer who else they recommend speaking with.
Inform yourself fully about the specific procedures and the research associated with different treatment options.
The Natural Cancer Institute as well as the Prostate Cancer Foundation provide detailed information about prostate cancer, including further information on treatment options, online. ,, There are several characteristics specific to you that will greatly determine the viability of certain treatment options. Be sure to address these points with your doctors:The numbers regarding your diagnosis, including the stage and grade of the cancer.
Other serious health conditions you have.
Your age and expected life span with and without treatment.
Your personal feelings regarding the need to treat your cancer with aggressive methods.
The side effects associated with each treatment option.
The realistic likelihood of each treatment option ridding your body of cancer.
 Sometimes, maintaining your quality of life may outweigh the potential benefits of treatment. Even after undergoing some treatment methods and finding that they are not working or that the side effects are impacting you negatively, you may choose not to undergo further treatment.If, for whatever reason, you are inclined not to receive treatment, you should still talk it over with your doctors.
Non-treatment based support is also available, to help you deal with pain and other symptoms, as well any psychological or emotional stress you may be enduring.
Recognize that many men with prostate cancer live full, healthy lives without ever having any symptoms., Your cancer care team needs to include more than just medical doctors! The American Cancer Society webpage has complied programs and services that will help you find rides to treatment, lodging, support groups, and more.


Hospital and clinical support services will help link you to professionals and support groups addressing:

Financial aid.
Nutritional advice.
Rehabilitation services and support.
Mental health services and spiritual guidance.
Nursing and social work services.


Call the National Cancer Information Center at 1-800-227-2345 anytime, any day and speak with a cancer support specialist., “Natural” and otherwise well-marketed dietary supplements, herbal supplements, and vitamins are not necessarily safe.Some supplements may even undermine the healing capacity of the drugs that doctors often prescribe to treat cancer.


Herbal supplements may have unexpected detrimental effects upon your health. None of these supplements have undergone a regulatory approval protocol to prove that they are likely to help you fight cancer.
Even vitamins that are commonly considered to be healthy can be detrimental to your health if taken in large doses or alongside other cancer treatments.
For instance, vitamin C may affect the effectiveness of chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
Keep your doctors fully informed of any supplemental or dietary practices you undertake.

