 The primary thing to keep in mind is that you will be focusing on eating completely fresh foods — nothing fermented, nothing baked, nothing fungal, and nothing that is likely to have attracted any growths. While there is more to it than that, this overall mental attitude can help you make decisions when you come across a new food. Don't have an "I can't have that" attitude; have an "I choose not to have that" attitude!


Think of your food not as a treat for your mouth but fuel for your entire body, and choose things that will be pleasing for every part of a healthy you. Mentally associate positive health and feeling good with the foods that are beneficial, and remember the consequences of the foods that are off-limits.
 If you think a yeast-free diet may be more healthy for your body type overall, try working toward taking yeast out of your diet for good. Rather than thinking about specific foods that are or aren't allowed, imagine creating a diet that will serve your body most effectively.


Gluten-free diets have become more popular among a wide range of people, but it has been suggested that some of those cases may actually be yeast allergies, since the two show up in many of the same places. If you have tried a gluten free diet that works some of the time but not always, it may be worth investigating where the two differ.
 Mutual support is a great way to keep a project in the air, and a healthy diet will benefit anyone. Even if you are not eating exactly the same food, congratulating one another and reminding each other what's off limits is more useful than you might think. It can keep you motivated and help you hold yourself accountable.


Planning meals in advance can keep your momentum going. Two people are better than one since there will be back-up if either of you starts to fall off the wagon, and preparing food will be a motivating force.
Eating together is a positive social interaction. Certainly not everyone will have the time to spend every meal together, but even checking in on a regular basis will make a difference. Whether it's dinner every day with a spouse or lunch once a week with a co-worker, any form of patting each other on the back is a plus.
 If you are serious about changing your relationship to food, it is worth planning meals that you like and that are good for you. A professional can help you determine the best combination to meet your needs.


Each individual will find a different arrangement of meals that works best, so talking to someone can be a useful method to make starting a new diet a good experience, rather than stressful or frustrating. Remember, eating food that is good for your body should ultimately be pleasing. It may take a period of adjustment, but don't expect to suffer endlessly. A nutritionist can help figure out what you need to be satisfied.

