 You can use a headband or a towel to keep your hair in place, or you can put longer hair into a tight ponytail. This will keep you from accidentally getting bleach on other hair.Even if you have very short hair, pulling it back from your face is a good idea, as stray hairs are likely to distract you.
Eyebrow bleaching is very detailed work, requiring your full attention.;
, Removing any makeup, dirt or oil from your skin before bleaching will help your bleaching be successful. To clean the tender area around your eyes, apply a make-up remover, and gently rinse clean with lukewarm water.If you've just had a shower, your skin will be easier to clean. The steam from a shower softens any oil that's clogged in your pores, making it easier to remove.
Pat your skin dry with a soft towel or cloth. Rubbing can irritate the delicate skin around your eyes.
 If your hair bleach is one of several popular commercial products, it will contain bleaching powder, liquid developer/peroxide, and an instruction manual for use. You should follow the instructions on how to do the mixing process, which will result in a creme that you can put on your eyebrows.Mix your powder and developer in a glass bowl, or another non-reactive container.
Stir it with a cotton swab until it's a smooth consistency.
 Doing a patch test to see how your skin will interact with the bleach will keep you from accidentally injuring yourself. Make sure you only use bleach creme intended for facial bleaching, because the skin on your face is more delicate than other areas.If you have very sensitive skin, use a milder bleach creme that's labeled for sensitive skin.
Testing the bleach creme on other body hair may also show the speed at which your hair will lighten, allowing for a more predictable lightening experience when you bleach your brows.
 Usually, commercial bleaching creme comes with a small applicator. You can also use a cotton swab if you've lost your applicator, or your bleaching creme doesn't come with one. You'll need to be gentle, but accurate, as you apply the creme to the eyebrow hairs you want bleached.Don't rub the creme into your skin.
Make sure the parts of your eyebrows you want bleached are covered evenly and completely.
 If this is the first time you've bleached your eyebrows, you might want to only leave the mixture on your eyes for a minute or two. Remember that the time that the bleach is on you eyes starts with the very first touch of the bleach.You can always apply more bleach, but once your eyebrows are bleached you'll have to wait for them to grow back before you can reapply.
Leave the bleach on your skin for no longer than 10 minutes, no matter how dark your brows are or how light you want them to be.
 A warm, wet washcloth is best for wiping off the bleaching product. Be careful not to rub your skin, which may be irritated by the bleach.Make sure to get all the bleach off.
Once you've wiped your brows well, look at your eyes in the mirror and check the results. If you need to reapply the bleaching creme, you can do this now.

