 Measure the width of the walls you plan on applying the border to and add about 1.5 feet (0.5 m). (45.7 cm) for every 15 feet (4.6 m). (4.5 m) you measure. Many manufacturers sell borders in 5 yard (4.6 m). (4.5 m) spools, and having the extra length makes it easier to match the pattern when you start a new spool.;
, Focus on the middle section of the wall that you plan on applying the border to and correct any problems you find.


Fill in any cracks in your paint with joint compound, sanding it down and painting over it after the joint compound dries.
Glue peeling wallpaper down by applying a small amount of wallpaper paste to the back. Even though the peel may be at the top or bottom of the wall, away from where the border will be, pasting down the edges now will prevent the paper from peeling up toward the center or along the corners later on.
 Generally, borders placed in the middle of the wall are about 36 to 42 inches (91.4 to 106.7 m) above the floor, but the height you choose is up to you.
 Place the level in the corner of the wall, just below the height you want the top edge of the border to sit at. When the bubble in the level is centered, lightly draw a line with pencil along the top edge of the level.
 Slide the level along the wall, connecting the lines and making sure that the bubble of the level is centered as you go along. When you finish, there should be a light line spanning across your walls.
 Allow it to expand by applying paste to the back if it is un-pasted or by soaking it in water for 10 seconds if pre-pasted. All the moisture to soak into the paper border for 5 minutes before measuring the height of the border from top to bottom.
 Subtract 1/2 in. (1.27 cm) from the height of the border, and use this figure to determine how far below the top line to draw the bottom.
 Use a small paint roller to apply the milky primer to the section of wall in between the two lines, careful to avoid letting it stray outside the space.Primer will stain the wall, and you will be able to see any uncovered primer if it is hit by the right sort of light. Let the primer dry before applying the border over it.

