 Karen is known for her huge, dark, shiny eyes, so give your eyes a beautiful natural shine by applying two cold cucumber slices (or two cold, wet cotton balls). Pull your hair back, lay down, and gently press them against your closed eyelids. Count to fifty slowly, then pull them away; your eyes will have a natural shine.;
, Blue, green, grey, and hazel eyes are just as pretty.
 Make sure your eyes are dry then select a quality eyeshadow. (Don't go and buy some cheap eyeshadow at a gas station. If you want a flattering Simms look, you might need to pinch a couple pennies to afford it.) First apply a lighter color to the lids, then apply a darker color to the creases. Be sure the tones suit your eye color.
 Get a black or dark brown eyeliner to match Karen’s style. Line both the top and bottom of your eyelids, but don't overdo it (especially if you REALLY want to look like her).
 Get a high-quality mascara and dip the wand in. Set it near your eyelash and blink until there is enough mascara on your eyelashes for you.
 Karen has a naturally full mouth, but there are cheap ways to emulate the look. Get about a teaspoon of sugar or salt. Lick your lips twice and kiss the spoon of salt or sugar, until the majority of it is on your lips. Rub your lips together until they are slightly numb, then rinse them thoroughly. Also, every time you brush your teeth, brush your lips for three minutes.
 Buy a moisturizing lip balm with SPF and use it whenever your lips get dry or chapped. Don't lick your lips! It may be tempting, but it dries out your lips.
 Finish your lips off with a nice lip gloss. Go to any beauty store and buy lip gloss. When buying the gloss, don't make it super-shiny. Keep it moderately glossy, as Karen likes to keep her look natural.
 Karen is very fresh-faced, so the best place to start is with a natural glow. Buy a good acne cleanser and use at least once daily. If you have sensitive skin, ask your doctor or dermatologist what cleanser you should use.
 Buy a lightweight moisturizer and apply it to your face after you've applied the cleanser. This will help keep your skin moisturized and will avoid dry, flaky skin. Make sure that it's lightweight so that your face doesn't get too oily.
 Use a sheer foundation that matches your skin colour and apply it to your face, concentrating on areas like your nose and under your eyes. Put on a bronze or dusty-rose blush if your skin tone is like Karen's; otherwise, go for a colour that suits your skin tone better.
, "Done" eyebrows make your eyes look bigger and your makeup pop. If you don’t want to shape your own eyebrows, have them waxed. (If you’re under thirteen, you can also have them strung.)

,,, Karen has sleek, shiny hair that looks great with or without styling. Keep your hair healthy by washing and conditioning it according to its needs (ex. thin, dry, oily, and dyed hair all have different needs).
 Of course, just because it works for her hair doesn’t mean it’ll work for yours.
 Luckily for you, Karen has worn her hair in a variety of styles including long, shoulder-length, layered, straight, and wavy with front bangs, side bangs, and no bangs at all. Look through some photos of her over the years to choose a style that flatters your face shape.
 Apply the heat protectant to your hair. Once the straightener has heated up, straighten your hair.
 Apply the heat protectant to your hair. Wrap different sections of your hair around the wand and, when you’re done, spray with hairspray or shine-spray to hold the kinks.
 Karen has a great sense of style (and it's actually pretty affordable!). Search for pictures of Karen online to see what you like, what would flatter your body type, and what’s in your budget. Circle the items you like in certain pictures. Do you love the skinny jeans she's wearing in that picture? Or maybe the cardigan? Get inspired by her before going out shopping.
 Karen wears skinny jeans, scarves, heels, and anything else that is frilly or girly. It's a good idea to shop at teenage stores like American Eagle, Forever 21, Urban Outfitters, Garage, Aeropostale, etc., which are all fairly affordable. If you have a higher budget, try going for stores like Abercrombie and Juicy Couture. Selena loves shopping at Abercrombie and Juicy for occasional clothing.

