 It will need to fit the objects you wish to put on display without being too bulky.


A fairly typical size matches the same size as printer paper or a regular picture frame.
The usual shape for a shadow box is square or rectangular.;
, When cutting the wood, keep the following in mind:


Use the measurements for the height and width as decided in the first step.
For the edges, make them deep. They should be at least 5cm/2 inches deep, and perhaps more, depending on what you're adding to the shadow box display.
 Nail in place where the pieces of wood join, in either a square or rectangle shape.
, Use thin wood, such as plywood, for this part of the shadow box.


Measure the back of the shadow box by assembling the wood pieces together in the square or rectangle shape and placing the backing piece behind this.
Mark the size and then cut to fit. Use a hand or electric saw, whichever you're most comfortable with.
 This can be glued or nailed into place, whatever works best for the wood used (nailing might split thin wood while wood glue will hold it snugly).
 This background piece will be slightly smaller than the non-frame side or wood backing. Use this measurement to cut out a piece of thick cardboard. The type of cardboard found on fruit or grocery boxes is best, as it has cushioning.


You could also use foam sheeting for this backing.
 Glue it to the cardboard inner backing piece; it helps to overlap the cardboard to the other side just slightly but do this without adding bulk––avoid overlapping folds.


You might prefer covering with fabric, especially where you're making a miniature house or a themed craft item from the box.
 If may be easier to add some decorative elements to the background piece before gluing it into the box. However, you'll need to judge this according to what it is you're adding, as you don't want to press down on anything fragile and squash or break it while gluing the cardboard background into the box.


Allow the glue to dry before moving.
, Done! The shadow box is now ready for display.

