 Don’t pack for worst-case scenarios. If they come up, and they inevitably will, buy your way out of them. You won’t need a poncho and a rain jacket. Just pick one and move on. You won't need to haul snorkeling gear around Europe. You won’t need that flare gun. They are a hassle in security anyway. Chuck it. The “what if” game is dangerous to play when packing. Ask yourself: do I absolutely need this? If the answer is yes, then pack it. If the answer is maybe, leave it at home. The benefits of a light bag on your back far outweigh the drawbacks of not having something you "might" need.;
, The only way to get by on a single carry on bag while you travel for a week, a month, or even a year, is to accept that you'll need to do laundry. You will have to pay your hotel to do your laundry, wash your clothes by hand in your bathtub, or go to a laundromat. Try to make the experience positive. If you go with the third option, think of the experience as a glimpse into the local culture. Take pride in washing your clothes in Lima, Peru or Moscow, Russia. How many people at home can say they've braved a Peruvian lavandería or a Russian laundromat. Try to abide by the "trilogy travel law". Three pairs of socks. Three pairs of underwear. Wear one. Wash one. Dry one.This will free up space and works well if you're on the move frequently as most pieces will air dry in a day or so. Keep in mind, hair dryers can dry socks too.
 Limit the number of toiletries you bring and leave those that you don’t need at home. Toiletries take up space in your luggage and can really pack on the pounds. When packing light, consider using travel-sized moisturizers, deodorants, shampoo, and other products that can be placed in your carry-on bag. You can also buy some make-up items, such as mascara and lipstick, in travel sizes.Remember that toiletry items may be available at your destination, especially if you are staying in a hotel or resort. Hotels provide shower items you may need. If your hotel doesn't have what you need, you can buy Dial soap, Crest toothpaste, and Gillette shaving cream/razors in drug stores around the world., The most important item to bring when packing light is money. While forgotten items can be purchased at your destination, you need to pay for necessities should a need arise. You'll want a credit card for large purchases like hotel reservations and cash for smaller, day-to-day buys., Are you heading to the sunny beaches of Phuket, Thailand or the chilly Patagonian terrain of Chile? Will you be traveling to several different climates. Consider the weather of your final destination and pack accordingly. If you are going to the beach, bring appropriate light-weight clothing. Don’t bring heavy, cold weather clothes if you don’t have to. They really add pounds. If you are going to a colder climate, bring a single coat to wear over layers, rather than several coats, which can be cumbersome and heavy. Layers allow you to strip down, if weather permits.Bring dual-purpose clothing. If you know you’ll be traveling through several climates, consider purchasing pants that turn into shorts with a zip of a zipper. Various companies make jackets that have removable sleeves and hoods.
 When only a few pieces of clothing are available, putting an outfit together can be a challenge. Bring clothes that are neutral in color, such as white, tan, brown, black, or blue so they can be mixed and matched. Jeans are a versatile choice. You can wear shirts with jeans and be photogenic. If you are a girl, thin knits offer versatile as well as light clothing options., Shoes take up the most room in your luggage. To pack light, try to get by with only one pair of shoes. The type of shoes you pack will depend on your destination and planned activities. If you anticipate spending most of your time on the beach, a pair of flip flops should suffice. For business meetings, pack a nice pair of dress shoes in a neutral color that also works with casual attire.If you need more than one pair of shoes, wear the heavier pair for travel, and pack the lighter pair in your suitcase.
 Scarves, belts, bracelets, and earrings can help stretch your wardrobe to create different looks without adding a lot of weight or taking up too much space. Don’t bring too many accessories though. Keep in mind that some of the greatest souvenirs are clothing accessories. You might end up buying a silk scarf in Milan that you can wear later on your trip, so don’t pack a thousand scarves if this seems like a possibility., Their intended purpose is to compress your items into a manageable size. They have mesh lining that allow air to escape, thus allowing them to collapse to their smaller sizes.Use these as space savers not as excuses to pack more stuff. Remember that you want to pack lightly. Most people purchase them in the hopes of cramming more stuff into their large suitcase. If this is you, remember that most airlines charge extra if your bag exceeds 50 lbs and the added weight of several packing cubes along with the additional stuff you’ve crammed in them will send your airline fees skyrocketing., You can normally purchase them in packs of 2, 4, or 8. And they come in various sizes. Some come with vacuum spouts that allow you to suck out the air with a vacuum. Others require you to push the air out by hand.
 Whether you decide to use packing cubes or airless baggies or not, you’ll need to fold your clothes methodically. If you just throw your clothes into your bag, they’ll take up more room and be wrinkled when you arrive. Folding boards allow you to fold your clothes perfectly every time. They’ll be easier to stack on top of one another as well, helping you to save space., Half the packing battle will be unpacking in a timely fashion. Sometimes on the road, you’ll need to get something out of your bag quickly. It might be a passport or it might be a travel first aid kit. Regardless, you’ll want these things to be accessible. If you know you might need something, be sure to pack it towards the opening of your bag. Put all the items you think you’ll need to be more accessible together in the same spot near the zipper of your bag, so you can just pull them out easily.