 Depending on the mileage and service history, this may include changing the air filter, spark plugs and plug wires, and in cars built before the early 1980s, adjusting the carburetor, engine spark timing, and valves to peak out the engine performance.;
, This may not help much, but properly inflated tires, leaning slightly toward maximum inflation pressure, have lower rolling resistance which transfers more engine power to propelling your car, as well as giving better gas mileage.
, A rear differential with a 411 gear ratio will give more torque to the pulling wheels than a 243 gear ratio. Consider the effect on gas mileage, though, since the 411 gear ratio will increase the engine revolutions per tire revolution, and in other driving situations this means the engine will need to turn many more RPMs to maintain normal driving speeds.
 Look in the trunk, behind the seats, and anywhere you may find heavy cargo stashed away. One of the methods the new car manufacturers are increasing auto fuel efficiency is by using the lightest weight material they can find in building new cars. A drastic measure for increasing your speed might mean buying the smallest cranking battery available, reducing the amount of gasoline in the tank to the minimum to make your trip, leaving the spare tire and tire changing tools at home, and even possibly removing some of the non essential accessories from the car.
 This one accessory drains a significant amount of engine power to operate the compressor.
 This means downshifting when the gear you are driving in begins to lose power, or "pull". You need to keep the engine RPMs close to the maximum to get the maximum speed from the car. This is easier to do if your car is equipped with a tachometer, but listening to the engine gives you a fairly good idea how it is doing. Automatic transmissions will down shift by themselves, but high RPM driving can overheat the transmission fluid, so do not maintain high torque conditions for long periods.
 Truck drivers pulling heavy trailers will get maximum speed up when they see a steep hill ahead to prevent the need to downshift on the inclined grade.

