 Before you figure out how to pay off debt, you need to figure out how much money you have. Being broke might mean you have $100, or it might mean you have $1,000. Use a personal finance app or program like Quicken or Mint to put in all your financial data.Use these tools to develop a budget that can help you pay off your debt and save money.If you prefer to develop a budget from scratch, grab a piece of paper and a pen. Draw up three columns. Label the first “Obligatory expenses,” the second “Discretionary spending,” and the third “Income and assets.”
In the first column, make a list of all your debts and household expenses (groceries, minimum monthly payments toward debts, utility bills, and so on).
In the second column, list all your discretionary spending (coffee, dining out, entertainment).
In the third column, list all the money you earn from working and all the money you’ve put in the bank since landing your job.
Total each column at the bottom. Add the totals from columns one and two. Subtract the sum from your total in column three. If the number is equal to or less than zero, eliminate your discretionary spending, reduce the costs accumulated by your obligatory spending, and/or find a better-paying job.
 Identify which debts have the highest interest rates and pay them off as fast as possible. While paying off the debt or debts with the highest interest, continue paying off your other debts by making the minimum monthly payment.For instance, if you have a debt with 3% interest and a debt with 0.5% interest, you should pay the minimum monthly balance on the debt with 0.5% interest, and pay more than the minimum balance each month on the debt with the 3% interest rate. Put the money you saved by reducing your spending after drawing up your budget toward the higher-interest loan.One exception to this rule is for any debt with a prepayment penalty. Many home mortgages, for instance, have a prepayment penalty for paying the debt off before a certain period of time has elapsed. Check the terms and conditions of each of your debts carefully to avoid being hit with prepayment penalties.
Carefully look over all your loan and/or credit documents to determine how to best prioritize your debts.
 Once you’ve drafted your budget, look for ways to reduce your expenditures. There are two ways to reduce how much money you spend. First, you could reduce your discretionary spending. For instance, instead of going to the movies, you could stay home and watch TV. The second way to reduce your spending is harder, and requires cutting back on your obligatory spending.For instance, you could move from a three-bedroom apartment to a cheaper studio apartment.If you’re really committed to paying off debt, cut back on both discretionary and obligatory spending.
No matter how you decide to save money, use the money you’ve saved to pay off debt.
Save on housing costs by moving in with friends or family.If you don’t have any money, one way to save a good deal (and avoid ending up on the street) is to move in with your family or friends. This will give you time to save your money and pay off debt., When you’re crushed under the weight of being both indebted and broke, things can seem hopeless. Just keep a positive mental attitude and focus on making payments toward your debts each month. With hard work and dedication, you’ll be on your way to getting through it.Make time for family and friends. Engaging in pleasant social interactions can improve the mood and overall well-being.
Give yourself modest rewards when you reach certain milestones. For instance, if you have $15,000 in debt, cook a pleasant dinner at home with your spouse when you pay off $5,000 of debt. Take a long walk near your favorite river when you’ve paid off $10,000 of debt. When your debt is finally paid off entirely, visit your local museum on a day when there is no charge for admission.