 When your grandchild’s parents are around the dynamic is different. One-on-one time is when you can create a deeper relationship and be more yourselves with each other. Because you're not the parent, your point of view is seen as advice and counsel rather than control and judgment., Teenagers often depend on their grandparents for advice on topics like peer pressure, bullying, and crushes, so it’s important that you keep those lines of communication open. This will not only improve the relationship with your grandchild, but will also make your grandteen feel more secure chatting with you.


Remember to not only talk about your own perspectives of the events in your grandchild’s life but listen to your grandteen's perspective as well.
Make an effort to understand your grandteen’s point of view and empathize with it. Sometimes that’s all grandteens want.
Go see your grandteen’s school or extracurricular activities like dance recitals and sporting events.
 Part of being a teenager is feeling misunderstood. A great way to alleviate that is to learn about what interests your grandteen and then learn as much as you can about the subject, particularly from your grandchild.


Relate these things to experiences in your own life. Be sure, however, that you do it subtly because teenagers have very sensitive antennae to how their situation is vastly different.
Do things that your grandchild likes to do, whether it’s going to the movies or going to a concert.
 You’ll have time to explore someplace new and create new, fresh experiences together. You can even allow your grandchild to invite a friend, thus creating the best of both worlds for each of you: your grandteen spends time with a friend while you spend time getting to know both children even better., Sharing memories is a great way to reinforce the life you have shared together. This of course includes people, places, and fun times such as birthdays and anniversaries. Plus, you have the added bonus of sharing the early life of one of your grandchild’s parents and laughing at the era’s unfortunate fashion choices.Be careful of overplaying this card. Doing it occasionally is great. Too often and you become that annoying grandparent who only wants to look at old pictures.
 Often a teenager’s fondest memories are activities shared with their grandparents as a child. Just because grandchildren have grown up doesn’t mean grandteens have grown out of their memories. Whether it was miniature golf, fishing, boating, or camping, keep doing it.


If your grandteen decides the old hobby is boring now, create a new one to share.

