 It’s okay to wish that things didn’t turn out this way, but don’t deny your new reality. Remember that it’s much tougher to get over something if you don’t accept that it happened in the first place. You may not like it, but embrace the fact that he doesn’t like you anymore so you can deal with it., Chances are that you feel out of sorts and a little less than enthusiastic about life in general. Don’t treat this is a failure on your part. Allow yourself some time to grieve. Keep in mind that this will help you heal far faster than pretending nothing’s wrong will., Don’t beat yourself for being “crazy” just because you feel depressed one minute, ticked off the next, and uncertain after that. View this as a perfectly normal reaction to losing his favor. It isn’t fun, but take comfort in the fact that it won’t last forever. For now, just ride it out as best as you can., Avoid bottling everything up. Share what you’re feeling with your friends and family if you have a strong support network. If not (or if you’re just uncomfortable with sharing at this stage), start a journal and articulate your feelings in there. Use either method or both to air yourself out and put your feelings into perspective., Avoid unnecessary contact with him. Stop dwelling on what he might be up to or how he’s feeling. Concentrate instead on what you’re up to and how you’re feeling. Recognize the fact that the longer you keep him front and center in your mind, the longer it will take for you to get over him., Obviously, your emotions at times might swing toward hating this guy or wishing him ill, and that’s okay, as long as it’s temporary. However, don’t hold onto those feelings. Even if he acted like a jerk, resist the temptation to bear any grudges. Remember that the longer you harbor mean thoughts, the meaner you’ll feel in general., If the two of you used to spend lots of time together, you probably have a lot of free time on your hands now, so make use of it. Start a new hobby, join a class, and/or just make more plans with old friends. Occupy both your time and your brain so you don’t spend it all dwelling on his absence.