 To make this popper will need a sheet of rectangular paper. Any standard 8.5 in (21.5 cm) by 11 in (28 cm) sheet of paper works well. A standard piece of A4 printer paper, 8.5 x 11 inches (216 x 280 mm) in size works best, but you can use larger or smaller paper if you wish. Just make sure you are using rectangular paper.
You can also use notebook paper. Notebook paper won’t be quite as loud because it’s not as heavy, but will still work fine.
Place your paper on a table so that the longer sides are on the top and bottom.
 Fold the paper in half lengthwise on a horizontal crease then unfold it. Now fold it in half widthwise on a vertical crease and unfold it again. 








At this point, you should have four creases in your paper, both vertically and horizontally. The creases will look like a cross.
 The edge of your folds should line up with the horizontal crease.









When you are done with these four folds, there should be two triangles on either side of the paper.
Think of folding each corner down like you would for a paper airplane.
You will have a vertical, open section of unfolded paper in the middle between your folds.
 You now want to fold the paper in half along the horizontal crease.









The popper should now look like a trapezoid or a triangle shape with the tip cut off.
 Position your paper so that the shorter flat edge is facing down closer to you. Take the top two corners on the left and right side and fold downward.









Make sure to line the edges up with the vertical crease.
This should create two triangular flaps which meet in the center and together make a diamond.
 Flip the paper over and fold it in half on the vertical crease.









Once you have done this, the popper should be in the shape of a triangle with the two flaps on the outside.
 Hold the bottom corners of the popper between your thumb and index finger. Raise your arm above your head, and quickly snap it down to create the popping sound.









You may need to pull the inner folds of your paper out a little to get the paper to pop the first time if your paper is stiff.
Tuck back in the flap that comes out to make the noise again.

