 Your belly will have lots of action as your baby moves and grows. It is best to leave behind constricting belts and waist bands.


Leggings can be your best friend. Buy leggings a couple sizes larger than your normal size or a pair of maternity leggings. They look great with long sweaters and shirts.
Avoid stiff fabrics. Instead choose stretchy fabrics. Yoga pants will also be a great choice because they are loose and comfortable. Avoid zippers and buttons. Wearing pants or skirts with elastic or ties instead of zippers or buttons is a must.
Jersey knits and other soft, stretchable garments are both comfortable and easy to wash and wear.
 You don’t want to pick loaded-with-Lycra clothes. While these curve-hugging tops will show off your bump later, right now you'll feel too much like a sausage in a tight casing.


At the same time, buying clothing fitted for a pregnant body is actually going to make you look slimmer than encasing your body in a huge too-large shirt. Satin is not considered a good pregnancy fabric by some, and bright colors are not usually a great idea, either.Avoid tops that are too billowy and tent-like, unless you prospectus look. Look for ones that flow gracefully over the extra pounds beneath while still having a bit of shape. Tunics are a great choice. While fitted across the shoulders and arms, a tunic flows gracefully across the middle, disguising extra weight. V-neck or scoop-neck shirts are a good choice as they draw the gaze to the neckline.
 An exception to the anti-cling rule: tank tops and other garments with built-in shaping panels.


These can help smooth out the sudden pooch or contain your growing breasts. Top these tanks with a body-skimming top or cardigan made of a smooth jersey fabric.
Stock up on such layering tanks. Wear them under tops that no longer button all the way. Throw one or two on under an oversize cardigan or blazer.
 You need a few workhorse items that will go from work to weekend without sacrificing comfort.


What to do: Embrace the wrap dress, if appropriate for your work place, or rather, let the wrap dress – in a sleek solid color or a color-blocked pattern – embrace your curves. You'll look perfectly pulled together for the office and be comfortable and stylish for running weekend errands.
As your bump gets bigger and higher, simply change where you place the tie, eventually making the frock into an empire-waisted garment, giving much-needed definition between bosom and belly.
Another faithful, versatile item to choose: a pair of dark denim maternity boot-cut jeans with the stretchy fabric built right into the waistband. The cut and color will flatter you throughout the entire pregnancy and work for almost any work or social situation.
 Other than wrap dresses, wearing skirts and dresses can be tricky during pregnancy. In particular, you will want to avoid too-short skirts.


Dresses and skirts that are designed to show a longer length in the back (similar to a gentleman's morning coat) are often in fashion and, as your abdomen expands with your growing baby, still look as if they were meant to look that way. A shift or maxi dress is a good choice.If you choose to wear a skirt make sure it is slightly form fitting and low volume. Try for A-Line skirts, pencil, sarong, godet, or a thin low volume gypsy style.
A high-waisted skirt in comfortable material is a good idea if it falls at the knees or below them. Wrap dresses are perfect for pregnancy. They are comfortable, stretch over the stomach, and still retain a bit of sex appeal., Maternity pants are basically pants with an elastic waistband so you don't have to worry about not fitting.


You can get them at many department stories. Maternity pants also come in blue jean style but with a stretchy waistband. Don’t be afraid to rock a pair of maternity blue jeans. Blue jeans can be a great way to start a pregnancy outfit.You want to avoid anything with zippers or buttons.

