 The best way to meet new people is while you’re doing something you already enjoy. This route ensures that you come off as genuine during your interaction because you won’t be pretending to like something simply to form new connections. What’s more, when you’re actually passionate about a topic, you tend to cherish it. Luckily, that’s a nice mindset to forging and nurturing friendships, too.


Your passions can be anything from baking to rock climbing. Whatever it is you love to do, do more of it. Write time for it into your weekly or monthly schedule. This way, you’ll automatically run into people with common interests in the midst of doing something you enjoy.;
, This is a natural and very effective way to meet people, if you are middle-aged. Later in life, many people find that they have more time for hobbies that they put off or stopped making time for in their younger years. Now’s the time to connect with people in a structured format who like doing the things you do.


If you enjoy reading, sign up for a book club hosted by your local library. Do you enjoy baking? Take a class on French pastry-baking. Like music? Start attending local music festivals, recitals, and open-mic nights.
Look for clubs and organizations by searching your local newspaper or asking around at a nearby college or university.
 Another great way to make friends in midlife is with solo travel. When you travel with friends or family members, you are in a safe comfort zone, which makes it less likely that you will strike up a conversation with a stranger. Going it alone affords you an opportunity to actually notice the other people you encounter along the way and cultivate friendships with people all over the world.Try out cruises for singles (even if you aren’t) or visit an all-inclusive resort. In these locations, you are likely to find other solo travelers., If you work, you can use your career to foster new and interesting relationships. In fact, you may already be involved in an organization pertaining to your industry and never thought to use it as a benchmark for creating friendships. These groups are great because, with regular meetings and events, they already have consistency built in.That means multiple opportunities to form and nurture new connections.


Networking for your job or business can serve double-duty as a friend-finding mission. Tons of people build lifelong relationships through work—so can you. If you’re not already a member of a professional organization, ask your boss or a coworker to refer one. You can go large-scale and sign up for a national organization or join a Meetup group relating to your field.
 Walking up to others and introducing yourself comes with a lot of pressure. Thankfully, if you own a dog, he or she can help. Going to your local dog park and letting your pet stretch its legs can actually help you expand your social circle. Just think, the next time your dog runs up to another pet, he or she is helping you make an introduction to a new friend.


If you walk the same route each day or visit the park on certain days, search for familiar faces. Join another pet-owner on a nearby bench and ask “Which one’s yours?” In no time, you can be sharing funny stories and exchanging phone numbers.