 After a flower has bloomed and is starting to wilt, clip it off with a sharp pair of pruning shears right above the leave set closest to it, leaving just the leaves and stem. Flowers cost the bush a lot of energy, and deadheading allows it to save this energy to make new blooms. Stop deadheading in the fall, a few weeks before frosts are forecasted, to avoid letting new shoots freeze to death.Deadheading usually starts in the early spring, with the first sets of blooms, but continues throughout the blooming season. It encourages repeat flowering.
Your goal is to let the stem, or "cane" keep developing with more leaves and flowers. Don't cut it right where it meets the bush., Dead canes are easy to spot -- they're all brown, thin, and haven't produced any buds or new leaves. Cut 2-3 inches below the dead spots to stop the spread. Spotted or mottled branches, which may be diseased, should go, too. You can trim these away throughout the season, but you definitely want to get rid of them in the beginning of winter.


Any branch thinner than a pencil's diameter should be cut away right before the bad frosts -- they won't make it through anyway.
Roses need good airflow to stay healthy, and too many leaves and branches crowding the center of the plant can lead to mold issues., This comes as the frost die down, so it can be as early as January or as late as April in colder areas. Simply cut the tops down as you like, rounding the roses into a nice, round bush.


In the roses first 1-2 years, keep this a little lighter. Only remove the top third or so of branches, as the plant is not yet established., Take a look at a cane (stalk) from your rose bush, and find the little bud of a new branch. Using sharp shears, cut diagonally above this bud or set of leaves, leaving the but completely on the stalk. This will promote growth to this new bud while chopping all the "dead weight" above it.


Outside bud means one facing away from the center of the plant. This promotes outward and upward growth, which prevents "clogging" the center of the plant.
 If you prune a lot off the top, the roses are going to grow sideways. If you prune on the edges, the plant will grow up. This is why a rounded rose bush is often the easiest way to prune roses, as all sides will grow more or less equally. But there are specific instances where this might not be desirable:


Climbers should be tied straight up, with dead growth snipped away. Keep deadheading the tops and keep tying up new major canes to promote climbing.
Groundcover roses shouldn't be snipped at the ends. Instead, follow the cane back to the source and cut it as low down as possible. Cutting the ends promotes upward, uneven shoots.
Multiple roses planted together can be treated as one plant, and cut into a hedge or large single shrub., Roses have the remarkable ability to sprout new buds out of even the oldest branches, meaning you can really hack away at it and still keep the plant alive, though a little bit slow for a year or two of blooming. This doesn't give you carte blanch to start snipping everywhere, but it should remind you to be confident and follow your gut as you cut. You won't "ruin" anything permanently if you follow the basic steps above.
 If your roses only bloom once a year, you cannot prune them using the methods discussed below. These roses are usually old, mature plants that bloom around mid-July. Once the roses bloom and the petals start to fade and fall, prune it to your shape and cut away any dead growth.


You can take off about 15" of growth every other year with once-bloom roses.