 A flute that is out of tune might be "flat" or "sharp." Knowing if your flute is flat, very flat, sharp, or very sharp will determine how you get it back into tune.


"Flat" refers to a pitch that is slightly lower than it is supposed to be. Typically, if your flute is playing flat, it is playing a half-step lower than it should (for example, when you try to play B, you are playing B flat instead). If you're "very flat," you might be a whole step lower than where you should be playing instead.
"Sharp" means that your pitch is slightly higher than it is supposed to be. If you're playing sharp, it usually means that you are a half-step higher than you should be; if you're very sharp, you might be a whole step higher.;
, When it comes to flutes, the length of the body of the instrument is what determines whether it plays a higher or lower pitch.The longer your flute, the lower its tune. As you lengthen a flute's body, you decrease its pitch. Over-lengthening a flute can cause it to play flat.The shorter your flute, the higher its tune. As you shorten a flute's body, such as a piccolo, you increase its pitch. Over-shortening a flute can cause it to play sharp., A flute is a pretty simple instrument, so tuning it is much simpler than, for example, stringed instruments like a guitar or piano. There are two ways you can tune it: by adjusting the cork located in the crown, or by lengthening the headjoint.The flute's crown is the cap located on the end of the flute nearest the mouthpiece (which is also known as the embouchure hole). The crown looks like a small metal cap, but it is actually attached to a cork that is inside the headjoint.Once you adjust it once, leave it in place. Don't tighten or loosen it again.
The headjoint is the first of three joints that holds the flute's body together. It is located nearest the embouchure hole., Different types of flutes are designed to be played at different pitches; for example, a piccolo plays a very high pitch, while a bass flute plays a low pitch.


Generally, professional flutes are meant to be played at A=442. If you are not sure what pitch your flute is meant to be played at, contact the manufacturer and ask. They can tell you the proper pitch so that you can recognize when your flute is out of pitch.Using a chromatic tuner, play a mid-range note (such as G) without looking at the tuner. Once you have the note established, glance at the tuner to be sure it is not playing flat or sharp.If it is playing flat or sharp, you need to tune your instrument.
 The cork attached to the crown is intended to be set at a particular place, exactly 17.3 millimeters away from the middle of the embouchure hole. If it's not in place, the flute will play sharp or flat. Don't worry; you don't have to measure it yourself! Your flute's cleaning rod has a handy measuring line on it to let you know that the cork is in place.


Insert the marked end of the cleaning rod into the end of the flute opposite the crown, and push it all the way through the flute until it gently touches the cork at the other end. You should be able to see a mark on the cleaning rod through the embouchure hole.
 The placement of the tick-mark on the cleaning rod when you insert in into the flute tells you whether the cork's location is responsible for your flute playing flat or sharp.


If the tick-mark on the cleaning rod is in the exact center of the embouchure hole, then your cork placement is not the problem and you do not need to adjust your crown. Skip on to the next step below titled "Tuning Your Flute By Pulling Out the Headjoint."
If your tick mark is too far to the right (that is, in the direction of the crown), your flute tube has too much internal length and is playing flat. If the tick mark is too far to the left, the cork is screwed in too far, decreasing the internal length of the flute tube and causing it to play sharp.
 If your cork is not centered, your flute needs to be tuned by adjusting the cork into the correct position. Be aware that this is a difficult and delicate procedure and if it is not done correctly, it can damage your flute. Ask your music teacher or instrument repair shop to adjust it for you if you are not absolutely sure you can do it correctly.Always measure the placement of the cork before adjusting, to be sure that you know whether you need to lengthen the flute tube or shorten it.To shorten a flute tube and fix a flute that is playing flat, turn the crown counterclockwise one half turn. Very gently push the crown toward the tube, which moves the cork away from the crown and shortens the flute tube. Only push until the crown sits against the headjoint, and do not continue pushing if you meet any resistance.To lengthen a flute tube and fix a flute that is playing sharp, turn the crown clockwise one half turn. Turning the crown clockwise moves the cork, so do not pull on the crown. Check the pitch with a tuner to ensure that you have turned the crown far enough; if you are still playing sharp, turn the crown another half turn.
 Once you have made the proper adjustments to your cork, don't mess with it. It should stay in place until it is serviced by a instrument repair person.


Twisting the crown tightens and loosens the cork unnecessarily and can damage your flute, not to mention altering its tune.,, If you are playing flat, you need to sharpen your pitch by pushing in the headjoint and shortening the flute tube.


Holding the body of the flute firmly in one hand, carefully but firmly push in the headjoint as much as necessary. You might have to use a slight twisting motion to push it in. Start by just pushing it in a bit and then check the tune before pushing it in further.
Use your chromatic tuner to check that you are now playing in the correct pitch. If you are still flat, push it in a bit more.
 If you are playing sharp, you need to flatten your pitch by pulling out your headjoint and lengthening the flute tube.


Holding the body of the flute firmly in one hand, carefully but firmly pull the headjoint out a bit. You might have to use a slight twisting motion to pull it, but don't pull too hard. Start by just pulling it out a few millimeters and then check the tune before pulling any further.
Use your chromatic tuner to check that you are now playing in the correct pitch. If you are still sharp, pull it in a bit more.

