 If you are feeling depressed and don't feel life is worth living, contact a suicide prevention helpline. Talking with someone you don't know can sometimes ease the pain and isolation you're feeling. The hotlines will be able to direct you to services in your area if there is an immediate crisis.


For immediate support that is available 24/7, contact the National Suicide Prevention Hotline for the US: 1-800-273-8255 or http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org.
For international suicide hotlines, search your country listings here: http://www.suicide.org/international-suicide-hotlines.html

If you or someone you know has recently attempted suicide and is currently in immediate danger, call 9-1-1, and request an officer trained in mental health.;
, Seeking help from a counselor, therapist, or healthcare professional in your community is key. Thoughts of suicide after a recent rejection may be tied to other mental health conditions such as depression and anxiety. Seeking professional help will likely lead to better outcomes.


Professional counselors or therapists focus on healing and can help you find ways to cope more effectively.
Ask your primary care doctor for a referral to a highly qualified specialist, such as a psychologist, psychiatrist, or counselor.
Search for a provider in your community. See if there are options for counseling through your school, an employee assistance program, or non-profit community centers.
Most health insurance plans cover mental health services in the same way that medical services are covered. See if your insurance plan has mental health providers in your community that are covered under your insurance.
 There are lots of others who are going through the same feelings as you. Support groups can help you through a divorce, relationship issues, or grief and loss. Seek information about community groups in your area that may help you to heal. You may be able to connect with support groups in these ways:


Counseling centers that have support groups
Church groups or other faith-based counseling support groups
Online resources such as http://www.mentalhealthamerica.net or http://www.divorcecare.org


, Group therapy is similar to a support group in that you join a group of people with similar experiences, but group therapy is led by a mental health professional instead of a volunteer. All members of the group gain support from each other while being guided and helped by the professional.Group therapy can give you perspective that one-on-one therapy may not. It will also give you a safe and confidential outlet for your feelings.
Group therapy often costs money, but it may be covered under your health insurance.
 Your doctor may be able to see if any medical conditions are playing a role in your suicidal thoughts. Talk with your healthcare provider about any suicidal thoughts you are having and what current medications you are taking.


You may benefit from a combination of medication and therapy in order to effectively handle your symptoms. Some symptoms are more severe than others.
Discuss with a healthcare provider and mental health specialist openly about what has been working and not working for you.
While your doctor may prescribe you medication themselves, you may also get a referral to a psychiatrist, who can give you more specialized help with medication.

