 The reason dyslexia is sometimes referred to as 'word blindness' is that they can find text-based instructions, be they handwritten or otherwise, difficult to comprehend. Therefore, the employee may prefer instructions to be given verbally, face-to-face, or by telephone.;
,


If using a PC to provide written communications to a dyslexic, such as by email or a text produced by Microsoft Word, keep things simple. Avoid writing in BLOCK CAPITALS, italics, and underlining, as these disrupt the shape of words. Use bold for emphasis instead.
Take care as to the font you use. Verdana and Tahoma are acceptable, as is any font which uses rounded, evenly-spaced lettering that is distinctive and easy to tell apart. A simple test is by checking how the word 'ill' appears if you use a capital 'I' - if it looks like the number between 110 and 112, perhaps try a different font! , Some of these, such as Open Dyslexic, are open-sourced and free to download. , As long as you write evenly and remember to dot the i's and cross the t's, your employee should be able to understand your writing. The shape of each letter is important to a dyslexic, so ensure a letter with a tail, such as 'g' or 'y' gets its tail!

,


As well as encountering problems with reading, writing can also cause a dyslexic trouble. Gel pens, which leave a thicker text than ordinary biro pens, can help, as can pen grips, which allow the employee greater control over their writing.
The traditional black text on white paper style of writing is problematic, as the whiteness can dazzle a dyslexic and overwhelm the text. Softer tones, such as yellow, pink or light blue, are preferable, so order a supply of paper in these colours. If white paper must be used, then matte is a better option than gloss. If using a computer, try to provide some form of tinted screen, or word processor software that gives other background options than white.
 This device converts speech into text via a microphone plugged into a PC. This is particularly useful if the employee is in a role which involves letter-writing.
 A dyslexic employee may have difficulties in structuring a task, especially if a number of different tasks are expected of the employee.
, Keeping your work area tidy seems easy enough to many people, but this can be beyond the reach of a dyslexic employee, for who arranging things in order can be a struggle.
 An assistant, in the form an existing employee, can make things easier in a number of ways. These can range from ensuring a folder of notes is in correct alphabetical order or making sure a fax is sent correctly, to tidying a store cupboard or putting together a pack to be issued to a client.
