 Want to see and do as much as possible? With innumerable landscapes, historic cities, and several global cultural epicenters all within a short distance of one another, Western Europe offers an unrivaled destination. Paris, London, Rome, and Barcelona, for instance are some of the most visited cities in the world. Though a good bit of traveling will required to visit multiple cities, there are accessible, safe, and comfortable ways to get all over the region.The costs of traveling will inevitably be much higher than most other options. However, the comfort and ease of travel in the region is also especially high.
 Australia offers coasts and coral reefs to an extent that do not exist elsewhere. Australian people are especially welcoming to travelers, as many Australians enjoy traveling themselves. Further, many of the destination cities are closer together than you may think - they’re all in the South/Southeast part of the country.Hostels are especially active and vibrant in Australia - but may also be frequented with a group of rowdy, alcohol-fueled youths during your stay.
An especially favorable destination for solo travelers is Melbourne, as the city is entirely navigable by foot or bicycle.
 Another especially safe and comfortable place to visit is Hong Kong. While is one of the largest cities in the world, it also offers ample opportunity to relaxation.Hong Kong is also a place where Eastern and Western cultures have become deeply interwoven. As indicative of this relationship, this is one of the few cities in China were many of the locals speak English.
 Believe it or not, 1 of 5 people that go to Alaska do so on their own. And for good reason: with breathtaking natural beauty, some of the most wild terrain you can get to, and wildlife unlike anywhere else in the world, there is plenty to contemplate for a lover of the outdoors.Seasonal conditions vary dramatically in Alaska. You likely want to plan a trip sometime between mid-June and mid-August, especially if you're hoping to enjoy the outdoors as much as possible. It's not just the relative warmth that makes this season ideal - June and July are also the months when Alaska receives the most sunlight.If you plan to camp, especially on your own, make sure you are thoroughly prepared to do so. Alaska truly is one of the last wilderness frontiers on this planet - the freedom it offers a lone traveler must be met with a full awareness of the important of safety in the wild.

