 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has the Star Wars logo on it with some cards in the background. Tap on it to access the fan feed.
 The easiest way to find a trading partner is to look at the current fan feeds. These are the posts made by the players or traders, and they get updated in real-time. This means you can find an active trader by reading the posts here.


To access the Fan Feed, tap the Stormtroopers icon on the bottom toolbar. Scroll through the feeds and find a trading partner.
 All the Fan Feeds are headlined by the trader’s codename. The trader’s ratings are indicated right below it. You can use this as a gauge to check if the trader is reliable or not. Tap on the trader’s codename to begin trading with him.
 A menu will appear after selecting a trader. Tap “Offer Trade” from here, and the trading screen will appear.
 On the trading screen, your partner’s cards will be displayed first. Swipe up and down on them to see his cards.
 The topmost panel is where you put the cards you want to get. Swipe up and down on your partner’s cards to view them, and find the cards you want to get. Put the cards you want to get at the topmost panel by dragging them there or by just double-tapping on them.


You can select a maximum of nine cards per trade. Tap the “Next” button at the top right corner of the screen.
 The next trading screen will appear with your cards now displayed. Swipe up and down on your cards to view all of them, and find the cards you want to give. Tap, hold, and drag the cards you want to give to the panel at the top. You can also double-tap on them.


You can select a maximum of nine cards per trade.
Tap the “Next” button at the top right corner of the screen to proceed.
 A summary screen of your trade will be displayed for your review. Carefully check if this is the trade you want to offer. The partner’s codename is on the top left corner, the cards you’re getting are on the left box, and the cards you’re giving are on the right box. Double-check and make sure the correct cards are being traded, because once you’ve sent the trade offer and your partner has accepted it right away, you will not be able to recover the cards.
 Tap the “Send” button at the bottom to proceed with the trade. The trade will be sent to your partner. It’s now up to him to decide if he likes your offer. If he accepts, the cards you’re getting will be added to your card decks and the cards you’ve offered will be moved to his.