 Once you are satisfied with your ability to run long distances at a comfortable pace without getting tired, focus on increasing your speed. Start with your easy runs. Run a shorter distance at a slightly faster speed than normal.For example, if your easy run is 30 minutes, run for 20 minutes at a quicker pace. If you have built up enough endurance, you should still be able to have a slightly breathy conversation while doing so.


As you adjust to jogging faster on your easy runs, increase your easy runs back to their original length. Move on to running shorter medium runs at a quicker pace. Once you have mastered that, slowly increase your medium runs until they reach their original length.
Once your faster pace becomes your new “normal” pace, repeat the process to add more speed with an even quicker pace.
 Let’s say five minutes. Be sure to set the timer on repeat so it continues to count down five minutes again and again. Start off at your normal pace for the first five minutes. When the timer goes off, increase your speed to a pace that you can run consistently for the next five minutes. When the timer goes off again, drop back to your normal pace. Repeat for the duration of your run.


Over time, as five-minute intervals become less challenging, increase each interval by another five minutes.
 Find a low, steep hill. Or, if you live in a particularly mountainous area where there is no such thing as a “low” hill, mark a distance up the gradient to sprint for eight to twelve seconds. Sprint up the hill as fast as you can, walk or jog back down, and repeat. Exercise as many leg muscles as possible, all at once.Gradually increase the number of reps from workout to workout as each one becomes easier.
 Sprint at full-speed on a 100-meter straightaway.As always, start small. Do only a few reps at first, with a focus on form. As you become able to maintain maximum speed from start to finish in every rep, increase the number of reps.


Also gradually increase the distance. Do 200-meter sprints, then 300, then 400. Each time you increase the distance, decrease your speed so you can grow accustomed to the longer distance, then gradually increase your pace, with the aim of sprinting at a consistent pace from beginning to end.
Try combining various distances into your reps. For example, sprint for 400 meters, then jog for 100. After that 100-meter jog, sprint for 300, then jog for another 100. Sprint for 200 after that, then jog one 400-meter lap around the track to recuperate before repeating the rep.

