 Most devices purchased since the mid-2000s usually support Wi-Fi.


Your Wi-Fi enabled devices are not limited to laptop computers and smart phones. Television sets, video streaming devices, like a Roku, iPads and gaming devices can all be set up on a Wi-Fi Local Area Network (LAN).;
, These monthly services can cost anywhere from $30 to $100 per month, and they allow you to set up a Wi-Fi connection, in addition to any computer cables you may use to connect to the Internet.


Make sure the Internet Service Provider (ISP) installs your Internet modem before you attempt to connect a Wi-Fi network. You will need to connect the modem to the wireless router.
 You can buy a router on the Internet, in technology stores like Best Buy or at most box stores, like Target or Walmart.



Buy a 802.11N wireless router, if you have average Internet usage and fairly fast broadband. This type can use 2.4 gigahertz or 5 gigahertz connections.
Buy a 802.11B or 802.11G router if you know your Internet connection is only 2.4 gigahertz and you have no desire to upgrade to a faster connection in the future.
Consider buying a 802.11ac wireless router if you spend a lot of time on the Internet and are always looking for a much faster connection.
 If your desktop or laptop is older than 2006, you may need to install a card or purchase a USB adapter.
 This is the small device that they installed to connect your home with Internet service.


Only disconnect the power. Do not disconnect the Internet cable from the wall.
 Make sure you have room for it near your modem. A light should glow when the power is on.
 This is the cable that can be inserted into most computers to connect to the Internet. It will click into place when properly inserted.


If you had previously used an Ethernet cable to connect your modem to a desktop computer, you will need to remove it and plug it into the wireless router instead. You can use your wireless adapter to connect to the Wi-Fi connection.
If you were using a router to connect to the Internet, your wireless router can replace it.
 Wait a few minutes while it starts up.
 It should come with a URL that you can type in to set up and configure your wireless connection.
 Type in the URL from the manual.


You should use the computer that you plan to use as the main computer in your wireless network. For instance, you may choose your desktop over a small laptop because you will have more regular access to it.
 You will need to choose a name for your connection, called an SSID, that is unique.
 This will ensure that only people in your household can access your network and connection.
,,, Type in the password. You should be connected.
