 There is a wide variety of espresso drinks available in any good coffee shops or cafès. This can make the choosing difficult but try to see this on the bright side. You can either remain in the same coffee shop for hours or you have a good excuse to return regularly. And even after you've tried out all of the espresso styles and have chosen your own favorite, don't limit yourself to just the favorite. Changes of barista, sourcing of the coffee and even new inventions of espresso styles should keep you curious to keep trying out other styles from time to time.
 Espresso styles have distinct measurement amounts that baristas use to come up with the final product. Excitingly for the intrepid barista or coffee drinker, if you're aiming to serve or drink coffee from country to country, you need to be aware that these measurements change because coffee styles differ from country to country. For example, in England a latte is a single shot of espresso with approximately 200mls of milk, having a very thin layer of froth. On the other hand, in New Zealand, this drink is a double shot with approximately 100mls (or so) of milk and a top layer of froth that is just under an inch (2.5cm) thick, also typically served in either a latte bowl or a pre-heated glass. Here are some of the more common espresso styles (the basic measurements provided are New Zealand in origin, adjust according to your own country's preferences):


Ristretto: 70ml demitasse, 30ml double shot
Flat white: 150ml cup, 40ml double shot, 110ml lightly textured hot milk
Short black/ espresso: 70ml demitasse, 50ml double shot
Caffe latte: 220ml glass or cup, 40ml double shot, 180ml lightly textured hot milk
Long black: 150ml cup, 90ml hot water, 50ml double shot
Cappuccino: 190ml cup, 30ml double shot, 170ml textured hot milk
Macchiato: 70ml demitasse, 50ml double shot, a touch of textured hot milk
Mochaccino or cafè mocha: 300ml cup, 50ml double shot, chocolate powder or syrup, 250ml lightly textured hot milk
Bongo/piccolo latte: 100ml glass, 30ml double shot, 70ml lightly textured hot milk
Affogato: 300ml cup, scoop of ice cream (vanilla) and 50ml double shot.

Note that the "milk" can be of dairy, legume, nut or other origin. If substituting other types of milk for dairy milk, you'll need to know the different heating and other properties of the milk being used. Do some reading up beforehand or expect trial and error to teach you as you go.



