 Sign language comes in a variety of forms. Many people know the tactile finger-spelling signs, as well as some basic adapted American Sign Language. For people who do not know either, it is possible to use the POP, or Print On Palm, method, by using your index finger to trace the letters on a blind and deaf person's palm.



Memorize the finger-spelling hand signs.
Take an ASL (American Sign Language) class.
Consider learning finger braille, a modern, Japanese way of signing with your fingers.
 Tadoma is a method of communicating with the blind and deaf whereby their hands are placed on the lips of the speaker. The person with dual-sensory loss feels out the shape of the words as you say them. This is similar to lip reading. Not all people who are deaf-blind can use tadoma, and not everyone will be comfortable with another person placing a hand on their mouth., Studies show that waiting five, ten, and fifteen seconds all were measurably more useful in communication with the deaf-blind. A zero to one second wait before prompting for a response is too short., There are devices called braillers that allow you to type out a message for a blind person to read. Sometimes these can be very expensive, and you might think of also getting a (cheaper) braille label printer. Companies are even developing braille technology for smartphones.
 If your deaf-blind loved one doesn't use any of these methods, be sensitive to their needs and persist with what works for them.


Spend time with your loved one so that you can pick up even a subtle change to their demeanour, behaviour and communication patterns.
Enthusiastically and overtly encourage any and every small communication success they have with them. Rome wasn't built in a day.
Talk to their teachers or other people who spend time with them. If they're in education (of any shape or form) then there ought to be goals for the individual - or at least specific lessons. If they're not in education, you could seek it, or seek an expert. Alternatively, you could come up with some simple things yourself.
Try accompanying one specific command with a sign if you think they might be able to see you. Repeat the sign every time you ask that of them, until they can anticipate what you will be doing with them from the sign.
Maintain a healthy routine which enriches their life, because at the end of the day, your loved one's happiness is more important than any amount of communication.

