 Now is not the time to take on any major new responsibilities or to expect perfection from yourself. Accept that grieving is a hard process, and make your mental and emotional health your top priority right now.Don’t try to put a time limit on your grieving. Some people get over grief in a matter of months, while others need years to recover.
Try to reduce stress in your life wherever possible.
 Familiarize yourself with the five stages of grief, and read books and articles about the different ways people deal with their grief. When you understand where your emotional reactions are coming from, you’ll feel a little more in control of your mind and feelings.The five stages of grief include: denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. However, they may not go in that order for you.
One of the most important things to understand about grief is that the healing process is a little different for everyone. Your experience may not match other people’s.
 Continue to have meals, exercise, and go to work at the same times every day. At first, you might feel like you’re just going through the motions, but maintaining your schedule will help you keep your mood stable over time.This sense stability is important your long-term health and well-being., Try to sleep for seven to nine hours every night. Get up and go to bed at the same time every day, even on the weekends.If you have insomnia or are sleeping more than usual, tell your doctor right away. This could be an early sign of a mood episode.
 Continue to exercise and eat healthy foods, even if that’s the last thing you feel like doing. Take all of your prescribed medication every day. Avoid drinking alcohol or consuming caffeine, since these substances can easily affect your mood.If you have urges to use alcohol or drugs to cope with your grief, talk to your therapist about some healthier ways to manage your feelings.
 A religious or spiritual practice can give you comfort and strength as you weather your grief. Consider attending services regularly, if you don’t already. You may also find it helpful to talk about your loss with a member of clergy.If you are not religious, consider starting a meditation practice. Regular meditation can improve your spiritual well-being and give you a sense of peace. You can find meditation groups in your area, or you can do it alone.

