 To complete this form, you will need some information about yourself.You will need both background information (your name, gender, and preferred language) and contact information (your nation, phone number, and address). Don’t forget to include the best time for the Jehovah’s Witnesses to contact you. Click the “Please Contact Me” button when you’re finished filling out the requisite info.


The form is available at https://www.jw.org/en/jehovahs-witnesses/free-bible-study/.;
, You can choose when, where, and how often you attend the Bible study. For instance, if you have a few specific questions, you could choose to study the Bible with a member of the Jehovah’s Witnesses for just one hour, one time. You could choose to converse with your Bible study mentor over the phone or online, as well as in person.Think about your needs and interests in order to choose the best time for the Bible study, and let them know what you’re interested in reading.


You are not obligated to become a Jehovah Witness if you opt to engage in a free Bible study.
 When you’ve pre-read the passages you will be discussing during the Bible study, you’ll get more out of the experience. Attend the Bible study with specific questions in mind so that your Bible study is fruitful and engaging for you and your mentor.Before your study session begins, you will be given a Bible and a Bible study publication. Look them over before the study session begins.
While a Bible study might sound intimidating, don't worry -- there won't be any tests or exams at the end. Think of the Bible study as a conversation about the material you and your mentor read and talk about together.
 During the Bible study, you will be able to learn about the Bible.Your study mentor will offer explanations about Biblical stories and phenomena in accord with the teachings of the Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses. You can request additional study guides during the study session as well if you have more questions or want to delve more deeply into the Bible.


If you enjoyed the session, don’t be afraid to request another.

