 Before you apply for a Best Buy credit card, you should know in advance that you need to be at least 18 years of age in the United States (at least 21 years of age in Puerto Rico). You must also have a Social Security Number and a driver's license or government-issued photo ID.


You must also have at least a 128-bit security encrypted enabled browser and a printer or storage drive to view and keep a copy of the Best Buy terms and conditions, disclosures, and privacy notice. If you do not have access to a printer or storage device, you can request a hard copy of the disclosures and privacy policy by writing to Credit Program, P.O. Box 6403 Sioux Falls, SD 57117-6403.
Please note that meeting these minimum qualifications does not guarantee that your application will be approved. It simply means that you are able to move forward and begin the application process.;
, The first step to applying for a store credit card is to go to BestBuy.com and create a Best Buy account. If you've already created a BestBuy.com account, you can simply sign in through the store's website.If this is your first time creating an account, you'll need to include personal information to create the account and determine your eligibility, including:


first and last name
email address
phone number
the password of your choosing
My Best Buy member ID (if you already have one)

, Once you've created an account through the Best Buy website, you can proceed to the application. You will be redirected to the form through Citigroup Inc., or you can navigate to the application by going to BestBuy.com, clicking the "credit cards" tab at the top of the page, and selecting "apply now."The form will ask you for personal, financial, and security information, including:


your email address
your full name
your home address (no P.O. boxes permitted)
your phone number
your annual income
your monthly mortgage or rent payments
your date of birth
your social security number
your driver's license or government-issued photo ID number
the expiration date of your photo ID

, Once you've completed the application, you will either be approved or denied. If you are approved, then you will be asked to choose which type of card you want: the My Best Buy credit card (store card), or the My Best Buy Visa card.Both cards offer the same in-store rewards and promotional financing offers. The Best Buy Visa Card offers additional rewards on other everyday purchases outside of Best Buy.
 Once you've finalized your application and chosen your desired card, you'll need to agree to the Best Buy interest rates, charges, and fees. The Annual Percentage Rate (APR) on purchases will vary somewhat depending on the current market rate, but will generally be around 25.49%. Interest charges are a minimum of $2, though they may be much higher.Interest is applied whenever payments are overdue. The due date for payments is at least 25 days after each billing cycle ends.
Late fees and fees for returned payments can be up to $37.
 If your application is approved, your card will be sent through the mail. It should arrive within 7 to 14 days of your application's approval.


Approval online is fairly quick. You should know within a minute whether or not you've been approved.

