 To get this look at home, you'll need three separate boxes of hair dye: a dark shade, a medium shade, and a light shade.


The dark dye should be one to two shades lighter than your natural hair color. It will be used to color your roots.
The medium dye should be two shades lighter than the dark dye. You'll use it to create an ombre effect on the tips/ends of your hair.
The light dye should be at least two shades lighter than the medium dye. In many cases, hair bleach is an acceptable choice. This shade will be used to add the trademark highlights of the balayage style.
 Most hair kits will come with a developer. If you need to purchase one separately, however, opt for a 20-percent concentration.


Avoid developers with 30-percent through 50-percent concentrations. These are professional level developers and, if applied improperly, can cause major damage to your hair.
 Part your hair down the center and tie it back into two even pigtails at the sides of your head.


Tie the pigtails off just below your ears.
You'll dye the hair beneath the ties during this part of the process, but the hair above the hair tie will be left untouched.;
, Gently tug on the hair above the ties to loosen some of the strands. Continue as desired to create messier pigtails.


If you dye neat, even pigtails, you'll end up with a visible line between the dark and light sections of your hair. Messing up your pigtails before dyeing them will help prevent this, creating a more natural look as a result.
You should also completely pull out a small, 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) thick section from the front of each pigtail. These two sections should frame your face.
 Mix the hair dye with the developer according to the instructions on your box of hair dye.


The process can vary depending on which product you use, so you must read and follow the package instructions.
Usually, you will need to mix equal parts dye and developer in a disposable plastic bowl. Mix the dye using a dye brush until the two are evenly blended.
 Thoroughly lather the medium dye into the loose hair using gloved hands.You need to apply the dye to all of the loose hair hanging from the ends of your pigtails.
Also apply dye to the two sections of hair framing your face. Start at the bridge of your nose and paint these sections down to the very tips.
 Leave the dye in your hair for the manufacturer's recommended amount of time, then rinse it out with lukewarm water.


The exact amount of time can vary depending on the dye you use, but you should expect to wait roughly 45 minutes.
After you rinse the dye away, you should give your hair a rest by waiting a few more days before continuing with the next part of the process.
 Use a comb to section off the bottom layer of hair. Tie the remaining sections into a top knot to keep them out of the way.


During this part of the process, you will dye the remaining portions of your natural hair color to make the transition into your medium color look more natural.
If the transition between your medium dye and natural color already looks fairly natural, you can skip this section completely and begin the final part of the process.
 Using a clean dye brush, mix the dark hair dye and developer in a disposable plastic bowl until evenly blended.


Follow the instructions on the back of the dye box carefully.
While the exact instructions may vary from dye to dye, you will usually need to mix equal parts dye and developer.
 Dip the dye brush into the dark dye and carefully apply the dye to the dark roots of your hair.


Only apply dye to the bottom section of hair still hanging down.
Paint from the natural root to the start of your medium hair color. You can overlap onto the medium dye slightly, but you should not cover it by much.
 Carefully undo the top knot and release another layer of hair.


Tie up the remaining upper layers in another top knot again.
 As before, paint the naturally colored roots of this section with your prepared dark dye.


Paint from the roots down to the lightened portion of hair.
Make sure that you apply dye to the roots around your face, as well.
 Continue to release and dye the layers of your hair in the same manner, applying the dark dye only to the naturally colored roots of each layer.


Repeat this pattern until you reach the top middle portion of your hair.
When finished, the hair along your scalp should be completely saturated with dye, but the previously dyed eyes should all remain dry.
 Let the dye remain in your hair for the manufacturer's recommended amount of time. Rinse it out with lukewarm water when ready.


Expect to wait for about 45 minutes. This amount of time can vary depending on the dye used, however.
Once the dye has been rinsed out, you should wait a few more days before continuing on to the final part of the process. Doing so will give your hair a chance to rest and minimize the risk of damage.
 Part your hair down the center, then separate each side into four or five sections.Use a comb to evenly separate the hair from your forehead to the nape of your neck.
The number of sections may vary depending on the thickness of your hair, but each section should be about 2 inches (5 cm) wide. Keep the sections separate by tying each one into a small ponytail.
 Remove the hair tie from the top ponytail on one side of your head. Gently tease some of the hair out of this section using the tail end of your comb or dye brush.


The easiest way to do this is by weaving the tail through the section of hair in a zigzag motion.

If you cannot zigzag through the hair, twist the section and gently tease some of the hair out of the twist by brushing upwards with the teeth of the comb., After teasing the first section, you should be left with two distinct portions of hair. One will by dyed and the other will be left alone.


Tie the top section into a small bun or knot at the back of your head. That section will be left alone.
Tie the loose hair into another small ponytail toward the front of your head. Keep the tie high and fairly close to your scalp. This section will be highlighted with your light dye.
 Separate each of the remaining ponytails into two sections following the same procedure used for the first ponytail.


Leave the bottom ponytail on either side of your head alone. These two ponytails are the only ones you should not twist apart and separate.
When finished, you should have six to eight buns at the back of your head, depending on how many sections you originally started with. These buns will all be left alone.

You should also have eight to ten ponytails hanging down toward the front of your head, depending on how many sections you started with. These ponytails will all be dyed again during this part of the process.
 Following the package instructions, mix the light hair dye and developer.


The instructions will vary depending on the dye you use, but generally, you will need to mix equal parts dye and developer until evenly blended. Use a clean dye brush to mix the dye in a disposable plastic bowl.
 Use gloved hands to work the dye into each ponytail. Thoroughly coat all of the loose ends hanging from each hair tie.


For less dramatic highlights, consider applying the dye to the bottom two-thirds of each ponytail only.
Do not apply dye to any of the hair separated into buns. The buns should remain completely dry and untouched during this part of the process.
 Allow the dye to sit for approximately 45 minutes, then rinse it out with lukewarm water.


Follow the manufacturer's recommended amount of time. This may or may not be 45 minutes.
After rinsing the dye away, wash your hair with dye-safe shampoo and apply dye-safe conditioner. Dry your hair as usual.
 At this point, the entire process should be complete and the results should be ready to show off.

