 Bend the cord into a loop with its bight (the U-shape) at roughly its midpoint.


The diamond knot is sometimes called a lanyard knot.Use a cord that is roughly twice the length of the lanyard you plan to make.
In general, the best type of cord for making this type of lanyard is a specific kind of nylon rope called paracord. Paracord is both incredibly strong and highly durable while also very light and soft against the skin.;
, Take the left end of the cord and slide it back around under itself using a circular motion. The loop you form should be much closer to the left end of the rope compared to the right. Make sure to keep the cord flat against your work surface., This is the first step to join the two ends into a carrick bend. A carrick bend is a particular type of knot that is both practical and decorative., The left half of the new bight should be draped over the portion of cord to the left of the first loop., Keep in mind that before you do this step the right tip will also be the right half of the second bight.


At this point, both end tips should be facing the same direction. What was originally the right end will now be to the left of the original left end., Bring the right tip of the cord end down so that it crosses overtop both sides of the first loop while sliding under the segment in the middle. Tug on the original right tip to pull it through.
 Bring the original right end up and around with a clockwise motion. Slide the right tip underneath the top half of the knot. Pull the original right end up through the center and then across to the right.


The knot should remain slack at this point., Bring the original left end around across the right side of the first bight. Slide the tip underneath the left half of the knot. Thread the original left end back up through the center of the knot and across to right half.


The right and left ends should now be parallel to each other., Pull both tips of the cord with one hand while holding the remainder of the first bight in place with the other. This should tighten the cord into a secure knot.


Use the free ends to attach the lanyard to your item of choice. This style of lanyard is typically used to hold a knife.