 Updating the operating system, programs, and apps can significantly improve the speed of your laptop. To check for updates:


Swipe from the right side of the screen towards the center and select “Settings”.
Click “Change PC settings” and select “Update and recovery”.
Choose “Check now”. Windows will search for available updates.
Click “Install Updates”, accept the terms, and click “Finish”., When you start your computer, a few programs and applications launch automatically. If the laptop has to launch too many programs and apps at once, it will be slow to boot up. You can improve your laptop’s startup performance by disabling programs and apps that are set to open automatically.


Click “Start” then select “Task Manager”.Open the “Startup” tab.
Select a program you want to disable.
Click “Disable”., When there are too many programs running in the background, your laptop’s ability to execute simple tasks is greatly reduced. Closing these programs with the Task Manager will improve the speed of your laptop.


Right-click on the desktop taskbar and select “Task Manager” from the pop-up menu.
Click on the “Processes” tab to view the results.
Select tasks that are using a lot of your computer’s resources (these are highlighted) and/or tasks that are running in the background (found under “Background Processes). Only select programs that you are familiar with.
Click “End Task”., As you use and move files around, the files stored on your hard drive become fragmented—instead of storing all of a file’s components together, the parts are stored in noncontiguous clusters. As a result, it can take your laptop a while to open a fragmented file. While your hard drive is automatically defragmented on a set schedule, you can also manually defragment your hard drive.Click the Start button and type “Defragment” in the search box.
Select “Disk Defragmenter” from the results.
Select a drive and click “Analyze disk”.
Click “Defragment disk”., Windows’ Disk Cleaner tool allows users to easily find and remove unnecessary files, programs, and apps from their disks. Removing these files with the built-in Disk Cleanup tool will free up more memory, allowing your computer to run faster.


Swipe from the right of your screen towards the center and select “Settings”.
Click “Control Panel” and select “Administrative Tools”.
Double-click “Disk Cleanup”, then select the drive you want to clean and click “Ok”.
Check the boxes next to the types of files you would like to remove and click “Ok”.
Select “Delete Files”., Windows 8 comes with several animations that are enabled by default. Disabling these animations can improve the speed of your laptop.


Click the Start button and type “Control Panel” in the search bar. Press ↵ Enter.
Select “Apps” then click “Ease of Access”, followed by “Ease of Access Center”.
Select “Make the computer easier to see”.
Check the box next to “Turn off all unnecessary animations” and click “Apply”.