 Remember that safety should be your top concern and that many commercial toys can fall apart and leave small pieces behind that your pig could choke on. You'll need to experiment to decide which toys your guinea pig likes, as they don't always enjoy the same thing. A good rule of thumb is that the simpler the toy, the better.Make sure to only add large toys into the cage that cannot be swallowed by your guinea pig to ensure that there are no choking hazards.
Wooden blocks or dowels are good choices because guinea pigs like to and should chew on things. This is because guinea pigs' teeth never stop growing, and chew toys can help gnaw the teeth down to comfortable length. Make sure with any wooden toys you purchase that the wood is untreated and unpainted.A good toy to include is a tunnel (or even more than one). Guinea pigs love running through and sleeping in tunnels in their cage. You could purchase a tube or tunnel at a major pet store, but you can also make one really easily at home using an empty Quaker Oats container. Be sure to remove the plastic and metal lips from both ends and all labels.
 Do not give your guinea pig exercise balls or wheels. These toys can cause crippling injuries to guinea pigs' feet, back, and toes. Stick to the toy options listed above.
 Guinea pigs can be very shy and they love to hide under things and get a little privacy. Hidey houses and tunnels also make them feel safe, secure, and comforted. Again, these are things that you can either purchase at any main pet supply retailer or make inexpensively at home.As a general rule, a guinea pig should have at least one wooden structure in their cage, whether that be a wooden little house or a tunnel. Wooden structures give the guinea pig something to chew on, which help ground down his teeth and keep the them safe.
If you have more than one pig, you should have one extra house beyond the number of pigs in the cage. For instance, if you have 3 pigs, you'll want to have 4 hidey houses. Having one seemingly "neutral" house not designated for any particular guinea pig helps maintain peace in the group.To make a little DIY-house where your pig can hide, use an old, plain (i.e., no dyes) shoebox. Your pig will love the little house and it's totally safe for chewing. You could also use paper bags that you lay on their sides to create a kind of cave for your guinea pig. To make it extra fun, you could also stuff some hay in the bag - toy and hay all-in-one! You can also make towel tents for your pig to hide under. Cut up or fold old bath towels (make sure to remove any tags or loose threads) and drape over a corner of the cage. You can loop the towel through the wires of the cage or use pins or other clips to secure the towels in place. This is a great alternative for a hiding spot because you can wash and reuse the "tent" as needed., Even if you have a large cage, and especially if you don't, give your guinea pig some floor time each day. Give him some additional exercise by letting him run around a small room or other enclosed space; this should be part of your pig's daily routine to help keep him happy and healthy.Make sure to only let your guinea pig out in rooms that have no small openings through which the guinea pig could escape or become lost. In addition, make sure to avoid areas where there is furniture or appliances that your guinea pig could get stuck in, such as in sofas, behind ovens or refrigerators, etc.You'll also need to keep a close eye on your pig because guinea pigs will chew on anything they can, including dangerous items like electrical wires and cords. Make sure any wires are not just unplugged but are totally inaccessible to your pig when he is let out of the cage.Do not let your guinea pig outside, where he could become easily lost or considered as prey by larger animals.