 Find a good therapist you like. A therapist who is experienced in survivor counseling is best. When you find a therapist you like, you can discuss a timeline and a method of treatment. You may want to go to your therapist indefinitely, or you may feel best going for a few months only.If you are in the United States, you can locate a specialist using the APA locator: http://locator.apa.org/

Talk to your therapist on the phone, or ask for a preliminary session to see if you feel comfortable with them.
 Get the people in your life to support you during this difficult time. Talking to people you love about what happened is an important part of emotional recovery. Choose to confide in people who take what you say seriously—if someone tries to blow off what you say, talk to somebody else.Look to serious-minded, caring friends, or friends who have experience in helping others recover.
Put your trust in your close friends and family. After trauma, it can be hard to trust other people, but doing so will help you recover.
If your loved ones react badly at first, take some space and find other help. Give them a chance to educate themselves instead of giving up on them permanently—they may come to understand the situation better later, and regret their initial response.
 If your family and friends are having trouble processing what happened to you, refer them to useful sources, like RAINN's How to Respond to a Survivor: https://www.rainn.org/articles/how-respond-survivor


Ask them to read up on ways to help you through this time.
It may help your loved ones to learn some basic facts about rape: https://www.rainn.org/statistics

Tell them what you need from them, and explain why you need it. You might say: "I appreciate your concern, but I need you to not bring up what happened out of nowhere. I want to talk to you about it, but I can only do that when I feel ready. If I bring it up, we can talk, ok?"

, You should not be forced to spend time with the perpetrator. If you are in communication with them, tell them to leave you completely alone and not to contact you at all. In the majority of cases, they will be someone you know. If they are a family member, friend, classmate, community member, or coworker, you may need to ask others for help in keeping your distance.


If you feel capable, report the assault to the police. You may wish to get a restraining order to keep the perpetrator far from you.
Report assault by a classmate to your college, and tell your friends and your Residential Life counselor.
Report assault by a coworker to your supervisor and to HR, and ask to either work from home or have the perpetrator work from home while the situation is investigated.
If you live with the perpetrator, try to get them out of the house. If you can't get them out, find a place to stay while you continue to get them out.
Talk to leaders and other members of your community about assault that occurs within the community. Ask them to keep the perpetrator out. You shouldn't have to avoid events due to someone else's violence.

