 For learning quickly about Hinduism you may visit religious websites available in the internet or you can discuss with religious persons who knows better about this religion. When you will learn about Hinduism and feel proud as a Hindu then you will feel from heart that you should perform some religious activities.;
, You can start from Gita, then gradually you can read Vedas and Puranas. Try to understand the meaning of the verses and try to apply them in your life. Study of religious books will increase your spiritual knowledge.
 In Hinduism Brahma is the creator, Vishnu is the maintainer or preserver and Shiva is the destroyer or transformer. All the deities are different forms of one God. After knowing about God, decide on which form of God you want to worship.
 Try to know why God has created us and what is the relationship between us. This is not an easy question but you will understand if you read religious books correctly. You may need an instructor who will guide you to fully understand everything from religious books. If you correctly understand the relation between God and us then you will be motivated to perform daily religious activity for your spiritual welfare.
 It is better to start the prayer from the morning. Following traditional activities you can get up from bed before sun rise and after taking a bath you can pray to God. You can perform Puja (worship), Bhajan (singing) or Seva (service) . You can read books and consult with religious activists to select which kind of daily religious activities are best for you.
 We are always busy. But, we still need to find some time for God, because he is the One who has created us, who takes care of us and who is our ultimate aim. Try to pray to God after get up from bed at morning and before going to bed for a sleep.
 Hinduism does not support killing of animals to eat them. If you become a vegetarian, that will be one big advancement for you. Becoming a vegetarian is not only good for your spiritual development but also good for your health.
 If possible, visit a temple near your home daily. Otherwise, you should at least visit your favourite temple once a week. The temples have a good spiritual environment. You will feel better if you spend some time in temple regularly.
 In Hindu religion and spirituality, pilgrimage has great significance. So, you should visit pilgrimage sites whenever you have some free time to travel.
 Throughout the years Hindu community celebrates the worship of different deities. Try to attend those programmes.
 Always try to discuss different aspects and activities of Hinduism if you are near to any Hindu religious person. Try to get advice from him.

