 Unless you are a receptionist working part time, you will need your high school equivalency in order to apply for a certificate or degree program.;
, If you do not want to undergo training for a type of body care, you can apply for a receptionist or support staff position in a spa or luxury hotel. The following are types of spa careers that you can choose:


Massage therapists work independently and they are hired by spas. Most states now require that you get a certificate or associate's degree in massage therapy in order to get a massage business license. These are widely available at community colleges and vocational schools. Some sources suggest that masseuses that are hired at spas receive better tips than those who work independently.
Attend cosmetology school. These programs train people to work with hair and makeup. Look for a school with a high placement of graduates in your locale.
Train as an esthetician. Although often similar to cosmetology programs, estheticians learn about skin care. You should choose a program that includes facials, waxing/threading, makeup, light therapy and sanitation, in order to ensure you get training that will be applicable to a spa environment.
Learn to be a nail technician or manicurist. Apply for certification program, so that you can train in how to care for nails, diagnose problems with nails and learn sanitation procedures. Although not all state boards require that you earn a degree or certificate, most spas prefer that you do.
Earn a degree in business administration if you want to be a spa manager. You will need to learn how to manage schedules, control a budget, deliver customer service and choose marketing initiatives. Most spas will look for people with a bachelor's in business administration, with larger spas expecting a master's degree in business.
Earn an associate's degree as a personal trainer. Spas are likely to hire fitness instructors who have completed a good degree program and have experience teaching classes. Not all spas hire fitness instructors, but they are more common at club and destination spas.
 Search online for your state licensing board to see if you are required to take an exam to practice in the state. Many licenses require you to take a test and undergo a practical exam.
 While you are looking to join a spa, you may want to get a job working in a hair salon, nail salon or waxing business. Focus on gaining work experience with a luxury market, because it will translate well into the spa industry.
 There is a reason that some people choose to start their own massage business, instead of working for a company. You should examine the reasons and choose your path accordingly.


A major disadvantage with working at a spa is a lack of flexibility in your schedule. Most spas get the most business during evenings and weekends. You may also be surprised by the pay rate that you get when you first start at a spa, because they will take into account support staff, benefits and insurance. Spa work can be fast-paced and hard at first.
Major advantages of working at a spa include the support staff, such as schedulers, the marketing, big tips and benefits. If you want to be assured of having clients, then this may be the best environment for you. Although spas rely less on loyal customers, they cultivate full schedules.
 There are a handful of different types of spas. You should choose the spa that best fits your training.


Destination spas are located in tourist areas. They are often inside hotels or near them. These spas stay busy, especially during high season. You may find hectic schedules and a lot of 1-time customers that tip well.
Day spas are located in most cities and towns. They provide a wide-variety of services, and they cultivate a loyal customer base. You can often find work as a contractor with a day spa to supplement other body care that you do on your own.
Microspas are very small businesses that may offer limited services. You can find microspas at airports, bustling neighborhoods and in hotels. You may be able to offer a new service to a microspa or work for them to offer the same service to more people.
Medical spas specialize in therapies that can help to treat conditions. Medical spas offer dead sea soaks that help eczema, light therapy for acne and other services that treat conditions. You may also find nutritionists, electrolysis, dermatologists and other doctors employed at these locations.
Club spas are located in fitness centers. Along with sauna and steam rooms, many club spas offer sports massages, Swedish massages, personal training and nutrition. You will cultivate a client base and work with a generally active population.
 Vacation destinations and large cities have a higher number of job opportunities for spa workers. You will have some competition for jobs, so you may be asked to work long hours and work a less preferable schedule until you achieve seniority.
 Use a chronological format if you have worked in a luxury environment or if you have a lot of industry experience. Use a functional format to show your skills if you are fairly new to body care or spa employment.
 As well as looking online, through Craigslist, Monster, Careerbuilder and Indeed, research the spas in your area and ask to apply when a position becomes available. Some spas may be able to hire you on a part-time basis to see if you are a good fit.

