 This gets rid of any large pieces of dirt which might be stuck to the outside of the boot, while also softening the nap and preparing the boot for the cleaning process. Suede brushes can be found at most good shoe stores.,, You want the boots to be wet, but not dripping. You can do this by soaking a clean cotton cloth in cold water, wringing out the excess, then gently rubbing the boots with the cloth. Make sure the entire surface is wet, as this allows it to accept the cleaning product., Ideally, you should be using the "Sheepskin Cleaner and Conditioner", a product specifically designed by Ugg to clean their sheepskin boots. Alternatively, you can use any suede shoe cleaner, available at most good shoe stores.


If neither of these products are available, you can make your own cleaner by mixing equal parts water and plain white vinegar. This cleaner is not "Ugg approved" but it has been used with success by other Ugg owners., Start at the top and work your way to the bottom, spending extra time on the dirtier parts. Make sure to scrub the boot gently, both the sheepskin and leather underneath are very delicate, so cleaning too vigorously may damage the boot.


Don't miss any spots––if the cleaner is not applied all over, you may end up with water marks.
If the sponge becomes dirty while cleaning, rinse it out to avoid redepositing dirt on other areas of the boot.
 Once you are satisfied that you have thoroughly cleaned the outside surface of the boots, you need to wash off the cleaning product. You can do this by holding the boots under cold running water, or by using a wet cloth to wipe off the cleaner.


If you are using the rinsing method, be sure to rinse as quickly as possible. If the boots become too wet it can damage the leather.
 When the boots become wet they may lose their shape, so it is important that you stuff them lightly with newspaper or paper towel so they can dry into the correct shape. This will also help the boots to dry naturally.
 It is very important that you allow the Uggs to dry naturally, away from sunlight or any direct heat source. Too much heat will cause the boots to wrinkle and stretch, ruining their appearance.


You can speed up the process slightly by adding a silica gel pack (which soaks up moisture) to the bottom of each boot. You can also use a boot dryer (which blows room temperature air into the boots) to finish off the drying process.
 Once the boots are dry, you can use the suede brush to brush out the surface of the boots, evening out the nap and removing any matting. It is advisable that you then spray your boots with a protective spray, such as Ugg's "Stain and Water Repellent", as this will help to keep your boots clean in future.


To use the protective spray, hold the can about six inches away from the boots and spray until the entire surface of the boots are wet (but not soaked). Leave the boots to dry in a well-ventilated area, away from direct heat, for about 24 hours. Brush the boots again before wearing.If you do not have Ugg's "Water and Stain Repellent", any protective spray designed for suede boots will work.
 However, sometimes this is the easy way to get them clean, especially when the Ugg boots are already old and you're not wearing them beyond the front door. Use something to protect the Uggs and a gentle cycle.
 Tie a firm knot to keep them inside the pillowcase.
 The wool cycle will produce the acceptable temperature. Add wool detergent only. Allow the cycle to proceed.
 Allow the boots to dry slowly in the open air, using the process outlined in the previous part (Sponge Clean). Keep away from heat and direct sunlight. Do not use the dryer.
 Once dried, use a lint brush, nubuck brush, soft cloth or a suede brush and gently brush the natural line back into the boots. This will also pick up any fluff that may have dried on during the washing process.
 The instructions outlined previously are for classic sheepskin Ugg boots only. Other types of Ugg boots, such as metallics, paisley, mosaic, embroidered, croc, floral, sweater knit or specialty suede should not be cleaned with a cleaning product.
 Use a soft cotton cloth dampened slightly with water.
 These types of Ugg boots can be sprayed with a protective spray to help prevent stains. Anything else risks damaging the boots., If a splash of oil or grease lands on your Uggs, it is important that you clean them as quickly as possible and keep them away from heat sources, as this sets the stain. Use a piece of white chalk (or cornstarch or talcum powder) to "draw" over the stain. Pat it gently into place.


Leave the boots to sit overnight -- this will allow the chalk to soak up the oil or grease.
In the morning, brush off the chalk and the stain should be gone. You can then clean the boots as normal.
 If your boots become stained with dirt or salt, you should first brush the surface of the boots with a suede brush to remove large particles. Then use an eraser (like the one on the end of the pencil) to gently rub out the stain.


Wet the stained area with some water and use damp sponge with a little suede cleaning product to gently rub the stain in a circular motion.
Remove the cleaning product with a damp cloth and allow the boots to dry naturally.
 Water spots are very easy to remove using this simple trick -- simply fold the boot over so another part of the suede surface is touching the water stain, then gently rub the two suede surfaces against each other and the water spot will disappear., You can clean the wooly part at the top of most Ugg boots by turning the boot upside down and using a wide-toothed comb to brush out any dirt that has become stuck in the wool. Holding the boot upside down will ensure that any dirt will fall out of the boot, rather than into it., The inside of Ugg boots, particularly cheaper knock-offs, can develop an unpleasant odor due to sweat. You can remove this odor by sprinkling a tablespoon of baking soda into each boot. Cover the top of the boot with your hand and shake to distribute the baking soda.


Leave the boots to sit overnight, then shake upside down to remove the excess baking powder.
If you like you can mix a drop or two of your chosen essential oil into the baking soda to add a pleasant scent to the boots.
 This will prevent having to clean them as regularly. Any areas where they can be soaked, such as puddles and streams, should be avoided. Also avoid wearing Ugg boots anywhere that they might be scratched, such as hiking trails, as the leather is soft and will scratch easily and permanently.
 Be aware that the manufacturer does not recommend putting your Ugg boots in a washing machine or dryer, or even get them dry cleaned, as these processes are considered to be too rough. There is a risk that the machinery processes will stretch and damage the boots. Ugg boots are best only be cleaned by hand, using the damp clean method outlined above. (However, as explained in the washing machine method, there may be times when you decide an older pair of Uggs is just easier to clean this way; see the Method suggested and do this at your own risk.)

, If you wish to maintain your Ugg boots properly and keep them looking as good as new, it is probably a good idea to invest in an Ugg care kit, sold by the company. This contains everything you need to care for your Uggs, including a sheepskin cleaner, protector spray, boot freshener, a brush and a stain eraser. Alternatively, you can use suede shoe care products, available at any good shoe store.
 Use a dampened white cloth towel. If the color comes off easily, you should be aware that the entire article will "bleed" dye onto other areas of the item and may become slightly faded during the cleaning process.
 Ugg boots can be dried over a boot holder (hanging upside down) at room temperature and away from direct heat. Do not put your Ugg boots next to the fire or heater to dry, or place them in a sunlit window. If you do not have a boot hanger, stuff them with paper towels, a rolled-up towel or newspaper to help them retain their shape. Leave to dry for at least 24 hours.

