 Having something to look forward to will help you be less frustrated about the distance. Talking about being together and planning what you want to do can help you feel like your relationship is going somewhere.


Look at your calendars and determine when one of you can come visit. Research transportation options if necessary and find out how much a visit will cost.
Remember it is best (for both your wallet and your peace of mind!) to book a trip well in advance.
If you do not share a bank account, decide ahead of time how you will split the cost of the trip. If you do not share finances and are always the one traveling to see your partner, it may not be fair that you are paying for each flight on your own. You could say, “Maria, let’s talk about budgeting for my next visit. Since I’ve paid for my last two flights, can you pay for this one?”
Talk about the things that you will do with each other when you are reunited with your partner, in order to build excitement and anticipation.
 Long distance relationships are a lot of work to maintain. Scheduling calls and visits can take a lot of the fun out of the relationship. So make attempts to surprise your partner as much as possible.Send a gift for no reason. When they call to thank you, you could say, “I heard the author of that book being interviewed on the radio. It sounds like something you’d really enjoy. It made me think of you.”
Call unexpectedly, just to say you love them.
If the budget allows, surprise them with an unexpected visit. Do some detective work ahead of time to ensure they’re going to be free during the time you want to go.
 Have reminders of your relationship around your home. Even though your partner may be far away, putting up pictures or other little reminders of them may help you feel more connected to them. You can be reminded of your partner’s importance in your life.


Hang up pictures of the two of you together around your home or at work. Make a picture of the two of you the wallpaper on your phone.
Exchange t-shirts. Having something of your partner's can reassure you and comfort you, especially if it's something like a t-shirt that they've worn and smells like them.
 Talk about your goals for the relationship after your separation ends. While you may be in a long distance relationship for just a few months or for many years, it may help you and your partner feel confident about the relationship if you have some mutually agreed-upon goals.While it may not be possible in every circumstance, knowing an end date to your time apart can be helpful in planning your next steps and strengthening your relationship.
It is good to have something concrete to look forward to when the separation obligations are over. Maybe you will be taking a next step in your relationship, like moving in together, or maybe you and your partner will be reunited and able to take a long vacation before resuming your day-to-day lives.
Express your dreams about what you would like to have happen when you are reunited. Even if you never fulfill these plans, it can distract your mind from the distance between the both of you and make you think of your future together. You could say, “When you get home, I want to spend a day in the city, walking around and having lunch at our favorite Indian place. What do you want to do?”

, One or both of you may get down about the pain of the separation. Be supportive and remind each other that the distance isn't forever. It might be a long way away, but the measure is only temporary, and you will eventually be together. Stay positive and loving toward each other.


You could say, “I know how much we miss each other, but it makes me happy that we care about each other so much. Talking to you every day really helps me feel better about our separation.”
Keep track of how many days you have until your separation is over. You could say, “just four more months until you’re home for good!” or “We’ll be seeing each other in two weeks, and then you’ve only got six months left of school!”

