 Beta-carotene is the water soluble precursor to vitamin A.Getting more beta-carotene has been shown to decrease the risk of some forms of blindness. Beta-carotene (along with vitamin C, vitamin E, and zinc) may stop age-related macular degeneration (AMD) from progressing. Some good sources of beta-carotene include:


Apricots
Carrots
Sweet potatoes
Butternut squash
Leafy green vegetables such as spinach, kale, mustard greens, collard greens, and beet greens;
, Some good sources of vitamin A include:Liver (beef or chicken)
Eggs
Butter
Milk
Yogurt
Cheese
Fortified breakfast cereals and juices

,,, Some good sources of vitamin E include:Walnuts
Almonds
Hazelnuts
Sunflower seeds
Peanuts and peanut butter
Broccoli
Wheat germ

, Bio-flavanoids function as antioxidants, so they may help to reduce the risk of damage caused by the production of free radicals. Your body always produces free radicals, but when it produces too many, they can overwhelm your system. Free radical damage may contribute to the development of cataracts and AMD. Bioflavonoids can also help to protect the optic nerve in those who develop glaucoma.Some goods sources of bio-flavonoids include:


Berries such as cherries, blueberries, raspberries, blackberries, strawberries
Grapes
Teas such as green, white, and black
Legumes
Soy products

, Lutein and zeaxanthin are also antioxidants. They may reduce the risk of cataracts and AMD.Some good food sources of lutein and zeaxanthin include:Leafy green vegetables such as spinach, kale, collard, mustard and beet greens
Winter squash
Corn
Nectarines
Oranges
Papayas
Eggs

, These fatty acids can help to reduce inflammation and reduce your risk of developing of AMD and dry eye.Some good sources of omega-3s include:Salmon
Mackerel
Sardines
Tuna
Herring
Flaxseeds
Walnuts

, Selenium is an essential trace mineral that functions along with antioxidants, such as vitamin C and vitamin E. When combined with vitamins C and E, selenium may also help to reduce the risk of AMD.Some good sources of selenium include:


Seafood
Brazil nuts
Brown rice
Whole grains

, Zinc is a trace mineral that works with Vitamin A. Zinc may help to reduce the risk of night blindness by increasing your melanin, which is a protective pigment in your eyes.Some good sources of zinc include:Seafood, especially oysters
Chickpeas
Yogurt
Red meat
Pork chops

, Good nutrition is essential for maintaining healthy eyes and it is best to get the vitamins and minerals your body needs from whole foods. However, you may also take a supplement to provide some added insurance. If you decide to look for a supplement, look for one that contains:250 mg of vitamin C
200 mg vitamin E
5,000 IU of beta-carotene
25 mg of zinc
500 mcg of zeaxanthin
100 mcg of selenium
10 mg of lutein
500 mg of calcium

