 This may be hard, but accepting that FFXI has taken over your life is the initial step into overcoming your addiction.;
, If you knew everything you did now, would you still have bought it? Now the follow up question: Imagine yourself in two years, still playing FFXI, looking back on today when you are making the decision to quit or keep playing. How do you feel about your decision to continue?

, What makes Final Fantasy XI so appealing to you? Is it the fact that it has different continents that you will never go to? Is it the fighting? Whatever it is, try to minimize this happiness in FFXI, and make it a pleasure that you could also get in every day life.



Take a martial arts class. Many gamers are very interested in the martial arts, but never study it. Take up some sort of martial art that is similar to your character in FFXI. For example, if you use a sword in the game, then take up fencing, Kendo, or SCA fighting.






Try Reading. Novels have just as much excitement and adventure as FFXI, but you can expand other skills -- such as critical thinking and vocabulary -- in addition to those that interactive storytelling and game play will build.






Play a different videogame. Sure, you might just find yourself in another addiction, but at least you're not paying every month.
 Believe it or not, many people play FFXI simply because their friends play it, and they find it enjoyable to spend time with them in FFXI. If this is the case, then convince your friends to stop playing (with these steps, if needed), or even better, find another game to play. Otherwise, explain to your friends and family what you're doing, and ask them to help you stay on track. When you can't trust yourself to keep away from FFXI, you have to trust someone else to stop you.
 Make it so your play-time is limited, and use a complicated password that you are sure to quickly forget. Or, ask a friend or family member to set the parental controls with a password you don't know.
 One of the most effective way is to get a part time job and book every free time you have to work. Hang out with your friends, play basketball, engage in extra curricular activities at school (such as clubs or sport teams) or volunteer. The important thing is that they keep you outside of your home, away from your computer. You can find that there are many things that are just as exciting as playing FFXI. Remember, your "guild" online is no substitute for the company of real friends.
 The ultimate answer, the end-- beat the game. Because when it's all said and done, a dead man's possessions isn't important, it's the memories. So go out and make your own, now-- in the real world.

