 If you have researched the trainer, you should schedule a meeting. This can either be via a phone call or in person. Have a list of questions ready to ask the trainer when you talk to them to evaluate their skills and abilities. For example, you may ask:How long have you been training dogs? Where did you receive your training?
What methods do you use? How do you correct negative behavior? What rewards do you use?
What training/behavior seminars have you attended recently?
May I observe a lesson/group classes before signing up?
What type of training program would you propose to help me with my dog's behavior?
Do you have insurance?

, One of the best ways to find a good dog trainer in your area is to ask people to refer you to someone. Start by asking friends, family members, and colleagues. Your vet can be a valuable resource and provide you with names of great trainers. You may also want to ask around at the dog park.Even when you get an enthusiastic reference to a trainer, make sure to check out the trainer and talk to them first. Just because the trainer worked for someone else’s dog doesn’t mean it will necessarily work for yours.
 Good trainers work to help you improve your relationship with your dog by helping you establish trust. A good trainer will encourage understanding and respect between you and the dog, not fear.The training methods should be humane and dog-friendly.
A good trainer will use positive reinforcement through food, treats, attention, toys, play, or praise. Negative behaviors will be dealt with through ignoring the dog and withholding rewards.
 The trainer you choose should have good people skills. You are the one who is going to be training the dog, so you need a good relationship with the trainer. The trainer should be involved with each dog and owner during a training session or class, listen to what you have to say, and be interested in your dog.Good trainers will want your dog’s full history. They want to know about their background and behaviors so they can help you correct behavior and establish a stronger relationship.
Your trainer should also want to teach the entire family. They know you are not the only person in your dog’s life and will want to include everyone so your dog can be successful.
 Before you sign up with a trainer, ask if you can observe a class. Respectable trainers will have no problem with you going to a class and watching what they do. This can give you a more accurate sense of how the trainer conducts themselves.Watch the dogs and the humans. Are they having fun? Are the dogs under control or is it chaos?
Watch the way the instructor handles overly excited dogs, shy dogs, or slightly aggressive dogs.
Notice how instructors help dogs and owners who are struggling. Ask how the instructor helps them to ensure success.
Pay attention to the way the trainer interacts with the students. Do they help each one and give each dog and owner attention?

, While training helps you establish you as your dog’s leader, you want to look for training method red flags. Any trainer who uses punishment-based models or models based on dominance and submission are not trainers you want to take your dog to.You do not want a trainer who uses shock collars, choke collars, or physical punishment if a dog does something wrong.
Watch for language that reinforces these ideas, like “negative reinforcement,” “dominant,” or “alpha.”

