 You will be tracing this design onto the freezer paper, so make sure that you use thick, dark likes for your design.This method works great for reverse stencils, such as silhouettes.
 Tape your design to a table first, so that it doesn't move around, then tape the freezer paper on top of that, shiny-side-down. Trace use a pen to trace over your design once more.If you are having trouble seeing the design through the freezer paper, tape everything to a light table or a bright widow.
Make sure that you are using freezer paper, not wax paper or parchment paper., Transfer your freezer paper to a cutting mat. Cut out the design as precisely as you can using a craft blade. You can also try using a small pair of scissors. Do not cut past the outline of your design.

If your design has an inner shape, save that shape.
 Place the freezer paper, shiny-side-down onto your shirt where you want the design to be. Iron the entire shirt using a hot, dry iron. The heat of the iron will cause the freezer paper to stick to the shirt.Focus on the edges of the freezer paper.
If your design has an inner shape, iron that shape to the shirt as well.
 The cardboard needs to be a little larger than your design. It will prevent the paint from soaking into the back of the shirt., Squirt some fabric paint onto a paper plate, plastic lid, tray, or any other sort of pallet. Dip your pouncer brush into the paint, then lightly tap it over the stencil. Do not drag it back and forth and do not over-saturate the shirt.You can apply more than one layer of paint. Wait about 20 minutes before doing so.You can also use fabric spray paint instead. This is great if you want to use multiple colors for an ombre effect., This can take a few hours to overnight.As the shirt is drying, run your finger under the fabric to separate it from the cardboard. This will prevent the two from sticking together. Once the shirt is dry, you can pull the cardboard out., Discard the stencil, or save it for another design. Freezer paper stencils usually last for a few designs; they do lose their adhesive power overtime, however.

Some types of fabric paints need to be ironed after they dry. Read the instructions on your bottle of paint for any further instructions.
If you are going to reuse the stencil, make sure that you wipe any paint off of it.

