 If and when an annulment is granted, the court decrees that a marriage never occurred. When you ask for an annulment after your spouse dies, it is usually for some financial or legal reason. For example, an annulment may protect you from having to put up your own money if your spouse was filing for bankruptcy. Additionally, if your marriage is annulled, you may be able to get a refund on your federal taxes for the years you filed jointly., Whether a marriage is void or voidable is determined by your state's law. Marriages that are legally considered void are marriages that were never legal to begin with.In some situations, a marriage is simply considered "voidable." This means that the marriage itself is legal, but can be made void by a judge if certain information is proven.
For example, a marriage may be voidable if you can prove that you were forced or coerced into marrying your spouse, or that your spouse defrauded you.
Most states do not allow voidable marriages to be annulled after the death of one spouse, because that spouse does not have the opportunity to tell their side of the story.
A marriage that was illegal from its inception, however, typically can be annulled after the death of a spouse. This includes incestuous or bigamous marriages, or a marriage in which one of the parties was under the age of consent.
 Marriages, annulments, and divorces are created by the individual U.S. states. Therefore, if you are planning on filing for an annulment, you will need to check your state laws to make sure you qualify. Most of the time you will have to file for annulment in the county where you live or where you were married. While some states do not have any residency requirements at all, other states do.

For example, in New York, you must have been a resident for at least one year immediately preceding the filing of your petition.In Mississippi, you only need to have been a resident for six months., One of the largest barriers to any annulment claim you may have is the time limits imposed on making those claims. In a lot of states, you only have a period of months or years to file your annulment action. Therefore, it is important that you file for annulment as soon as possible. The amount of time you have to file for annulment will depend on the reason you are claiming annulment is valid.

For example, in Illinois, if you are claiming you lacked consent to marry, you will have 90 days from the time you learned of the problem to file.In California, you have four years from the date of marriage if you are claiming you were physically incapacitated., You must have some kind of evidence to present as proof that your marriage was illegal at the time you entered into it. Whether there are documents to prove the marriage's illegality depends on the reasons you're claiming it was illegal.For example, suppose your spouse was married to someone else when you got married. This is a bigamous marriage that was illegal from its inception.
To prove that your marriage was bigamous, you would need a copy of your spouse's marriage certificate from the previous marriage, as well as any divorce documents that are dated after the date on your marriage certificate.
If you can't get the necessary documents on your own, don't worry. Your attorney will be able to get them when your petition for annulment is filed.
 You may be unable to find documents that prove your marriage was illegal when you entered into it. However, there may be witnesses who are willing to testify to the marriage's illegality at the hearing for your annulment.For example, suppose you found out that your deceased spouse was your first cousin. This makes your marriage an illegal incestuous marriage under the law of most states.
To prove your marriage was incestuous, you may need to rely on testimony from family members regarding your relationship.
Witnesses are more common in situations where your marriage was induced by fraud, or where you were under the influence of alcohol or drugs when the marriage took place.
However, keep in mind that you may not be able to get a civil annulment after the death of your spouse in these situations.
 When you ask the court to annul your marriage, you will need to present a certified copy of your marriage certificate. Since this document may take time to get, you should start the process as soon as possible.The guidelines for getting a copy of your marriage certificate vary greatly among states, and you typically must pay a small fee of less than a hundred dollars.
If you got married overseas, it may take longer to get a copy of the marriage certificate.
Typically you can order a copy of your marriage certificate online and have it mailed to you. However, in some cases you may have to travel to the location to get a copy. Find this out by contacting the vital records office in the place where you were married.
 Most courts have forms you can fill out yourself to get a civil annulment. However, these forms can only be used if your spouse is still alive. If you want to get a civil annulment after the death of your spouse, you should hire an experienced family law attorney to represent you.Annulment is very different from divorce, so it's not enough to look for divorce attorneys. Find attorneys licensed to practice in your area who have experience specifically with civil annulments.
Keep in mind that you're going to file your petition and the county where you live, so you can limit your search to attorneys with offices near you.
A good place to start is the website of your state or local bar association. There you typically will find a searchable directory of attorneys who are licensed and in good standing.
Using the bar association's directory saves you some time because you don't have to worry about whether the attorneys listed are appropriately licensed to practice.
However, once you find names you may need to do some additional research, such as by looking at their professional websites, to learn more about their areas of practice and background as attorneys.
 Rather than simply hiring the first attorney you find, try to schedule initial consultations with several. Since family law attorneys typically give free initial consultations, this shouldn't cost you anything.Ask each attorney how many annulments they've done, and whether they've represented any clients seeking an annulment after the death of their spouse.
Keep in mind your situation is not a common one, so you're not likely to find an attorney who has extensive experience helping people get a civil annulment after the death of their spouse.
Ask questions related to the attorney's work style. Find out whether they prefer phone calls or email to communicate, and how quickly they respond to emails or phone messages.
You also want to gauge your comfort level during these interviews. You are dealing with an extremely personal situation that involves a lot of emotion. It's important that you feel welcome and comfortable in your attorney's office and with the attorney personally.
You also want to cover fees during your initial consultation. Many people are reluctant to talk about money, but each attorney needs to have a good working understanding of your budget – and you need to have a good understanding of how much each attorney is going to cost.
 After you've completed your interviews, take some time to compare the positive and negative aspects of the attorneys with whom you spoke so you can choose the one you like the best.


Fees may be an important part of your decision, but they shouldn't be the only factor you consider, or even the most important factor – even if you're on a limited budget.
Keep in mind that most attorneys are willing to work with you on fees if you are strained financially, such as by working out a payment plan.
Depending on the reasons you're seeking an annulment, you may have to talk about some very sensitive issues with your attorney. Make sure the attorney you choose is someone you trust and with whom you feel comfortable.
Don't be afraid to go with a gut reaction. If you find one attorney off-putting, that's probably not going to be the best attorney for you, even if they are the most experienced.
Likewise, you shouldn't choose the cheapest attorney for that reason alone if they make you feel intimidated or uncomfortable.
 You need to have a written retainer agreement from your chosen attorney before you pay them any money or allow them to start work on your case. Sit down with them and go over the retainer agreement before you sign it.Despite how the attorney presents the retainer agreement to you, it is negotiable. If there's something you don't like, or don't agree with, say something about it.
If you don't feel comfortable negotiating, you may want to bring along a family member or friend who is more outgoing and assertive.
For annulments, you often will pay a flat fee for your attorney's services. Make sure you understand how that flat fee is calculated.
If your attorney has set up a payment plan, the specific due dates and amount for each payment should be listed specifically in your written agreement.
 To draft your petition for annulment, your attorney will need details about your marriage, including the date and time of the marriage itself as well as the circumstances surrounding it.These specific details must be included in your petition for annulment. A judge cannot annul a marriage unless that marriage is identified specifically. For example, in California, you will need to convince the judge that one of the valid reasons for annulment existed while your spouse was still alive.
Your attorney also will discuss with you the reasons you want an annulment. Your attorney will need to analyze the law in your state to determine whether your reasons for seeking annulment are sufficient to get a civil annulment after the death of your spouse.
Your attorney also will likely discuss with you the consequences of getting a civil annulment. For example, in California, getting an annulment may mean you are giving up your spousal share of your spouse's estate., The petition for annulment is a legal document that asks the judge to annul your marriage. Your attorney will draft this petition and go over it with you before filing it with the court.In California, for example, your lawyer will need to fill out Form FL-100, which is a petition, and Form FL-110, which is a summons.Review all facts in the petition and make sure they are true and correct to the best of your knowledge.
You typically must give your attorney documents that are necessary to prove facts in the petition, such as a copy of your marriage certificate or other legal documents.
For example, if you discovered that your marriage was a bigamous marriage because the marriage took place before your spouse was formally divorced from their previous spouse, you also would attach a copy of your spouse's divorce decree.
In some states, other details are important and may determine whether you're eligible for an annulment. For example, your state may not allow an annulment unless you and your spouse never lived together following the marriage.
Some states also many not allow an annulment if you lived together as a married couple for several years after the reason for the annulment was discovered. Your attorney will help you analyze these issues.
 Your attorney will take your original petition for annulment and several copies to the clerk of the court that will hear your petition. When your petition is filed, you typically must pay filing fees of several hundred dollars.You are responsible for the filing fees as costs of your annulment. Check your retainer agreement for information on how these costs will be billed to you.
You don't have to file your petition for civil annulment in the state or country where you were married. Just as with a divorce, you file your petition in the county where you live.
However, be advised that many states and counties require you to have been living there for at least six months before you can file a petition for annulment there.
 If your spouse was alive, you would be required to have a copy of your petition for annulment delivered to them using legal service of process so they have notice of the proceeding.Since your spouse is dead, your state may require you to serve your spouse's estate. This means the petition would be delivered to your spouse's executor or personal representative.
If service is required, your attorney typically will take care of it for you. The fees for service of process will be added to the costs of your case and you'll be responsible for them as outlined in your retainer agreement.
 Once you serve your spouse's estate, they may choose to file a response and oppose your petition. They may also agree and allow your petition to move forward unopposed. If the petition is opposed, you will receive a response from the estate within a certain period of time. Read this response carefully as it will give you great insight into how the estate plans on attacking your claims. You can then prepare your counter arguments, which you will make during your hearing., The court will schedule a hearing for you to present your evidence to the judge and ask that your marriage be annulled. Even though you are represented by an attorney, you still typically must attend this hearing.Your attorney will go through the process with you before the hearing, and may rehearse questions with you so that you are more comfortable speaking about your marriage.
At the hearing, the judge typically will ask you questions about your marriage. Keep in mind that you will be under oath. Answer these questions as completely and honestly as you can.
If you don't understand a question or don't know the answer, say so. Ask the judge for clarification before you try to guess or answer a question that wasn't asked.
If your spouse's estate opposes the annulment, your spouse's personal representative may be present to offer testimony against the annulment. However, if this is going to happen you'll know about it in advance.
 At the conclusion of the hearing, the judge will let you know whether your marriage is annulled. You may receive a written order immediately, or you may have to wait a few days for the written order to be entered.If the judge denies your petition, you typically have the ability to appeal that decision. You can discuss the appeals process and the likelihood of the judge's decision being reversed with your attorney.
Typically, your attorney will have an order prepared for the judge to sign. If the judge grants your annulment, you may get your written order that day.
Once your marriage is annulled, it's like it never happened. You will have no claim to any of your deceased spouse's property. However, this also means that you may have responsibility for debts that accumulated during the marriage and your spouse's life.
If you and your deceased spouse had children, they no longer have the presumption of legitimacy as a result of your annulment.
This means your children are not entitled to any of your deceased spouse's property either. If you are not the biological mother of those children, you may lose custody.

