 Try to avoid having to queue them up, as this clogs up resources which you could be using on other things. Just keep building them one at a time, as often as you can. A good income is key to winning games at any level.;
, There are many YouTube guides which give you a basic rundown of what a general good end goal is for a base. For Protoss, for example, you want to start out with a Gateway or two and then go towards an Assimilator then a Cybernetics Core and work towards a second Nexus. While you are getting your second nexus built up it is good to research warp gate and go for 8 Gateways, a Forge, Robotics Bay and a Twilight Council. You can build into Stargates or whatever you want after that, but have a basic plan. If you don't have a plan you'll get slow. All players have plans. Once you get better the plans get changed more often into strategies that will run smoother. You don't know these other plans because you haven't tried any on your own yet. You also don't have the experience, so playing Starcraft 2 won't initially be a game of adaption to different strategies by the opponent. At first it will be adapting your own strategy to become more efficient and powerful. Not necessary but you should probably stick with a single race and branch out later., Maintaining these three goals (low unused resources, building armies for attacks and expanding bases) will help you with APM. If you can perfect this step you'll be good for Platinum. The biggest trouble with players is an inability to macro., There are good YouTube videos on this. You don't need to be bogged down with everything. Just learn to hotkey a few key buildings (Nexus et all, barracks et all, upgrades). Learning how to hotkey drastically improves your speed and will probably double your apm by just hotkeying those few first buildings., Once you learn different army compositions and good counters you can learn to adjust your strategy on the fly. This is the core of Starcraft 2 and any strategy games. This is, besides probably microing, the biggest part of learning how to become a pro in Starcraft 2., This not only provides you with map control, but also allows you to analyze and anticipate what your opponent is doing and counter effectively. Try to send out an early worker (or even an overlord as Zerg) to both find your opponents base and see what kind of early units they may be building.
 Keep an eye on the supply limit of your army up at the top right of your screen, and continue to anticipate when you are going to need extra. Build pylons, supply depots, or overlords accordingly.
 Your initial resource patch is only going to sustain your army and your base building for so long, and the extra resources provided will give you that much more of an edge. Make sure to provide some sort of defense for the new expansion, whether that means parking your army in front of it, or building some static defenses (such as photon cannons, spine crawlers, or bunkers and missile turrets). Move some extra workers from your main base to the new expansion in order to saturate it more quickly.
 In Starcraft, there are two terms associated with the control of all your commands in the game. Micro refers to the command of individual units, whether it be moving your army into position for an attack or sending a worker towards a potential expansion location. Macro is the act of creating new units and buildings as well as managing your economy, like queuing up some marines, creating a barracks, or sending extra workers to mine vespene gas. In order to win games you need to find the delicate balance between the two. Try your best to split your attention between building back at your base, and making sure your army is not neglected during attacks.

