 This one doesn’t require too much elaboration. Brush your teeth twice a day. Mess around with mouthwash. Carry mints.Metaphorically, the care you take in maintaining a kissable mouth shows a potential kissing partner that you take care of yourself generally. This is an extremely significant aspect of attraction.
Floss. Albeit the least fun oral hygiene task, flossing might have the greatest positive impact on mouth cleanliness.
Soften those lips. Chapstick and lip gloss can make a big difference in preventing lip dryness. You can always employ natural wetness – and perhaps set the tone – by licking your lips., Know that different people will approach and respond to kissing differently. Kissing, pure and simple, can be an incredibly exciting, enjoyable act. It is also an integral component of a healthy relationship.Some may value the intimacy and tenderness of kissing, favoring the compassion of a kiss as much as the passion it brings to mind.
Don’t ever assume anything about what anyone prefers on account of their gender – that’s not only prejudiced, it’s simply inaccurate.
Do not view kissing predominantly as a prelude to sex. While sex is a fun and healthy aspect of many relationships that also include kissing, it is important to recognize that someone’s interest in kissing you does not at all indicate that they are willing to have sex.
 You can tell whether someone is enjoying themselves by how they’re breathing. Contribute to the heat of the moment by allowing one another to become aware of each other’s breath. When you’re unsure of anything, pause and simply listen to your partner breathe.Your partner may sometimes be more comfortable if you tone it down a bit. Your tongue, for instance, can be a key element of a kiss, but so should your lips, hands, and the openness of both of your airwaves.
Match your partner’s tempo. And recall the dancing metaphor. Take turns leading one another wherever your mind and body take you. Enjoy sharing the pattern of pushing and pulling with your partner, whatever that means for the two of you.
 The contemporary, breakneck pace of life has permeated even our most intimate relationships. Don’t let this diminish the quality of your kisses, nor the depth of your intimacy. Practice mindfulness in the most integral physical aspect of your romantic relationships by kissing with intention.Take two minutes a day to stop with your partner in the middle of the everyday chaos and share a spontaneous, fully-focused, drawn-out kiss.
Focus on the weight and meaning of the exact moment in which you’re living. Fully experiencing yourself and your partner is the best way to ensure the kiss is meditatively unforgettable.

