 Show your concern and care by offering her a safe space to talk about her mental health condition. Encourage her to talk about her feelings and try to listen to her without judging.Ask meaningful questions and be consistent about checking in, as many people with mental health disorders might have difficulty with emotional expression.


You might ask, “How I can support you right now? What do you need?”Avoid asking questions that have a judgmental tone, such as “Why do you feel that way?”, “What’s wrong with you?”, or “Shouldn’t you be doing better by now?”Tactfully ask about specific feelings or symptoms that you might not understand, such as what flashbacks or nightmares are like for someone who has been diagnosed with PTSD.You might say something like, "I have never experienced that before. Would you be comfortable telling me what that's like for you?"

, Make time to research and learn everything you can about his condition. You’ll be better able to understand his perspective and help him if you know about symptoms, treatment, and what to expect for his specific diagnosis.Look for online resources. The National Alliance on Mental Illness has many resources available for family and friends of people struggling with mental illness.Look for books at your local library related to his diagnosis. Seek out reliable sources, such as books written by licensed counselors or medical doctors. Consult your librarian or the library’s online portal if you need help.
Talk to his doctor and/or offer to go to doctor’s appointments with him.Join a support group. Find online forums or local support groups for yourself. For example, if a loved one is struggling with an addiction and you’re having difficulty relating to them, find an Al-Anon support group.
 Be patient with the other person and understand that even if she does seek treatment, she may struggle with her symptoms or diagnosis for a long time. She won’t be cured overnight. Expect setbacks to occur and try to remember that the mental illness is not her fault.Keep in mind that it’s okay to have some healthy expectations, as expecting too little of someone with a mental illness can slow down her recovery process and enable her.Encourage the other person to get active or stay involved in her treatment.
Don’t expect too much of yourself, either. Offer your help with any small tasks that you can help with, but don’t do too much and burn yourself out. This will lead to resentment and frustration with the other person., When someone has a mental illness, he may have difficulty connecting or relating to you in “normal” ways. Keep in mind his unique symptoms when scheduling time with him. Don’t take it too personally if the other person says hurtful things, is irritable, or doesn’t want to spend time with you.For example, if a person has been diagnosed with bipolar disorder and he is currently in a manic episode, he may have a lot of energy and racing thoughts. Since he is already over-stimulated, try to spend time with him in quiet surroundings, allow him to take short naps if he needs to, and provide small snacks for him since he may have difficulty remembering to eat or sitting still to eat.If a person has been diagnosed with depression, encourage him to go for a walk or get moving. He may not be motivated, but physical activity with someone else will boost his mood.