 Visit your local nursery to discuss the options for ordering it in, or purchase seeds online from a reputable garden retailer.If you don’t own planting flats, you should purchase them at the same time as the seeds.;
, Fill a planting flat or tray with warm, humousy soil. You can use regular potting soil. Leave the soil rough on the top. You should have it in a sunny part of your house, such as in front of a window, or under grow lights.You could also prepare your own potting soil with a mix of equal parts vermiculite, peat moss and perlite.It is best to start seeds in wide, shallow containers. Wide containers such as seeding flats or trays prevent overcrowding.You can also use recycled plastic containers, such as yogurt containers.
 The seeds should fall down between the cracks of the rough surface of the soil. Then, pat down the humous-rich soil with the palm of your hand. After tamping, the seeds should be barely covered by the warm, humousy soil.Each seed needs to be in direct contact with the moist soil in order to germinate.You can also use the bottom of a glass or a pestle to tamp the seeds into the soil.
 Use a fine mist setting on your garden sprayer, so that you don’t dislodge the seeds with the force of the sprayer. Keep the planting flat in a nice warm location until germination, which should take between one and three weeks. During this time, keep the soil nice and moist.If you are concerned about fungal infection or “damping-off,” you can sprinkle a mixture of fifty percent milled sphagnum and fifty percent starter chicken grit. Spread it thinly over the surface of the flats, which will help prevent pathogens.
To retain moisture, you can put a plastic wrap over the seed tray. This will help to create a humid environment.Avoid overwatering the seeds, which will disturb the seeds and prevent proper germination.
If you put your finger an inch into the soil and it feels dry, you should water. If it is still damp, you don’t need to water.
 Place a fan in front of the tray. Put the fan on a low setting. Blow air over the top of the trays to promote good air circulation, which will help to prevent disease., Once the seedlings grow a second set of leaves, you can separate them out of the planting tray. Gently pull up the plant from the soil, lifting the plant up from below the roots. Transplant the seedling into a four-inch pot. Let them grow until they fill the pot with roots. At this point, they are ready to put in the ground outside or in a larger pot.To see whether the pot is full of roots, look underneath the four-inch pot. You should be able to see the roots through the water holes at the bottom of the pot.
If you don’t have time to germinate the patchouli yourself, you can buy a seedling from the garden center or online.

