 You can make your own cards or choose cards, depending on your artistic skills and time availability.;
, Insert writing paper on the inside for the inner portion of the card, attaching with paper glue at the centerfold.


If you already know whether the child is a boy or a girl, you might like to use the traditional blue or pink, or a variant of these choices.
Think outside the rectangle or square. Why not make baby shower notes that are shaped like onesies or a rattle? A little something different will turn your thank you note into a memento to hang onto.
 Choosing a theme is a good way to enliven the card and make it cutesy.


Typical images to include on baby shower thank you cards include a baby image, a stork, baby-related items such as rattles, diapers and rubber ducks, etc.
Themes can include: Dr. Seuss; animals (jungle animals, pastel animals, baby animals); cut outs of baby clothing (onesies, diapers or little dresses, etc.); anything in a trio (mom, dad and baby); and so forth.
, The standard salutation is "Dear X".
 The thank you should encompass both the person's attendance and the gift they've brought. For example:


Line one: Thank you for coming to our/my baby shower on X date. It was wonderful to have you celebrate the upcoming birth of our/my baby.
Line two: Thank your for the wonderful gift of . We are/I am so thrilled at your thoughtfulness and kindness. It will come in handy when .
 This isn't necessary, as the note by nature indicates shortness; however, sometimes a guest may have gone beyond the call of duty to be helpful, and it can be kind and thoughtful to make a note of this. For example:


"I am really grateful for the time you took to arrange the flowers for the party. I am also very appreciative that you took care of all the catering; it was really tasty food. And thanks for that great chocolate-poop-in-the-diaper game––I never knew such a fun game existed!"

, For example: Love, Jessie. Or, Love, Jessie and Daniel. Or, Love Rachel and Belinda. And so forth.
 There is no one way to say thank you; let it be a reflection of who you are. That said, a little help can always spark your own ideas, so here are a few more examples of how to say thank you in a baby shower note:


"We'd like to share our heartfelt thanks for your presence at our baby shower. It means a lot to us that you could come and share our special moment. Thank you for the lovely gift of ; the baby will be sure to love it as much as we already do."
"Thank you for joining us to celebrate bringing our daughter/son into this wonderful world. We appreciate all of your gifts, each of which will be handy very shortly! Love, X and Y"
"Thank you for coming to my baby shower. Mom was thrilled to see you. I can't wait to see the wonderful gift you've left me; mom says it is the best thing she has gotten for me!"
"Thank you for coming and sharing our delight at the impending birth of our baby girl/boy. We were so happy to have you at the baby shower. We can't wait to meet our baby and we can't wait to share with him/her all the things you've given us. Thank you again."
"My closet was bare of cuddly clothes, my diaper supply was low, my toy box was yet to fill and I didn't feel ready to show. Now I'm all decked out with the stuff for real, so my arrival will be soon you know! Thanks for your generosity and thoughtfulness––mom and dad can rest easy knowing all the basics have been taken care of."

