 Depending on your climate, poinsettias tend to due better outside than in, so grow them outside where they get partial shade in the afternoon. If it gets too hot and dry, their growth might slow.
 You will never get that "store bought" look again, as they are literally tree sapping. If you want some "store bought" looking plants, take cuttings from your plants (don't worry you can still flower the parent plants too) from late April, up until you bring them inside to flower. You can use rooting hormone, but poinsettias seem to root well in just compost (such as compost made from yard waste like grass clippings).
 Depending on when you want the poinsettia to be fully flowering and how you intend to care for them after flowering, determines on when you start flowering them. If you want them in full bloom by Thanksgiving, start on October 1st and by Halloween for Christmas. You can start earlier, but you need to maintain light timing to keep them flowering throughout the season.
 Choose a spot which is lightproof, for the most part.
 It's necessary to use "warm white" as opposed to regular grow lights because the plant needs the extra red light; this, plus the timing, will ensure flowering.


Make sure you have enough light too. One 26watt CFL (100watt equivalent) for two or more plants won't be enough. Use one 26 watt CFL per cutting about 1 and 1/2 feet above them to just 1 foot (0.3 m). Make sure you can adjust the height, as they will grow fast during flowering.
HPS lights can be used too. Be careful with HPS lights though, as local law enforcement might think you are flowering another Mexican plant with the same light cycle! HPS light give off signatures they use to help track unlawful botanists.
 Set the timing to suit. A good one is to use standard banking hours, 9am to 5pm. Do not disturb the plants when the lights are off. While 14 hours of darkness is said to be enough, 16 hours works every time (with warm white).
 The first signs they have begun to flower is what you might call "rusting out". This is when the top leaves quite literally "rust out" as they think it's fall. Leave the plant under the light until it has fully flowered.


You may want to leave the plant in your makeshift nursery the whole season and bring it out for company and the day of the holiday you want to display it.
Even the plants you buy this year would benefit and be a good plant to make cutting from next year, so put them in the nursery too.
 This will keep it flowering long after the season is over. Take good care of it: keep the plant watered properly, keep it away from whiteflies, and give it plenty of light during its day cycle. Given this care, the plant can flower well past Mother's Day!


If the plant is still flowering for too long, put it under light with 24 hours of on time to get it to vegetate. You may find that some plants will still have flower buds on when you place them outside for the summer.

