 Do a little research to find out when airfare is least expensive and plan your trip around this window. It can also pay to compare rates and purchase one-way tickets for both your departing and returning flights, if you can save that way. Keep in mind that airfare is often lower outside of popular tourist seasons.Searching for flights weeks or even months before your actual travel date can help you land the best possible deal.
Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Saturdays are generally the cheapest days of the week to fly—airplanes tend to be less crowded on these days., If you travel often or tend to use your credit card to pay for things, it’s possible that you’ve built up enough frequent flyer miles to enjoy a free (or significantly discounted) flight. Even if not, you might still be able to score snacks or other in-flight goodies. Accumulated perks can lighten your financial burden significantly, so it's best to use them when you have the chance.Check your points before booking your flight to see if you can cash in on some money-saving benefits.
Save your perks for a time you really need it, like an international flight or an emergency trip back home., Luggage fees account for a major part of most people’s travel costs. If possible, cram everything you need to bring along into a single carry-on bag that you can keep with you throughout the flight. Make it a larger suitcase or duffel bag to maximize the amount of space you have.Review the airline’s bylaws to see what their baggage policies are. Certain companies, most notably Southwest, allow patrons to check up to two bags without paying any fees.
Assuming you can’t get away with just one bag, keep your checked luggage under the maximum weight limit to avoid incurring additional fees., Airlines will sometimes offer incentives to selfless customers who are willing to take a hit so that a flight can depart on time. These include free or reduced airfare and hotel rates. It may be inconvenient, but it can save you a considerable amount of cash in the long run.This tradeoff will work best if you’re alone or traveling on a flexible schedule.
You might also be able to secure accommodation through the airline for flights with long layovers.