 Fill a saucepan with 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water and set it on your stove over medium to medium-high heat. Position your bamboo steamer over the pan.


There must be enough water to create steam, but the water level must not be high enough to touch the bottom of the steamer.
Use a bamboo steamer for the most traditional experience and taste. If you do not have a bamboo steamer, however, an ordinary steamer basket will also work.;
, Place the peeled, de-veined shrimp in a food processor and blend them into a puree or thick paste.


If you do not have a food processor, you can puree the shrimp using a blender or cut the shrimp into 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) segments using a sharp knife. Note that the shrimp should still be uncooked.
 Transfer the shrimp to a large mixing bowl and add the water chestnuts, sesame oil, sake, mirin, soy sauce, salt, and white pepper. Mix thoroughly until evenly combined.


The water chestnuts should be minced into small pieces before you add them. Minced bamboo shoots can be used instead of the water chestnuts, or you could use a combination of the two if you'd prefer both flavors.
Other substitutions you can make include dry sherry instead of sake, sugar instead of mirin, and black bean garlic sauce instead of soy sauce.
 Separate the wrappers and spread them out over a clean counter or table. You should need 16 wrappers for this recipe.


Ready-made dumpling wrappers work best for this recipe, but you can use wonton skins of you cannot find dumpling wrappers. Since wonton skins are square instead of circular, however, you'll need to round off the corners before filling them., Spoon a small dollop of shrimp filling into the center of each dumpling wrapper.


You should only use approximately 1 tsp (5 ml) of filling for each wrapper. If you use too much, the ends won't be able to seal correctly and the dumpling will open as it cooks.
 Fold the wrappers over the filling to create half-circles. Firmly press the edges together to seal the wrappers.


If the ends won't stick together, wet your fingers with clean water and lighten dampen the edges before trying again.
You should also crimp the edges using a fork or similar utensil to help hold the seal.
 Place the dumplings into the steamer in a single layer. Cover the basket and steam for 4 to 7 minutes.


You should be able to see the shrimp filling through the thin wrapper. Wait for the shrimp to change in color from translucent gray to opaque pink and white.
 Remove the finished dumplings from the steam and let them rest for 3 minutes. Serve while still hot.
 Dice both ingredients into fine pieces. Combine the pork with the soy sauce and ginger in a small bowl. Toss the shrimp with half the salt in another dry bowl.


Before dicing the shrimp, it should be peeled and de-veined. You should also rinse it in clean water and dry it on clean paper towels.
 Whisk together the cornstarch, sesame oil, rice wine, water, pepper, and remaining salt in a small bowl until thoroughly and evenly combined.


Rice wine will produce the most traditional flavor, but sherry can be used if rice wine is unavailable.
 Pour the canola oil into a small skillet and set the pan on your stove over medium heat.
 Add the pork and shrimp to the hot oil and stir-fry until both ingredients are fully cooked.


Use your spatula to further break up the pork into crumbles as it cooks.
Both the pork and shrimp must be completely cooked before you continue.
 Pour the sauce into the pan and sprinkle in the diced green onions. Continue to cook the mixture for another few minutes, stirring frequently.


Wait until the sauce thickens before you continue. It may need to reach a simmer before adequate thickening occurs.
 Pour the filling into a small bowl. Let it cool slightly at room temperature, then cover the bowl and refrigerate the filling for at least 2 hours.


Meanwhile, prepare the dough as the filling chills.
 Peel the taro root and use a sharp knife to cut it into 1-inch to 2-inch (2.5-cm to 5-cm) square pieces.


Note that you should remove the tough outer layer of flesh along with the skin as you peel the taro.
Also note that thinner pieces of taro will cook faster than thicker pieces.
 Place the taro root in a steamer basket set over simmering water. Cover and cook until the pieces become soft.


Fill the bottom saucepan with 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of water before placing the steamer on top. You need enough water to create steam, but the water should not be high enough to reach through the steamer.
 Place the wheat starch in a medium bowl and gradually pour the boiling water into it, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon to combine the two ingredients into a paste.


Stop adding water as soon as the mixture matches the appearance and texture of frosting. Loosely cover the bowl and set it aside.
You really should use wheat starch for this dough if at all possible. Use tapioca flour in a pinch, but know that the final appearance and consistency will vary slightly if you do.
 Let the taro cool for about 5 minutes, then transfer it to a separate bowl. Use your fingers or a fork to mash the taro into a thick puree.


Discard any pieces that still feel hard.
 Place 1 cup (250 ml) of mashed taro into the wheat starch mixture. Add the salt and sugar, as well, and mix with your fingers until evenly blended. Add the lard or shortening after that.


Work the lard into the dough using your fingers. You'll need to knead the dough for several minutes, or until it takes on the consistency of mashed potatoes.
 Gather the dough into a ball and cover it in plastic wrap. Refrigerate for at least 1 to 2 hours.
 Roll the dough into a 12-inch (30.5-cm) log and cut the log into 12 equal pieces. Roll each piece into a ball.


If the dough seems warm and soft after you finish rolling out the pieces, chill the dough balls for another 10 to 15 minutes before continuing.
 Flatten each dough ball into an oblong circle and use your fingers to form it into the shape of a bowl, with a shallow indentation in the center.


It might be easiest to form and fill each dumpling one at a time instead of trying to shape the wrappers all at once.
 Place 1 tsp (5 ml) of filling in the center of the wrapper. Fold the wrapper around the filling and pinch the edges in place.


Each dumpling should be shaped like an egg or almond.
Use excess dough to patch any holes that develop as you form the dumplings.
 Pour 2 inches (5 cm) of canola oil or peanut oil into a heavy saucepan with deep sides. Heat over medium-high until the oil reaches a temperature between 360 and 370 degrees Fahrenheit (182 to 188 degrees Celsius).


Test the temperature using a cooking thermometer. The oil must be hot enough before you add the dumplings; otherwise, the dough will fall apart as it cooks.
 Add the dumplings to the hot oil and fry until they turn golden-brown.


Avoid crowding the pan by only cooking two or three dumplings at a time.
Once the dumplings begin to float, reduce the heat to medium-low and continue cooking them.
After 2 or 3 minutes, the dumplings should be done.
 Remove the dumplings from the hot oil and let them drain on clean paper towels for several minutes. Serve them while they're still hot.

