 Before you schedule an appointment or procedure with a specific acupuncturist, verify again that the acupuncturist is board certified by the NCCAOM and that their certification and license are up to date.


Your state’s acupuncture board or the acupuncturists’ office should have no problem confirming this information.
 Not all insurance providers cover acupuncture treatments and not all acupuncturists accept insurance, so talk with your insurance provider and the acupuncturists’ office staff before setting up an appointment. These details might influence which licensed acupuncturist you ultimately decide to work with, so here are a few questions to ask in advance:How many treatments will the insurance carrier provide?
What will your copay for a visit to a licensed acupuncturist be?
Does the insurance company require a referral from a physician?
What conditions are covered for acupuncture? Some insurance companies only cover acupuncture for pain relief.
Does the insurance provider have specific requirements about who can provide the acupuncture?
How will the acupuncturist deal with insurance? For example, they might want to be paid in full up front, and recommend that you file a claim for reimbursement with your insurance provider on your own.
 It’s important to meet with the acupuncture practitioner you are thinking of working with before proceeding with any treatment. This will provide you with another opportunity to verify that they have appropriate credentials, but also give you a chance to assess whether you feel comfortable working with this individual.


If you don’t want to schedule a formal appointment at this stage, contact the office and see if there is a time you might be available to meet with the acupuncturist for a few minutes.
If you schedule a more formal initial visit, ask the acupuncturist about the steps involved in treatment, how much relief you might expect it to provide, and how much it would cost.
 Though all licensed acupuncturists are required to understand general practice, some specialize in certain fields such as fertility or dermatology. If you would like to work with an acupuncturist who specializes in a specific field, take this into consideration when researching licensed acupuncturists.


If the acupuncturist has a website or is featured on one, their online profile might describe his or her areas of interest or specialty.
If you're uncertain whether you need a specialist, you can always see a general acupuncturist first and discuss whether your treatment requires a specialist.
 Like with any medical professional, it can take time to find the right acupuncturist for you and your needs. If you are not comfortable with the practitioner you selected or have concerns that the treatment is not working, you can reconsider your options and get a second opinion from a different licensed acupuncturist or other medical professional.

