 Many parents of twins choose to have their babies share a room. Twins tend to enjoy each other’s company and parents find the two babies in one room very convenient.


Consider the long term effects of where the babies will sleep. Will they always share a room or would you like them to have their own room as they get older? If your goal is to have them in separate rooms when they are older, you can still have them share a nursery now, but keep your long term goal in mind when purchasing furniture and accessories.;
, There are double cribs that can hold two babies available on the market, but they tend to be very expensive. Double cribs usually cannot be converted to single cribs or beds later on, so if you choose this option, be aware that the crib will not grow with your babies.


Consider purchasing a crib divider if you choose to use one crib. Crib dividers, though not a necessity, can be a convenient way for parents to offer separate space for each baby. Dividers are secured to the crib walls and can easily be removed when desired. Some parents believe it is best to keep the twins in the same crib in the beginning then graduate to two cribs as the babies grow. This will save some money up front when so much of it is being spent on other necessities.
 You can also choose two colors of paint for the walls, or decorate each twin’s area with different wall decals. This is especially helpful when a boy and girl are sharing a nursery.
 The more undershirts, pajamas and mix and match outfits you have, the more time you can go between loads of laundry. Keep in mind, twins’ clothing doesn’t always have to coordinate. The more variety you have, the larger their wardrobe will seem.


Purchase basic clothing in neutral colors if you are having both a boy and a girl. This will allow you to interchange the clothing between both babies. Even if you have a closet full of traditional pinks and blues, you can stretch your dollars by purchasing neutral colored onesies, undershirts, socks and pajamas.



Consider purchasing a nursing pillow if you choose to breast feed. This will allow you to breast feed the babies at the same time, while the pillow helps to support the twins. Purchasing two nursing pillows will not be necessary as it is a large pillow that wraps at your waist and you will only be able to use one. Even if you end up nursing both babies at the same time, they will be able to share the one pillow.
Stock up on bottles and bottle accessories if you decide to bottle feed your twins. To cut down on the time you will spend washing bottles, considering purchasing bottles with disposable liners that can be conveniently thrown away after each use. Although convenient, some parents are not comfortable with generating so much waste. Parents who prefer an eco-friendly option can invest in a bottle sterilizer/cleaner that can wash and sanitize a lot of bottles at one time.



Consider installing floor to ceiling shelving even if you are not short on space. Babies come with a lot of ‘stuff’. The addition of just one baby generates an overwhelming amount of clutter, from personal care items, toys and books to clothes, blankets and baby gear. When you are expecting twins, you can expect double the baby items, which leaves you with less room space. Good storage options are a must.
Opt for storage baskets if the nursery is too small to accommodate multiple storage shelves. Purchase storage baskets or bins that can easily slide under the crib or dresser. These come in a variety of sizes and are perfect for storing small toys, books, blankets and other small items.

