 You should check if you are getting your Recommended Dietary Allowance of vitamin D, which varies by age.If you are zero – 12 months old, you should be getting 400 IU/ 10 mcg of vitamin D a day.
If you are one – 50 years old, you should be getting 600 IU/ 15 mcg of vitamin D a day.
If you are 51 – 70 years old, you should be getting 600 IU/ 15 mcg of vitamin D a day.
If you are over 70 years old, you should be getting 800 IU/ 20 mcg of vitamin D a day.
Women who are pregnant and/or breastfeeding should be getting 600 IU/15 mcg of vitamin D a day.
Keep in mind some individuals are at a greater risk for vitamin D deficiency, including breastfed infants, older adults, individuals who have limited exposure to the sun, individuals with darker skin, individuals with Inflammatory Bowel Disease and individuals who are overweight or obese. If you have any of these issues, you should make sure your doctor is monitoring your vitamin D levels and you are taking a vitamin D supplement.
 Most doctors can recommend a brand or type of vitamin D supplement that you can take. Vitamin D supplements often come in two forms, vitamin D2 and vitamin D3. Vitamin D2 is chemically synthesized from yeast and vitamin D3 is chemically synthesized from animal sources.Your doctor should specify how much vitamin D you should be taking for your age and your medical history. Most doctors recommend 1000 IU of vitamin D3 a day to allow your body to absorb the vitamin D. Your doctor may recommend 2000 IU of vitamin D3 a day if you end up taking the D3 form.
 Taking too much vitamin D can cause anorexia, weight loss, and heart issues, such as a dangerously high heart rate. Do not take more vitamin D than the daily recommended amount to try to increase your levels of vitamin D, as this could lead to negative health issues.You should make sure your doctor tests your serum levels of vitamin D at least once a year to ensure they are at 50 nmol/L and not too high.
 Vitamin D can also interact negatively with certain medications, and these medications can actually inhibit your body’s ability to absorb the supplement. Speak to your doctor before you take a vitamin D supplement if you are on any medications to ensure they will not react negatively with the supplement.Medications such as cholestyramine (Questran), colestipol (Colestid), orlistat (Xenical), aripiprazole, danazol, sucralfate, cardiac glycosides, and mineral oil can all cause complications when taken with vitamin D. Take your vitamin D supplement at least two hours after you take any of theses medications.

