 Choosing a bedtime that you can maintain is an important task.When picking a bedtime, ask yourself two questions: (1) What time do you need to wake up in the morning? (2) How much sleep do you want or need to get?This should help you figure out when you should go to bed. For example, if you need to wake up at 7 am and you want to get 8 hours of sleep, you should be asleep by 11 pm the night before. Thus, your bedtime might be 10:30 or 10:45 pm to give yourself a bit of a cushion.;
, Some daytime activities can interfere with your ability to relax and rest. For that reason you want to make sure that you stop drinking caffeine at least six hours before you intend to go to bed.You also want to make sure that you are done eating dinner two to three hours before your bedtime and that you complete any exercise at least two hours before you want to sleep., Electronics such as laptops, tablets, tvs, and phones have the ability to give off enough light to cue our brains to stay awake.Seeing light from these devices miscues our brain to think that the sun is up and we should be awake. In order to promote sleep, we need to ensure that natural light and artificial light are kept at a minimum.
 There are all sorts of time-sucks in existence, but most of them can be traced back to the use of electronics. It’s easy to lose track of time on the Internet, while watching television, or while playing video games. However, lacking a morning and/or evening routine is also considered a time-suck., You can’t always plan the entire day down to the minute, so the next best thing to do is to leave some extra unplanned time in your schedule to handle unexpected things that pop up.This will help you to stay on track with other tasks including going to bed on time.
 This routine will eventually become a habit that lets your body know that it is time for you to begin relaxing.For example, you might take a hot shower to relax you before you put on your pajamas and climb into your bed. Or perhaps you set aside one hour before bed for reading a book, which you do from the comfort of your bed.
 In much the same way that most people need an alarm to help wake them up, many people can benefit from using an alarm to remind them to go to sleep. It is easy to get busy with a task or activity and to lose track of the time. However, if you were to set an alarm to remind you that your bedtime is quickly approaching, it might be easier for you to remember to go to bed on time.For example, you might set the bedtime alarm for 10 pm if you want to be asleep at 11 pm.
 Clutter can be distracting and it can impede your ability to focus on tasks at hand, in this case, relaxing and falling asleep.When your bedroom is clean and cleared of distractions, it will become a place you enjoy spending time and you’ll find it easier to relax and sleep., Loud, glossy paint on your walls can become a distraction.Bright colors like a vibrant red, hot pink, or neon green are stimulating, whereas, softer colors, such a pale blues, eggshell, and muted lavender will have a calming effect. When painting your bedroom walls, you want to make sure that the paint you choose is of a calming or neutral color and a matte finish.
 You should not keep phones, computers, or television in your bedroom, since the light that they emit can hurt your chances of falling asleep on time. In addition to the light from your electronics being a problem, electronics can also act as a distraction. For example, it’s easy to lie in bed watching television, but this won’t necessarily help you sleep. When you feel tired, you might fight sleep to watch your television show to its ending credits, or you might opt to stay up watching a movie instead of closing your eyes to rest.


If you must keep electronics in your room, make sure to keep them turned off and/or out of sight when you are trying to sleep. Feel free to unplug them, or to hide your remote controls if you must.
 While the idea of cuddling your pet may be appealing, the cuddling is not worth the lost sleep.
 You should buy a mattress that is ideal for your needs.Figure out what type of mattress you prefer and make the purchase. You should be willing to spend hundreds of dollars on a new mattress and you should buy a new mattress every seven years to maintain optimal sleeping habits.Here are some things to consider when you are purchasing a mattress:


Do you need a large bed because you co-sleep with a child, a partner, or a pet?
Do you need a small bed because you have limited space in your bedroom?
Do you need a firm bed because you have a bad back?
Do you prefer to sleep on a feather soft bed?
Do you like memory foam?
Do you prefer a pillow top mattress?

, If you have windows, make sure that you hang curtains or blinds that block out natural light.This will improve your sleep. If light is able to shine into your room, it can disrupt your natural bodily rhythms and signal to your brain that you should be awake.
 You should use dim lamps or dimmer switches on overhead lights. If you dim the lights about an hour before you want to fall asleep, you’re letting your body know that it is time to get ready for bed.Don’t ever use overly bright or harsh lighting in your bedroom.
 If you like satin sheets, be sure to buy satin sheets. If you prefer cotton sheets, then invest in those. The same is true for pillows. Know whether you prefer a plump pillow, a thin pillow, a plush pillow, a down pillow, or a hypoallergenic pillow.
 Most people prefer sleeping in cooler environments.You want to make sure that your room is neither too hot, nor too cold since the temperature of the room will affect your ability to fall asleep and stay asleep.
 Sleeping can make us feel vulnerable, so it’s important to have a working lock on your bedroom door. Locking your door will make you feel safe and secure and will help you to relax at bedtime. This is especially important if you live with roommates who may wander into your room when you are trying to sleep.


In addition to locking your bedroom door, you will also want to make sure that you lock all of the other doors and windows in your home before you go to bed. Safety and security is important.
 By warming your body up in the shower, you are allowing endorphins to be released into your brain, which will relax you.Also, if you step directly from your warm bath into cooler air, you’ll be slowing down your body’s metabolism and letting it know that it is time for bed.Taking a warm bath directly before you go to bed is a great routine to begin.
 Having something warm to drink a little while before bed can help to make you sleepy. Try having a cup of caffeine-free herbal tea, some warm milk, or Horlicks (a malted milk drink that is served warm)., When you lie in bed, consciously tighten and then relax every single muscle group in the body.This will help you relax all of your muscles, which will allow your body to drift off to sleep faster. It also helps to release any built up tension from the day.
 There are several breathing exercises that you might try, but one of the best known exercise is the “4-7-8” breathing technique.It is said to put a person to sleep quickly and easily. For the “4-7-8” breathing technique do the following:


Inhale through your nose for four counts.
Hold your breath for seven counts.
Exhale through your mouth for eight counts.
Repeat steps 1-3 of the technique until you fall asleep.
 Don’t dwell on the stresses of your day or the worries of the future.You want to slow your thoughts until your mind is completely clear. You might even try imaging calming places or moments in time.If you have trouble doing this because your mind is racing, you can always promise yourself to return to your thoughts tomorrow.Reading a book before bed might also help you to forget your day and get sleepy. Try reading a chapter or two out of a book before you go to bed.
 Lavender and vanilla aromas have been shown to help induce sleep.By breathing in calming scents, you are encouraging your body to relax. In fact, aromatherapy can help you fall asleep quicker, sleep deeper, and sleep for a longer amount of time.There are scents that help people relax and fall asleep including, but not limited to:Lavender
Vanilla
Chamomile
Vetiver
Ylang Ylang
Bergamot
Sandalwood
Marjoram
Cedarwood
Lemon
Clary Sage
Jasmine
Please do not ingest or put essential oils directly onto your skin. Aromatherapy should make use of an essential oil diffuser, which will allow you to breathe in the scent of the oil without having to touch it or ingest it.

