 Experiences that you might have gone through and places you might have visited. A friend perhaps, or a relative, or even a special pet. Maybe even a place you have wanted to visit, or a place that you have already visited . If you want to write fiction or sci-fi, start off easy; maybe a fantasy set in your state or province? Or maybe the sci-fi takes place on Earth in one hundred years.;
, Would it be about one person only? Or a pet? Or would it include others? Where would you want the book to start and end?

, But along the way they just...get...bored. This is where you add the magic! There's no way your character can go back to her old life now; she HAS to go through to the end!

, Since you are a teenager, you might want to write about your teen experiences, desires or things you always wanted to do or see. You can write about your pet, or your friends, just do not write their real names. Give everyone a made-up name, and don't use them too realistically. Use a single trait or physical appearance, because you never know if you might accidentally use them in an unflattering way.
 The book has to end, and you have to know or think about how it might or could end. Sometimes, just because you plan an ending, does not mean that the storyline will actually lead to that ending. However, it is just someplace that, at this time, you want the story to lead to. Feel free to change the story as much as you want.
 Start typing more information into each section. Sit quietly and just let your thoughts and memories guide you, and it will. Keep writing until you suddenly stop. Then read back what you wrote. You might be surprised to see a good part of a book coming to life. It's always good to know about 100 times more stuff than you'd actually use; that means that if you ever feel like writing 99 more books after this one, you can do it without doing another speck of research.
 Then have someone else read it and give you input. But remember; there is such a thing as too much editing.
 You have just written a book.

