 If you intend to be a dog sitter as a primary job or to make enough money doing it that your income is subject to tax, be aware that you should start by having the proper tax registrations locally and federally. This will allow you to pay self-employment taxes incrementally throughout the year; if you wait until the tax deadline comes along, you’ll have a big bill to pay and may be hit with a fine., Since you’re taking care of someone else’s dog, you’ll need to have liability insurance to cover any pets in your care and damage they may cause. The rates will depend on whether you are caring for a dog its own home or boarding it. If you do board dogs, you can sometimes add specialist pet business insurance to your home insurance.
 You want to advertise a daily rate that will be attractive to potential clients. Check the classified ads to see what other dog sitters are charging locally, so that you don’t price yourself out of the market. It’s also a good idea to check to see what local kennels charge per day, so that you can offer a better value.


Your rate should also reflect your experience. If this is your first time dog sitting, consider charging a lower rate than other dog sitters. Once you have a few clients under your belt and have a few good references, you can increase your rate.
 Prepare yourself to work with dogs by going to your local vet, breeder, or trainer to learn about the different breeds and get tips about looking after them. You’ll also want to have references from people who can attest to your character and skills on hand in case a potential client requests them.


Taking a class or consulting with an expert can be great preparation for facing sticky situations, such as deciding when a dog needs to see a vet or handling aggressive dogs and aggressive dog situations. It also can be an impressive qualification when you're advertising to potential clients.
If you’ve dog sat before, be sure to ask if you can use your client as a reference. If you have not, you can still ask for references from people who can speak to your general character and work ethic. Keep in mind that your trainer can serve as a great reference.
When someone agrees to serve as a reference, be sure to ask them for their preferred contact information. If they don’t mind a potential client calling, use their phone number. If they prefer email, get their address.
 Decide if you’d like to offer boarding as part of your services. If you intend to house any clients’ dogs while you’re dog sitting, it’s important to pick a place that’s clean, safe, and appropriate to their needs. If you intend to confine the dog to a specific room or area, it should be comfortable for the dog, appealing for the owner, and convenient for you.Keep in mind that dogs are sociable. They’ll be much happier if they aren’t kept in isolation all day.
The room you pick should have toys, bedding, and water available to the dog. It should not contain anything that could be harmful (like exposed wires or a bowl of chocolates). It should also not contain anything that you're worried about a pet destroying (like an expensive vase or heirloom quilt).
 It’s a good idea to start with your family and friends, and then use those connections to expand your pool of potential clients. Ask your friends and family to recommend your services to others who are looking for a dog sitter.


Keep some business cards on hand with your contact information so that you can hand them out whenever you meet someone who might be a potential client. Give some to your family and friends so that they can pass them along. If you have a vet, ask them if they would be willing to hand out your card to pet owners who inquire about dog sitting services.
 Put an ad in the local newspaper’s classified section, and/or post one on a local classified advertisements website like Craigslist or Gumtree. Create a flyer or poster that you can put up around your neighborhood and on community notice boards. (You can also try distributing flyers door-to-door or in mailboxes, but check first to see if your state has a law against that type of solicitation.) Give interested parties a destination where they can get more information by designing a simple website.


Keep the copy on ads, flyers, and posters brief, professional, and informative. For example, “Experienced dog sitter who is comfortable with big breeds. Available for short or long-term arrangements. Be in touch for more information and references.” Save the list of your skills and experiences for when a client actually contacts you or looks up your website.
Be sure to include your name, contact details, website URL, hours, and rate on all your advertising materials.
Your website doesn’t have to be flashy or expensive; it just needs to provide more information about your services, experience, qualifications, and references. Having a website can save you time when it comes to finding and communicating with clients because it can provide most of the information they're seeking and make the pitch for you.
Many platforms, like WordPress or Wix, are extremely user-friendly and will let you make simple websites for free.
 If someone is in touch to inquire about your services, be ready to explain what services you offer (like walking and boarding) and share your related work experience, skills, and the breeds to which you’re accustomed. You should also be ready to offer references if they ask for them.
 If your potential client is interested in hiring you, arrange to meet with them and their pet in advance. That way, the dog will have a chance to get to know you and vice versa, so you can ask questions about its specific needs, habits, and behaviors.Having a short face-to-face meeting will help the owners instill their confidence in you while making your job as a sitter easier because you’ll be better informed about your ward. It can also head off any potential problems you may have with the assignment. For instance, if the dog is aggressive towards you, you might want to pass on this client.
If the dog will be boarding with you, schedule this meeting at your house so that the dog has a chance to get familiar with this new setting.
While you’re at it, take down a list of emergency contacts, including numbers for the owner(s), their dog’s vet, and another person they trust in case you can’t get a hold of them. Keep these contacts with you at all times while you’re dog sitting in case you need to use them.
 Before you seal the deal, make sure that you settle all the logistics related to dog sitting their pet. The main things you need to figure out is when and where you will be doing the sitting and who will provide the food and other necessary supplies.Schedule times for drop-off and pick-up (or arrival and departure) that are convenient for both of you.
Some clients may prefer for you to house sit while you dog sit so that their dog can be more comfortable in a familiar space. If you’re happy with that arrangement, be sure to get a key and a tour of the house beforehand. If you’d rather house the dog yourself, discuss where you’ll be keeping the dog during the day and at night.
For the sake of costs and the comfort of the dog, it’s usually best for the owner to provide the necessary supplies. That way, you can be sure to feed them food that agrees with them and have supplies, like toys, dog beds, and leashes, that are familiar to them. If you do need to provide some of these supplies, agree as to which in advance.
 It’s important to be clear about the dog owner’s expectations before you dog sit. Ask the owner(s) about the dog’s typical daily routine, and see how you can best incorporate it into your own. If you can’t make an aspect of it work, agree on an alternate arrangement that fits with your schedule.The schedule should include when the dog usually goes out to go the bathroom, when the dog is usually fed (and how much), and how often and for how long the dog is walked each day. Write down your agreed upon schedule or ask them to create a checklist so that you have it as a reference.
 Take the dog out at least once a day, or even better twice, for a long walk to keep them sane, healthy, and happy. It will tire out even the most energetic dog if you take them on a couple of walks through an exciting park with lots of dogs and smells!Making sure that the dog has enough exercise will help mitigate any potential behavioral problems, keep them quiet, and make them easier to handle before bed.
Exercise each dog according to their fitness levels. If a dog is older or has health issues, check with their owner about how far and long it’s able to walk before you take it out.
Check with the dog's owner to see if they have any suggestions for good local walking routes and destinations.
 Adult dogs need to urinate every 8-10 hours, and sometimes more often than that. Besides taking them on a walk, you should let them out the first thing when you wake up, right before you go to bed, and after meals. Doing so will keep them healthy and your floors safe from accidents.
 When the dog you’re watching takes a #2, be sure that you immediately pick it up using a bag and throw it away. Whether it’s in the owner’s backyard or the park, it’s your responsibility as the dog’s guardian to keep the grass clear of waste and help prevent the spread of disease., Since canines have sensitive digestive tracks that respond poorly to abrupt changes, you want to keep the dog’s diet and feeding schedule as close to what they have at home as possible. Healthy dogs are well-hydrated dogs. They should have access to clean, fresh water at all times, even at night.Ideally, the dog’s owner(s) should provide the food and food dish to ensure their pet’s health and comfort.
Be sure to ask the owners if there is any special routine associated with their dog’s meal times that you can also perform. For instance, perhaps they use a particular word like “dinnertime” to tell their dog it’s time to eat, or maybe they make their dog sit and wait for permission to eat before digging in.
 You can either purchase one or assemble one yourself. Either way, it should include basic supplies like a pet first-aid book, self-cling bandages, gauze pads, an antibacterial ointment or antiseptic wipes, disposable gloves, scissors, and tweezers.It’s also a good idea to keep the numbers for the nearest emergency veterinary clinic and a poison-control center hotline with your kit.
 The place where you’re watching the dog should be heated (you don't want "dogsicles"), dry, and well-ventilated. It should be part of or attached to a house, not a shed at the bottom of your garden. Windows that provide plenty of sunlight are a must; you don't want the dogs kept in a windowless cell.If you live in a cool climate, be sure the room is heated. It’s also a good idea to have thick curtains and a rug or carpet to help keep the room and dog warm.
If you live in a hot climate, make sure the dog’s room stays cool and offers plenty of shade.
 If you are planning on babysitting more than one dog at a time, the best idea is to place the dogs in dog crates at night since you don’t want them to attack each other or accidentally get pregnant. While it may look like a cage, many dogs enjoy the sense of den-like security that a crate can provide.The crates should be just large enough for the dog to stand up, sit, lie down, and turn around in.
It is best to stock a crate for each size of dog from a Chihuahua to a Great Dane.
Each crate should contain some sort of bedding. You can use anything from a few clean towels to a duvet to a squidgy dog bed, just make sure the bed fits the dog. It is not ideal to have a Chihuahua in a Great Dane's bed or vice versa.
 Dog sitters generally aren’t expected to be dog groomers, but it’s helpful to have supplies on hand in case you need them. Brushes for various lengths of coats are the most important thing since brushing helps to control shedding and eliminate any surface dirt without affecting the natural oils in dogs’ skin.If you are planning to wash the dog, (and after a long trudge through knee-deep mud, it's probably a good idea), make sure you have a bath with a non-slip mat, a movable shower nozzle, and a mild dog shampoo, sponges, and towels. The owner(s) will thank you for returning a clean dog to them!

