 Leave these drinks in the freezer until they are nearly frozen, but still 100% liquid. You want your drinks to become very cold in the freezer, but not solid or slushy. This can take anywhere from 30 minutes to several hours depending on the strength of your freezer, so frequently check on your beer to make sure it hasn't frozen in the bottle.


If you leave your bottles in the freezer for too long, the liquid inside will eventually freeze solid. Since water expands when it freezes, this can cause the bottles to crack or rupture. This is why it's recommended to use several bottles - if you lose one bottle, you may still be able to use another.
Drinks with clear bottles work best for this trick because they allow an unhindered view of the liquid inside the bottle.;
, This trick requires a sturdy surface to work - tile works best, but if you don't have any tile in your home, you can use concrete, stone, or another similar surface. You don't want to use a surface that can scratch, break, or mar easily, so avoid wood and softer metals.


Set any bottles that have frozen solid aside.
 You want a firm grip on your bottle, but not an intense one. Hold the bottle just several inches above the hard surface you've chosen.
 Your goal is to create bubbles in the bottle, but to (obviously) avoid breaking the bottle, so strike it against the hard surface firmly but not violently. When in doubt, be conservative. The bottle may make a noise like a tuning fork.
 If done correctly, the bubbles created by smacking the bottle against the hard surface should freeze instantly, then, ice should spread from the bubbles throughout the bottle, freezing all the liquid within about 5 - 10 seconds.


If you're having trouble getting this trick to work, your liquid may not be cold enough. Return your bottle to the freezer and try again later.
You may also want to try uncapping the bottle right before you smack it against the surface, as this can aid in the production of bubbles.
 This amazing trick works according to the principle of supercooling. Basically, when you leave your beer in your freezer for long enough, it actually drops below its freezing temperature. However, because the inside of the bottle is perfectly smooth, there is nothing for ice crystals to form against, so the beer stays as a "supercooled" liquid for a while. When you smack the bottle against your hard surface, bubbles form, as they would in any carbonated liquid. These bubbles give the ice crystals something to "grab on to" on the molecular level, so, if you look closely, you should actually see ice radiate outwards from the bubbles throughout the liquid.Now that you understand how this trick works, use it to amaze your friends! Or, if you're at the bar, make a show of it and use it to win free drinks from other patrons!

