 The tip of the pipe cleaner should be sticking out just past the tip of the fork.A bright green pipe cleaner would work best, but you can use a standard dark green one as well.
 Choose some basic yarn. Place the end across the middle of the fork and pipe cleaner. You can use any color of yarn you want. Yellow or white is great for dandelions while pinky-purple is perfect for clover. Orange is great for marigolds., Wrap it around the fork and pipe cleaner 25 to 30 times. Try to keep the wrapped area about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) thick.It's okay if the yarn overlaps itself.

If you want to make puffy white dandelions, wrap the yarn 35 to 40 times., Fold both ends of the pipe cleaner together so that they stick out perpendicular to the fork. Twist them together, pinching the wrapped yarn together., Use a yarn needle to thread a short piece of green yarn between the last two prongs on your fork, right next to the pipe cleaner.Remove the needle, then tie the yarn into a secure knot.

Use yarn that matches the color of your pipe cleaner.
 Be careful not to mess up the tassel or pull it apart. Set the fork aside but don't put it away. You will use it once more at the very end., Wrap the ends of the yarn to the back of the flower first, then tie them into a tight, double-knot. Trim the ends off as close to the knot as you can., Cut an 8-inch (cc-centimeter) piece of more green yarn. Place a drop of glue on top of the knot, then press the end of the yarn into it.You can use hot glue or liquid glue, such as tacky glue or fabric glue.

Hot glue sets up the fastest, but it will also look the messiest in the end.
Tacky glue and fabric glue will give you the neatest finish. Fabric glue is more expensive, but it dries faster.
 At this point, you will have some of your flower showing between the green yarn and the green pipe cleaner. Wrap your green yarn tightly around the bottom of your flower to hide this portion., Stop when you are about ¼-inch (0.64-centimeters) away from the bottom of the flower.If you have any excess green yarn leftover, start wrapping it back up towards the flower again., When you run out of green yarn, place a drop of glue onto the wrapped part, then press the yarn into it. If you are using a liquid glue, such as tacky glue, you may have to secure the yarn with a clip or clothespin until the glue dries., Open a pair of scissors and slide them through the top loops of your flower. Working a few loops at a time, carefully snip them with your scissors., Use the fork to gently comb the bits of yarn on your flower. This will help open them up and make your flower appear fuller., Gently fluff the flower using your fingers. You can also gently roll it between your palms., Take a look at your flower. If you notice any bits of yarn sticking out, trim them down using a pair of scissors.