 Steam cleaning uses hot water to deep clean your carpet and extract deeply embedded particles.You can purchase a steam cleaner and do this yourself. Before you steam clean, you need to vacuum and spot treat the stains on your carpet. Follow the manufacturer instructions for using your steam cleaner.


Pull the machine slowly as you go over your carpet. Only go over the area one time to limit the amount of water that you apply to the carpet.
It is extremely important that you dry your carpet thoroughly. Not extracting all of the water can result in mold, mildew and odor. Open windows and use fans to speed up the drying process.
If you do not want to purchase a steam cleaner, you can rent one from a local hardware store or carpet store.
 Dry cleaning involves applying a dry powder to your carpet, working the powder into the carpet, and then vacuuming up the dry powder. The dry powder helps pull the dirt and soil out of the carpet. Vacuum your carpet before you apply the powder. Follow the instructions on the cleaner to determine how much you should use on your carpet.The instructions may recommend that you use a mechanical brush to work the powder into the carpet. However, the brushes should not be used on Berber as it may cause snags. Instead, work the powder gently in with your hands.
Always read the label to determine how long to leave the powder on. Some powders require 20 to 30 minutes while other compounds may be vacuumed up immediately.
This type of cleaning is recommended for Berber because there is not a risk of over-wetting the carpet and causing mold and mildew.
 If your carpet is deeply stained or you are not comfortable using these methods on your own, hire a professional cleaner. A professional cleaner will assess the type of Berber you have and the condition of your carpet. The cleaner can then choose an appropriate cleaning method.


Use carpet cleaner that has experience working with Berber carpet.
Visit the Institute of Inspection Cleaning and Restoration Cleaning website to find a certified carpet cleaner near you.