 Everyone has things that are important in life, but what do you ultimately value above all else? Don't think about physical, tangible things. Instead, focus on what you want in your life that will give your life a sense of meaning and purpose. Some commonly valued elements of a meaningful life include:


faith
family
friendship/connections with others
compassion
excellence
generosity/service to others

, Personal growth can give you a tremendous sense of meaning and purpose. One of the best and most-fulfilling ways to accomplish this is by finding a career that challenges you to grow and develop as a person.Figure out what you're passionate about doing. You might begin this by examining what your values are. Do you value compassion and generosity? Perhaps a career helping other people might be personally fulfilling for you.
Push yourself out of your comfort zone. Just because you are getting by at your job, it does not mean that you derive any real satisfaction or fulfillment from it. Try finding ways to pursue your passion through volunteer work, and if you like it, see if there is any way you can transition into doing that work professionally on a full-time basis.
Having a fulfilling career will most likely give you a greater sense of purpose and fulfillment than having a lot of money would. You need to be financially secure, of course, but it's more important to live with a sense of purpose than to acquire meaningless wealth.
 Being spiritual may mean a religious life for some people, but spirituality does not require any organized religion. It's entirely possible to live a spiritual life without ever identifying as religious, though some people find religion itself to be quite fulfilling.


Practice self-reflection every day. Learn to control and take responsibility for your thoughts, words, and actions.
Find ways to increase your compassion for others. Work to help others in need, no matter what their circumstances might be.
Try to maintain hope and a positive attitude, even during stressful or tragic situations.Engage with nature. The natural world can be tremendously calming, and many people find that being in nature gives them a sense of spiritual happiness. Try going for walks in the woods, contemplating the landscape whenever you are outdoors. You can also bring nature to you by planting a garden or growing flowering plants in your home or yard., Belonging to some kind of community is an important component of mental health. It can also help give you a sense of purpose and meaning in your life. Even introverted individuals often find that being a part of some larger community is fulfilling and enjoyable.Find groups that share a cause you're passionate about.
Try volunteering with likeminded people for some kind of shared cause.
Join a book club. You'll get to interact with people who share your interests while also bonding over works of art.