 When you first grab the bow, do so while the bow is in a horizontal position. The bow should line up vertically with the strings, and the entire thing should face the ground at roughly a 90 degree angle.A well-made recurve bow will usually have a grip on it that naturally guides the and in place. Even so, it can be a good idea to know how to place your hand on the bow correctly, just in case the balance of the grip does not work for your strength and height or in case you must use a cheaper recurve bow.
 The grip should rest inside the pocket of your non-dominant hand. This pocket is the natural gap that lies in between your palm and your thumb.


If you cannot find the pocket of your hand, try to relax the muscles in your hand more. Oftentimes, tense muscles can cause this pocket to disappear.
Note that if you fail to grab the bow with this portion of your hand, you may not have enough stability to control the bow as you draw it back to shoot.
Ideally, the force of your hand should be at the lateral center of the bow grip and just slightly below the vertical center of the grip. The grip usually lies at the center of the bow. If your bow does not have a grip built into it, grab it near the center and adjust your hand placement accordingly until you can get a firm enough grip to prevent the bow from swaying as you hold it.
You may need to test your hold on the bow by drawing the string back. The hand should feel comfortable, and the center of your hand should come into full contact with the center of the bow grip. There should also be no pressure or force on the wrist during a shot.
 The thumb should rest on the back of the bow grip, and the index finger should wrap around the front and barely brush against your thumb from the other side, if at all. Ultimately, the index finger and thumb must both feel firm without feeling tense.The remaining three fingers of your hand should gently curl toward the front of the bow grip. You may notice that the middle and ring fingers can wrap around the grip while the pinky curls and presses against the grip. The important thing to remember is simply to prevent your fingers from getting stressed.
The position of your fist, including the index, middle, ring, and pinky fingers, should move down diagonally at a 45 degree angle from the bow.
Note that the force of the bow should be placed on the thumb and index finger. These two fingers are the only ones that will really end up controlling to direction of the bow.
 The placement of your fingers should not change as you draw or release the bow. Also note that the tension should only exist in your hand and nowhere else. In other words, keep your wrist, arm, and shoulder relaxed.


Also note that the left part of your palm should not be allowed to touch the actual grip part of the bow. Instead, it should face downward, toward the ground. If the palm touches the bow, you will be unable to turn the bow arm inward, which can lead to a bad shot.

