 Many people experience mood swings, depression, and anxiety as they go through withdrawal. That is because opiates can affect a person's mood, and also act as a numbing agent. As a result, many people going through withdrawal begin to feel painful emotions over events that happened before or during their addiction.The treatment for this will vary, depending on your doctor's recommended course of action.


Some doctors prescribe antidepressants or mood stabilizers to help manage the symptoms of depression and mood swings.Your doctor may administer either clonidine (0.1 mg three times daily) or hydroxyzine (25 to 50 mg every four to six hours) to manage the anxiety and anxiety-related symptoms of withdrawal., Many people going through opiate withdrawal experience moderate to severe gastrointestinal problems. The most common include abdominal cramping, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting.For abdominal cramping and/or diarrhea, take a 0.125 mg dose of hyoscyamine every four to six hours.This medication may not be recommended for people age 65 and older, as it may induce dementia-like symptoms in some patients.To treat nausea and/or vomiting, take either Phenergan (12.5 to 25 mg every four to six hours) or Zofran (four mg every 12 hours)., If you became dependent on or addicted to opiates while treating severe or chronic pain, you may experience increased pain during the tapering/withdrawal period. To manage this pain, try taking over-the-counter NSAIDs, which do not have any risk of dependence or impairment.Ibuprofen may be administered in 400 to 600 mg doses up to three times each day (usually taken with food); however, elderly individuals or people with chronic kidney disease, history of GI bleeding, or chronic warfarin use should not be given ibuprofen.Take 500 mg doses of acetaminophen every four to six hours, not to exceed 3,250 mg in a 24 hour period. This may be the preferred course of action for patients who are unable to take ibuprofen., Some people going through opiate withdrawal experience night sweats and insomnia, which may make it difficult to feel rested. This is caused in part by having become reliant on the opiate's sedative effects to induce sleepiness. To manage night sweats and promote a more restful bedtime routine, try keeping the room temperature slightly cooler than usual, and keep extra pillowcases and pajamas on hand. If insomnia continues to be a problem, talk to your doctor about prescribing a non-narcotic sleep aid.