 Having a timeless sense of style is as simple as buying some new clothes and getting a good haircut. Becoming a timeless person, however, is another thing entirely — you'll need to attempt the difficult tasks of unfocusing your attention from the here and now and getting a broader perspective on life. To start, try to place less of an importance on the passage of time in the first place. Don't worry about growing old — trying to stay young forever or recapture past glory days will only date you. There are few things more awkward than someone who's aged out of a certain social group trying desperately to stay "cool" in the eyes of the younger members.


If you're worried about growing up or aging, it can help to look at the benefits of these things, rather than just the scary and sad parts.For instance, while adults may sometimes fall out of touch with old friends, they also have lots of opportunities to make new ones while devoting their energy to a fulfilling career. Older people also usually have the advantage of maturity and experience over younger people, which can make things that used to seem like a big deal (for instance, peer pressure) seem like no big deal at all.
 A timeless person has a self-identity that doesn't change depending on what's currently popular. Don't make any conscious choices to redefine yourself based on what other people think. Instead, any change in the way you see yourself should come about naturally and effortlessly over time. Don't look down on yourself if you don't conform exactly to what's popular today. Popularity is fleeting and can change at a moment's notice — the sense of peace you get from being true to yourself, on the other hand, lasts forever.


Beware: living your life to be trendy at all costs without considering your true feelings can cause significant problems in the long run: for instance, you may waste time and money trying to get a hold of the latest clothes and consumer goods, you may lose sight of who you truly "are" as a person and suffer identity confusion, and more. Being true to yourself avoids all this.
 In the words of Teddy Roosevelt, "Comparison is the thief of joy."It's a common piece of life advice to avoid comparing yourself to other people because it's ultimately pointless and will almost always lower your self-image. This habit isn't just a surefire way to become insecure and unhappy, however — it will also keep you from being timeless. Spending your time worrying about how everyone has a better life than you robs you of the time and energy you need to grow as person. Rather than changing and maturing naturally, you become static, forcing yourself only to make changes as a reaction to other people and never because of your true feelings and desires.


For young people, avoiding harmful comparisons to other people can be as simple as resisting peer pressure: for example, you shouldn't abandon your tried and true friends once you get a chance at hanging out with the "cool kids." Why be stressed about appearing unpopular when you can simply enjoy your time spent with your true friends?
For adults, this can be more complex: for example, you won't want to compare yourself unfavorably to a coworker who has all the latest tech gadgets or a new car. These things are sources of fleeting pleasure, not lasting satisfaction, so they have no bearing on your status as an individual. If you're true to yourself and this person is not, you're the happier person, no matter what car you drive.
 Someone who's living a timeless life won't be obsessed only with media and art that's currently popular. Instead, she'll have a rich variety of interests that shows an appreciation for the great works of the past and a discriminating taste for the best that the modern world has to offer. A timeless person understands, for instance, that while the language of great books, movies, and music may eventually start to seem old-fashioned, the thoughtfulness and emotional resonance of these works don't diminish with time. Below are just a few select examples of pieces of media that are widely considered to be timeless (there are many, many more.)



Books:Ulysses, To Kill a Mockingbird, Lolita, Catch-22, Native Son, I, Claudius, Pride and Prejudice, A Brave New World.

Movies:The Godfather, Citizen Kane, Vertigo, The Shawshank Redemption, Casablanca, Apocalypse Now, Alien.

Music: Revolver (The Beatles), Dark Side of the Moon (Pink Floyd), Aquemini (Outkast), What's Going On (Marvin Gaye), Blood on the Tracks (Bob Dylan), Thriller (Michael Jackson), London Calling (The Clash).
 A timeless person knows that's wise to pick inspiring people to look up to and to learn from their example when possible. The people who inspire us can be famous people who've achieved great things, people who have shown incredible strength and integrity, or simply friends and family members who have given our lives meaning in some way. Don't waste time worshiping at the altar of pop celebrities — instead, pick a genuine role model with something more substantial and long-lasting to offer you. Below are just a few examples of role models who are truly timeless:



Jesse Owens: A black American who won four gold medals at the 1936 Olympics in Berlin, Germany, single-handedly humiliating Adolph Hitler and disproving the Nazi doctrine of Aryan racial superiority.

Florence Nightingale: A british nurse who selflessly treated wounded soldiers during the Crimean war whose contributions to the field of nursing helped improved the terrible conditions of hospitals at the time.

Sri Chinmoy: Indian spiritual leader who founded the Oneness-Home Peace Run, an event in support of world peace.Note also that role models don't necessarily have to be real people — fictional characters can also be sources of inspiration in your life. A well-written character like, for example, Atticus Finch from To Kill a Mockingbird can be a great role model. In this example, Finch's tremendous strength of character and sense of justice can be an inspiration to anyone who wants to create these qualities in herself.

