 Often there are exclusions of certain items in the "fine print". Don't give up too easily, though, some of these exclusions are regulated by laws which vary from state to state.;
, In the case of an automobile, this will include oil changes, lubrication, the engine air filter, and possibly other things pertaining to a specific vehicle. You will have very little luck settling a warranty dispute if the maintenance schedule has not been followed and documented.
 On some occasion, a replacement part or service work may have an extended warranty for that particular item.
 Some minor problems manage to become major ones if not dealt with properly. An example would be a car with low engine oil pressure. If this is corrected, it can be a simple repair, but if left uncorrected, it will cause engine failure.
 They will sometimes do this to cut cost, but most warranty work calls for factory replacement parts.
 Remind him/her of any promises they made when selling the product, and try to get them to stand behind their product.
 Let them know you will go to the top of the corporate ladder if needed...and follow through.
 Visit the corporate website, look for executive email addresses and FAQ (frequently asked question) links. Write an email detailing the problem, your perspective on why it is a warranty issue, and a description of the response you got from the dealer or seller. Stick to the facts, the date of purchase, the implied warranty if there was one, and the exact nature of the problem.
 When dealing with car problems, go to car websites, and look for Technical Service Bulletins and Recalls. Often, the manufacturer does not want to admit a defect exists, but over a period of time, the industry and any federal government agencies with jurisdiction on the product will force action to remedy common problems, especially safety issues.
 Do not fight a long uphill battle over a small repair charge, but do not compromise safety or quality of life out of stubbornness to make the manufacturer pay for the problem.
 You may continue to have problems with the item, and even be forced to take legal action. In this case, documentation may allow you to recover all your costs, and repayment for lost use.

