 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has pictures of different football players. Tap on it.
 You will be brought to the screen with some of your trades.
 Tap the title on the header toolbar to see a drop-down list of filters. All the trades, regardless of filters, will be displayed with the most recent ones at the top. Swipe down to see more trades.



Filter by Pending Trades—Pending trades are trades that are still active, either waiting for your action or your counterpart’s action. These are trades that you need to watch closely because there may be new ones appearing that may need your attention. You wouldn’t want to miss out on a good deal!

Filter by Accepted Trades—Accepted trades are trades that you or your counterpart has accepted. These trades are closed successfully with both parties getting what they wanted.

Filter by Canceled Trades—Canceled trades are trades that were canceled by you or by your counterpart. These trades didn’t go through and nothing happened.

Filter by Trades to Rate—Trades to rate are trades waiting for your rating. Each trade you’ve closed requires your rating. Each trader can be rated from one to five stars depending on how satisfied you are with the trade. These trades will have the “Rate” button. Tap on it and select how many stars you want to give. Each trade affects the overall star ratings of both parties involved.

Filter by Ignored Traders—Trades falling under this filter are the trades made by traders you’ve marked to be ignored. These are traders you don’t want to deal with.
 Each trade can be studied and analyzed based from the data provided. You can see your trade partner’s username, the current status of the trade, any messages left, the cards being traded, and some action buttons at the bottom.


If the trade falls under the “Pending Trades,” it’s still active and you can see the time running down on each trade.
If the trade is offered to you, you will have “Accept,” “Counter,” and “Decline” buttons. If the trade is offered by you, you will have “Cancel” and “Counter” buttons.
All other types of trades are considered closed or completed, and will only have the “Counter” button in case you want to make another deal with the same trader.

