 Knobs are smaller, and can be installed at only one point where the knob meets the cabinet. Pulls are handles, and are often attached at 2 different points where the pull meets the cabinet.;
, You will want the cabinet knobs to complement the style of the room you are updating. Browse the different colors, finishes and styles that are available in cabinet knobs.


Choose modern knobs if you prefer a contemporary look. Look for metallics in glossy finishes, bold shapes, interesting sizes or retro satin metals.
Select traditional knobs if you prefer an antique or classic style. You can find knobs that are mushroom shaped, wooden, wrought iron or pewter to achieve a colonial or country look.
Buy novelty or specialty knobs to make your cabinets fun. They can come in many themes and styles, including nautical shapes, jeweled knobs, fruits, birds and other animals.
 You will be pulling these knobs every time you need to get into a cabinet, so make sure they are easy to grab and pull.


Ask to try a knob if you are shopping in a store, and if you are considering ordering knobs online, request a sample.
Check to see if the knobs will catch on clothing or jewelry. Round knobs are less likely to grab your clothing, but knobs with sharp ends or points might snag on fibers.
 Hold one knob up to your cabinet before you purchase a whole set of knobs for all your cabinets. Make sure it is not disproportionate to the cabinet.
 Getting a sample knob will help you decide if you like it before you buy. You may have to pay for the sample knob, but most retailers will allow you to return it or put cost of the knob towards the full price of your purchase.
 Retailers such as Lowe's, Home Depot, Target and Walmart will have selections of cabinet knobs. Shopping in stores will allow you to touch and feel the knob, and match it to any fabric or color swatches you may bring with you.
 Access thousands of online retailers by doing an Internet search for cabinet knobs. You should also check major sites such as Amazon, eBay and Overstock. You will probably find a larger selection than you will in stores, and better prices. Be prepared to pay for shipping, however.
 Find out if you are able to return or exchange the knobs if you change your mind.
 You can find previously owned knobs at antique stores, flea markets, yard sales, or online at sites such as eBay, Amazon and Craigslist. If you have a Habitat for Humanity ReStore outlet near you, you can buy donated items from there at a fraction of retail price.

