


Hold your baby in your arms with her back lying along your inner arm.
Her head should be on your forearm.
Your baby should be facing your breast, with her mouth aligned with your nipple.
Pillows can be used to raise her to the appropriate nipple height.
Her head and bottom should be aligned with each other.;
,


While sitting upright, place one or more pillows on your lap in order to raise the baby up to nipple height.
Use the cradle hold with the opposite arm. Use your hand to support your baby’s head and place a pillow under your hand for support. Your free hand will support you breast.
With your baby turned on her side facing you, touch her lips with your nipple. When she opens her mouth to begin sucking, pull her close to you. You breast will open the baby’s mouth further for bigger mouthfuls of milk.



Sit upright with your back and shoulders well supported.
Place a pillow on your lap, towards the side of your hip.
Place your baby on the pillow, facing you.
Her mouth should be aligned with your nipple.
Tuck her legs and feet under your arm and bend her slightly at the waist so that her legs stretch out along your back.
The soles of her feet should be facing the ceiling with her leg’s pointing upwards and her bottom resting on the pillow.
Do not cup your baby’s head, instead, place your hand under her neck.
Once she begins sucking, you can place a pillow under the hand that is supporting her.



Lie on your side and position several pillows around yourself. For back support, place a pillow behind your back. Use 2 pillows to support your head. Place a pillow under your top leg for comfort and place one pillow behind your baby.
Lay your baby on her side, facing you with her mouth aligned to your nipple. Guide your baby’s head onto your nipple until she latches on. Keep in mind that this is a position that is best used with babies who have already developed good latching skills.



Good posture and support is crucial to this position. Lie flat on the bed and elevate your head and shoulders slightly with pillows.
Place your baby face down onto your stomach with her cheek to your breast. Her lips must be close enough to your nipple to allow her to suck. Adjust your elevation by adding or removing pillows as necessary.

