 Go to the YouTube home page at www.youtube.com, and type your video-search keywords in the search bar at the top of the page. Either click on the magnifying glass icon right beside the search bar or hit Enter on your keyboard. You will then be shown a list of relevant videos based on your keywords.


Take advantage of filters. Click on the Filters button found on the left side and right above the search results, and a search customization box will appear. Under “Upload date,” click on the “Last hour” or the “Today” link. Naturally, choosing the “Last hour” parameter will give you a shorter list of videos than if you choose “Today,” “This week,” “This month,” and so on.
The search parameter you choose will appear beside the Filters button, and above the new narrowed-down search results.
Click on “X” beside the search parameter you chose in the previous step. Click on the Filters button again to display the search customization box. Click on the “Upload date” link under the label “Sort by” to make your search time-dependent. New search results will be displayed, each one displaying the time it was uploaded.;
, This way, you will get the list of the most recent videos uploaded on YouTube without having to manually set the parameters through the Filters box.


Type your keywords in the search bar, as well as a time-indicator phrase, separating them with a comma. For example: Beyonce dance videos, this week.
 If you are a YouTube registered user, you can search the contents of your subscribed video channels to find new uploads.


You need to sign up for a Gmail account to be a registered user on YouTube. Sign into your YouTube account using your Gmail address and password. The login button is found at the top right corner of the YouTube homepage.
Click on the Subscriptions link at the left of your home page to browse the channels you’re subscribed to. Click on the title link of a particular channel, which is displayed on the left, to get to the channel’s page.
Click on the Video tab under the cover image of the channel to browse its list of all its uploaded video content.
Select the “Date added (newest-oldest)” option at the top right corner of the channel’s video list. It is usually the default option, but in case it is set to “Most popular” or “Date added (oldest-newest),” change it by choosing “Date added (newest-oldest)” from the drop-down menu found in the box. You should then see the latest videos at the top.
 Subscribing to different channels that cater to your interests allows you to find new videos easily. You just need to be a registered YouTube user to subscribe to channels on YouTube. Sign into YouTube using your Gmail email address and password.


Click on the “Browse channels” tab at the bottom of the left-side column. You will see a page of with a list of popular and recommended YouTube channels.
Scroll down the page to find out more categories of channels: Movies, Music, Comedy, Film & Entertainment, Beauty & Fashion, TV, Sports, Tech, Science & Education, Cooking & Health, News & Politics, and so on. Click on a category title to browse the full list of all channels under that particular category.
Click on the “Subscribe” button to the right of the channel title, and you will be instantly subscribed. To see the list of the channels you’re subscribed to, click on the Subscriptions link.
 You can set alerts and email notifications separately for each subscribed channel. You will then be informed by these channels whenever a new video is uploaded.


Click on the “Manage subscriptions” tab at the bottom left side on your page to see your subscribed channels, as well as the managing options on right side of each channel.
Check the box next to the selected channel, and under the label “Send me updates” to enable notifications by email.
Click on the “All activity” tab next to the selected channel and under the label “Activity feed” to open a drop-down menu, from which you should select the “Uploads only” option.
Check the box before the “Action” button to select all channels. Later, you can check or uncheck selected channels manually.
 You might also want to receive updates of the latest videos in line with your interests, rather than searching manually each time.


Go to the Google Alerts page at https://www.google.com/alerts. Register here using your Gmail address.
Type your desired content type in the “Create an alert” field. Once done, Google Alerts will recommend videos matching your keywords under the Alert box. In lieu of keywords, you can also choose a category from the “Alert Suggestion” list.
Click on the plus sign (+) next to the selected category to add it to your alert list. When you are done, create your alerts by editing alert options.
Click on the “Show option” tab next to the “Create alert” button to modify the alert notification settings. Choose the options from the drop-down menu according to your preferences.
When you’re done, hit the “Create alert” button to enable the alert feature. Check your email inbox, and view the new video content without having to search for it.

