 Maintaining a well-groomed appearance will be pivotal to pulling off this charade of wealth. Be sure to wear clean, fitted, and pressed clothing, groom your hair and nails, and maintain a healthy figure.Don’t worry about dressing in all designer clothes. Look for a few high-end items in resale shops or discount stores, and keep the rest of your staple items clean and pressed.
Have your nails and hair done professionally. Manicured nails and a professionally cut, colored, and styled do is important to propagating the illusion of money.
Hit the gym and watch what you eat. Although true rich people come in all shapes and sizes, you can create envy by looking as hot as possible. Tone your body in the gym 5-6 days a week. Eat vegetables, lean proteins, and whole grains.
 Your name has the potential to make you seem like a pauper or a prince. Even just a nickname you go by can convey a lot about your social class. Select a new name or nickname, and begin introducing yourself this way. This is most convenient if you will soon be entering a new social circle.Nicknames that sounds like they belong to baseball players (such as Chuck or Gordy) can actually sound like wealthy names.
Names that sound old-fashioned (like Benjamin, Alistair, or Bernadette) can make it sound like you come from old money.
Think of ways to slightly alter your existing name, such as using Christopher over Chris, or going by your last name.
 Nothing makes you sound low-class like filling your sentences with “like,” “uh,” or worst of all, the “F” word. These words (and others like them) are known as filler words, and they clutter up the talk of the lower classes. If you want to seem rich, work to banish these words from your patterns of speech., Wealthy people tend to travel in packs. Find out where the rich people go and head in that general direction. If you frequent places where rich people are found, you will naturally make connections.Try a country club. If you are going for “old money” consider going for the country club haunt. Unfortunately, you will need to find someone to get you in, so scan your list of wealthy friends and find reasons to hang with them when it’s time to play mixed doubles.
Check out restaurants or clubs. This may take some planning, but securing the “reserved” table or area at a club screams, “I have money!” Reserve the VIP table at the hottest club in town and order Grey Goose and grapefruit juice--the drink of the money gods.
Visit vacation spots. Head off to Club Med, Aruba, Hawaii or the Hamptons: wherever you could possibly catch Megan Fox or Brad Pitt sunning themselves on the beach. You don’t have to stay in a five star hotel, either. Many hot and happening places offer affordable accommodations.

