 Espresso is made by forcing hot, high-pressure water through freshly-ground coffee beans, yielding a small amount of liquid, about ¾ to 1 ½ oz liquid. A proper espresso is made from coffee beans that have been roasted medium-dark or darker, ground to a fine consistency, and packed evenly into an espresso basket.While there is an endless variety of espresso preferences and traditions, these basic properties define the drink. If your drink fills an ordinary coffee cup, was made from coarse-ground beans, or went through an ordinary coffee filter, it is not a typical espresso.


An "espresso macchiato" adds a small amount of milk or milk foam atop the drink.
 A light brown, frothy layer tops the surface of a properly made espresso. This "crema" is a rapidly evaporating compound of coffee oils and solids, not found in any other coffee drink. Thicker, redder crema, with flecks of copper or dark gold, suggests the espresso was "pulled" perfectly.The crema dissolves quickly after creation, so an espresso served without a crema may have sat out a couple minutes, or may not have achieved enough pressure.
 The "body" of the shot is a dark, thick layer of liquid beneath the crema. This is much stronger than an ordinary cup of coffee, and should leave a complex aftertaste combining bitter, sweet, acidic, and even creamy flavors. If it has a one-dimensional bitter flavor, the beans may have been roasted too dark. Try another café or homemade method, and you'll find a different interpretation of espresso.
 The lowest layer of the espresso, not visually distinct from the body above, is thicker and sweeter, even syrup-like. You may or may not enjoy this on its own – many people stir these layers together – but an unstirred cup without a thick base is a thin, inadequately prepared espresso.


Espresso should have few if any particles of grounds, but you may want to sip the end of the cup through your teeth if your espresso maker doesn't meet these standards. (If the beans are ground to a powder consistency and intentionally poured into the cup, you're drinking "Turkish coffee.")

