 By nature, aquamarine is one of the cleanest gemstones available. Major inclusions are rare and often a sign of mistreatment. A quality aquamarine should not have inclusions that are visible to the naked eye, and any inclusions that are visible through magnification should be slight and interior.;
, Even though aquamarine has a hardness of 7.5 to 8 on the Mohs scale, it can still get damaged if worn frequently or if it strikes a hard surface. If you expect a piece of jewelry to get roughed up, save money by purchasing an aquamarine with interior inclusions that are noticeable to the naked eye. Avoid surface inclusions, however, since these may make your stone more likely to chip or break upon being struck.
 Stones rich in blue are typically more valuable than green hues, but most blue-green hues are more valuable than borderline-clear stones. Ultimately, however, the right hue is a matter of personal preference.
 Deep sky blue stones are the most valuable and, in general, darker shades are more coveted than light shades. Darker shades are rarer, and they also have a more vivid color than pale shades. This, too, is mostly a matter of personal preference, however.



Small aquamarines look nice in delicate pieces, but large aquamarines can make a striking statement.
Since aquamarine is fairly common, you can usually find large carat stones for affordable prices. For most gemstones, the price per carat rises considerably with more carats, but the price per carat for a 30 carat aquamarine is only a third higher than the price per carat of a 1 carat aquamarine.
 The cut of any gemstone determines its brilliance, or the way it reflects light. Well-cut aquamarines are highly reflective. Hold the stone up to the light and turn it to examine how the light strikes it from various angles.
 Aquamarines are fairly easy to cut and resistant to fractures, which allows jewelers to offer the gemstone in a vast variety of shapes. Traditional shapes include round, pear, oval, square, and emerald, but many vanity and modern shapes are also available. Choose a shape that appeals to your sense of taste.
 Heat treatment is a widely accepted practice used to enhance the blueness of a stone. Yellow-brown and yellow-green stones are heated to a temperature between 400 and 450 degrees Celsius, or 752 and 842 degrees Fahrenheit. This treatment is permanent and does not damage the stone.

