 Before you get a boyfriend, you’ll have to meet some guys. Don't worry, it isn't as scary as you think. You can try to get into a relationship with a guy you already know if they are decent, or you can go out and meet some new guys. Make sure he's got a great personality, smart and things that you would like to look in a guy. This is easy and fun to do, so don’t be nervous! Make sure when you're meeting new guys you don't come across fake.


Join a club, community class, or activity group. You can play a sport you like, take an art class at your local community center, or join a study group. Find something that appeals to you and you will instantly be meeting people that you have something in common with so you have something to talk about.
Go out to clubs (adult or all-ages clubs, depending on what you prefer) and start talking with new people there. Just be careful and practice common sense.
Find a group on the Internet which appeals to you. This can be a fan forum for a show or activity you like or maybe a multiplayer video game which you find fun. However, make sure you don't share your personal details online to anyone you don't know.;
, Once you initially meet someone, get to know them a little bit before deciding that he is totally your next boyfriend. You can’t judge someone entirely on how he looks. Try to gauge if he meets your minimum requirements for someone to date.


Is he funny? Smart? Nice? Decide what is important to you and gauge these things during your initial conversation. If he seems totally different than what you’re looking for, it’s not worth it just because he’s hot.
 If he already has a girlfriend or boyfriend, it's best to move on because imagine the other girl's/boy's feelings. This is helpful to him, to yourself, and the person he’s dating. You wouldn’t want someone to do that to you so don’t do it to them.
 Ask around about what this guy is like. If his friends seem honestly happy about the idea of him being in a relationship, that is a good sign. Ask mutual friends about what they think about him and try to get to know his friends or coworkers as well.
 Don't rush your new friend, but remember if he doesn't like you for who you are then don't spend time trying to get him. Go find someone else to be your boyfriend. Don't hope he'll be your boyfriend right away- give him time and get to know each other. Hang out and talk every once in a while to begin with, then start hanging out more often. Give each other space. Usually, if you hit it off really well and have a lot of fun together, the friendship will tend to automatically grow into more frequent visits. Try not to be that person who looks too desperate: you don’t need to decide that he is your future husband within the first week of meeting him.
 Just remember to be yourself when you talk to him. This is especially important if he's the kind of guy who's used to having others approach him. It's important that you remain different because you'll stand out more. Don’t just be another person in the crowd. Don’t just be another person pursuing him for his looks. Be individual and fun and fascinating! This means taking things slow and letting him get to know you. However, don't pressure yourself to do things that you don't necessarily enjoy for the sake of being individual or just because he may like them. Always stay in your comfort level and be yourself! A guy worth dating will be okay with someone that has limits. That being said, don't be afraid to try new things. Does he listen to a band you've never heard of, or never bothered to listen to? Give it a try, you might like them! If you put forth the effort, and create a genuine opinion, even if it (Respectfully) differs from his, it can at least give you something to talk about.
 Don’t close yourself off or seem unapproachable. Set aside time where he knows you aren’t too busy to hang out with him, and let him know that he is welcome to hang out with you. Smile and make eye contact. Don’t look scary, unsociable, or angry. This makes it seem like you don’t want to interact with him and it’s intimidating.


Say you’ve got an extra seat if he’d like to join you for lunch.
Smile and wave at him when you see each other across a room or talking with friends.
Be nice to other people too. Show him that you’re the kind of person that anyone can come and talk to. Be nice to people, compliment them, don’t be rude, and generally show that you won’t bite his head off if he tries to talk to you.
 It’s important to interact with him. Talk with him when you run into each other and find reasons to talk to each other more often. The more you talk, the closer you’ll become and this is a great way to build a friendship that can turn into something more.
 As you become friends, be sure to be a good one. Be supportive and fun. Be someone that he can trust and admire. Most guys tend to date people with whom they have more things in common than just the "relationship" stuff. Being close friends with him makes it easier for you to interact with him and for him to see what he stands to gain from being around you more often.
 Get to know who he is as a person. This will tell you if he is someone that you really want to get emotionally invested in. You don’t have to like everything about him, but you do have to be accepting and uncritical of your differences. You can’t change people, so it’s important to like him as he is.


Talking about politics, religion, your childhood and family, as well as your experiences in school and your hopes for the future will tell you a lot about who he is as a person. Let him know you're interested in his personal life, but don't invade his privacy.
 It is important that you enjoy some of the same things (so that you have something to connect over) but it is also a good idea to have some differences (So that you challenge each other and broaden your horizons). Talk and figure out what you have in common.
 Try to gauge if he’s open to a relationship in general. Maybe he’s already got his eye on someone. Maybe he’s just had a horrible breakup and he’s not open to dating at the moment. You will need to respect him, his feelings, and the situation he’s in by not being overly pushy if he isn’t in the mood for a relationship.


It can be hard to get information like this without simply asking him. Try the old-fashioned method of asking around. Mutual friends may have more details. His friends may even be willing to help, if they want to see him in a relationship and they think well of you.
Be sure not to get stuck in the friend zone if you were thinking about dating him, but remember guy friends are awesome too!
It is important to flirt with the guys you are interested. Don't flirt with every guy because then you will develop a bad reputation.
 Everybody wants to be with someone who makes them a better person. It makes us feel good about ourselves and reassures us that we can be good people if we try. Make this guy the best version of himself by encouraging him to do the things he loves and giving him the space to do those things.


Remember: don’t be condescending, push unwanted advice and help, or try to change him into what you want him to be. Helping him to be his best self is about helping him make the changes that he wants in his life, not turning him into what you want him to be.
 Don’t criticize him harshly when he does something bad or wrong. This will make him feel horrible and he will begin to feel bad when he is around you. Instead, if he does something you don’t like, lead by example to show him a better way to be. You can certainly tell him when you don’t like something he does, but don’t be mean or controlling about it and help him find a good way to change.


If his grades are low and he struggles in school, set up time to spend together studying and tutor him in subjects where you do better than he does. Don’t do his work for him, but help him to realize that he can do it on his own and develop good study habits.
If he has trouble holding down or finding a job, help him by showing the importance of good work habits or helping him look for a job. Offer to go with him to workshops for writing or building resumes, talk with him about ways that he could learn to enjoy work more, or help him find a job that he would be more interested in going to every day.
It is especially important not to criticize him in public or in front of his friends or family.
 Show him that you excel as a person when you’re around him. Show that he makes you a better person. Just as you look to see that he is better when he is with you, he will be looking for the same. Pursue things you love and make him feel included in that part of your life. Ask him for advice on how to change things about yourself that you don’t like.
 Show him that you are mentally and physically independent. You don’t need him to do everything for you (although he should feel that he can help you sometimes) and that you have a mind of your own. It adds to his vision of you as a fully developed and interesting person with standards. He wants a partner, not a blow-up doll.


Never be afraid of being totally honest about your likes and dislikes. Let him know what you think about issues and don’t just agree to everything he says.
 Don’t make him feel like he needs to spend all of his time with you. Don’t make him your go-to source of weekend or Friday night plans. Encourage him to do things he loves and spend time with his friends by doing things that you love and spending time with yours.


One of the reasons that many guys avoid relationships is because they feel it will trap them or keep them from doing things they like to do. Show him that if he’s with you, this will not be the case.
 If you're not, then how else would you know if he likes you or not for who you are? If you are pretending to be someone you are not, you will feel uncomfortable every time you are around him and that is the last thing you would like to happen. If you are uncomfortable around him, it would probably be hard to talk to him and if you can't talk to him, it will be hard to keep a relationship.
 If you find a guy who you share a lot in common with, don't wait for them to ask you to hang out. If you are scared to ask him because you think he doesn't like you, ask anyway. It’s scary but it won’t hurt you and you only stand to gain in the long run.


He might also be shy, so he might not be the one to approach, either because he thinks you're out of his league or because he thinks you might reject him.
 Flirt with him to let him know that you’re definitely interested. Lean in during conversations, touch him casually and lightly, and compliment him (do so honestly, people can always tell the difference).
 If all else fails and he’s still not asking you out on his own, go right ahead and make your move. You don’t want him to get away! Have a date in mind (something that will appeal to him) and go straight up and ask. Try to be confident, as most people find this attractive.
 Be someone that’s good to date. If you become known as a great person to date, it will be much easier to find a boyfriend in the future. Be fun, active, and supportive. Be someone that’s great to be around.
 Do not become known as someone who is critical, lazy, or possessive in relationships. These qualities will make others not want to date you. Give your boyfriend his space, let him be himself and continue to make yourself a better person by going out and doing things.
 The best way to guarantee that no one in your social circle will ever want to date you is to constantly cheat on your boyfriend or seem like you might be cheating on your boyfriend. Be loyal and keep your attention on him. If you’d rather be flirting and hanging out with someone else, then you need to break up with the guy you’re dating. It isn’t fair to either of you if you’d rather be somewhere else.

