 Having a nutritionally balanced, portion-controlled/calorie-controlled meal plan is essential for weight loss. Create your own, use the help of your doctor or registered dietitian, or find books or diet plans online that you can follow.


Take an hour or two of your free time and write up your ideas for all meals and snacks. This will take the guesswork out of daily decisions and provide you with a framework for healthy eating.
When designing your own meal plans, make sure you include each food group daily and ensure you're following appropriate portion sizes.
Take into consideration the amount of quick meals that will be necessary for the week. Plan out ways to incorporate easy, nutritious meals into those days or healthy grab-and-go snacks. By planning in advance, you can help prevent impulse purchases of less-than-healthy foods.
Have extra healthy snacks on you so that you are never stuck without healthy options. You never know when you will be stuck away from home, so preparedness is key.
Incorporate meals that freeze well into your planning. Make twice as much as normal by doubling all of the ingredients that the recipe calls for. Freeze half for a future meal or break it down into single servings to be used as lunch meals.
 Healthy eating and healthy cooking can be a lot easier if your kitchen is stocked with foods that will support your diet. Make time to go grocery shopping each week to stock up on a variety of your favorite healthy items.


A well-stocked pantry can be a great tool for healthy eating. Most items found in your pantry will be shelf stable and easy to keep on hand over longer periods of time. Try keeping items like these for quick and healthy meals: canned beans, no-salt-added canned vegetables, canned tuna or chicken, 100% whole grains (like quinoa, 100% whole wheat pasta, or brown rice), nut butters, and low-calorie and low-sodium soups.
Another very helpful area to have stocked is the freezer. Again, items in your freezer will keep longer. Try stocking up on items like: frozen vegetables (without sauces or seasonings), frozen fruit, frozen pre-cooked grains (like brown rice or quinoa), low-calorie frozen dinners (for busy nights), and frozen proteins (fish or chicken).
Stock your refrigerator weekly with fresh fruits, vegetables, dairy (like low-fat milk, yogurt, and cheese, and lean proteins (chicken, fish, pork, or lean beef).
If you're busy, don't have time or don't like to cook, consider purchasing items that are pre-cooked or pre-prepared to cut down on cooking. Stock up on items like these for quick meals: pre-washed/pre-cut vegetables (like bagged lettuce or steam-in-the-bag green beans), pre-sliced apples, grilled chicken breast strips or cooked hard boiled eggs.
 If healthy cooking is something that's new to you or you need to freshen up your regular recipes, it's helpful to find some new, healthy recipes to try. Expanding your recipe repertoire may help prevent you from getting into recipe ruts or getting bored with your diet.


Try preparing one to two new recipes each week. You don't have to overhaul your entire routine; trying a few new things each week can help you slowly add in some exciting new ideas.
Purchase a cookbook or two tailored to healthy eating, weight loss or low-calorie meals.
Check the Internet for easy altered recipes that will help improve your diet. You can find a variety sites that offer valuable information for healthy recipes and low-calories substitutes.
 Eating healthy snacks is an effective way to receive added nutrition throughout your day and can be beneficial in helping to lose weight.You should eat when you are hungry, so instead of reaching for cookies or chips, grab something healthy like nuts or clementines.


Snacking can be a gray area for weight loss. Really think about whether a snack is necessary before eating it. A low-calorie snack can be a good option before or after a work out or if you're feeling very hungry and there's more than two hours until your next meal.To keep your metabolism moving and keep yourself full, you should be eating every three to four hours. That might mean multiple small meals or three meals with snacks in between.
Generally, snacks should fall around 100 – 200 calories (depending on your activity level). Including fruits, vegetables and lean protein help keep snacks calorie-controlled while still being nutritious.Healthy snacks can include: carrots and hummus, celery and peanut butter, apples, or greek yogurt with fruit.
If you're going to eat in front of the TV or other distraction, prepare yourself a portion of your desired snack, based on how hungry you feel. This way, you won't accidentally overeat while you aren't paying attention, and can enjoy your show without worry.
 Enjoying some of your favorite, more indulgent items every once in awhile is an acceptable action even while losing weight. Just be sure you're truly eating them every once in awhile.


Cut out indulgent foods slowly. If you're used to eating them on a regular basis, try eating them just once a week or once or twice times a month.
If you're planning on indulging, make sure to portion-control your food. This will keep calories limited.Counter act your higher calorie food with a longer workout session. You won't burn off all the calories, but it can help you stay on track.

