 Some classes may prohibit you from using your mobile device but if you are able, your phone is a great way to waste time. Use apps, play games, or message people. Be careful to turn off the volume and to be discreet.;
, You may try to find someone beside you or play with yourself but try to be discreet. You may play a series like first person to win four out of seven games wins and then you can challenge someone else., Count the number of times people sneeze especially during flu season. You may also count the number of yawns in the classroom or the number of times someone asks a question., Draw full scenes or characters. You may also doodle on the bottom of your shoe so that your notebook stays clear and your mom or teacher doesn’t notice. You may also bring scrap paper to class to make sure you always have a place to doodle.Create intricate designs and patterns. Use different colour pens and pencils or punch holes in the paper and connect each hole with a line.
Try to create an intricate doodle without lifting your pencil from the paper. See how detailed you can make it.
 Whether you try to create a paper airplane or an origami figure, learn how to fold paper. You may also just try to fold a piece of paper more than 12 times. It will be difficult passed 10., If you normally write with your right hand then write with your left. If you write with your left than vice versa. See how legible you can make your notes.You may also try writing with both hands at once and see if you can form sentences by writing from either direction simultaneously.
 See if you can draw three dimensional shapes and create patterns. You can connect a series of three dimensional cubes or see how realistic you can draw a three dimensional object like a book., Whether you try to focus on the tick of the clock or your breathing, attempt to block out everything except a single sound. See if you are able to quiet your mind., Draw on your hand or your knee if it’s exposed. Challenge yourself and try to use your opposite hand to draw the exact same tattoo on the other side of your body., Try to touch your nose with your tongue or wrinkle your tongue. You may also try to move your eyebrows up and down. See what your body is capable of but don’t be a distraction. Be careful that no one is watching.