 Maintaining a good relationship with your professor can be a key way to ace the class, as most professors appreciate students who try to build a healthy student-teacher relationship throughout the semester or term. Communicating with your professor about her expectations will also show the professor you are engaged in the class and determined to do well. Often, the professor will remember you as an eager, motivated student and possibly factor this in when giving you grades on assignments.You may get better sense of the professor’s expectations by taking a moment to talk to her after class on the first day. Ask her what she looks for in an A+ student and how you can do well in the class. Let her know that you are determined to do well in the class and participate in class discussions. This will ensure she remembers your name in a sea of other students and recognizes you as a potentially high performing student.
 Another way to show the professor that you are engaged in the class and on top of your studies is to hand in assignments by the due date and according to her requirements.This means checking the class syllabus for her rules and requirements around formatting assignments and completing them. Follow all noted requirements for the assignments, from the type of font specified, to font size to margin size and spacing. If the professor would like a title page for the assignment, make sure you create a title page. You should also always check that you have included your name on every page of the assignment and page numbers, as most professors will appreciate these details.
You may also want to email the professor if you are unclear about any of the required formatting for any of the assignments, as it is better to ask than to hand in the assignment in an incorrect format that will lead to docked points or marks.
 To foster a strong, healthy relationship with your professor, you should try to set up at least one in person meeting with the professor during the semester. This will show the professor that you are engaged and motivated.

Set up the meeting during the professor’s office hours, if she has them. Email her in advance and note what you would like to discuss in the email. Show up on time for your appointment with the professor and prepared to discuss any issues you may be having in the course.
If possible, try to have one in person meeting at the beginning of the semester and one in person meeting at the end of the semester. This will ensure you have check ins with the professor during crucial times in the term.
If you are struggling in the class, do not hesitate to set up an in person meeting with the professor, as most professors will appreciate students who want to work on their poor grade. The professor may show leniency towards you or allow you to do bonus assignments to make up any marks you lost out on in the class. This will bring you one step closer to acing the class.

