 Before moving your goldfish into its tank, let the water sit for at least a few weeks. This time is necessary for the tank to provide a healthy biological environment for your goldfish, so be patient!More specifically, allow the tank to build colonies of bacteria, which will develop on the filter and in the gravel. You’ll maintain this biological environment via a process called cycling.


Once your tank is setup and the filter is installed and turned on, add ammonia.
Continue adding ammonia – while trying to keep it’s amount at 0.06ppm – until enough bacteria have developed to eat both the ammonia and nitrites in your tank.
Determine your levels of ammonia, nitrites, and nitrates by using test kits designed for this purpose.
Continue the process until you get readings that indicate zero ammonia and zero nitrite.
 Regularly cycle the fish tank by changing 100% of the tank’s water while taking care to keep the bacteria that are present in the tank alive. This will help your water “cycle” nitrogen, which is necessary to keep your fish alive.After the emptying the tank of water, add fresh, conditioned water.
Repeat the process of adding ammonia and testing for ammonia, nitrites, and nitrates.
Once you have reading of zero ammonia and zero nitrite, as well as a bit of nitrate in the water - which is produced by the bacteria - your tank has been successfully cycled.
 Keep the water slightly warmer during cycling to increase the speed of bacteria growth. You can even borrow bacteria from a friend who already has a well-established, recently cycled fish tank. Seed your own tank by taking some of their gravel or cutting off a piece of their filter’s sponge and adding it to your tank.Alternatively, add a bottle of ready-to-go bacteria from the fish store. If you go this route, still expect to add some ammonia and test until the tank is balanced.
 You need to change the water even more often than you cycle it. To curb the buildup of waste, change 25-50% of the tank’s water once a week.Leave some of the water in the tank, however, to maintain a healthy amount of bacteria developed by less frequent cycling.


When changing some of the tank’s water, rinse the filter and any tank décor with water your remove from the tank.
Never use tap water to rinse anything that goes in your tank.
Only add clean water that you’ve treated with conditioner.

