 Stimulus can of course be outside factors which cause the malfunction, and subsequent stress. It is important to know the origin for treating the condition. You should learn the basics of human functioning. & have a basic idea about the musculo-skeletal, nervous, and the endocrine systems. Before taking the profession, you should join the course for paramedics, be a certified physiotherapist or at least a masseur. You need to be medically and legally enabled to handle this profession. The provisions differ from country to country. Please ensure that you don’t infringe the law of the land.;
, Bhogi is one who is in constant pursuit of worldly pleasure. Rogi is an indisposed person mentally or physically. You need to master the yoga asanas. Certain asanas like The Corpse pose – Shavasana, The Lotus pose - Padmasana & The Tree pose - Vrksasana are easy to perform and provide instant relief from stress situations. After mastering the yoga asana try to understand their relevance to the body anatomy and physiology. This way you can help your subject to get instant immediate relief from physical stress.
, Read about various religions and try to know about the tenets of each one. You need to have an understanding about various religions and learn how they help people to live a value added life. This will help you to initiate a discussion and encourage the other person to share his insight about the good things about his religion. Your understanding of his religion will help you to become a more attentive and interactive audience. A discussion on good aspect often acts as a good distraction and psychologically boosts up the moral and helps overcome mental stress.
 While you are applying the gentle rub, or massage, soothing subtle music performs the function of applying the massage to the stressed mind. Healing music is available on the Internet or offline too, mostly in the instrumental form. You can download it into your system. Music transcends all boundaries imposed by religions, faiths and beliefs. You don’t have to be an expert in music but being a well informed layman helps you to be an attentive listener if not an active participant. You should know everything about the music you are playing. Author, Singer, Lyrics, Labels, Instruments.
 Most important prerequisite of a stress buster is being a good listener. Stressed subjects often resort to self glorification & amplification of their problems. It is very important to view the problem & its gravity from the subject’s perspective. Let him also understand as to how hard you worked to resolve such an important problem. This will help him develop confidence in you and your abilities as a stress buster. This will also transfer him into a voluntary marketing evangelist for you.

