 Texturizing is thinning out the hair to remove excess bulk. Texturizing scissors, regular scissors and razors can all be used to remove hair.
 Point cutting is typically used on medium-length to longer hairstyles to soften the bluntness of the cut, add texture and interest or remove bulk. It is also good for texturing curly hair.









Comb and lift up a thin segment of hair; hair should be held between the fingers and perpendicular to the scalp.
Point your scissors inward towards the scalp and cut inward at a steep angle to make the "points" and create a textured edge.
The width and depth of your points will determine if the effect is subtle or more chunky.
Deep parallel point cutting uses the length of the blade to reduce weight, creating a “layered” look and feel without actually creating layers.
 Notching works the same as point cutting; the difference is that it's used on shorter, straight styles to create a wild or spiky look. This technique may be challenging at first, but it will become easier with time and practice.
 To use this technique, take your scissors and randomly snip away pieces hair to remove bulk and reduce volume. Freehand notching is done further up the hair shaft than notching, which focuses on the hair ends.
 This is a good choice if you want to remove bulk from the ends of long hair.









Hold the hair perpendicular to the scalp and keep your scissors slightly open.
Slide your cutting shears along the length of the hair away from the scalp.
 Slicing adds movement and texture by reducing the weight of the hair. This technique is performed once the haircut is complete and can be done on either wet or dry hair.









Hold your scissors open (cutting freehand) and slide them down the shaft of the hair, slowly opening and closing the blades as you go.
The more you open and close your scissors, the more hair you'll remove.

Warning: Be careful not to close your blades all the way or you will cut off a whole section of hair.
 This particular technique is often used for men's haircuts. It allows you to cut close to the head and create a softer look than you would get using clippers.









Starting at the hairline,lift a section of hair with your comb.
With the lower blade of your scissors parallel to your comb, cut off the hair that sticks past the comb.
Keep the blade of your scissors moving; stopping mid cut will create little nick marks.
Do most of the cutting with the center part of the blades rather than the tips, which can result in choppy, uneven cuts.
After you've cut the first section, lift some of the cut hair along with the next section you want to cut to act as your guide. Don't cut any of the hairs from your previous cut - they are just there to guide you. Work your way around the hair using this technique.
 A razor can be used to eliminate bulk. In some cases, razors are used in place of scissors to complete an entire haircut.









Part hair vertically down the middle and again horizontally about halfway down the back of the head. Pin up the top two halves and leave the bottom one free; this is your starting point.
Use a fine-toothed comb to pull up the hair at about a 45 degree angle and slide the razor (also held at a 45 degree angle) in short, choppy motions down the ends of the hair to the tips.
Work your way up through the back of the head, then along the sides. If the hair is short, it's ok to razor pieces at the top of the head as long as they're covered by more, unrazored hair.
Do not use razoring on fine, wavy or curly hair; you'll end up with hair that's droopy, frizzy or flyaway.

