 When a person dies, a new estate comprised of that person's assets is automatically formed. If the estate generates more than $600 in annual gross income, a separate tax form must be used to file estate taxes, in addition to personal income taxes. In order to file estate taxes for the decedent, do the following:



Obtain a tax ID number for the estate. This is also called an "employer identification number," or EIN. You can apply for a number online or via fax for mail.Calculate the annual income from the decedent's assets. Assets include savings accounts, CDs, bonds, stocks, rental property, and any other income accrued after the person's death.
 Form 1041, US Income Tax Return for Estates and Trusts, is the form you need to report income, gains, losses, etc., related to the decedent's estate.The form must be filed on or before April 15 of the year following the person's death.


A decedent's estate figures its gross income the same way an individual would; however, a decedent's estate is allowed an income distribution deduction for distributions to beneficiaries. For example, a 401K plan might have designated the person's wife as the beneficiary.These are reported on Schedules K-1 on form 1041.
If more time is needed, you may apply for a five-month extension using IRS Form 7004, Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File Certain Business Income Tax, Information, and Other Returns., Form 706, United States Estate (and Generation Skipping Transfer) Tax Return, is used to report the transfer of assets (such as a house or stock) from the decedent to heirs or beneficiaries. Be sure to fill out and submit this separate form if a transfer of assets has taken place.
 Before you sell the decedent's house or other property, it's necessary to request a Certificate of Discharge from a Federal Tax Lien.This releases the property from the automatic federal tax lien that is attached to a person's estate the day he or she dies. The property cannot be sold until the lien has been removed. In order to apply, you will need:The inventory and appraisement of the estate assets
Copy of the will
Copies of documents related to the sale of property

