 Poorly adjusted mirrors could result in you losing perspective while parking. This can hurt your ability to gauge the distance between your vehicles and obstructions. You’ll want as clear and complete a view of the area around your vehicle as possible.


Even if you are more confident in your parking skills, you should always double check your blind spots to ensure you don’t back into kids, pedestrians, or moving objects, like strollers and shopping carts.
Larger vehicles may have additional mirror mounted to the body of the vehicle to improve visibility. These additional mirrors can be easily forgotten by casual large vehicle drivers. Check these regularly when parking.;
, The more space you have to pull into your spot, the more space you’ll have to maneuver and make adjustments while parking. You might give yourself more space by parking in an empty part of a parking lot, or you could also choose a spot that is surrounded by smaller, more compact vehicles.


Smaller vehicles on either side of your large truck will take up less space in their own parking spot, giving you more leeway as you park., The increased weight of a large vehicle will require you to brake sooner than you would for a normal car, especially if you have a heavy load you are transporting. Taking your time when parking your large vehicle can prevent costly errors, like damaging cars around you or hitting a parking barrier., This is perhaps the safest route if you are less confidant in your large vehicle parking ability. Choose a location of the parking area that is free of other cars. Cut your wheel in the direction you are turning to move into the spot.


You may notice your front end swinging over the parking spot lines into the spot beside you. This is due to the fact that larger vehicles require a wider turning radius to complete turns. You may need to adjust your vehicle in your space after pulling in. Put your vehicle in reverse, check your mirrors and blind spots, then back up.
When you pull back into your spot after backing out, adjust your wheel to straighten out your vehicle as you pull into the spot again.
 The length of your large vehicle will require more space spent turning for you to straighten it out and pull it evenly into its spot. Turning as you would normally in a regular car can lead to over or underturning, potentially into other vehicles. To prevent this you should:Maneuver your vehicle as far away from the parking spot as you are able. The more space you have to approach, the easier it will be for you to straighten your back end and pull into the spot.
Cut your wheel hard in the direction of the spot you are parking. You’ll want the front end of your truck to enter the spot as straight as possible.
Check your mirrors constantly while pulling into your spot. The side of your vehicle may still be straightening, and you’ll need to keep a careful eye to ensure you do not bump or scratch other vehicles., The more aligned your back end is with the spot you are aiming to park in, the less turning you will have to do and the easier your parking job will be. A three-point turn is where you turn in one direction as far as you are able, put your vehicle in reverse to straighten your front end, and then finish your turn by continuing it.You can use this while parking by:


Pulling your front end close to one of the vehicles next to the spot in which you are parking.
Putting your vehicle in reverse and straightening it to line up with your spot as much as possible. Be sure to check your mirrors and blind spots so you don’t hit any pedestrians or cars parked behind you.
 Now that your car is more lined up with the spot, it’s likely you’ll only have to make slight adjustments to your course as you pull into it. Executing this move in tight spaces is a valuable skill when driving a large vehicle, so you may want to practice how to make a three-point turn.

