 Start by signing up your restaurant for an account on the most-used social media networks, like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Pinterest. Then, try to post interesting content on your pages regularly. You can post pictures, event details, links to relevant news articles, special menu items, discounts, or anything else that relates to your restaurant. You can also offer contests to followers, like a competition for the best picture taken of your food.


Be sure to also post links to your website so you can increase traffic to it.You can also post short-term deals on social media, such as "come in today between 4 and 6 p.m. for $5 appetizers." This will make social media followers feel like they are getting special deals and inspire others to keep up with your page updates., It's much easier for a web user to examine pictures of your food or restaurant than it is for them to read through information. For this reason, focus on providing visual representations of your restaurant, like professional-looking pictures of your food and location. You should also post pictures of your staff, events, food-making process, and especially of happy customers. You should also keep an eye out for good photos taken by customers. "Like" them and share them across your social media channels whenever you see a good one., Your goal should be to make your customers feel like they are a part of your restaurant's community. That is, be sure to respond to comments you receive, pictures of your restaurant posted on social media, or any mentions that your receive. Express gratitude for positive media in whatever form it takes. You can also let customers into your kitchen and food preparation process by preparing a "how it's made" video that shows your chef creating a popular dish.


Similarly, you can have other photos or videos that explain how or where you get your ingredients or your chef's process for designing new menu items., Many people searching for a restaurant of a particular type will make their decision based on your average rating. It goes without saying then, that you should strive for a high aggregate review score. To do so, actively invite your customers to rate your restaurant online if they enjoyed their experience. And, on local listing or social media sites, respond your reviewers where possible. Thank those that left you positive feedback for their business and address negative comments with your side of the story or an offer to remedy whatever problem exists., These days, many people are using their smartphones to locate and interact with local restaurants. Apps like Open Table, TripAdvisor, Yelp, and UrbanSpoon allow people to find restaurants near them quickly and use reviews and other data to make a decision about which one to eat at. You can benefit from these quick decisions by joining these apps' databases and building reputable profiles on each. Be sure to add pictures and work with good reviews like you would on any other type of social media.