 Bib coveralls, or bibs, are worn by pulling them up like pants and then attaching them with 2 clasps at the chest. They also offer increased flexibility if you need to move around a lot outside. All-in-one coveralls, usually referred to just as coveralls, cover your legs, arms, back and chest and usually zip or button in the front, like a jacket. They are likely to be warmer than bibs.


Coveralls with sleeves are usually worn over clothes, when working with materials like grease, that ruin all other clothing. These are commonly used by mechanics. Bibbed overalls are often worn in combination with other jackets. They are commonly used by ranch or farm workers.;
, Some construction or utility companies may require certain types of insulated coveralls for safety, such as fire-retardant or reflective overalls. Other businesses may require that a certain color of coveralls be worn during work.
 These include: Dickies, Carhartt, Walls, Land Management, Pella, Berne or Condor. You can shop directly at their websites, if you do not have suppliers in your area.


Go to these websites directly to purchase insulated coveralls for extreme cold. These are often made with quilted linings, waterproof exteriors and triple stitching. They are usually the most expensive kind of insulated coverall because they are made to keep people warm in arctic temperatures.
 The selection of coveralls will go down, especially in stores, as winter progresses. This is especially important if you wear an unusual size, such as extra, extra large.
 You should know what brands fit the best and give you the highest amount of flexibility, while delivering warmth. This will also help you to find the appropriate sizing.
 They are more expensive than unlined coveralls, and they are designed to be durable against the elements. The most expensive lined coveralls are for sub-zero temperatures, reflective safety and flame-resistance.
 They both carry plain colors or camouflage patterns. If you cannot find insulated versions at the store, you can shop online.
 They are harder to find than men's overalls or in stores. You may need to search online or go to these sites directly. Women's coveralls are made to fit women's bodies and they come in traditional colors as well as pink or purple.


Some brands, like Land Management, offer unisex insulated coveralls that can fit both men and women.
 Big Bill and Walls make reflective versions with a safety orange color and with reflective visibility tape trim. Either go online and do an Internet search or go to these brands' websites directly.
 The Walls brand makes a good pair of coveralls that come with a flame-resistant cotton cover, flame-resistant batting and a flame-resistant liner. These are a highly specialized product so the largest selection and best prices will be found through an Internet search.
 You can also go to a shopping search engine like Nextag.com and create an alert to look for a certain type of coverall at a discount.

