 Each company has its own unique personality and culture. Describing the attributes you possess that reflect the company’s values demonstrates interest and shows forethought.


For example, if you are applying for an entry-level position a tech start-up, try discussing your interest and experience with innovative technologies, their product(s), and your desire to work in a creative, start-up environment.;
, Thinking about possible answers to typical questions ahead of time allows you the ability to think things through.


Creating a working list of your attributes or accomplishments can help you decide which of your characteristics are important and eliminate descriptions that might be redundant or less valuable.
 Study the job description both for details about what the job entails and the necessary qualifications. Describe yourself in terms of your interest in performing job duties as well as your ability to do so.


If you are applying for a management position, you may want to describe yourself in terms of leadership strategies you've implemented at a similar company. For example, “I am the director of sales at my current company. I have recently implemented new software to track our sales success.”
You may want to describe yourself in terms of your multitasking abilities or give examples of your strong organizational skills if you applying for an assistant position: “I am currently assisting four associates. They are very pleased with my organizational and interpersonal skills and have recently given me all office ordering responsibilities.”
As an entry-level candidate, you may consider describing your flexibility and willingness to learn a new role. For example, “I am a recent graduate and do have some internship experience with offset printing, but am looking for more experience and opportunities to build on my knowledge.”
As a prospective graduate student, describe yourself in terms of fitting into the graduate program. Discussing your scholastic achievements, outside interests, travel plans, and other things you value give a good picture of you as a whole: “I have been interested in hand paper making and have been conducting some experiments on my own. I am really interested in seeing how I can integrate this experience with your art program’s bookmaking courses.
 If you are a great organizer, merely writing that you are highly organized doesn't mean much. If, however, you talk about a specific time when you were tasked with organizing a large conference of a hundred top executives, you have made you and your abilities much more real., He or she might be able to provide valuable feedback and offer suggestions for topics to discuss or omit.
 Discussing your accomplishments because they are true and relevant to the discussion is completely acceptable. Talking about your accomplishments and good qualities without any evidence or regard for the conversation may work to your disadvantage., Play up your positive qualities and avoid criticizing yourself.
 An interview is not a good time to tell a comprehensive life story. Describe yourself and your accomplishments as succinctly as possible.


Highlight 2-3 points when asked to talk about yourself. Follow up with one example illustrating how your attributes were beneficial in a specific situation.
 Choose words that describe you as a competent professional. Avoid words such as fun, sexy, awesome, or pretty.

