 There are a lot of different types of gaming websites out there. Knowing your focus before you start building the site will help during the design process. Websites often focus on one or two of the following areas when starting out. Once you build an audience and a staff, you can start expanding your focus.


News - The latest gaming headlines and stories. These drive the most traffic for gaming websites, but getting the scoop can be incredibly difficult.
Reviews - Another very important source of traffic, and one of the most popular forms of game-related writing. The reviews market is fairly saturated, so you'll need to do a lot to stand out.
Community - Building a community site is a great way to get involved in the gaming world. You won't be making the money that a news/reviews site would make, but you can gain a dedicated following.
Fan Site - Similar to a community, a fan-site is typically dedicated to one game or franchise. Popular fan-sites may get access to the developer for interviews and assets.
Wiki - Building a wiki about your favorite game can be rewarding and can lead to a great community.
Tips/Strategies/Cheats - Collections of cheats and strategies are a popular search topic, but you'll be up against some very strong competition.
Blog - A blog format allows you to simply post your thoughts and interests as they relate to gaming. A blog is a great way to practice your writing skills and build a dedicated following.
What sets you apart from the thousands of other gaming sites?;
, Before you get into the website creation process, it will help to have the basic layout and visual style worked out. Creating these sketches can range from drawing them on a napkin to creating mockups in Photoshop. Create a flowchart to show how the basic navigation of your site will work.
 Even if you're not going to be building the website yourself, you're still going to need some basic HTML so that you can update the site with your content. You can learn the basics in an afternoon, and with a little practice it will become second nature.

