 Reading poems together is an excellent way to build your child's literacy skills and develop their love of language. As you read poems, ask your child what interests him or her about what you've read, and explain any elements they have questions about.


Talking about rhyme and rhythm works well with young readers. Ask your child to think of another word that rhymes with one in the poem, or have them clap along with the beats of the words as you read.
 Nursery rhymes are excellent for this because they have very familiar melodies. Write down the lyrics, then help your child come up with a poem that they could sing to the same tune. You can use the original song lyrics as a template if you get stuck., If your child can write their name, have them spell it out on a piece of paper, leaving space between the letters. (If they can't write yet, write the letters for them.) Then, encourage your child to think of a poem where each line starts with one of the letters. This personalized poem will develop your child's language skills and make him or her feel special.You can also help your child write acrostic poems for other words. An acrostic poem for "dog" could look like this: "Devoted furry buddy / On my bed is sleeping / Greatest of pets."

, This game begins with the same line each time: "I spy with my little eye / something beginning with..." The rhyming sounds are a natural way to get your child thinking about rhyme. "I Spy" encourages your child to pay attention to details and learn how to describe them., This exercise works best with older children. Have your child go through a magazine, newspaper, or book and highlight several dozen words they find interesting or appealing. They don't have to have a particular reason for why they like those words. Once they've found between 20-50 words, help your child arrange the words into a poem. You can add in new words where needed., As you explore, ask your child to note things that interest them, such as the weather or scenery. If they can write, have them write down their ideas in a notebook; if not, you can take notes for them. When you get back home, help your child decide on what notes to use in the poem. The poem can tell a story or just describe a scene or a feeling.


Encourage your child to use specific, concrete words to describe what they see. For example, rather than saying "the weather is nice outside," you could encourage your child to use specific sensory details such as "the sun shining makes my skin feel warm" or "the blue of the sky looks just like my sweater." 