 Carry a fake weapon or decorate your outfit in a way that shows the neighborhood kids just what you're capable of in superhero mode.


For example, if you have the ability to transform into an animal of some sort, cut out a design using paper or felt and attach it to the front of your shirt or the back of your cape.
If you are planning to be an existing superhero character, make sure your accessory matches theirs.
 Superman's superpowers are a part of his being. Re-create this superhero's look by simply embellishing the front of your shirt with an epic superman "S." You can make it out of felt glued together using a hot glue gun, or even out of stiff paper. Attach it to your shirt with hot glue or velcro.
 Like Superman, Spidey doesn't need any fancy tools to fight crime. To create a Spiderman outfit, draw spider webs all over your outfit, making the front center of your shirt the center of the web.


You can accomplish a web-like look by drawing with silver glitter glue or by drawing the web with white glue and covering it in silver glitter while it is still wet. Allow the glue to dry and then shake off any excess glitter.
You may also want to make a spider out of paper or felt and attach it to the center of your web.
 Batman sports a black belt with square pockets on the sides that hold all of his nifty gadgets. You can make a belt out of felt and sew on pockets if you like, or repurpose an old belt and attach eyeglass cases to the sides to hold your gadgets.


Don't forget to fill your belt pockets with super accessories such as Batman's Bat-monitor (use a black walkie talkie), Bat-cuffs (paint plastic handcuffs black), and Bat-lasso (use a black rope).
If you don't have a walkie talkie or play handcuffs lying around, you can always make these gadgets out of cardboard and draw on the details.
 A gold lasso, a gold belt, gold arm bands, and a shining tiara are this Superhero's most recognizable assets.


Spray paint any rope you have gold for the lasso and tie it to your belt. You can make Wonder Woman's signature gold belt out of thick paper or felt, or spray paint an existing belt gold.
Wear thick, gold bangle bracelets to represent arm bands, or cut out strips of shiny fabric, gold paper, or tin foil painted gold. Place your arm bands around your wrists.
Lastly, create the crowning tiara by covering a headband with a gold material or simply cut a tiara shape out of paper and staple it together behind your head. Attach a red star to the front of the tiara.
 In addition to his impressive mask, Captain America sports a super shield. Make a shield out of cardboard by cutting a large circular shape and painting on the appropriate colors. You can also use a round plastic sled, a large stockpot lid, or round garbage can lid.Attach a piece of felt or ribbon to the back of the shield with hot glue or a stapler to create a handle for the shield.
Cut out a white star from paper or felt and attach it to the center of the shield.
 Wolverine's sharp claws are easy to create using tin foil and cardboard.


Get rubber dish washing gloves and spray paint them the same color as your skin.
Cut out long, sharp claws from cardboard and cover them in aluminum foil.
Use hot glue to attach the claws to the top of the rubber gloves at the knuckles.

