 Know-it-all friends may give advice thinking that they're being helpful. Unfortunately, they might not realize that they're doing more harm than good. Rather than getting upset or frustrated, learn to accept that some people just don't behave as you'd like.


While you can't control what other people say and do, it's important to feel in control of your own behaviors.
Understand that acceptance doesn't mean you agree with their behavior. Your friend may want to give lots of medical advice from their own perspective. Just because you listen to them, that doesn't mean you have to follow what they say.
For example, instead of immediately reacting when someone says something that you don't like or disagree with, focus on how to stay calm and to think before you say something. Nodding your head thoughtfully before reacting can help to delay an immediate reaction.
Recognize that sometimes your know-it-all friends may change, and other times they may not. Set boundaries of what you're willing to put up with versus what you're not.;
, If someone gives unsolicited medical advice that is far from helpful to your situation, you may feel like telling them that they're wrong. Most likely, this will just lead to more arguments about what works, what doesn't, and why from their perspective. When a friend gives some unsolicited advice, and at the end says, "I'm just trying to help," focus on the last part. They think they have some helpful advice, whether you agree or not. Focus on how to respond as if they were just trying to be reassuring.
If you're talking with them in person, be patient and act like you are listening to their advice, rather than ignoring them or trying to stop them immediately. Often times, they just want to feel like they've been heard.
Getting into an argument will likely make you feel worse, both emotionally and physically. While it may be hard to stay calm when you or your family is going through a medical condition, focus on how to reduce your stress in that moment. Breathe deeply.
 While you may be inclined to answer any email that comes your way, it's okay to not respond to every single message. Just be careful if the message comes from a close friend or family member that may continue to pester you if you don't respond. If you feel like it's safe to just ignore the email or message, then go ahead. You don't have to feel guilty about what you do, particularly if you're not ready to respond.
If you feel like ignoring the person could just lead to questioning later, then consider making a brief, generic reply. Consider a reply such as, "Thank you for your message. Wishing you well." Or if you wish to be more direct, "Thank you for the information. I'm in the process of looking at all the options available to me. And then, I will make a decision."

, Oftentimes we don't want to get into confrontations with friends and family. You may be hesitant to tell them what's bothering you about their advice. But, it may be helpful to express in a calm and sincere way about how you feel.Consider saying things like, "I appreciate your attempt to give advice. But I have discussed my treatment plan with my doctor, and feel that this is best course of treatment at this time." or "I appreciate your help on the matter, but I think I'd rather talk about something else right now."
This approach might be best in person or over the phone.
After you've said such information, consider redirecting the conversation to something more positive. Ask them about their other interests or recent events.

