 Using a sharp knife, cut each boneless beef rib into smaller strips. Each of these strips should be roughly 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) thick.


The strips should also be about 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm) long. Cut them on a diagonal for the best texture and appearance.
Note that these strips of beef are slightly thicker than the slices called for in traditional gyudon, so they will need to be cooked for a slightly longer period of time.
Boneless short rib beef works well for this version because it is tender, flavorful, and more affordable than comparable cuts of beef., Pour the oil into a large skillet with deep sides. Heat it over medium-high for 1 to 2 minutes.


The oil should be hot but not yet smoking. Test the oil by dropping a small splash of water in it. If the water sizzles when it reaches the pan, both the pan and oil should be sufficiently hot.
 Place the strips of beef in the hot oil and cook until browned on all four sides. Remove the beef from the pan and set it aside.


If the oil and the pan are hot enough, you should only need to sear each side of the beef strips for 30 to 60 seconds. The exact amount of time can vary, though, so your best bet is to turn the pieces every 30 seconds or so to continually check on their progress.
Transfer the browned beef to a plate. Cover the plate and keep it close to the stove so that it remains fairly warn.
 Temporarily remove the skillet from the heat when adding the remaining oil. Once the oil is in the pan, return it to the heat source and warm it up for approximately 30 seconds.


It is strongly recommended that you allow the pan to cook for a minute or so before adding more oil. Adding cool or room temperature oil to a searing hot pan can cause the oil to splash and splatter, which may result in burns.
 Place the sliced onion in the hot oil and stir-fry for 4 to 5 minutes, or until it becomes fragrant and translucent.
 Carefully pour the teriyaki sauce over the onions. Stir until the onions are thoroughly coated.


Wait another minute or so before continuing. Doing so gives the teriyaki sauce a chance to warm up and blend with the onion flavor.
 Return the strips of beef to the hot pan. Pour the beef broth into the pan, as well. Bring the contents to a simmer, then reduce the heat to medium-low and cook until most of the liquid has evaporated.


It may take 8 to 12 minutes before the beef is fully cooked. Check frequently to prevent it from overcooking and drying out.
 Reduce the heat to low and evenly pour the gently beaten eggs over the beef and onions. Cover the skillet and cook for another 2 minutes, or until the egg has set.


Adding the egg before removing the gyudon from the heat will cook it. Even though this is a non-traditional way to serve egg in gyudon, it is a safer way to prepare the dish since it reduces the risk of spreading salmonella and food poisoning., Prepare two bowls and place 1 cup (250 ml) of hot, cooked rice in each one. Evenly divide the finished gyudon and serve it over the rice in both bowls.


You can take the time to prepare traditional Japanese-style rice, but for this altered version of gyudon, instant rice or standard rice prepared in a microwave, on the stove, or in a rice cooker will work just as well and may save some time and effort.
 If desired, you can garnish the gyudon with pickled red ginger or Japanese seven spice powder. Steamed vegetables and miso soup can be great sides, too.


Consider pairing this dish with freshly steamed carrots, broccoli florets, cauliflower florets, or a combination of the three.

