 If you want to stop swearing around your parents and other adults for good, then you will need to put it in writing. Writing down a goal and looking at it a few times per day is the best way to start making it happen.Try to be as detailed as possible when you write out your goal. Who do you want to stop swearing around? What do you need to stop saying? What can you do or say instead of swearing? How will you reward yourself when you succeed?
Keep your goal in your wallet or purse so that you can pull it out and read it a few times each day.;
, Swearing is a powerful way to express emotions and that is why some people may find it hard to stop.Take a moment to think about when you tend to swear the most. For example, do you swear more when you are angry? Excited? Anxious? Is there a particular topic of conversation that makes you swear? Do you cuss a lot while watching or playing a certain sport? Identify your reasons and work on an alternate way of expressing your emotions.For example:


If you tend to swear when you get angry, try taking a walk when you start to feel angry.
If you tend to swear when you accidentally hurt yourself, try substituting made-up words instead.
If you tend to swear when you are watching a sporting event, try getting a noisemaker and use it in place of swearing.
 If you avoid swearing around parents and adults for a set period of time, that accomplishment may be enough of a reward. But you may also find it helpful to set a reward for yourself.For example, if you go 30 days without swearing around adults, then maybe you can splurge on a new video game or t-shirt. Pick something that you know that you can buy for yourself, but don't buy it until you reach your goal.
 Chances are that you will slip sometimes, and that is normal. Forgive yourself if you make a mistake and make sure that you apologize right away. Explain to people that you are trying to stop swearing so much, but sometimes you slip.Try saying something like, “I’m sorry about that. I am trying to pay closer attention to my language, but sometimes I slip.”

