 Rodents can carry dangerous diseases and transmit them to humans. To protect yourself from bites, scratches, and contamination, it’s important that you wear a pair of thick gloves.Good gloves for this job include work gloves, gardening gloves designed for roses, or heavy-duty leather gloves.;
, Pick up the trap with the mouse and gently transfer it to a clear plastic container or box. The container should have surface dimensions a little greater than the sticky trap, and should be at least 4 inches (10.2 cm) deep.
 Use an old rag or towel that you don’t mind throwing out afterward. Gently lay the towel over the mouse’s head to keep it calm.Place one hand over the mouse near the shoulders and delicately hold the mouse in place while you work.
 Concentrate the oil around where the mouse is stuck. Use as little oil as possible, and avoid getting oil on the mouse directly as much as you can. Use a cotton swab or cloth to massage the oil into the glue.


You can use cooking spray or baby oil as a last resort, but liquid vegetable oil is ideal for this job., Continue massaging the area around the mouse for a few minutes. Eventually, the glue will begin to loosen and the mouse will be able to release itself from the trap. As soon as the mouse is free, remove the trap from the container.


Dispose of the trap in a plastic bag, and seal the bag before transferring it to a garbage can.
 Soak an old rag or cloth with warm water and wring out the excess. Use the cloth to remove any excess oil that may be on the mouse’s paws, head, or body.


Oil will prevent the mouse from regulating its body temperature, so it’s important to remove as much as possible., Place a small bowl of fresh water into the container with the mouse. Place a large towel over the container to make the inside of the box dark, warm, and quiet. Give the mouse at least an hour to rest and relax., Whenever possible, the mouse should be released to a specialist for care. When it’s not possible to release the mouse to a wildlife rehabilitator or veterinarian, ask the specialist about what you can do regarding:


Treating the mouse for oil
Caring for the mouse
Returning the mouse to the wild

, When you can’t release the mouse to an animal specialist, you can find a place in the wild to release the mouse. Whenever you catch a wild mouse near your house, you should always release it within 100 yards (91 m) of where you found it.Releasing the mouse nearby will ensure it’s in familiar territory, and will be able to find food, water, and shelter.
Ideal locations for release are nearby parks, forests, fields, or green spaces.
In winter, consider leaving the mouse in your shed or garage until the weather is more suitable.
 With the towel still covering the container, gently walk or drive the mouse to the location you’ve chosen for release. Avoid jostling the container as much as possible, as this will cause stress and panic.
 Place the container on the ground near some bushes, logs, deep grass, or other cover so the mouse can quickly find a safe place. Remove the towel, gently turn the box on its side, and take several steps back. When the mouse feels safe, it will leave the container and seek shelter.
 Throw out the towels and cloths you used to treat the mouse, or wash them all in a separate load in the washing machine with the gloves. Use a hot water cycle, and add bleach to disinfect everything. Use a disinfecting spray to clean the container, or throw out the box.
 Turn on the taps and rinse your hands under running water. Apply soap and lather your hands with soap for at least 20 seconds. Make sure you get under your nails, the backs of your hands, and between your fingers. Rinse your hands under the water to rinse them off. Dry your hands with a clean towel., Mice can squeeze through openings as small as a dime. Walk around your house and make note of any cracks, holes, vents, openings, or other access points. Seal these with metal or cement to keep mice and other rodents from entering.It’s also a good idea to put screens around chimneys, to use weather stripping on doors and windows, and to repair all window screen holes.
 Mice and other rodents often hide or make homes in woodpiles, shrubbery, and other items that are stored near your house. Keep shrubs and long grass trimmed, trim branches that are overhanging your roof, and store firewood, barbecues, patio furniture, and other items at least 20 feet away from your house., Mice will eat all sorts of things, including scraps, garbage, crumbs, pet food, seeds, fruit, and more. To ensure mice don’t find a food source in or around your home, there are many steps you can take:Store food in airtight glass containers
Clean floors, counters, and pantries regularly
Store pet-food and trash in rodent-proof containers
Clean up fallen birdseed
Pick fresh fruits and vegetables immediately
Address leaks, moisture problems, and other fresh water sources

