 Before you get started, make sure to put a little thought into the goal of each project. Also spend time differentiating your projects and developing an organizational system that will help keep you focused.


Spend a few minutes thinking about each separate project, your goals, aims, and your approach to completing it before you start multitasking.
Create an organizational system in which you’ll keep all material for a specific project. Mixing up your different projects will make you a lot less effective.;
, You should create a list to make sure you’re organized and on task. If you have a list, you’ll be able to see exactly what you should be doing. Ultimately, without a list, you’ll be unable to multitask effectively.


First, check and see if it's imperative that you do all of these tasks personally, or if they can be delegated or outsourced to someone else. For example, could your spouse help you with a household chore? Or, could a coworker tackle part of the project you are working on?
Write down all of your tasks and rank them based on priority. Think about how many of these tasks you can reasonably get done today, and assign the remaining tasks to other days.
Tack your to-do list up somewhere you can see it.
Consider carrying a copy of your list around with you. You never know when you’ll have the opportunity to get some multitasking done., Another important way you can multitask effectively is by organizing your workspace. Without an organized workspace, you’ll spend more time searching for items and digging around in a mess than actually working. As a result, spend some time to make sure your workspace is tidy and organized.


Spend a little time at the beginning of your work day sorting files, folders, and other materials that may have gotten mixed up.
Use filing cabinets or a data storage system to organize projects on a long-term basis. Having all of your information neatly put away will help you to be more effective.
Don’t introduce non-work related material, information, or more to your work environment. It will create a mess and might distract you., Another way of improving your effectiveness at multitasking is to mix your tasks in a way that improves your productivity. By mixing different sorts of tasks, you’ll be able to give your brain a rest when you’ve burned yourself out on more demanding work.


If you’re working on a task that demands a lot of concentrating, mix it with a task that is relatively easy to complete with little attention. By doing this, you’ll be able to take a break from the more demanding task by working on the less demanding task.
Depending on your work style, consider working on projects that are relatively similar – in approach – at the same time. This is important since your brain might take more time switching to different types of work if you move between different types of projects a lot., Before even engaging in multitasking, you should spend a little time reflecting your projects and your abilities. This is important, as you or a specific task might be more suited to unitasking than multitasking.


Remember that multitasking is not always better than unitasking.
Carefully consider how you work best. Does it take you a lot of time to get focused on particular projects, or can you jump into new projects easily?
Think about the nature of projects before you start them. For instance, some projects -- like reassembling a transmission -- are more suited to unitasking. At the same time, projects like writing a number of articles or reports may be more suited to multitasking.
Before starting a task, consider if you will save more time and energy by focusing on it until completion or whether it is the type of project that you can start and stop without losing much efficiency.