 When an owner tells you that their dog is unfriendly or does not like strangers, you need to respect their wishes and leave the dog alone. The dog’s owner knows more about the dog’s personality, history, and temperament than you do and you need to respect their wishes. If they tell you something like, “My dog doesn’t like strangers,” or “Please don’t pet him, he’s shy,” you should not approach the dog.Only approach a dog when you have the owner’s permission and the dog is showing friendly body language.
 Dogs may understand your direct eye contact as a sign of aggression. Do not stare directly into the dog’s eyes and hold their gaze for an extended amount of time. You can look around the dog’s face, or flick your eyes towards theirs, but avoid staring.
 Why do you want to approach an unfriendly dog or one that you know has been abused? The situation will be different if this is your friend’s new dog, or if it is a dog you see on the street that you think is cute.Understand that approaching the dog might not be in its best interests; it could make them feel cornered or attacked, which could make the situation unsafe. Only approach a dog with the owner’s permission and respect that the dog may not want to interact with you, even if the owner says it is okay.


You should be very aware of your own body language in this situation. Only approach the dog when you have a relaxed and casual posture.
 Do not approach the dog head on. Make sure the dog sees you and knows that you are approaching it. Sneaking up behind a dog will frighten it and they may become aggressive out of fear. Approach them from an arc, slightly from the side so they do not interpret your approach as a sign of aggression.


Take your time when you approach the dog and don’t move too quickly., A timid or shy dog may need time to warm up to you. They may only want to approach you when they feel comfortable and secure around you. You can give the dog the opportunity to check you out by sniffing you or walking around you.Stand very still and keep your hands at your sides. Glance away from the dog and try not to stare at them for prolonged periods of time.
 Crouch down or bend your knees to get on the dog’s level. This lets the dog know that you do not intend to harm it and that you want to have a friendly interaction. You can squat sideways so you do not face the dog head on. However, you need to still keep an eye on the dog so you can recognize any changes in their body language.When you are in this position, you lose some of your ability to get up and leave the situation quickly. You should not try to approach the dog if it is displaying any signs of aggression, and only get on their level when you are confident that they will react well.
Keep your face away from the dog’s face when you’re in this position. This could put in you in a compromising situation if the dog begins to feel unsafe and reacts negatively.