 This procedure will help repair any missing registration information or damaged files you have existing within Internet Explorer.


Launch Internet Explorer by clicking on its icon from your desktop or from within your Start menu.
Click on your "Tools" menu, then select "Internet Options." An Internet Options pop-up window will appear on your screen.
Click on the "Advanced" tab, then click on the "Reset" button within the section entitled "Reset Internet Explorer Settings." Another pop-up window will appear asking you to verify that you want to reset all your settings.
Click on the "Reset" button to verify and confirm that you want your Internet Explorer settings reset.;
, In some cases, resetting your Internet Explorer settings can fix any problems or errors you were experiencing within Outlook Express.


Open Outlook Express from where the application is stored on your computer, then attempt to duplicate the error or problem you were previously experiencing. If you are still experiencing problems, proceed with the following steps to reinstall Internet Explorer.
 You will have the option to download and reinstall versions 7, 8, or 9 of Internet Explorer.


Go to the "Microsoft Support" website provided to you in the Sources section of this article, then scroll down to the section entitled "Method 2: Reinstall Internet Explorer."
Click on the appropriate link for Internet Explorer based on the version of Windows you are running. For example, if you have a 32-bit Windows Vista computer, you will be required to download Internet Explorer 8 for Windows Vista.
Click on the "Download" box after you have been redirected to the appropriate Microsoft webpage for your version of Internet Explorer. A dialog box will then appear prompting you to proceed with the download.



Launch Outlook Express from its location on your computer and try to duplicate the actions that previously caused errors. Outlook Express should now work successfully without presenting any issues or errors.
 This procedure should be used as a last resort if all other procedures outlined in this article fail to fix your problems with Outlook Express.


Insert the installation disc that was provided with your computer at the time of its purchase to completely reinstall your operating system. You will then be guided through the installation process by the Microsoft installation wizard..

