 With the right pre-treating strategy, it's possible to get most lipsticks out in the laundry. Start by dabbing the area around the stain with a wet rag to prepare it to absorb detergent.


Don't rub the water in — as noted above, this can spread the stain.
 Next, apply a small dot of your preferred laundry detergent directly to your stain. If you're working with powder detergent, mix a small amount with water to form a loose paste. Use a soft-bristled brush (like an old toothbrush) to scrub the stain and work the detergent into it.


For added results, you may also want to work the detergent into the fabric from the reverse side. This is a useful tactic because it helps works the lipstick away from the fabric, rather than into it.
Be sure to use a detergent that's safe for your fabric — check the garment's care label if you have any doubts.
 Next, give the detergent a chance to soak into the fabric and start to dislodge the stain. This shouldn't take more than 10-15 minutes. While you wait, you can prepare the rest of your laundry load.
 Add your pre-treated garment with a load of other clothes to the washer. As a general rule, hot water and high-intensity wash settings are a little better at cleaning than cold water and gentle washes, so set your washer to the highest settings allowed on your garment's care label.


Many cleaning resources state that it is safe to wash a lipstick-stained garment with other clothes as long as excess lipstick has been scraped off.If you're concerned about the color from the lipstick staining the rest of the clothes, you may want to wash your garment separately to be safe.
 When your wash is done, take your garment out and inspect the stained area. If the stain is still plainly visible, you may need to repeat the pre-treating cycle one or more times to completely eliminate the stain. When you're satisfied with your results, dry your garment.


If you have clear weather outside, you may want to consider drying your garment in the sun on a drying rack or line. The sun's rays are known to lighten stains during the drying process.However, it's important to note that leaving colored clothes out for days at a time can cause their colors to fade.

