 Keep in mind that you’re not obligated to invite anybody to your wedding. This day is about you and your partner. If you have estranged relationships with certain family members or you have fallen out with an old friend, don't feel pressured to send an invite. Plus, if you know certain family members or friends are notorious for being a bit difficult, it might be best to leave them off the guest list.If a distant relative or acquaintance expresses disappointment at not being invited, say something like, “I would have loved to have everyone attend, but we’ve decided to have a smaller wedding because of budget constraints.”
To avoid making people feel left out, consider arranging an informal get-together or party after you return from the honeymoon.;
, If you know ahead of time that an aspect of your wedding will be a point of conflict with one of your guests, discuss it with them. Bringing up the issue will make them feel like you care about their concerns. You may be able to reach an understanding so that your wedding day proceeds without any unhappiness or hurt feelings.For instance, you might want to invite a close friend who happens to be your brother’s ex-girlfriend. Explain your choice by saying, "I know you guys broke up Charlie, but she has been my friend for years. I would really like to have here there. I will make sure you are seated far apart from each other."

, Guests who announce they can’t eat the food at the reception can cause extra expense and hassle for you and the caterer. Include a space on your RSVP card where guests can indicate any food allergies or other dietary restrictions, such as a vegan or religious diet.You can send an email or call guest individually and say, "We are planning the menu for the reception dinner and wanted to inquire about any special diets. Do you have any dietary restrictions?"

, Undoubtedly, something will go wrong at your wedding, but you can decrease your frustration by paying extra special attention to certain aspects of the day. Thinking about what's most important to you and your partner and planning accordingly will ensure the day is memorable, even if there is a small hitch in the plan.


For instance, if you and your spouse really want guests to be able to have fun and dance all night, you might spend extra money on a DJ with a broad range of music choices. That way, if guests aren't pleased with your music choices, they can make special requests., Traditionally, the bride and groom get to choose half of the guests, and the remaining half is split evenly between their families. If you think that your family or your fiancée’s family might not like this arrangement, consider splitting the list three ways.Keep in mind that if one or both of your families are helping to pay for the wedding, they should get a bigger say in who gets to come.
 If you’re absolutely certain about your venue or the style of dress you want, don’t let anyone talk you out of it. You’ll remember this day forever, so stand your ground on details that are particularly important to you.Identify some areas you’re willing to compromise on and use them as bargaining chips. That way, when your mother tries to pick out flowers for you, you can say, “Mom, I really appreciate that you want to help with this, but I’m absolutely sure I want gardenias. Will you help me design my invitations instead?”

, Print names on the response cards included in your invitations, so that guests can’t write an extra name on them. If you do intend to let someone bring a date, make it clear by indicating it on the envelope.If someone tries to write in the name of an extra guest anyways, call them and politely let them know of the mistake. Say, “I’m sorry the invitation was confusing, but we don’t have space at the venue for everybody to bring a guest. I’m looking forward to seeing you, though.”
Be aware that if one of your guests is engaged or married, etiquette dictates that you must invite their fiancé or spouse, too., Some wedding guests who come off as demanding might just be confused. Make sure everybody knows how to get to the hotel, the wedding itself, and the reception venue. That way, no one will give you, your wedding planner, or the hotel staff a hard time when they’re feeling lost.Providing clear directions is especially important if you’re having a destination wedding or getting married somewhere foreign to most guests.
For example, you can provide clear directions and an itinerary on your wedding website. Provide links to hotels where guest can book a stay, offer easy-to-follow directions to the wedding and reception locations, and practical tips like what sort of attire to wear for the event.
 If a guest does start acting rude, demanding, or belligerent at your wedding, you shouldn’t be the one who has to deal with it. Enlist the help of your wedding planner or a friend to handle difficult guests.Decide on a code word ahead of time to let the designated referee know that a guest is becoming a problem.
For example, if your mother-in-law simply won't stop complaining, you might have a point-person in her family to distract her with a task or give her an alcoholic beverage to settle her down.
 If you’ve invited children to your wedding and reception, a little extra thought can ensure they stay happy all night. Doing so will minimize any problems with parents not knowing how to entertain their kids and actually be guests at the wedding. Allow both adults and children to enjoy themselves by providing kid-friendly things to do.


For instance, make sure there will be kid-friendly foods available, set boxes of crayons at their table, and provide small toys or bottles of bubble solution for them., Sometimes people forget their manners when they’re inebriated. There will always be someone who isn’t satisfied with the music, food, or venue, and thinks it’s a good idea to tell you about it. Shrug it off and redirect the conversation if you can – it’s your wedding, not theirs, and a little misguided criticism doesn’t have to ruin the night.For instance, if your great-aunt Harriet goes on and on about how the ceremony was not performed according to tradition, perform a self-assessment and ask yourself "Am I happy with the way things went?" If you are, ignore her criticism and enjoy your special day.

