 For back injuries that are not overly severe, taking Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and/or Ibuprofen (Advil) for pain control and inflammation may be of help.Both of these medications are available over-the-counter at your local pharmacy or drugstore. Follow the dosing instructions on the bottle.


Robaxacet is another option for pain control that also contains a muscle relaxant property.If your back pain is caused from a strained or injured muscle, this is likely to be your best bet to help to alleviate the pain, as well as to speed recovery.
 If you have sustained a more severe back injury, you may need to opt for stronger pain medications. Interestingly enough, medical trials have shown that getting the pain under control early in a back injury is key to optimal healing. This is because chronic back pain can become a neurological pattern in the central nervous system which makes it more difficult to get rid of the longer you have had it for.


Stronger painkillers include prescription strength Naproxen or Tylenol #3 (Tylenol mixed with Codeine), among others., Speak to your doctor if you are interested, or to your naturopath for "prolotherapy" (which is the "natural equivalent" to a corticosteroid injection).
 Note that both of these are "last resort" options that are only considered after you have "failed" to improve with lifestyle methods, rest, and medication., More than 50% of people with chronic back pain develop temporary or ongoing depression alongside the back pain, oftentimes related to the disability they face as a result of the injury. If you feel like you may have depression, or be at risk of developing it, speak to your doctor for guidance and medication if needed., Some of the most common causes of back pain include:


Poor posture at work, with too much standing or continually sitting in one position.
A muscular injury leading to muscle spasms.
Degenerative disc disease.
A herniated disc.
Spinal stenosis - where the vertebral canal (housing your spinal cord) narrows over time.
Other more rare conditions such as a tumor, a fracture, or an infection in your spinal canal.

