 Breathing exercises are a great way to relax whenever you are stressed or anxious and can help prepare your body for sleep. Your breathing becomes fast and shallow when you are stressed, and breathing deeply activates your body's natural relaxation response. If you are looking for an alternative to alcohol for relaxation, you might try a few breathing exercises.Try one of the following breathing exercises:


Try diaphragmatic breathing. Put one hand on your belly and one hand on your chest. Breathe in through your nose and feel your belly rise. Breathe out through pursed lips. Breathing very slowly, take six to ten breaths per minute for ten minutes.
Equal breathing involves an equal in and out breath. Breathe in through your nose for a count of four seconds and then breathe out through your nose for four seconds. Once you have four seconds down, you can increase the count to six or ten seconds.
Extend the exhale to increases the relaxation response. Breathe in for four seconds, then exhale for six seconds. As you exhale, bring your attention to your chest and concentrate on the feeling of release.;
, You may want to consider meditation as part of your relaxation routine. Find a comfortable place to sit in a quiet room. It is best to find someplace that is relatively free from distractions such as television, radio or other people. Set a timer or use a meditation app on your smartphone. Relax and observe your breath until your timer goes off.


Allow thoughts to come and go, like clouds drifting by. When you notice you have been distracted, bring your attention back to your breath.
Research has shown that meditation can help you manage emotions and develop self-compassion, amongst other benefits.You can download meditation apps such as Headspace, Calm and Buddhify.You can also try a guided meditation by downloading a meditation podcast or finding one on YouTube.
You can learn about specific meditation techniques by visiting a meditation center. You may find meditation groups in your area on Facebook or Meetup.com.
 Try going to a yoga class or doing a few yoga stretches at home. Yoga involves a combination of stretches, deep breathing and meditation. Go to a gym or yoga studio to learn some basic yoga techniques, which can help you relax while balancing mind and body.Yoga has both physical and psychological benefits. You can use it, alongside other forms of therapy, to help reduce stress and anxiety., Take a 20-minute walk around your neighborhood to relieve stress and anxiety. There is growing evidence of the benefits of exercise for relaxing and managing stress. If you want to get some exercise without going to a gym, try integrating a daily walk into your routine., Consider going to the gym after work. By getting some physical exercise, you may be able to begin forgetting about the stress of the workday. Going to the gym can also be a great way of coping with alcohol withdrawal, if you are trying to quit drinking.Doing a 20-minute workout can help you relax for several hours. There are numerous physical as well as psychological benefits of exercise.