 Many padded envelopes may actually provide information about proper recycling guidelines. Scan the envelope for recycling information. If you find information on the envelope itself, this is probably the easiest way to figure out where to take the envelope for recycling.;
, Different communities may have different recycling rules when it comes to padded envelopes, and the rules often hinge on what the envelope's material composition. Check with your local city, village or town hall about the rules in your area.Generally speaking, padded envelopes that are entirely constructed of paper are usually recyclable. The envelopes that contain material that looks like dryer lint are recyclable in many communities.
However, paper envelopes that contain mixed materials, such as paper and plastic (like bubble wrap) may not be recyclable unless you are able to separate the plastic from the paper, and discard them separately (the paper in your bin and the plastic at a special recycling center in your community). In Seattle, for example, padded envelopes are generally non-recyclable. Check with your local government about regulations, especially if you have padded envelopes with bubble wrap inside.
 Different padded envelopes will require different recycling approaches. Check with the manufacturer. Some manufacturers' websites offer suggestions for recycling of padded envelopes, and some manufacturers have well developed recycling programs.


Some communities will not accept certain padded envelopes, such as those heavily coated with plastic film, for recycling at all. They also do not recommend that you compost them. Some manufacturers have set up custom programs that work with local recyclers in your region instead.For example, Tyvek industrial packaging contains high-density polyethylene. However, the manufacturer has set up a network of recyclers to take back the items. Contact the manufacturer directly.
Sometimes plastic coating on envelopes can be mechanically recycled into other products, such as cable protection piping, automotive parts, and blown film., The United States Postal Service has a recycling program so strong that it reported recycling 220,000 tons of envelopes, wastepaper, and other materials in one recent year alone. It’s possible the post office will take your padded envelope.The post office buys and uses some recycled materials and also provides recyclable mailers for purchase at some locations.
Many packaging stores (like UPS) may also accept padded envelopes. Check with the local office to find out for sure.If your local post office won't accept the materials, the post office may still be able to recommend other recycling locations.

