 Think about songs or pieces of music that say something to you, or about you, as a couple. Depending on the type of ceremony you are having, this could mean anything from a hymn that expresses a shared spiritual belief to a sweet love song that you danced to at your first date.


Don’t be afraid to break away from traditional wedding favorites. For example, if you’re both huge Beatles fans, you could play “All You Need is Love” as you walk up the aisle.
 This is the period before the ceremony starts, when the guests are being seated. Plan on starting the prelude music 20 minutes or so before the ceremony starts.For the prelude, instrumental music is a good way to go. If you’re going with classical music, a simple but evocative piece like J. S. Bach’s Cello Suite No. 1 could be a perfect moodsetter.
 This is the part of the ceremony where the members of the wedding party and the couple make their entrances. Traditionally, a separate piece of music is played for a bride’s entrance. You might select a song for each of your entrances. Everyone’s attention will be on whomever is walking up the aisle, so choose a piece of music that fits the person or people.Traditional processional favorites include the chorus of Wagner’s “Wedding March” from Lohengrin (which you may know as “Here Comes the Bride”), or Pachelbel’s Canon in D.
Many couples today opt for more contemporary pieces, like Christina Perry’s “A Thousand Years” or “Marry Me” by Train., This is when everyone walks back down the aisle after the ceremony is complete. Recessional music is usually upbeat and celebratory, since it marks the start of your life as a married couple.The traditional recessional piece that most people are familiar with is Mendelssohn’s stately “Wedding March,” typically played on an organ.
If you’re looking for a more fun and modern alternative, consider something like “First Day of My Life” by Bright Eyes., Once you have picked your songs, make sure that they fit with the timing of your ceremony. It’s especially important to practice the processionals with the music. If you can, do a practice run with the musician(s) or DJ who will be providing music at your wedding.