 It's a good idea to work near a large mirror. This way, you can turn your back to the mirror and keep an eye on what you're doing.;
, Hair can make self-tanner less effective. If you have hair on your back, shave or wax it off prior to applying self-tanner. This will help the self-tanner apply evenly to your back.As it can be difficult to shave or wax your own back, you may want to have your back shaved professionally before applying self-tanner.
 Exfoliating your skin is important before applying self-tanner. This will help your tan look smooth and even. Use an exfoliating body rub and a brush or sponge. Rub the body scrub into your skin to remove dead skin cells and leave your skin fresh. Rinse the scrub off when you're done.Exfoliate any areas where you plan to apply self-tanner.
When exfoliating areas like your back, it's easiest to exfoliate in the shower.
As reaching your back can be difficult, try using a shower brush with a long handle.
 Self-tanner needs to be applied to dry skin. Make sure to dab your back dry with a towel after exfoliating. For best results, wait about 20 minutes after getting out of the shower to apply self-tanner., It's always best to apply self-tanner with your hands as this allows you the most control. Apply the self-tanner to any areas on your back you can easily reach first. Put a tanning glove o one hand. Add a pump of self tanner to a tanning glove and rub down areas you can reach like your shoulders, lower back, and upper back with the self-tanner., Take a wooden spoon from your kitchen. Tie the tanning gloves around the wooden spoon using a rubber band., Add two generous pumps of tanner to the mitt to apply the tanner to your back. As it can be difficult to precisely control the mitt when applying self-tanner using a spoon, a little extra tanner is important. You can expect some tanner to smear and fall during the process., As you apply the tanner to your back, sweep the spoon in up and down motions. Go over every area of your back you cannot cover with your hands a few times. This will help the self-tanner spread on in smooth, even layers, leaving you with a realistic-looking tan.It can help to stand with your back to a mirror and look over your shoulder. This will allow you to see where you're applying the tanner.
 After you apply your tanner, look at your back in a mirror to examine your work. When applying tanner using a wooden spoon, you may notice harsh lines. To adjust harsh lines, use a mist formula that you can spritz on. Bend forward and bow your head down. Then, spray the tanner from side-to-side, holding the bottle just above your head. The formula should disperse throughout your back. This should remove any harsh lines that were left on during the up and down motions you made previously with the tanning mitt., Before you put your clothes back on, it's important to let the tanner dry completely. Do not dress until the tanner is completely dry to the touch. Times vary depending on the type of tanner you used.To speed up the process, take a blow dryer and blow it on your skin over areas where you applied the tanner.
 The following day, after showering, you may notice some patches, especially in hard to reach areas like your back. Add a little more self-tanner to any patchy areas. Let it dry just as you did before. This should make your tan look more even and natural.