 If you plan to go to college, then a fine arts degree can introduce you to the world of photography, including professors, equipment, and gallery shows. It can also help you to develop a portfolio under professional supervision.
 Increase your photography experience by signing up for workshops on lighting and action photography. Occasional courses held by photography schools are likely to be less expensive than gaining your degree, but still provide you with new skills and professional tips., Being a freelance photographer means running your own business. Signing up for courses on marketing, finance, accounting, and organization can ensure that you are prepared to handle your business on your own. Make sure you learn strategies on pricing, double entry bookkeeping, online marketing, and negotiation., A DSLR camera is recommended by many professional photographers for people who are just starting out. Choose one that fits your budget and learn how to use it. Experiment with different settings, like the ISO, shutter speed, and aperture., You’ll need to learn to use editing software, like Adobe Photoshop, to make the most of your photos. Purchase the software and play around with it, changing the contrast and color saturation or add filters and effects., You can get ideas on location, lighting, and capturing the personality of a band. Look at concert photos online and in print and think about the angle, exposure, etc. of each photo.Subscribe to or purchase music magazines to see what kind of photos make it to print.
Check out your favorite band’s websites and look through the photo gallery.
 If photography and music are your passion, then experience is the best tool to help you improve and get noticed. Many music photographers suggest always carrying a camera with you. Taking pictures of real-life scenarios in addition to concerts will help you develop your instincts so you know when to snap the perfect photo of the front man on stage.
 Nearly all concert venues will keep the audience in darkness while highlighting only the stage. Practice utilizing the stage lights to get the best photos possible.

If you don’t yet have access to a concert venue, try to recreate the light settings in your home so you can get a feel for how your pictures will turn out.
 Contact band photographers and offer to work as a free intern for a few months. You can learn practical information about photo shoots, pricing, and communication with bands while you pick up pointers on creating amazing photographs.
 You can get photo passes and develop contacts by becoming a dues-paying member of a society of photographers and photojournalists. They may help you to get noticed by labels or magazines in need of band photographers.
 Instead of a resume or a degree, a photographer's worth is judged by their pictures. Create a professional-looking book as well as an online site that showcases your best work. You can also post your shots on social media sites like Instagram and Tumblr., Many photo editing programs can help you create watermarks on your images, which will prevent others from passing your work off as their own. Create a logo for your photography business, or simply use your name or initials., While big venues and clubs require you to have permission to take photos, many small or local bars or clubs don’t. Attend as many shows as possible at local clubs or concert venues and take photographs of the performers. Experiment with your camera settings, as well as with angles and locations., If you take photos at a small or local venue, you may be able to meet the band members after their performance. Tell them you’ve taken photographs of their performance and offer the photos for the band’s website or social media pages. This is a great way to network as well as gain experience.

Add your watermark to the photos before releasing them to the band so that others can see who took the pictures.
 Come up with a low-cost package that will appeal to bands who haven't worked with a professional before. You may choose to do both photo shoots and concert photography in order to get experience and enhance your portfolio., Develop relationships with bloggers, music websites, local magazines, and music magazines. If you start by submitting photos for publication without pay, you may be able to develop contacts that will give you photo passes for exclusive events in the future.Contact the editors of the music magazines and websites and offer to share your photographs.
Develop a relationship with members of the art department for magazine and websites to get your photographs used in their publications or on their sites.
 With a good portfolio in hand, you should try to get varied jobs in the music industry. Creating a good relationship with a label and/or venue may turn out to be more profitable than a relationship with a band.


Contact members of the creative department at a music label and offer your services.
Get in touch with the people in charge of booking performances for festivals and venues and ask if you can take photographs.
Reach out to bands on social media and see if they would like to check out your portfolio.
 If you have an in with a band manager or publicist, or a club promoter, you’ll get the credentials you need to photograph bands. Introduce yourself to these gatekeepers and offer to show them your portfolio. This is an easier and more successful route than trying to get permission from the band members themselves., In addition to taking photos during concerts, band photographers also shoot promotional photographs. Offer your services for photo shoots, magazine articles, product promotions, press kits, and album covers. You’ll get your photographs published and also develop relationships with the band and their team, which can lead to more jobs., Different photographs are needed for different reasons, such as a show or a shoot for an album insert, magazine, or press kit. Find out the requirements for the shoot, so you know if the photograph needs to be a certain shape or size, or if the band or public relations team has any special requests., Photo passes for concerts often have limits. Many do not allow you to have flash and only allow photos for the first 3 songs. Find out any rules and restrictions ahead of time so you can be prepared and get the best possible shots., Knowing what to expect before the concert can help you determine the best location to take your photographs. Learn the band's music as well as what actions they take on stage. Some bands are very active during a performance and dance around or get into the crowd. Others may have a more mellow style and simply sit or stand while singing., Many concerts take place late at night, so you may be working until the wee hours of the morning. If you are touring with a band, you’ll have to follow the call times and curfews as well. Be prepared to work long hours at a show in addition to spending time editing your photographs., When taking photos for press kits or publications, you’ll be able to choose the location. You must know the band and their music well in order to find a place that is suitable. For example, urban locations might be great for a punk band, while rural locations could be better suited for a country artist., You don’t just want generic shots of band members or performances. It’s essential that you capture the mood of the music and the personality of the band. Wait for that moment when a band member’s personality shines through in their performance to take your shot.If you’re doing a photo shoot, don’t be afraid to ask the band members to move or position themselves differently.
Make sure you take into consideration the differences between members, as some may be more outgoing than others.

