 When buying supplements, look for reputable manufacturers. These bottles will have seal of approval on them from an accreditation service, such as Consumer Labs, the Natural Products Association (NPA), LabDoor, and the United States Pharmacopeia (USP). These independent organizations have labs that test supplements to ensure they contain what the label says they contain.Bear in mind that supplementation is not a regulated industry, so it is important to buy pure products and check for interactions against current prescribed medication. Interaction checks can be completed by local healthcare provider as well as pharmacists at drug stores.
You should also remember that most supplements are not backed by scientific research — most evidence is anecdotal, or based on a personal account, rather than the rigorous testing that drugs and medication go through.
Avoid supplements with added sugar, additives, or preservatives. You don’t need additives or preservatives if you are using a supplement before its expiration date.;
, Propolis is a natural resin made by bees that has antiviral capabilities. When you have the flu, take one to two teaspoons of propolis daily. You can get this in liquid form at your local health store or pharmacy.If you want to help prevent the flu, start taking propolis at the start of flu season and continue until it is over.
Do not use propolis if you are allergic to black poplars, bee stings, or other bee products or if you are pregnant or nursing. Ask your doctor before taking it if you have asthma or chronic digestive disorders.
If your child has the flu and you wish to give him propolis, speak with your doctor or a practitioner of homeopathy.
 Andrographis is an herb that is thought to lessen and shorten the symptoms of the flu. It is generally taken as a capsule, which can be found at pharmacies. The general dose can range from 500 to 3,000 mg depending on your need, so ask your doctor which amount is right for you.Do not take if you are pregnant or breastfeeding., Since congestion is one of the symptoms of the flu, you may need a supplement to help with this symptom. Eucalyptus and peppermint are both great herbs that can help with cough and decongestion.They can be found in many cold medicines and lozenges. You can use them both as herbs and oil supplements to help your symptoms, though neither oil should be ingested. These can be found at your local pharmacy or health food store.
Try peppermint tea as well. The dried form of the herb is extremely soothing when you have the flu.
 Echinacea has been shown to decrease the length of the flu by up to one and a half days. Elderberry, another herbal remedy, has been shown to help reduce the flu by up to three days. These can be found in capsule, liquid, or herb form. They are also available as oils, which should not be ingested unless specifically instructed by your doctor.You may be able to find echinacea or elderberry tea at health stores.
Do not use echinacea or elderberry if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.
Look for them at your local pharmacy or health food store.
 Omega-3 fatty acids are used by the body to make anti-inflammatory substances. They can be found naturally in fish, oats, and nuts, but supplements help you get your daily recommended amount. Look for purified, mercury-free fish oil capsules that contain at least one gram of EPA and DHA, two different forms of omega 3s, at your local pharmacy or health food store.Take one to two grams every day while you are sick. You can also take this amount to help prevent further sickness and as a preventative method before you get sick
Be cautious when taking omega 3 fatty acids if you are taking blood thinners. Ask your doctor for advice before you do.
Be aware that large doses of omega 3's can cause increased bleeding, decreased control of blood sugars in diabetics, and increased depression., Spirulina is a blue green algae that has proven in a laboratory context to destroy the influenza virus. It has not been tested in such a way in people, but it may be effective in treating your flu symptoms. It can be found at pharmacies and health food stores. You can take it as a powder, as a capsule, or as flakes. The recommended daily dosage is four to six 500 mg capsules per day.Since the recommended dose varies a great deal, ask your doctor the right dose for your particular case.