 Smiling is by far the most effective thing you can do to attract men. If you do nothing else, be sure to smile around the man you are interested in romantically. Not only do women look most attractive when they smile, smiling sends the signal to men that you are happy, friendly, and approachable. It also reflects a sense of confidence, which both men and women find extremely rare and attractive.


Get in the habit of forcing a smile on your face if you catch yourself frowning. Some people are naturally predisposed to frowning when they are extremely focused or distracted, so it will take some practice to condition yourself to smile more.
Many women look to models who scowl in photographs and try to imitate them, thinking it will make them mysterious and sultry. Remember that while scowling may be "fashionable," it doesn't translate into being attractive. In fact, many trends in fashion tend to be unflattering and unattractive from the point of view of men.;
, Men are universally attracted to women who feel confident about who they are on both the inside and the outside. This doesn't necessarily mean you should constantly boast or act as if you are superior to other people; in fact, being overly confident can be a turn-off to some men. Instead, focus your efforts on finding a sense of inner peace. This means accepting the things you cannot change about yourself and making an effort to change the things you can.


Even if you have some doubts about yourself, like most do try not to point out your flaws or insecurities around men. Pointing out your flaws will only cause him to focus on them and discover negative qualities that he might not have even noticed on his own.
Avoid constantly fidgeting with your hair or adjusting your clothes while talking to a man you are interested in, as these little acts show that you are self-conscious about your appearance.
 Men like women who are on the one hand educated and well-read, and at the same time open to learning and accepting new information. No matter what age you are, you should approach every new experience as an opportunity to learn something new.


Avoid saying prejudiced, disrespectful, or ignorant things in front of a man you're interested in. While it's great to voice your opinion, you should be careful that what you say isn't offensive in any way.
 While some women are naturally more shy than others, there is a big difference between being shy and being timid. Shy women may not crave the spotlight, but they can still be open to new experiences and having fun. Timid women, on the other hand, tend to be more negative, uptight and conservative. Make a conscious effort to just let loose and have fun. Not only will it instantly attract men, it makes your own life a great deal easier to not take things so seriously.
 Men are attracted to women who are down to earth and are easy to get along with. Avoid being overly dramatic or emotionally sensitive. Don't say negative things about people behind their backs, and don't instigate fights with a man for no reason.


While some conflicts are unavoidable in long-term relationships, try not to be the type of woman who starts drama everywhere she goes. It's important to accept that not everybody will please you all of the time, and that that's okay.
 Most men care more about a woman's body than they do about her face or her hair. While some men like curvy women and others like thinner women, the most important thing is that a woman is healthy and in shape. Regardless of how much you weigh, it is important to get regular exercise and keep your body toned.


If you are overweight and want to lose weight, then make a commitment to getting in shape. Not only will it help you attract men, it will also improve your overall quality of life, giving you more energy and reducing your likelihood for certain diseases.
Be sure to stay properly groomed. You don't have to look completely put together all the time, but it's important to stay on top of your personal hygiene. Pluck, shave, and/or wax as needed, shower every day, and wear deodorant to prevent unpleasant body odor.
There's nothing wrong with going au natural. If that's the choice you've made, though, you've got to commit to it and be proud of your body.
 Again, fashion is a topic on which men and women tend to diverge dramatically. While women usually try to stay up-to-date with what is currently on vogue, men are more concerned with whether a woman's clothes are flattering for her body type. When it comes to attracting men, it's more important to wear figure-flattering clothes than to wear ones that are considered "fashionable" or "edgy" at the moment. That said, there's no one "uniform" for attracting guys. Wear clothing that feels like an honest and comfortable presentation of yourself.
 Makeup should be used to enhance your natural beauty, not to create a false image. The general rule of thumb when it comes to men and makeup is: if he notices it, you're probably wearing too much. Stick to neutral colors that match your natural skin tone, and be sure to properly blend the makeup into your face to avoid flaking or discoloration.


Remember that while men are men, they still know what makeup is. In other words, you're not tricking anybody by piling on loads of mascara or lipstick. Men know what a natural face looks like and they know what an overly done-up face looks like.
Special occasions like weddings, birthday parties, or nights out on the town are an exception to this rule. It's okay to get all dolled up every once in a while, just don't get in the habit of hiding your true face from the world on a regular basis.

