 Before trying to end the agreement, you should find your copy of the agreement and read it. Look for the agreement’s expiration date. You might already be nearing the end of the sponsorship term.


When the sponsorship ends, you do not have to renew it. In that situation, you might want to informally talk with the sponsor and explain why you no longer need to be sponsored.;
, In a sponsorship agreement, each side makes promises to the other. In this way, a sponsorship agreement is basically a contract. If the recipient fails to perform his or her obligations, then the sponsor can end the agreement. A recipient of the sponsorship usually makes many different promises:


For example, if you receive sponsorship for a project, then you might promise only to use the funds for that project and not for others.Using funds for an unauthorized purpose can justify the termination of the sponsorship agreement.
Often, the recipient must receive the sponsor’s permission to change the project.The recipient promises to notify the sponsor in writing of proposed changes. Failure to get permission can also lead to a termination of the sponsorship agreement.
The recipient typically agrees to keep financial records and agrees to be audited, should the sponsor want to check how its money is being spent.If you refuse to be audited, the sponsor could end the sponsorship.
For endorsement contracts, recipients often have “good behavior” clauses. For example, a professional athlete who is caught doping violates this kind of clause, and a sponsor would be justified in ending the sponsorship agreement.
 The sponsor also agrees to do certain things. Read your agreement to find out exactly what the sponsor has promised. If the sponsor has failed to perform its obligations, then you can end the sponsorship agreement.


Typically, sponsors agree to maintain a segregated account with funds earmarked for the recipient.If the sponsor fails, then you may be able to end the agreement.
The sponsor may also agree to pay out money on a certain schedule or when the recipient submits invoices. The sponsor’s failure to make timely payment might justify ending the agreement.
 You can end a sponsorship agreement before its expiration date if the other side has not fulfilled its obligations. This is called a “breach.” Accordingly, you should identify the breach and then gather any evidence that you have. Helpful evidence would include:


Preserved conversations. Save emails or letters in which the other party discusses not fulfilling its obligations.
Any documentary evidence. You might have documents showing that the other party hasn’t fulfilled its obligations. For example, you might have invoices showing inappropriate charges.
Photographic evidence. If a person promised to promote your product, then you can use photographs of the person promoting a different product. For example, an athlete might appear at a public event wearing a competitor’s clothing.
 You can also end the sponsorship agreement for any personal reason you might have. For example, you might want to abandon a current project and move onto a new one.


To end a sponsorship agreement for a non-contractual reason, you will need mutual agreement. If the other party refuses to consent to the termination, then you will need to claim that they have breached the agreement.
 You should meet with an attorney to fully understand your sponsorship agreement and how to end it. A lawyer can read the agreement and offer professional advice. You want to end the agreement in a way that doesn’t lead to a lawsuit, and only a qualified attorney can advise you how.


To find a lawyer, you can get a referral from a local or state bar association. You can call up the lawyer and schedule at consultation, where you can discuss the sponsorship agreement and your options.
You are encouraged to hire a lawyer to help you, especially if a lot of money is at stake. A lawyer can help you with negotiations or with terminating the contract. Also, if a lawsuit is unavoidable, then a lawyer can represent you in court.
 The sponsorship should have a “termination clause” that explains how you can end the contract.Read your agreement and look for the clause. It should appear toward the end of the sponsorship agreement.


Typically, the termination clause will allow you to end the contract if the other side fails to perform an agreement or if the other side doesn’t object to a proposed termination.Realize, however, that when you break a contract, you are inviting a lawsuit. The other side might argue that it has satisfied all of its obligations under the agreement and that you cannot terminate the contract.
 You will have to notify the other party that you are ending the agreement because the other side has not fulfilled its obligations under the agreement. You can provide this notice by writing a “demand” letter.In the letter you tell the other side why it is in “default”—that is, what obligation it has not performed. Try to be as detailed as possible. For example, the recipient might have used money for an unauthorized project. You should cite the provision in the agreement which prohibits this.
 If you want the other party to try and cure the violation, then remind them of the deadline in the agreement for curing any default. Tell them how to cure. For example, the recipient could cure by refunding the money spent on an unauthorized project.


However, you should be upfront if you want to terminate the sponsorship agreement.For more tips on drafting this letter, see Write a Breach of Contract Letter.
 The sponsorship agreement might tell you where you must send your letter.Be sure to send it to the right address.


If you don’t, then the other side could argue you never properly gave notice of the breach.Mail all communications certified mail, return receipt requested. Also keep copies of any communications for your records.
 You can try to end the sponsorship agreement at any point in time if the other side will agree. Either the sponsor or the recipient can propose negotiation. Your lawyer can call the other side’s lawyer and suggest it.


The purpose of negotiation is to come to an agreement that benefits you both.To reach that result, you might have to give something up to get something in return.
For example, the recipient might want to end the sponsorship early to work on other projects. Ideally, the recipient would like the sponsor to give him all of the money due under the agreement.
However, the sponsor is unlikely to agree. Instead, the sponsor would like the recipient to continue working on the project. Since neither party is likely to get all of what they want, each will have to compromise.
 Effective negotiation requires that you strategize with your attorney about how to approach negotiations. The more information you have going into negotiations, the better. In particular, you should discuss the following:


Your baseline. What is the minimum you are willing to settle for?If you are the sponsor, will you only agree to a settlement if you don’t have to pay more money? If you are the recipient, will you only settle if the sponsor immediately lets you out of the sponsorship agreement? When you have a baseline, you can bargain effectively and walk away from negotiations if your absolute minimum isn’t met.
Your best alternative to negotiation.You should understand your alternatives. For example, you might have a strong argument for terminating the agreement and winning a lawsuit. Or your best alternative might be to fulfill your obligations for the remainder of the agreement.
 You will probably negotiate at a lawyer’s office. You should let your lawyer handle most of the discussions. However, you should always share your opinion. Furthermore, your lawyer cannot accept a settlement offer without your permission.


Remember not to cave too quickly.You might feel stressed by negotiations and just want them to be over with as soon as possible. Nevertheless, you might leave money on the table if you cave too soon.
 Instead of negotiating, you might want to mediate the dispute. In mediation, you and the other side meet with a third person, who is the mediator. The mediator is a neutral person who listens to each side describe the dispute.


Like negotiation, mediation is voluntary. In fact, you should think of mediation as “assisted negotiation.”The mediator will assist both parties come up with an acceptable solution to their disagreement.
Mediation is a good option if you can’t afford a lawyer. The mediator will help make sure that the other party doesn’t dominate the negotiations.
You can find a mediator by contacting your local courthouse, which may keep a list of mediators. Or you can call your local or state bar association, which should have information about mediators.
 If your negotiation or mediation is successful, then you can sign a settlement agreement. The agreement is a contract. It can replace the sponsorship agreement you currently have. Your lawyers should draft it.


You can also sign a “mutual rescission agreement.” This is an agreement between the two of you to end the sponsorship agreement.If you sign a mutual rescission agreement, also make sure to sign a waiver of future liability. This waiver is an agreement that neither side will bring a lawsuit based on the current dispute.
 If you can’t reach an agreement, then you might want to go ahead and stop performing your obligations under the sponsorship agreement. The other side might then decide to sue you for breach of contract.


You should have a lawyer represent you in the lawsuit. Depending on your sponsorship agreement, you could owe the other side considerable amounts of money if you lose. A trial is sufficiently complicated that you will want expert help.
You will defend yourself at trial by pointing to the other side’s breaches of the sponsorship agreement.
For more information, see Defend Yourself in a Breach of Contract Lawsuit.

