 The coat of your spaniel will be easier to brush if you shampoo it regularly.One shampooing per month will clean the fur adequately while still allowing its natural oils to benefit the coat and skin.Shampooing can help to untangle and soften the coat, making brushing less discomforting for the dog and less strenuous for you.


Make sure the dog’s coat is fully dry before beginning with brushing.Another way to soften the coat before brushing is to use an anti-static spray.Most pet stores with dog grooming supplies should carry this.
You can begin shampooing a puppy after they're five weeks old.;
, Some dogs may shy away from being brushed, especially when they’re younger and not used to it. But you can help to calm them by petting them in their favorite spot, such as the chest or stomach. Talking to them in affectionate and reassuring tones before and during the brushing can also make them less nervous. And offering them small treats as you brush will help to keep their attention off any discomfort they may feel, while creating a positive association between brushing and rewards.For example, you could tell them, "That's a good dog, come here and get some treats," or "Sadie, time for brushing, here's a treat, that's a good girl."
Avoid grooming just before meals or soon after they wake up, since they may be more restless at these times.
 In order for you and your dog to be in the best position for brushing, place the dog on a table for brushing. The higher the table the better, since the closer the dog is to your torso area while you stand, the less you’ll have to bend over and potentially strain your back. A workbench or kitchen counter will typically be near the correct height to act as a grooming table.


To prevent your spaniel from slipping while being brushed, place non-skid material, such as a rubber mat or sturdy cloth, over the surface of the table.If your spaniel refuses to stay on a high table, you can try grooming them on a bed or couch.
 Use a coarse scrub brush with natural bristles to comb once gently through the entire coat. This will remove superficial dirt and loosen up the coat for the next stages of brushing.Since Irish water spaniels have long and soft hair, you should use a scrub brush that has long, widely spaced, and soft bristles., A good way to locate matted hair is to comb through the coat with a wide-tooth steel comb. If you come across any tangled, clumped, or matted hair, first try to gently tease out the tangle with the steel comb. Whatever matting remains can be separated with a de-matting comb or mat separator. And adding some vinegar to the matted or tangled area can loosen it and allow you to comb it out., Now changing to a slicker brush, comb through the puff of hair on the head, or “top knot.” This should be done by brushing in the direction opposite the way the hair falls. Flatten the top knot forward against the top of the head, and brush it in this direction. Then flatten it back the other way and brush toward the back end of the dog.As you proceed, remove dead hair caught between the bristles of the slicker brush.


Continue with the ears, brushing first upward against the way the hair falls, then downward to smooth it out.
Start by brushing the top of the hairs, and work your way down toward the skin. Brush more gently as you get closer to the skin., Pick up a front foot by the elbow, and brush upwards against the fall of the hair. Then, as with the top knot, brush downwards to smooth out the coat. Then repeat this with the other legs.Pay extra attention to high-friction areas under the legs, where matting and tangling are typically found.Since you’ll only be holding one leg at a time, the dog may be tempted to run off at this stage. If the dog does try to escape, ask someone to help you hold their body as you brush the feet.
 Finally, use the same technique to brush through rest of the body, still using a slicker brush. Starting at the neck, brush toward the front, removing dead hair from the comb’s teeth. Then brush the same area in the opposite direction, smoothing the coat out towards the back end. Work toward the tail, then finish by brushing the belly., After you’ve finished, be sure to reward your dog with their favorite treat, pet them, and tell them that they were good. Concluding the brushing session this way will make your spaniel less likely to be afraid to be brushed the next time.

