 In order to receive the protection from legal liability corporations and LLCs enjoy, a business will have to register with the Secretary of State’s office. In New York, this can be a two-step process. First, you reserve a name at http://www.dos.ny.gov/corps/llccorp.html. The cost is $20 and is good for up to sixty days.
Then, you file the articles of incorporation or organization with the Secretary of State. The forms are available at http://www.dos.ny.gov/corps/forms_listing.html. The costs for filing articels of incorporation are $125 and $200 for an LLC.
 Applying for an Employer Identification Number (EIN) is easy. Just go to https://sa.www4.irs.gov/modiein/individual/index.jsp and begin the application. You’ll just need to know the names and addresses of the principal officers of the corporation., Nearly all businesses will be required to collect sales tax. While registering is simple and free of charge, you will need a little more information than you would to get an EIN. You will need:Contact and identifying information for both the business and the principal officers of the business, including Social Security and Employer Identification numbers, share of ownership, and primary responsibilities of each principal.
Business license numbers of any kind.
Tax preparer’s identifying information, including their EIN.
Even if you sell nothing, you’ll need to file quarterly sales tax statements with the state.
 As an employer, it’s possible you’ll need to pay into the state unemployment insurance fund. However, not everyone is required to. You can find out if you are by going to https://applications.labor.ny.gov/eRegWeb/registerEmployer/uiEPMWelcomeMain.faces and examining the requirements for your type of business., Within 120 days (about four months) of filing the articles of incorporation or organization, a new business must publicize their existence.You’ll have to take out a classified ad in two local newspapers once a week for six consecutive weeks advertising yourself to the public. After the period of publication ends, the newspaper will give you a Certificate of Publication.
File the Certificates of Publication at New York Department of State, Division of Corporations, One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue, Albany, NY 12231. The filing costs $50 per certificate.
 Once you’ve publicized your new business and submitted the certificates of publication, you’ve competed all of the steps common to every businesses. That doesn’t mean you’re finished, however. There are numerous licenses, permits, and regulations you’ll have to obtain in order to begin operation in New York City. However, the code of city regulations is so extensive it’s nearly impossible to give general advice on which permits you’ll need to get.Luckily, the city government is aware of this, and they’ve designed an online questionnaire you can fill out in a few minutes that can tell you exactly what will and won’t apply to you. You can complete the questionnaire at http://www.nyc.gov/portal/site/businessexpress/menuitem.6cf201b64436cf94a36a29106cd2f9a0/


