 A healthy diet generally promotes healthy skin and hair, and this includes your beard., As the hair transitions from stubble to a full-fledged beard, you are likely to encounter several weeks of itch.The itching is unpleasant, but don’t despair because it will go away. You must persevere!


You can also purchase a conditioning lotion tailored to help soothe beard itch during this uncomfortable period., The best thing you can do to achieve a full-bodied beard is let it grow. It may mean a bit of a wild man look for several weeks, but attempting to trim or shape a beard too early can result in thin or patchy areas that can set you back a month or more.Since beards certainly don’t grow at the same rate, it’s hard to put a time frame on this, but you should wait until you have about 1” or 1.5” of growth before you do any trimming or shaping., You wouldn’t use face wash or regular soap on top of your head, and you shouldn’t on your beard either. Use shampoo to clean your beard about every other day, but you can tailor this to oily or dry skin types as well.








Using a moisturizing shampoo will keep the hair healthy and stop the hair from becoming brittle., Even if you don’t use conditioner for the hair on your head, you should make a habit of using it on your beard. Beard hair is much more prone to getting wiry or brittle, and conditioner will help keep the hair soft and healthy.You may even want to consider a leave-in conditioner that you don’t have to rinse out., Beard oils are specially formulated conditioning oils that help promote a healthy beard. Apply a dime-size portion after your morning shower and work it thoroughly through your beard.Some men even like using a boar bristle brush to work the beard oil fully into their beards., Noncomedogenic simply means that the product won’t clog your pores. If you use any type of styling products on your beard such as mustache wax, look for this word on the product to help avoid developing blemishes or ingrown hairs on the skin beneath your beard., Just as a stylist combs out your hair before taking scissors to it, you want to do the same with your beard.You may specifically prefer a wider-tooth comb or a boar bristle brush for combing out your beard.
 Especially when you’re going for a longer or tapered beard, you’re better off trimming the bulk around your chin with scissors, but you can still use a beard trimmer on the sides and around your cheeks.Start with a longer setting on your beard trimmer. Nearly all beard trimmers are going to have a guard with adjustable lengths. Since it’s always easier to remove a bit more rather than grow some back, start with a longer setting on the trimmer and move down incrementally until you find the setting you want.No matter whether you’re trimming with scissors or a beard trimmer, always trim your beard when it’s dry.
 When it comes time to pull out the scissors, start from the bottom and trim slowly in small groupings rather than shearing too much.Use a comb in coordination with the scissors to trim at equal lengths.
Though you start at the bottom, you may find it helpful to trim up one side of your beard to shape it, then duplicate it on the other side afterward as opposed to shaping the whole thing at once., Sometimes the difference between a kempt beard and a grizzly one is a matter of cleaning up the edges. Shaving any stray upper cheek hairs, cleaning up your neckline, and trimming any accompanying mustache (if you have one) are all important in managing your beard.


The standard way to determine your neckline is to look at your profile in a three-way mirror and imagine a slightly curved line the runs from just behind your earlobe down to just above your Adam’s apple.Shaving anything below this line will create a suave, natural neckline.

