 Create ads for your site. An ad is a banner on the top or side of your side that markets a specific product. If you can find ads that are relevant to your business that will make it much less shocking for readers to see these ads. Normally you will need to have developed a decent amount of traffic before you can find advertisement companies that are willing to pay to feature their ads on your blog.


Once you have built up a solid following you can try to convince advertisement agencies to promote their product on your page by approaching them directly. You can also use Google Adsense, which places targeted ads that Google generates based on search history. You will get paid for this too. You’ll earn money every time someone clicks the ad links on your site. , Use your blog to convince your customer to do something with a call to action. Maybe that’s sharing your blog, or to register, or to buy something, or sign up for a premium membership. Whatever your call to action is, make sure you are offering enough content for it to feel worth it to them. You need to give readers a lot before you ask for anything in return. , Once your blog has grown in popularity, you can start offering paid membership programs for premium content or special perks. Be careful not to turn people off by adding a membership program.


The best way to do it is to keep all the existing you content you have available for free, and then when you reveal the membership plan you can roll out a ton of exciting new content only available for members. That way you don’t risk pulling the rug out from under loyal readers who don’t want to pay money, while at the same time enticing your readers to pay a small fee to see all the new content.
 Partnerships can help boost the popularity of your blog, although you won't exactly be making money off of it.


For example, if your blog is about health food for families you might partner with a health food store. You can help promote their services and they can help promote yours. Giving away products that the store gives you for free is one way to do this.

