 Shouting at them will only make matters worse and they will be more curious about what you are doing . Make sure of language you use, don't be too polite but don't swear at them, after all you just want to get rid of them not make a huge problem, also avoid any physical contact.;
, You can check that email afterwards. Just open up some non-personal site and pretend to be looking at it. If what you are doing is not very important close your computer and get some fresh air, it will even help you think. If it is very important ask the person to leave because your job depends on it or something of that sort


Better still, open up some boring Wikipedia article and start reading.The person will soon clear off, but if they don't, start doing something very annoying but do not make it obvious (like whistling or humming out of tune) they will be annoyed and hopefully leave you.
 Don't encourage them or smile at them. Keep a really mean and unapproachable face, turn your back on them and try to block the computer as much as possible without making it extremely obvious that you are trying to block their view and do the work, obviously the boring article!

, If they are a bit mature, tell them, "I don't mean to be rude, but this is really some personal work, and it would be really appreciated if you move out for a minute. Thank you" They will most probably move out.
 If they don't move out even after telling them and not even a boring article deters them, shut down your computer and talk with them (not about the snooping).


When they leave (they always do, they aren't here for keeps), politely bid farewell and do your work.
 If it's really urgent work, close the window and walk out of the room with your cellphone. Pause at the door and pretend to dial a number and don't look at the snooper. Put the cell phone to your ear and wait as if you are waiting for that non existent person to answer. After a few moments say "Hello" and then talk about something really interesting. In the middle of talking, pretend to have just seen the snooper and glare at him/her and resume talking. If they are thorough snoopers, they will go behind doors or fall back behind you and eavesdrop. Grab your chance and walk to your room quickly, but don't run, for then they will sense that you are trying to put them off. Walk into your room and close the door (Don't slam it on their face, close it quietly when they are at a distance). Do your work!

, If anyone bangs on the door, tell them that you are doing some work. If they persist, tell them that you'll open it in a few minutes. If they do not leave you should buy earplugs because they block almost all sound and are cheap!


If the snooper is a family member, you have to respect him/her, and do your work secretly, or you shouldn't open the door at all when you are browsing anything that you would not like to share with him/her.

