 During your dog’s recovery period, you will want them to wear a harness, not a collar. A harness will even out the pressure from your control movement, whereas a collar will add pressure to the head and eye area, potentially interfering with recovery. Also, remember to be extra gentle when maneuvering your dog via their harness., Just like a human recovering from surgery, your dog should take it easy in the days following their procedure. Rest is the most important thing so that their body can heal. Encourage your dog to relax by laying down on the floor beside them. Build up to taking slow walks around the neighborhood.


To limit your dog’s movement, you may also want to place them in a crate. However, make sure to only do this for short periods of time or your dog’s muscles could cramp, slowing recovery even more.
 Make to keep all of the hospital paperwork nearby, showing exactly how much medication to give your dog and when. Give your dog the complete course of medication, even if they look better after a few doses. Your vet will most likely prescribe topical antibiotic eye drops that your dog should take for three to four weeks. This will help to keep your dog’s eye from getting infected.


Make sure to wash your hands before applying a medication to your dog’s eye area. This will help to prevent the spread of germs.
Carefully watch your dog’s reactions to their post-op medications. For example, if your dog tries to furiously rub its eyes after the drops, then talk with your vet about other options.
You can expect to see some mild swelling around the eye area. A limited amount of clear discharge from the eye is also normal. If you notice anything concerning, contact your vet.
 It is a good idea to know the warning signs to watch for in the post-surgery period. Keep an eye on your dog over time to make sure that they do not exhibit any signs of infection, such as smelly eye discharge. Your dog may also respond poorly to anesthesia, so make sure that your dog becomes more clear-headed over time.