 This item will be used to record all of your gardening chores ahead of time. Whether you opt for a wall calendar or a weekly planner depends on your preferences. A weekly planner is portable and will give you more space to be specific about chores, while a wall calendar can be hung in a highly visible location and may keep you from forgetting to consult it.;
, Before attempting to fill in the calendar directly, make a list of all your chores. Your list should span an entire year, because it will need to include both regular tasks like weeding and watering as well as seasonal tasks like buying seeds, harvesting, and overwintering your plants.


Begin by filling in the important seasonal tasks and marking approximate dates for them. These gardening tasks might include buying seeds, starting the seeds, sowing them, harvest dates, and rotating areas of your vegetable beds.
If you already maintain a diagram to help you plan your plant rotation schedule, make sure to coordinate the gardening calendar with the diagram. Consider cross-referencing it directly to clarify your calendar entries.
Finish your list by filling in regular tasks such as weeding, watering, fertilizing, and turning your compost pile. These tasks should be listed next to their required frequency, such as "weekly" or "biweekly."

, After revising and double-checking the list, begin filling in tasks on their specific date. Mark the date of the last frost on your calendar and use it to choose appropriate dates for tasks. Mark down all regular tasks like watering on specific dates too, while keeping in mind that adjustments may need to be made due to changing weather.


Any tasks with longer lead times should be planned ahead accordingly. For example, if you will be buying seeds from a catalog, allow enough time for them to be delivered. If you are starting seeds indoors, plan them ahead so that they can be transplanted outdoors just after the last frost.
Consider using different colored pens for different types of tasks. For example, you might use red ink for major tasks like sowing seeds and blue ink for regular tasks like weeding.
 Your gardening calendar will likely not be perfect the first year. Tasks might be spaced inappropriately, or major tasks might have been forgotten altogether. As you follow the calendar's schedule through the first year, make note of how it could be improved for future use.
 A major benefit to using a gardening calendar is the reference they provide you with in future seasons. For example, if a crop of radishes did very well one year, you can consult with your calendar to see the exact dates they were planted and harvested. These dates can even be cross-referenced with an online almanac that can give the temperatures on those days.

