 You should always consult with a professional coin grading service before you clean your collectable coins. Cleaning collectable coins can significantly reduce their value, and in fact, sometimes coin “toning” or the discoloration and patina caused by exposure to air can actually add to the coin’s overall value.For that reason, you shouldn’t be cleaning valuable or antique coins.


When you are handling antique coins, always hold them on the edge and not on the coin's face. Oils and fingerprints can hurt a coin's value.
There is standardised grading for coins, so even the smallest scratch from wiping one off can significantly reduce its value.
 Use a dedicated lint-free cloth and lightly dab the coin until the Vaseline is removed. This is a way to pick up any unwanted dirt or dust, without damaging the value of the coin. When doing this, be careful, and use a magnifying glass.


You can use a q-tip or a very soft non-synthetic brush to apply the Vaseline.
Do not put too much Vaseline on the coin. The trick is to put on the thinnest layer possible.
 Leaving any acetone on your coins can add a brownish haze to them and reduce their cost significantly.It's imperative that you immediately rinse your coins with distilled water and get all of the acetone off the coin before allowing it to air dry. Do not wipe or rub your antique coins. Because acetone is a solvent and not an acid, it will not affect the value of your coins unless they are exposed to it for a prolonged period.


Acetone is flammable. Wear powder-free gloves if you decide to use this chemical.
If you are using a jar of distilled water, line the bottom with a napkin so that your coins don't get scratched by hitting against the inside of the jar.
Use 100% acetone. Other products that contain acetone will also contain other chemicals that can destroy the value of your coin.
 You may store your 2x2 plastic holders in a binder to display all of your coins. Hard plastic is better because it is more sturdy and will prevent your coin from being damaged. The most important thing is that the containers are air-tight and that the coins will not be exposed to the environment around it.


Make sure that you remove any plastic that contains PVC plastic. Buy coin flips that use Mylar flips because PVC can damage the coins over time.
Keep your antique coins away from staples or other metal.
Do not use paper. It contains sulphur and can turn your coins black.