 Today, the American-style grip described above is generally considered the most commonly-used variety matched grip. However, it is far from the only matched grip. For instance, a grip style called German grip is one common variation on the basic American grip that is sometimes used to give the drummer additional power (especially for timpani and bass drums in classical music). To use a German grip, start by finding and gripping the balance point of your sticks exactly as you would above.
 Next, when you have a good grasp on your drumstick, turn your hands so that the flats of your palms are facing the drum surface. Because the vast majority of drums are set up so that the striking surface is roughly level with the floor, this will mean turning your hands so that your palms are facing downward. However, some types of drums, like bass drums, are set up vertically, which means you'll need to turn your palms so that they face sideways.
 Curl your middle fingers underneath the stick so that it rests comfortably on them. Your ring and pinky finger are less important in the German grip than they are in other types of grips — you may use them for solid support if you wish by wrapping them around the stick or simply fold them loosely underneath.
 When you use the German grip, if you're playing on an ordinary drum that's set up horizontally (like most snare drums, tom toms, and so on), your palms will be more or less parallel to the floor. Turning your hand this way has a tendency to make a drummer's elbows bend outward a little — if you notice that this is the case with you, don't feel the need to tuck your elbows in. With the German grip, letting your elbows bend outward can make it easier to get the power and control you'll need to play properly.
 When you're ready to play, hit the drum by turning your wrist downward with a striking motion. The sticks should have a good "bounce" when they hit the drum — if they don't, you may need to adjust your grip position up or down the sticks slightly. Keep the striking motion in your wrist. Try to avoid using your arms, shoulders, or fingers.









The German grip is all about power — you shouldn't have a hard time producing loud, ringing hits with this grip, making it great for heavy rock drumming, marching band, and lively classical pieces. However, you may find it a little difficult to control your drumming during quick, intricate passages, making German grip less-suited for jazz drumming, technical rock drumming, and so on.

