 It's important that your toothpaste contains fluoride, as it helps strengthen the enamel of your teeth. Your enamel is under constant attack from acids, and fluoride remineralizes the entire structure. Make sure fluoride is an ingredient in any toothpaste you buy. It should be 1,000 parts per million in your toothpaste.Fluoride is particularly important for diabetics, as it helps remove plaque. Because having infection in the mouth can be dangerous to a diabetic, it's important to keep your mouth, gums, and teeth as healthy as possible.Consider adding a 30-second rinse with an antibacterial mouthwash to ensure oral health.;
, It's best to pick a toothpaste approved by the American Dental Association (ADA), as they make sure each product with their seal meets certain standards. The toothpaste packaging will have the ADA logo on it if it is approved by this organization., When you are looking for a toothpaste for your child, it's important to pick one designed specifically for them. Children are more likely to swallow toothpaste, and children's toothpastes often don't contain sodium lauryl sulfate, which shouldn't be swallowed.Plus, adult toothpastes are harsher on enamel, so they shouldn't be used on children's teeth., If you have sensitive teeth, it can help to purchase a toothpaste designed to help combat that problem. It should say on the label that it is meant for sensitive teeth. You may not notice results right away, so make sure you use it for a little while before you decide it doesn't work.Ask your doctor about prescription-strength. If you try an over-the-counter toothpaste for sensitive teeth, you may find after a while that it doesn't work for you. If that's the case, your dentist can prescribe you a stronger version. Keep in mind, though, that the prescription variety may be more expensive.A good toothpaste for sensitive teeth should feel sticky an harder the remove than your usual toothpaste. It helps minerals to stay on your tooth surface for a longer time, delivering an increased remineralizing effect.
 Some toothpastes do help to whiten teeth. If your teeth have been stained by what you eat and drink, you may want to try a whitening toothpaste. These toothpastes generally use abrasives to remove stains from the surface of your teeth. Look for one that says "whitens teeth" or "whitening."However, whitening toothpastes can be damaging when used over long periods of time. In fact, they can contribute to sensitivity and the breaking down of your enamel, especially if you use a lot of pressure when brushing with a hard bristle toothbrush. Ask your dentist about how long it's safe for you to use a whitening toothpaste., Another option when it comes to toothpastes is to buy one that reduces tartar buildup. If that's your goal, pick one that has pyrophosphates as an ingredient. This ingredient is known to help reduce the build up of tartar over time., On the upside, organic toothpastes stick to more natural ingredients, which can be healthier for your mouth (though not necessarily); however, they also usually don't contain fluoride, which most dentists agree is important for dental health.Some natural toothpastes contain salt, which is also abrasive, so you need to be gentle when brushing.
 Once you satisfy the other requirements, it's really up to you what you flavor you choose. In fact, it's important to pick one with a flavor you like, as that will encourage you to brush your teeth more often, so go with what tickles your taste buds.Taste is especially important in kids' toothpastes, as they will be more enthusiastic about brushing if the toothpaste is in a fun flavor they like, such as bubble gum or strawberry. Just make sure they understand they must not eat or swallow the toothpaste.
 Texture really doesn't matter all that much in terms of how it cleans your teeth, so it's up to you whether you pick a paste, gel, or liquid. Paste and gels do make it somewhat easier to brush, as they cling better to your toothbrush and teeth., If bad breath is a problem for you, pick one that can help freshen your breath. It should be labeled as such on the package. Usually, these toothpastes have ingredients that can make your breath less smelly by covering up bad odors, or they fight the bacteria that cause bad breath.