 When asking family, friends, and neighbors to hire you for household chores, remember that it is more of a favor to you than them. Your reason for wanting to earn $100 fast can either make or break this for you. If you have a good reason, they might respect your resourcefulness in finding a responsible way to earn the money. If your reason is silly, illegal, or you don’t have one, they may tell you to move along.


Some examples of good reasons are buying new guitar strings, taking music courses at the community center, or signing up you and your sibling to run a charity 5k.
Bad reasons might be buying a new smartphone because you broke your fifth this year, paying back someone at school for something you don’t want to name, or buying fireworks.
 It is easy to attach a flier to your mailbox, or stick it in your front yard. This is a way to make sure that only trusted people in your neighborhood are contracting your services, preferably individuals you already know. Make sure to include your contact information so people know how to get in touch with you. Check out this guide for more on advertising your services.


If there are community centers in your area, put up fliers on the bulletin board with tear-off phone number tabs. This makes it easy for people to grab your contact information on their way out the door.
 The easiest way to get the word out about your services is on internet classifieds. Make sure you are not putting any specific information about your identity or residence in the ad. Only reply to legitimate sounding solicitations. You can also look for print or newspaper classifieds. Though these are less utilized than their internet counterparts, many people still peruse them for goods and services.
 Family members are often happy to hire their relative to help with chores around the house. Tell them what you specialize in, but be open to doing whatever they need. For example, even though you prefer babysitting, don’t pass up that $40 for lawn mowing, which would put you 40% of the way to that $100. If they sympathize with your cause, they are more likely to hire you.

