 Whatever you think will work for you, do it. There are dozens of studying tactics out there -- experiment with as many as possible and see what seems to be sticking.


Write summaries. If you have to learn for science or history, you need another system of learning. Make a summary for each chapter and learn it.
Use mnemonic devices. Why did the US enter WWI? Duh, everyone knows that's because of SPRENCZ.What's SPRENCZ? Uhh, Submarines, Propaganda, the Russians, Economic ties to Europe, violations of Neutrality, Cultural ties with Britain, and the Zimmerman note, obviously. With the device, it'll jog your memory and you can easily expand in essay form.
If you make study cards, recite them out loud. It'll help you remember. Reading the cards silently is too passive.Carry them around with you and go over them when you find yourself with a bit of free time.
 It won't help if you'll study continuously for 5 hours. Your body (and even your brain) needs a break. Eat something and drink a glass of milk or water. Study for 20-30 minutes, have a 5 minute break and then study again for 20-30 minutes. You will learn much more.


According to the Dartmouth Academic Skills Center, you should study in 20-50 minute increments and give yourself a 5 to 10 minute break between each session. For best results, study throughout one full week., Most people have heard of the Mozart effect. That's where you listen to Mozart and miraculously you get smarter. Not surprisingly, most of it's crap. But there is a thread of something tangible there, and it's in all music.


That original Mozart study was done on young adults, not babies (so you're in luck!). And while the music by no means made the participants smarter, it did increase the brain's alertness for about 15 minutes afterward. When the study was extended, it showed that any music (so long as the participant enjoys it) can stimulate the brain, not just Mozart. And, in fact, getting up and running around or doing jumping jacks can do the same thing. So whatever it is, find a way to get your brain jogging.
 Not only will your attention span appreciate it, but your brain will more easily take it in as well. Instead of sticking to vocabulary, cover it and then switch to concepts and reading passages.


You know how musicians practice with a mix of scales intertwined with actual pieces and rhythm practice? And how athletes never do the same drills two times in a row? They're doing what you should: using a panoply of skills in one session. Your brain will be more impressed., Study groups can motivate you to get started when it's hard to motivate yourself -- plus, explaining difficult concepts out loud will help you figure out what you understand and what you still need to go over, and getting a group together will allow you to divide and conquer definition of terms and explanations of concepts. And if you can get each member to bring a snack, that's incentive to actually meet!Have each student prepare for the practice session by bringing in a couple of practice questions or prompts (maybe what they find the most confusing). Together, the group will work through the answers, solving each person's most burning questions. However, don't take a group mentality and get off track though! And make sure everyone shares accurate information; otherwise, the whole group will get lead unintentionally astray.

