 Obese teens are told that their bodies are slow, cumbersome, hideous, and the cause of their early deaths. Tell your child that their body is strong and powerful, and that fat teens are capable of exercise. This will help empower them to run, jump, climb, swim, and do the things society says that fat people can't and won't do.


Show them pictures of fat Olympic athletes. Discuss the athletes' awesome performances over the dinner table.;
, If your teen loves their body, they will take good care of it. They will be willing to put on that swimsuit or jogging outfit and go have fun, instead of shyly standing and watching because they're too afraid of others seeing their body move. Following sections will cover how to improve your teen's body image.
 Don't mention weight loss—instead, reinforce the idea that good health is for everyone. Find ways that your whole family can eat well, not just your heavy teen. If you're stricter with a heavy daughter than with her skinny sister, your heavier daughter will get the message that health is not equally important for everyone.


Have everyone (yes, everyone) in the family fill at least 1/3 of their plate with fruits and veggies.
Don't buy red meat often; try lean meats and fish instead.
Incorporate fruits and vegetables into snacks and desserts: carrots and dip, apples and caramel, strawberries with whipped cream, bananas with hazelnut spread, etc.
 Making it a multi-person activity will help make it more enjoyable, and make your teen feel less singled out. Take walks, go swimming, hike, or play backyard sports. Keep sports equipment in the house, like various balls, basketball hoops, a volleyball net, etc.
 Your teen may not want to exercise with their peers, for fear of taunting and bullying. This would only humiliate them and make them hate exercise. Instead, let them know that you'd be happy to support them if they joined a team, but there is no pressure whatsoever.
 If your teen comes in because of head pain, a fifteen-minute lecture on weight loss is not an appropriate way to begin the appointment. Your child deserves to feel comfortable and safe in the doctor's office.If your doctor begins spouting unsolicited advice on weight loss, tell them that's quite enough and find a new one.


Ask doctors to assume that your teen has heard it all already. (They have. Many times.) Any advice should be specific (e.g. "2 hours per week of exercise isn't quite enough for you; 5+ would be better") and driven by long-term evidence (not simply "DIETING = GOOD.")
Drop any doctor who automatically blames a problem on obesity. A good doctor will test for potential underlying causes (e.g. asthma, arthritis, lung problems) before reaching a conclusion.Failure to investigate a problem could cause preventable complications.Do not accept weight loss as a prescription for pain or hardship. If someone is in pain, they need pain treatment. If something is very wrong with their knee, they need to see a knee doctor. There is no maximum weight for receiving prescriptions or other medical care. Any lifestyle changes can be made during or after treatment.
 There is no maximum BMI for eating trouble.Restrictive eating and other problems can cause long-term metabolic and psychological damage. Remember, fat people still need 1600+ calories per day, and still need some carbs and fats in their diet. Disordered eating patterns need to be taken seriously, and the complications can be very dangerous at any weight.Watch for...



Restriction—refusing to eat certain food groups (e.g. no dessert), closely counting calories and portion sizes, complaining of cravings or metabolic problems

Purging—disappearing into the bathroom for long periods of time

Bingeing—secretive out-of-control eating, deep shame about food

Over-exercising—obsessively exercising, pushing themselves to the point of nausea/overheating/vomiting/etc.

Fad diets—see-sawing weight, taking diet pills or other interventions with unproven long-term efficacy, obsession with food, metabolic problems
A mix of these traits
Any behavior that would cause concern if it happened in a thin person

, Obese kids are at risk for self-esteem issues, which could lead to eating disorders, anxiety, depression, eating disorders, and other health problems. If you notice them saying lots of negative things about themselves, take them to a doctor and explain what's going on. The sooner you stop it, the easier it is to fix it.

