 In the middle years of childhood, kids lie to protect themselves (or a friend or sibling) from getting into trouble or to prevent you from being angry or disappointed. Kids want everyone to be calm and happy (including themselves), and, if lying suits this purpose, then they'll do it., One of the worst things you can do as a parent is label a child by an offensive behavior. It is the behavior (i.e. lying) that you do not like, but labeling can make it seem as if the child is the problem. Even if you have noticed a consistent pattern of lying in your child, avoid saying the "L" word.


Instead, exercise the belief that your child can be honest. Kids should know that you have confidence in their truth-telling abilities, and that you see them as brave or courageous when they are honest - even when telling the truth is scary or hard.
 Sometimes, adults make the error of putting children into tight situations in which they are tempted to lie. For example, you walk into the living room and see a huge mess on the floor. You have three children. Asking "who made this mess?" in an upsetting tone only pushes each of your children to either lie about not having done it or blame it on someone else.Recognize that being honest requires a great deal of courage, especially when the consequence of telling the truth is facing a red-faced, angry adult who is capable of inflicting punishment.
Rather than putting your kids in a corner, simply verbalize your expectations. Say, "the living room isn't a storage space for toys, book bags, or clothes. I need it to be tidy in 20 minutes."

, Acknowledge how your behavior affects your child's lying. This is not to say that if your child lies, it's your fault. However, parents must understand the old saying that what you do in moderation, your child does in excess. If your child has witnessed you telling little "white lies" or lying to get out of something, then they will see this behavior as acceptable - even if you warn them against it. In order to prevent this, portray honesty in your everyday actions as much as possible. Of course, there are some circumstances in which lying is done to protect someone else's feelings. Younger children usually cannot discriminate between these situations. So, as a rule of thumb, be truthful in your interactions with your children and others.
 Unlike younger children, kids over 5 typically know when they are lying, which means they know the difference between right and wrong. If they tell a lie to get themselves or someone else out of trouble, then they are already aware of their wrongdoing. Therefore, lecturing to them or going on and on about what they've done is not necessary. What is necessary is helping them to overcome the temptation to be disobedient. Boundary-setting can help alleviate this problem.It is virtually impossible for adults to remove all opportunities for children to misbehave. However, you can minimize these opportunities by setting boundaries in your household and beyond. Look for ways to remove temptations to be disobedient and boost their chances of doing the right thing.
For example, getting upset because your 7-year-old ate an entire bag of candy could have been prevented if the candy was not accessible in the first place. It is a fact that most children like candy. Leaving it in plain sight challenges your child's self-control. To overcome this issue, remove the temptation by putting candy away out of your child's reach. Increase the likelihood of your child making good choices by making healthy snacks more accessible.
 Childhood lying can point to a serious problem in some kids. Mental illnesses like attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), conduct disorder, and even personality disorders may manifest through lying. Closely monitor your child's lying. If it seems like your child is lying for no reason, constantly testing adult limits, or lying without remorse, you may need to see a child psychologist.In addition, childhood lying accompanied by bullying, terrorizing or hurting animals, or destroying one's own or another's possessions may signal a more complex issue that requires professional assistance to address.

