


This practice generates more views because buyers use different word combinations in their searches.
This practice also helps buyers who are looking for very specific items that you may be selling. For example, if you are selling a pair of shoes, describe the brand name, size, color, shoe style, and condition of the shoe, rather than using a basic description such as "Women's Shoes Size 7.";
,


Set your listings to close on weekends during evening hours. If you want your listing to close on a weekday, consider choosing an afternoon lunch hour or sometime in the evening.
EBay uses the Pacific time zone. If you live in the Central time zone and want your listing to end exactly at 7 p.m. your time, you must set it to end at 5 p.m. on eBay's website.
Consider ending certain listings at times that will attract the largest number of likely buyers for that item. For example, if you are listing an item that will appeal to elementary school teachers, arrange the listing to end after school hours in the evening.



Some buyers will leave you negative feedback if they purchase an inexpensive item from you with unusually high shipping fees. For example, if you sell an item with a 10 dollar (7 euros) value for 2 dollars (1.4 euros), you may disappoint a customer if the shipping fee is 8 dollars (5.6 euros).
Offer a lower shipping rate or combined shipping discounts if people buy more than 1 item from you.



Items with attractive photos that accurately portray their condition will be more appealing to potential buyers.
Place your items in bright light with a neutral background and use cameras with higher resolutions for increased clarity.



This practice will allow you to become more familiar with every type of product in the niche, teach you how to properly price your niche items, and teach you more about buyers in that niche.



Satisfied buyers will leave positive feedback for you with eBay, which signifies your reliability as a seller and can improve your reputation in the eBay community.
Answer emails on time and immediately respond to inquiries about your item.
Send your items to buyers immediately and package the items carefully and neatly to ensure a safe delivery.
Provide honest information about your items and be up-front about existing flaws. For example, if a pair of leather shoes you are selling have a small tear in the fabric, disclose this information in your listing.



This practice will prevent potential disputes or misunderstandings between you and the buyer.
Misunderstandings can result in negative feedback that affects your reputation or results in a refund for the buyer. For example, if you use recycled or used boxes to ship your products, post this information in your listing to prevent buyers from filing a complaint about the packaging you used.



You may be able to purchase high-end products at low prices and sell them on eBay to make a substantial profit. For example, you may be able to buy a sweater from a prominent name-brand store for 10 dollars (7 euros) that is valued at 140 dollars (99 euros) and sell it for a similar amount.



Ask your friends or family if they have items you can sell on eBay that they no longer want or use, or have the time to sell.
Offer your friends a percentage of the earnings if their items sell on eBay.



Rare items can be profitable because buyers may not be able to find them elsewhere; whereas popular items will attract a large number of views from potential buyers.



Lower prices will encourage competitive bidding among your potential buyers and may result in higher ending sale prices than you expected.

