 There are various options available to consumers, depending on what you're after by way of basics, bundles and advanced uses. Knowing what options are out there can help steer your decision as to exactly what will meet your needs.


For example, in the United States, cable providers are required to offer a “basic cable option” that includes broadcast channels, local-access channels, and government and public-service channels. These packages are subject to government price control and are often available for under $20 per month. However, they are often not mentioned on the provider's website. The next step up is “expanded basic” or “standard,” which costs more per month but offers a wider range of channels. These are generally shown as the cheapest package available on the provider's site, even though a cheaper option exists.
Note that some providers may offer a small number of cable channels as part of their basic package.
Packages will vary depending on which country or region you're living in. While it's not possible to cover them in this short article, it is important that you read the fine print, as well as checking what your government communications agency sets out as the basic requirements for cable provision where you live. Your awareness of what is mandated by consumer or communications laws will help you ask the right questions to get the best deal.;
, If you want the cheapest possible package, you will certainly want to choose the “basic” package. If you want a larger number of channels for a relatively small monthly price, you may want to look into a “standard” package.


When choosing, be specific in the needs that you and your family or household has. For example, perhaps you all like sport but not arts, or you all like arts but not sport. It's a no-brainer to go for the package that favors what everyone likes the most. It gets trickier when some of the household prefers sport, and some arts, etc. In this case, you'll all need to reach compromises to keep down the costs.
Remember how many hours there are in a day. You can't spend them all watching TV. Having access to many channels doesn't necessarily equate to having the time spare to make use of the choice!
Don't forget the possibility of borrowing, hiring or buying DVD sets from the library, video store or retailers for shows you like. If there is only one or two shows you like on some extra cost channels, it might be cheaper to forgo watching them now and wait for the DVD to come out instead. Or, watch the show online rather than purchasing extra channels you rarely watch.
Read the fine print on making changes to your package. If you sign up for 24 months to a set of kids' channels and your kid turns teen and never watches them again for 18 months, be sure you can opt out of paying for those now-unwatched channels. Either that, or look ahead and don't sign up for channels where householder interest may wane over time.

