 The soil should always be at a pH between 6.5 and 7.2, and if it dips below this range, you should remedy the problem by mixing in a little limestone.
 Optimal daytime temperature is between 68 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit (20 to 24 degrees Celsius). Optimal nighttime temperature is between 60 to 65 degrees Fahrenheit (16 to 18 degrees Celsius).
 These plants need plenty of sunlight for flower buds to form, but too much sun will cause the temperature to rise too high and could damage the foliage.


Place the plant in a sunny window and allow it to get as much direct sun as possible before it flowers.
On cloudy days, you may need to supplement natural light by placing the pot beneath fluorescent or HID grow lights for 8 to 12 hours. This is especially true if the plant has not yet flowered.
After the plant flowers, move it to a slightly shady area to protect the petals. Keeping it near a window where it can receive indirect or filtered sunlight should work.
 Water it every few days, allowing the soil to dry out in between waterings. Use your finger to gauge the dryness of the soil at a depth of 2 in. (5 cm). Once it is dry this deep, give the plant a light sprinkling of water using a watering can, but do not soak it.


Avoid letting the soil dry out once the plants are in soil. As soon as the surface of the soil looks dry, sprinkle it with water.
 Potassium generally improves the flower and overall strength of the plant. The fertilizer should also be fairly high in nitrogen to promote healthy foliage growth. Avoid fertilizers that are too heavy in phosphorus, however. Look for formulas such as 15-0-15 or 20-10-20, where the numbers correspond to the percentage of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium in the fertilizer, respectively.


Add the fertilizer once every two weeks before the plant flowers. After the plant flowers, reduce feedings to once every three or four weeks.
Fertilizers rich in calcium are also good for a lisianthus plant.
 Lisianthus plants that grow too tall can end up depriving themselves of valuable nutrients, leading to less flowering and earlier death. Apply a b-Nine spray two weeks after transplanting the plug into its pot. Avoid applying it too frequently afterward, since excess growth regulator can also lead to a decrease in flower production.
 Fungus gnats are the most common threat to lisianthus flowers, and they can cause a lot of damage to the roots of the plant. Aphids, leaf miners, thrips, and whiteflies are also big problem pests. If you spot any of these pests on your plant, treat the infested area with a mild pesticide.


You may also want to consider applying a mild pesticide to your plant preemptively, before any pests show up.
 Gray mold, stem rot, and pythium root rot are among the most frequent diseases contracted. Proper drainage should prevent most of these fungi from attacking your plant, but if your lisianthus does get a fungus, treat it with a fungicide.

