 Vitamin D is crucial to healthy skin regeneration and normal cell growth. Spending some time each day in the sun can help you get the recommended daily amount of vitamin D. For best (and safest) results, follow these tips:


Apply broad-spectrum sunscreen to all areas of unaffected skin.
Wear sunglasses.
Limit time in the sun to under 20 minutes, to reduce the risk of sun damage.
If you experience redness or dryness, reduce time of exposure.
 Consuming foods rich in Vitamin D will reduce inflammation throughout the body. In combination with UV rays from light exposure, vitamin D can help to reduce or prevent psoriasis plaques. Sun exposure triggers most vitamin D production in the body. Vitamin D can also be found naturally in a few foods such as fortified milk and juice, fortified yogurt, salmon, tuna, egg yolks, and Swiss cheese.Additionally, you can take an oral vitamin D supplement to bolster your intake.
The daily recommended amount of vitamin D is:

600 IU daily for adults between 19-70.
800 IU daily for adults older than 70.
 Zinc is a vital nutrient for the proper formation and growth of skin cells. Psoriasis causes increased scaling of skin cells, reducing the amount of healthy skin cells. Zinc intake will promote healthy growth of skin cells. Zinc is high in seafood, wheat germ, cereals, spinach, nuts, beans, and mushrooms. The recommended daily intake of Zinc for adults is 11 milligrams for men and 8 milligrams for women.


Zinc can also be purchased as a dietary supplement for those whose diets do not include the recommended daily amount.
 Aloe is used for many skin conditions, including psoriasis. Aloe vera gel or cream can applied externally three times a day. Aloe vera soothes and moisturizes the skin, reducing redness, itching and burning.
 Almond milk is rich in vitamins B and E, both of which can help to return your skin to a healthy state.In addition to containing vitamins, it also contains monounsaturated fatty acids, protein, zinc, phosphorus, potassium, magnesium and iron.