 A large desk and maybe a bookshelf is required. Have a decent quill and a lot of ink (for Muggles, don't let your pens run out––buy extra). Make sure you have all the materials (e.g. pens, pencils, paper, highlighters) that you may require to complete your study ready and near by so that you can avoid interruptions during your study time.;
, If you want to get super organised, you can colour code your books. This can be done by having a certain colour for each of your classes/subjects, and purchasing a folder and book in that classes' specific colour. (e.g. Red for maths, yellow for English, blue for Science).
 Hermione makes planners. Homework planners may seem nerdy, but you're trying to be Hermione Granger, the class Know-it-all. So if you don't want to do this step, it's completely your choice. But remember, the real Hermione wouldn't have taken offense to anything. (Apart from the first time she was called a Mud-Blood but we can live with that because not everyone is made of solid rock.)


To make a homework planner, grab a suitable lined book. Use a non-removable stickiness charm, and decorate the inside. Also, put a spell on it so it shouts out quotes at you whenever you open it (that's what Hermione did for Ron and Harry.) But make sure you can use these spells properly before attempting; if you haven't a clue as a Muggle, you will have to use ink or coloured pen for the quotes and glue in some cool decorations that make it seem like a "charmed" book.
 This means that when it does come time to study, you have all the information you need in front of you.


Use notation forms that are useful for you; don't copy other forms unless you actually find them useful. It is often best to develop your own highlighting methods, your own shorthand, and your own summarizing techniques.
 Doing this will indicate whether or not you understood what you have read.


Read the passage or paragraphs.
Brainstorm a few questions based on what you read.
Read the passage or paragraph once more and answer the questions.
 For example: "After doing 30 minutes of maths study, I am allowed to have a small square of chocolate." It is also good to include physical movement breaks as a reward; for example, after 1-hour study, allow yourself a five-minute walk or stretch before coming back to the books.
, While this may be hard a lot of the time, try to inject enjoyment into some of the studying. If something really interests you, learn more about it in your own way and become more knowledgeable in it so that you can wow the teacher.
 Hermione doesn't do this, but it can help you to study if you're so inclined. You could listen to all sorts of genres, like Blues, Jazz, R&B, Pop Rock, etc... Whatever floats your boat. However usually music with no lyrics works the best so that you are not getting distracted by what is being sung in the song.
 Hermione often studied in the Gryffindor common room with the other Gryffindors. The library is another place where you are communally linked in silence; it's quite a nice thing to not be alone when studying; you can share the agony around.


To make studying more interesting, maybe try doing it with a friend but a friend with whom you won't get distracted.
Study groups may help also.
 Sleep will not only make you look good and feel refreshed but will also boost your concentration level.
 If you know you have a test at the end of the year, then ask the teacher what you need to do to get the highest grade (or level for you Muggles) and then study all of the time until you are certain this is correct. Do this for all of your lessons.

