 Include some items that have hearts or cupids on them or that are heart-shaped. These can include candy hearts, a box of chocolates, or a Valentine’s card. However, make sure that it is something that the recipient likes. Do not send them candy hearts if they do not like them.For example, if your recipient is a fan of chocolate, be sure to include some chocolate hearts or a heart-shaped box of chocolates.
Although real flowers will likely wilt in transit, you could send some fake flowers. This might be a clever and funny way to send a traditional Valentine’s Day gift.;
, One of the perks of personally sending a Valentine’s Day care package is that you get to include a personalized note. If the package is for a romantic partner, this gives you the opportunity to write a romantic letter. If it is for a friend or family member, send a note that expresses your love and appreciation for them.Be sure to include the note with the package. You can write it in a Valentine’s card or a separate piece of stationary.
 In addition to a letter, you include something that conveys some sentiment, such as pictures or items from other members of your family. For example, for a romantic partner, you might include a picture of yourself. If the package is for a loved one or family member, you might include handmade drawings from your children or pictures of your family., Few items convey affection like something that is homemade. When you are putting together your care package, consider including something that is handmade. You might include some homemade chocolate chip cookies or knit the recipient a cap. Play to your talents and send something that you think they would enjoy., Although it is a Valentine’s Day care package, do not feel limited to sending only Valentine’s-themed items. Send items that you know the recipient will appreciate regardless of the occasion. For example, if the recipient is a bibliophile, send them a book that you think they will enjoy., Instead of sending a drab brown box, put some Valentine’s Day decorations on the outside. Cut out some hearts from red construction paper and glue or tape them to the exterior. You might also wrap the package in red paper and glue Valentine’s cards to the outside. Get creative and add some Valentine’s flair to your package.

