 Go out and do what you love to do, and you'll meet people with similar interests. Youth groups, 4-H, summer camps, volunteer centers, churches, and community centers are all good places to start. If you're already passionate about sports, music, acting, or other extracurricular activities, make an effort to talk to the people you meet in those contexts.


Most schools allow local homeschoolers to join after-school activities.;
, Most homeschoolers have a flexible schedule compared to a regular school day. If you're bored while your other friends are at school, find other homeschoolers so you can visit them during the day.


If you don't know any other homeschoolers, search online for homeschooling groups and co-ops in your area. Your local librarians may be able to help you find them as well.
 Homeschooling families often meet for group classes once in a while. This lets each parent teach the subject he's good at, and lets the students help each other on their work. Group field trips are another great way to meet people during "school" time.


If you can't find a homeschooling group, look at public schools, churches, and community centers. Some of these offer classes that anyone can join.
 If you used to be in a regular school, you might have friends from that time. Don't let good friendships fall apart just because you don't see each other every day. You can still spend time together on the weekends, and talk to each other on the phone.
 If you feel like you aren't getting enough socializing time, have a conversation with your parents to see if you can figure out a solution. If you are responsible and old enough, they may give you more freedom to leave the house on your own. Teenagers especially should consider the following:


A driver's license or bicycle gives you the ability to go out on your own schedule.
Getting a part-time job can lead to new friends among your co-workers. It also shows your parents that you are ready for independence.
 Homeschoolers often meet people with a wide range of ages and backgrounds. Ask your parents if it's okay to talk to the strangers you meet at different activities. Their answer will depend on your age and the community you live in. Follow your parents' rules, and remember not to give out your personal information (such as your last name, address, or telephone number) to someone you just met.

