 Difficulty concentrating, getting bored very quickly, and a short attention span are where the ‘attention deficit’ part of the name ADHD come from.You can determine if you have adult ADHD if you notice how often you are distracted.


Think about how frequently you are unable to complete work or stay focused on tasks throughout the day.
Try to estimate how many crafts or projects you have started but haven’t finished.;
, Although children with ADHD show signs of hyperactivity, adults with ADHD are usually described as more restless than hyper-active. In order to determine if you have adult ADHD figure out of you are generally restless.Look for signs that you fidget a lot or are constantly on the go. Are you always moving your fingers, tapping your toes, or twirling your hair?
Think about how often you feel like you can’t relax no matter what you do. Do you generally feel that you can’t unwind?

, One of the signs of adult ADHD is difficulty getting and being organized.Think about how often you misplace things, don’t have the things you need, or are just generally disorganized so that you can determine if you have adult ADHD.


Are you always looking for a pen, or some paper, or your phone or tablet?
Do you have a habit of losing or forgetting your keys, glasses, wallet, or other important items?

, If you really aren’t a good listener, it might be a sign that you have adult ADHD.If you have been told you aren’t a good listener it might be because you are distracted easily.
Do you often realize you haven’t heard important instructions because you were thinking about something else?
Are you actually listening sometimes when it appears that you aren’t?

, Adults with ADHD don't always think about the consequences of their actions and often make spontaneous decisions.Because of this, adults with ADHD also have difficulty controlling their temper and may say whatever comes to mind.


For example, do you frequently do things and then later wonder what you were thinking?
Do you often say things that are inappropriate not because you are trying to be mean, but because it just “slipped out”?
Do you blurt out answers to questions before the question is even finished?

, Because you are easily distracted and disorganized, you might also have problems being on time and using your time wisely. This is another sign of adult ADHD that you should look for to determine if you have it.Are you frequently late for appointments or work? Do you find that you are generally rushing to be on time?
Do you often miss deadlines because you didn’t use your time effectively?

, To be diagnosed with ADHD, you must have had six or more symptoms of inattention that have persisted for a six month period or longer. The symptoms must have been severe enough that they are inconsistent with your developmental level. The inattention symptoms that your doctor may look for include:Not paying close attention to details.
Having difficulty sustaining attention.
Not seeming to listen when someone is speaking to you.
Not following through on instructions.
Failing to complete projects, such as in the workplace or at school.
Having difficulty staying organized
Avoiding activities that require prolonged mental effort or focus.
Losing items that are necessary for tasks or activities.
Becoming easily distracted.
Being forgetful about daily activities.
 For the hyperactivity aspect of ADHD, your doctor will look for six or more symptoms of hyperactivity or impulsivity that have persisted for at least a six month period. Also, some hyperactive-impulsive or inattentive behaviors must have been present before you reached the age of 7. These may include:Fidgeting with your hands or feet or squirming in your seat.
Leaving your seat in situations where remaining in your seat is expected.
Running or climbing excessively in situations where it is not appropriate to do so.
Having difficulty engaging in quiet time or leisure activities.
Being “on the go” or seeming like you are driven by a motor.
Talking excessively.
Blurting out answers before a question has been finished.
Having difficulty waiting your turn.
Interrupting or intruding on others (butting into conversations).
 Even if you have the required number of symptoms, your doctor will also consider other factors to make a diagnosis. For example, you must have had some significant impairment from your symptoms in two or more settings, such as home or school, and now you may also be experiencing impairment at work.It is necessary to provide clear evidence of clinically significant impairment in a social, academic, or work setting.


Keep in mind that your symptoms cannot be related to another condition. To be diagnosed with ADHD, your symptoms may not be accounted for by another mental disorder, such as a mood, anxiety, personality, or psychotic disorder. Consider whether you have been diagnosed with another condition that might account for some of your symptoms.

