 There are several different kinds of calligraphy, corresponding with some of the calligraphic traditions which exist across the world. You will want to decide which one is right for you, based on which you prefer and why you are wanting to learn calligraphy.









Western Calligraphy is the style with which most people in the English-speaking world are acquainted. This style arose with the creation of the Latin script. It is most often see in Bibles and illuminated manuscripts, often accompanied by illustrations.
Eastern Calligraphy is the style of Japanese, Chinese or Korean decorative writing. A common and honored practice in the East, calligraphy is usually used to write poetry and add to paintings and other artwork.
Arabic Calligraphy is a usually religious art form, common in the Islamic world. Muslims believe that to create art which depicts something real is morally wrong (as it insults God). Calligraphy as the main art form of the culture then arose in response to this.
 Before you start a new piece, you will want to sketch out your ideas. Think about what you are wanting to write and where you would like it to go. Think about the space that you want to fill and how you intend to fill it. Draw a few quick, small images (with just a regular pen or pencil on scratch paper) to get you ready for creating your final image.
 You will need paper to draw on . This can be as simple as printer paper or as elaborate as fine calligraphy paper. Use whatever material suits you best. Paper can be purchased from office stores, craft stores, and paper shops.


You will want paper that is smooth. This will keep your writing utensil from catching or being redirected by the paper. Avoid paper which is greasy or waxy. These will keep the paper from absorbing the ink. You want to use a paper that does not cause the ink to bleed but instead dries quickly.
Look for paper which is labeled as being acid-free and archival. This will ensure that your image does not age poorly. You will also want to look for paper which is labeled as being “sized”. This is paper which has been treated to keep ink from bleeding., You will need some kind of utensil with which to create your calligraphy. While you can technically create calligraphy with any writing utensil, there are certain writing instruments which are considered better than others. Which you use, however, will depend upon what type of calligraphy you are doing and what writing utensil feels best to you.


Dip pens are pens which you dip in ink. They consist of a wood, plastic or bone handle and a metal nib (the pointed end which will make contact with the paper). The nib is dipped in the ink and stores it in the well of the nib. This type of pen is most common for both Arabic and Western calligraphy, though it can be used for Eastern calligraphy as well.
Fountain pens are similar to dip pens but instead draw their ink from a container within the pen. While this ink will occasionally need to be replaced or refilled, it will save you the trouble of constantly needing to dip your pen.
Brushes, most commonly used in Eastern calligraphy but also in Western calligraphy, come in a variety of sizes but will usually all be roughly the same shape. These are dipped in ink and use the pressure and direction of the writer’s strokes to form the line variations.
 You will need to get some kind of ink in order to write with. There are many different types of ink and which one you choose will partially depend on what you are writing with. Inks will also come in a variety of colors but black is the most commonly used color in all styles of calligraphy. Use whichever you prefer.


Ink sticks, which will also require an ink stone, are sticks of ink which must be ground and mixed with water in order to form the ink you will write with. They are an excellent option for calligraphers because they allow you to get many different tones from the same ink, depending on how it is mixed. They can be found at craft stores and in some Asian stores, as well as online.
Pot ink is the most common ink used for calligraphy. This ink comes pre-mixed in a small jar and your writing utensil will be dipped into it. India ink is the most common type of pot ink used in calligraphy. It is easily found at art stores.
Fountain pen ink is a special kind of dye-based ink which is used for fountain pens. It is important to use fountain pen ink and only fountain pen ink in these types of pens as other ink types will clog the pen. Fountain pen ink will come in either pre-loaded barrels, which you place in your pen, or pots, in which case you fill the pen yourself.
 You may wish to create guide lines for yourself, to ensure that your writing is straight. Or perhaps you wish to write across a curved or circular line and need a reference. Rulers and other guide instruments can help you keep your writing looking professional and even.
 You will want tape or weights to hold the paper in place while you are writing. This will keep you from skewing or bumping the paper while you are writing. You can also use clips or a drawing board.









Be careful what kind of tape you use. If it is too strong, you will tear the paper when you try to remove the tape. Painter's tape is best.

