 Your budget represents the chief constraint when choosing a countertop. High-end materials like granite, quartz, and copper can cost over 3 times as much as inexpensive laminate tops. Contractors will often price your job by square foot (or square meter) of counter surface area, so measure your countertops to determine how much you should budget.;
, All countertops will fulfill their function by providing you with a work surface; where they primarily differ, however, are their aesthetic impact. Both synthetic and natural countertops are available in a wide range of finishes. Laminate and solid surface tops can be purchased in nearly any color or pattern. Natural tops like wood and granite can also differ widely in appearance.


If you are unsure of what finish you want, consider your kitchen's other finishes. Coordinating the countertop with the cabinets, wall, and backsplash will yield a more cohesive kitchen aesthetic.
If you will be selling your home soon, opt for a more subdued countertop finish. Loud, bright, or unusual finishes may turn off potential buyers.
 This is perhaps the biggest decision when buying a countertop. Price, durability, and appearance will vary between materials.


Laminate countertops consist of a decorative veneer affixed to an engineered wood core. These tops are typically the most inexpensive and lightweight of all materials. They are also easier to install than other materials, because they are easy to maneuver and cut, and won't warp or splinter like some natural materials. Laminate countertops are available in an array of colors and faux finishes.
Solid surface countertops are made from a blend of polyester and acrylic. Unlike laminate tops, they can be sanded if stained or damaged. They also fit together more seamlessly than laminate countertops.
Granite countertops are some of the most durable on the market. They can withstand high heat and scratches, and have the natural beauty of stone. Because granite is porous, these tops have to be sealed periodically.
Wood countertops can be stained, oiled, or waxed for a distinct natural finish. Like granite, they must be sealed periodically. Wood countertops can be more easily cut and sanded than stone tops, which makes installation and upkeep easier.
 Countertops can be purchased from home improvement stores, interior finish dealers, and sometimes directly from the supplier. When purchasing, you will need to choose whether to buy pre-finished pieces or have the countertops custom-made.


Pre-finished pieces and blanks are the least expensive option. These pieces come in standard sizes, which can be cut to length on site if necessary. If you are uncomfortable with cutting the countertops yourself, or if your kitchen has oddly shaped tops, pre-finished pieces are not the best option.
A more expensive option is to have your countertop order sent to a fabricator. You can purchase the tops from a dealer of your choice, have a professional take measurements of your kitchen, and then have the countertops custom-made to your measurements. Dealers will often be able to put you in touch with an installer as well.

