 If you're not waxing and want great legs, you should still consider keeping your body hair in check. The most common way of doing this is by shaving via a razor. Make sure you shave with a good shaving gel or cream, as this will result in a closer shave. Run the razor slowly over the hair to remove it. Be slow and gentle to avoid undue cuts. Once you've finished shaving, treat yourself to a nice warm shower; this will rinse off the excess hair and get your legs moisturized.


Use a conditioner on your legs while you're shaving them. This will help result in a finer cut. A good razor is always preferable. If you're wanting great legs, you can't resort to budget supplies. Gillette's Venus Embrace Sensitive Skin razor is a bit pricey in comparison with other blades, but it's nonetheless recommended for its quality and ease-of-use. ;
, An epilator may be purchased and used to much the same effect as waxing.Much like waxing, it involves tearing out multiple hairs from the root. While a razor is best for getting the hair away at the start, an epilator will give your legs a waxy feeling of smoothness. Purchase one from your local beauty section, and run it slowly over your legs.Because it is pulling your hair out from the roots, epilators are as potentially painful as waxing. This is why it's better to shave your legs and use an epilator as maintenance.
 Depilatory creams dissolve hair on the surface of your skin. Due to the fact that these creams don't target the roots of hair, choosing this option means you will have to use the creams quite often-- every couple of days, or however often it suits you. On the plus side however, the routine itself is easy and painless, so you may find it a favourable alternative to the less frequent, but infinitely more painful process of waxing. , Laser hair removal is one of the most commonplace cosmetic procedures out there. Lasers will destroy the hairs within three to seven sessions, and the effects are usually permanent. Although prices will vary depending on where you are living and the number of sessions, it's a fairly affordable way to do without leg hair, considering all the time it will be saving you in the long run. Possible skin damage caused by the laser therapy is very uncommon, but has been known to occur. You should take this possibility into account when deciding. Bring it up with your doctor if you have any lasting concerns.
Wear sunscreen on your legs while they're recuperating. This will help ease the process of recovery.

