 As you gain confidence in preserving your own personal boundaries, you might casually suggest to your loved one how beneficial they are. Setting boundaries helps overcome a victim mentality by empowering the individual to stand up for their personal rights and privacy.


If your relationship has improved due to boundary-setting, you might highlight the change by saying, “See how much more fun we have together when we see each other less often? Plus, I’ve noticed that you have started spending more time with your Mom and your sister. That’s awesome!”

, If your loved one feels inspired by your own boundary-setting journey, you might offer to help them do the same. Depending on how close your relationship is with the other person, you may be able to pinpoint a specific relationship in which their boundaries may be crossed. Start there.You might say, “I noticed that your girlfriend insults you when she is mad. How does that make you feel?” If the person seems ready to change the negative behavior, you might say, “It might help to tell her that whenever she insults you, you will immediately let her know that you feel disrespected and would like to discontinue the discussion until it is safe to resume.”

, Victims of abuse may go about boundary-setting in the same way they would if they were starting to walk—slow and shaky. They may not feel up to it, but suggest that they share their boundaries with others in their life. Offer your support by allowing the person to practice rehearsing their boundary-setting conversations with you.


It may also help to practice reinforcing their boundaries in your own relationship with the person. For instance, if your roommate sets a boundary that no one should go in their room, admit to violating this boundary to see if the person will enforce their consequences., People who are recovering from abuse often suffer from low self-esteem and may appear fragile.They require dependable support. However, in order to protect your own boundaries, you must remember to hold them at a distance while still being understanding. Give your friend time to adjust to setting boundaries, and show your enthusiasm for them practicing this necessary form of self-love.


You might say, “I overheard your conversation with Dad last night about going through your things. I am really impressed to hear that you are enforcing your boundaries, even in small ways. Way to go!”

