 Spending time with other people who can relate to your situation can help you to feel better. Being part of a support group can also help you to learn new information about how to cope around your children.

Look for a support group in your area, or look into online support groups if you cannot find one in your area.
 Work with your doctor, therapist, or partner to create a plan for what will happen if you become incapacitated by your PTSD. Make arrangements for your partner, a family member, or a friend to take care of your kids if you can’t.Include information about where your kids go to school, whether they need medication or have any food allergies, and anything else a temporary caretaker would need to know.
Give a written copy of your crisis plan to your doctor, adult family members, and anyone else who might need the information.
 Since PTSD is an anxiety disorder, it can help to learn some relaxation techniques to manage any distress you feel during an episode. Deep breathing is a great technique that you can use anywhere to quell anxiety.

Deep breathing involves breathing in slowly from your nose and then releasing air back out through your mouth. Do it in a 4-7-8 cycle with you inhaling for 4 counts, holding for 7, and then exhaling for 8 counts., Startle reaction associated with PTSD can make it difficult for you to sleep, so performing this exercises before bed may help. Progressive muscle relaxation requires tensing and releasing each muscle group in your body to promote calm.

Sit or lie down in a comfortable place. Start with your toes. Contract them and hold for 5 seconds. Let go and notice how that feels. Now, move up to your calves. Tense them and then relax. Continue throughout your entire body., Grounding exercises help bring you back to reality when anxiety makes you believe you're somewhere else. There are many ways to ground yourself back into your present environment.Splash cold water on your face, or run an ice cube along your skin.
Sit against a wall to feel the surface at your back.
List out all the things that are white in your environment. Then, red. Then, blue.
Count slowly to 100.

