 Write down any symptoms that you experience. Then see if any of the symptoms you are experiencing are associated with polycythemia vera. Looking over your list of symptoms, circle any of the symptoms that match the following symptoms of polycythemia vera:Headache
Bleeding or bruising
Itchiness after bathing or showering
Feeling dizzy
Feeling weak or tired
Sweating excessively
Pain and swelling in one of your joints, such as a big toe
Shortness of breath
Bloating in your upper left abdomen
Numbness of your limbs
Tingling or burning sensations in your limbs
Burning feeling in your feet
Having a hard time breathing when you are lying down
Ringing in your ears or tinnitus
Chest pain
Pain in your calf muscles;
, If you find a match between any of your symptoms and common symptoms of polycythemia vera, you should make an appointment with your doctor. Bring your diary or health journal and show your doctor the symptoms you have listed. Ask your doctor whether you may have polycythemia vera and what actions you can take:“Do you think I have polycythemia vera?”
“Are there any tests that can be done to determine whether I have this disease?”

, If you have polycythemia vera, your blood flow slows down and your blood thickens. As a result, you are more likely to get blood clots. If you get a blood clot in your head, you can have a stroke. So, you should get emergency medical attention if you have any of the following symptoms of a stroke:Aphasia, or a hard time speaking or understanding speech
Numbness of your face, arm or legs on one side of the body
Weakness or paralysis of your face, arms or legs
Blurred vision
Double vision
Decreased vision
Severe or unusual headache
Stiff neck and facial pain
Vomiting and altered consciousness
Onset of confusion
Difficulty remembering things
Spatial disorientation and lack of perception

, Polycythemia vera is more common among adults over the age of 60. If you are over the age of 60, you should be aware that you are in the at-risk demographic and tell friends and family members who are close to your or otherwise involved in your medical care.