 Instead of dashing off a quick email, take the time to talk to your teacher face-to-face. This will demonstrate that your request is sincere and necessary.


If you're in college or graduate school, drop by your professor’s office hours.
If you're in high school or middle school, ask to speak to your teacher after class or set up a time to met with them.
If you're making up an excuse, your professor might be able to see right through your lie. It might better to skip the face-to-face meeting and email them instead.;
, When you talk to your teacher, your reasons for needing an extension should be as specific as possible. Vague explanations sound fake; detailed reasons have more legitimacy. For example:


If you are struggling with depression and/or anxiety, don’t just say “I am overwhelmed.” Instead, explain how your mental health is affecting your ability to complete the assignment. “I’ve been struggling with depression all since midterms. I’ve learned that when I feel depressed, I have a very hard time focusing on my assignments. It has been very difficult for me to sit down a complete the paper.”
If you took on too many responsibilities this semester, don’t just say “I have so much on my plate.” Instead, explain how these additional responsibilities are preventing you from finishing the assignment on time.

“Due to my financial situation, I had to start working this semester. My work schedule and class schedule are very demanding. I am struggling to manage both.”
"My parents are both working overtime right now. I have been watching my little siblings for them. I am having a hard time balancing school and my responsibilities at home"
"I am training for a big competition. My practices are going way longer than expected and by the time I get home I am too exhausted to do my work.", Once you’ve explained your situation to the teacher, request a brief extension for the assignment. Requesting too long of an extension may indicate that you’ve neglected the assignment all semester.


“May I have the weekend to complete the assignment?”
“Can I have three days to finish my paper?”, Ideally, your teacher will grant you the extension without a penalty. But remember, your teacher has the right to say “no” to your request or penalize the late assignment.


If they say “yes,” thank them profusely and work hard to meet your new deadline.
If they say “no,” thank them for their time and start working on the assignment as soon as you can.
If your teacher says “yes” but attaches a grade penalty, accept the grade penalty, thank them for the extension, and work diligently to meet your new deadline.