 People spend much more time than necessary preparing meals, so how you go about cooking can make an enormous difference in the amount of time you save each day. The first thing to consider is to grocery shop with a plan. Make a list of all the items you need, and stick to it. Try to shop when it’s not peak hours, and have a plan for all of your meals through the week, including lunch and dinner. This way you won’t have to spend time picking up individual items for certain meals later on.Make large portions of your favorite meals and save them. You can enjoy your favorites as leftovers later in the week without spending any time cooking again. Pasta dishes, soups, chili, and stew usually have recipes that call for big batches.Keep a bowl on the counter when you’re cooking to use as a temporary trash can. You can save a lot of time cutting out the constant trips to the garbage by tossing it all at once at the end, and it speeds up cleaning!

, Cleaning can seem like an endless task, as new messes are constantly made and dust continually builds up. Tackle the task effectively, though, and you can save time and have a tidy house. One great way to go about this is cleaning in short bursts. Spend no more than ten minutes picking up clothes, dishes, old newspapers, etc. and put them in their place. Do this everyday and you’ll avoid having to spend a large chunk of time doing deep cleans. Remember, a place for everything and everything in its place. Follow the saying to stay organized and you’ll save time by never having to search for your keys amidst a mess.


Work from high to low when performing more detailed cleanings. As you clean from high places dust will settle on the ground. Do the vacuuming last.
Clean as you go. Whether it’s waking up and making the bed or wiping up spilled spices as you cook, staying on top of cleaning on the fly will save you time down the road. This is especially useful in the kitchen and bathroom, where getting to spilled products or ingredients before they dry and harden can make cleaning much quicker and easier., Paying bills and making banking transactions can be complicated and time consuming if not done right. By sitting down and taking care of all your bills and finances in one go, you can avoid confusion and keep yourself from spending time fixing mistakes later.


Consolidate your bills as best you can. Contact your utilities providers and see if they have any options for bundling payments. This is common with cable, phone, and Internet providers.
Sign up for automatic bill payments. Many institutions have this option and it can free up a lot of time and eliminate stressing over missed deadlines.
Find out if your employer offers direct deposit and sign up if they do. One less trip to the bank!

, Don’t make the mistake of missing sleep by having a disorganized morning. Take simple steps to get your day going by planning your outfit and making lunch before bed. Consider taking a quicker shower and making a less complicated breakfast. A quick granola bar doesn’t take anytime at all.


Take advantage of an automated timer on your coffee maker to skip the hassle of setting it up in the morning.
Ignore technology while you get ready. Don’t check emails until you get to the office, they will only distract you. And don’t use a snooze feature on your alarm clock.
Open the blinds and bask in the natural light. It’s good for your brain and your circadian rhythm to expose yourself to sunlight as part of waking up.