 Do you consider your parents to be generally anxious people? Do they tend to worry about small details in day-to-day life in addition to you? Many overprotective parents have preexisting issues with anxiety that may make them extra vigilant regarding their kids. Try to understand your parents have your best interests at heart. Accept that anxiety, over which your parents likely have little control, is a major factor in how they behave towards you., If you want your parents to worry less, show them you're responsible. Making small changes to your day-to-day routine can help your parents see they do not have to worry.


If you live at home, approach your parents as soon as possible if you're asking for permission to go somewhere. Be upfront about who you'll be with and how long you'll be out. Your parents will appreciate your maturity.Be aware that adults often follow many of the same rules they apply to you. For instance, it can be troubling to simply disappear and not let the people who care about you know where you are, even as an adult. Adults let each other know where they are going if they are in loving, healthy relationships. If you want to be treated as a mature individual, then show your parents you are trustworthy and considerate.
Do your homework without prompting. Strive to eat healthier meals. Do day-to-day chores. Show your parents you are mature. This will help lessen their anxiety about the decisions you make.If you live away from home, try to fill your parents in on your accomplishments and small indications you're capable of taking care of yourself. Did you eat a particularly healthy meal this week? Clean your apartment? Did you make the Dean's list this semester? Try to mention this during your weekly phone calls home., Remember, sometimes your parents do know best. They are older and have had more life experience. If you're confused about something, it's okay to seek out your parents advice and be open to what they have to say. If your parents see you're mature enough to seek advice when necessary, they may worry about your decisions less.