 Guys like to feel like they are needed. If you show a guy that you don't need him to be happy or get by, his pride will take a dent. He might even realize that he messed up somewhere. He may not apologize, but he may at least try to make things up to you.
 If your guy believed that he was the sole reason for your happiness, this could be especially effective. Go to a concert, a club, or a theme park. Let him see you having fun and enjoying yourself without him. If he sees how happy you can be without him, he may feel sorry for doing what he did to lose you.


Don't sulk when you are not around him. He might take that as a sign that you are missing him. Instead, act cheerful. Laugh, smile, and be social.
If you are in a relationship with the guy, do this with caution. He might suspect that you are cheating on him, which can make things worse.
If you recently broke up with the guy, going out and doing something that you enjoy might help you feel better.
 For example, if you are a good dancer, go dancing where he will be but dance with other guys instead. He will see your talents and miss them. He will also start to miss you too and might regret hurting you.
 If you used to dress up for your man, continue doing it even you are not going out with him. He sees you looking nice for other people, he may start to feel jealous and less special. If your man knows what he did wrong to make you so upset, he may feel sorry he ever did it.


If you never dressed up in the past, consider doing so when you go out by yourself. Only do this if you feel comfortable doing so.
 This might take a while, but it might show the guy that you don't need him to be happy. In turn, he might realize that he messed up and feel sorry for it. Try to find some new interests and friends. Visit new laces and try new things. Post about it on social media, bring your new friends to parties he is at, or talk about the things you are doing when you see him again., Seeking revenge and finding ways to make him suffer might be tempting, especially if his offense was serious (such as cheating). Unfortunately, revenge usually ends poorly for both parties. Sometimes, revenge can go too far and land you in trouble. Instead of physical revenge, try emotional revenge, such as spending time with other people (especially males), or having fun without him. Ignore him, and keep your attitude cold and reserved when you must speak with him.

