 Whenever cleaning your vents, you should turn off your heat, AC, or fan to prevent your ventilation system from kicking on and launching dust and dirt in the air. This will result in the dirtiness from your vents being spread around your home.Even with your ventilation system off, the natural airflow of your home and your cleaning efforts might cause dust to permeate the air. For this reason, you may want to wear protective eye wear and a dust mask.
 When vacuuming, a crevice tool can help you remove dirt from the nooks and crannies of your vent. If you notice clumps that appear loose but won't vacuum up, take a water dampened, clean rag and wipe these up.


If your vents aren't too dirty, this surface cleaning may be enough to restore your vents to like-new condition.
You don't have to be too thorough with this surface cleaning. Especially dirty vents will need a deep cleaning with soap and water. When vacuuming and wiping, the goal is to remove loose dust.
 To prevent dirt behind your vent from spreading or getting on your floor, lay out something, like a tarp or newspaper, to catch dust. Most frequently, vents are installed using standard screws. Take a standard screwdriver, loosen the screws, and remove the vents.


Dirt and dust often accumulate and clump behind vents. Use the crevice tool of your vacuum to clean away any of this kind of undesirable buildup.
As you finish removing each vent, place it on your ground covering. This will help contain any dirt remaining on the vents., Use a dish cleaning tool, like a scrub brush or sponge, to clean the slats of the vent and other narrow crevices. Wet your tool with water, apply soap to it, and clean each vent. Afterwards, metal or plastic vents can air dry or be wiped dry with a clean, dry rag or paper towel.


If the dirt on your vents is resistant to your soapy scrubbing treatment, you may need to soak them first in warm, soapy water for a few hours or overnight.
Wood vents are easily deformed by excess water or prolonged soaking. Use a water dampened, clean rag to wipe it free of grime, then dry the wood quickly and completely., Now that everything is clean and dry, your vents are ready to return to their associated holes. Fit each vent into place one at a time, then use your screwdriver to reattach all of the vents.