 This will make your first real draft incredibly more organized and fluid, with more structure and body than a simple freely written first draft may be. An outline in some cases is even considered a first draft, so that is an added bonus. One should look at what kind of direction they want for their paper, considering every detail for the final product. What is the theme of their paper? What is the main idea? What parts do you want to get across most? Does some of your topic connect with modern issues? Can you speculate with any certainty about the future of your material? And of course: Who is your audience?;
, Also keep track of where that skeevy guy is when you glance up, you never know when the circles he’s walking in may come within feet of you.
 Radio was the first passive medium to really reach out to people.‿(“Satire in the News‿, by Jack Schultz) It does a great job because the last sentence of the first paragraph refers to the dawn of electronics and the technological revolution, and the first one in the second paragraph refers to the radio, one of the first widely available communicative electronic mediums.
 One doesn't even need to find the perfect wording the first time around, but referencing the image will help keep your writing from being too journalistic.
 It is a place for you to look at all your research and make whatever inferences you feel are relevant, where your voice will shine most. The conclusion often makes or breaks a paper. One can speculate on the future of the subject at hand, or some possibilities for resolution, or even giving an emotional reaction. Providing some emotional or passionate perspective often makes it more interesting and gives some personality to what might be an otherwise unemotional piece of writing. "To hell with the cracks in the sidewalk. The Colbert Report is on." (The Vast Cross-Generational Barrier: An Old Man's 'Final Frontier', by Jack Schultz).
 The thesis is what will receive the heaviest consideration from your teacher, and can mean the difference between a passing paper, and a great paper.

