 There is a little tube going from the valve at the top of the can to the bottom. The tube must sit in the paint so the paint can be drawn up through it and out the cap.


Hold the can vertically to ensure an even spray; otherwise, you might spray mostly or only propellant.
Experiment to see what works. When there is plenty of paint in a can, you should be able to hold it whatever way you’d like—even upside down for a few seconds.
 When it sits around, the spray paint pigment separates from the solvent and thickens, causing clogs. To prevent clogging, shaking the can hard is a must.


Keep in flowing. Cans have a “pea” inside that breaks up and redistributes the paint particles so the paint mixes well and can flow freely. That “ping-ping-ping” sound you hear when you shake a can of spray paint is the sound of the pea hitting the sides of the can.
Hold the can upside down when you shake it; this gets the paint particles back into the liquid solvent quicker. Shake for about a minute.
 Being able to create thin lines will allow you to add detail and outline objects in your painting. Follow a few simple techniques to get your lines nice and thin.


Stand closer to your paper to get your lines thin. If your paper is mounted to the wall, you may need to tilt the can to come in really close.
Get very sharp lines by holding the can so that the upper side points in the direction you’re painting. In other words, hold the can vertically when you’re drawing vertical lines, horizontally for drawing horizontal lines.
Move quickly. You must paint fast to create very thin lines. Besides, spraying too long on the same place will leave drips.
 Thick layers applied at once tend to get flaws when drying or after being exposed to weather. The key to filling in is to use fat lines and to layer the paint. In fact, spray paint art in general is all about layering, so this is an important technique to learn.


Fill in using lines. Don’t release a continuous stream of paint when filling in an area. Use lines to gradually cover the space.
Release the cap after each line to avoid patches with a thick layer of paint.
Embrace thin layers. They dry more quickly and result in a finish that lasts longer.
 This is difficult because it can't be well controlled, but with some practice, you should be able to create the effect you want. Hold the can upside down and spray as if you’re blowing the cap clean. Stop spraying at the moment the paint stops flowing and only propellant is being expelled. With the can still upside down, press down on the cap to spray a perfect dot. Practice several times before using this technique. The trick is to stop the spray at exactly the right moment before spraying again to create a dot.
 Sure, your can of spray paint comes with a cap, but that doesn’t mean it’s the cap you have to stick with. A number of specialty caps that will give you the effect you’re looking for are available for sale.


Spray paint cans have “male” or “female valves, so before you purchase a cap, be sure it’s compatible with the brand of spray paint you’re using.
Whether the spray paint is a foreign or domestic brand will also determine its cap compatibility. Here are a few of the popular cap styles:

Fat caps are good for creating medium to fat lines and are considered to be all-around useful caps, especially for filling in.
Stencil caps are used to create ultra-thin lines. They actually sit in front of the nozzle and stop the flow of most of the paint being dispensed from the can and create the thinnest possible line.
Outline caps do exactly what their name suggests; they're used to outline and add details.


Remove and replace caps properly. Twist or screw the cap off of or on to the can. Cover the dot with one finger to avoid a spray of paint from escaping during this process.

