 An essential oil diffuser is a small device that gets essential oil particles into the air in your home. Inexpensive diffusers use small tea light candles to heat up essential oils and can be found at home appliance and health food stores as well as online. If you are wanting something a little more consistent and longer lasting, there are a variety of plug-in diffusers that will work overnight or for the length of a work day (e.g., 6-8 hours).Another factor is whether the diffuser uses heat or another method to distribute the essential oils, since heat may alter the properties of the essential oils and reduce their health benefits.If you want to maximize possible health benefits, you should find a nebulizer cold air diffuser or an ultrasonic type diffuser.If you are diffusing in a small space, an evaporative diffuser may be a good option.Prices range from 5$ to 100$ for most diffusers, although there are also more expensive models., If you do not have enough money to purchase an essential oil diffuser, you can always drop some essential oils in a glass of hot water. Let the steam from the hot water evaporate in a hot room and experience the fragrant aromas.


Do not drink the water with the essential oils. It is not safe to drink or consume essential oils.
 Get a massage therapist to give you a massage with essential oils. Ask them to use an essential oil that is beneficial for side-effects of cancer treatment such as peppermint, ginger, chamomile, lavender or other essential oils.The combination of massage and essential oils should help reduce some of the stress and anxiety that is associated with receiving cancer treatment.


Get your partner to give you an aromatherapy massage. If you do not have money for a professional massage, you could ask your partner to give you a massage using some massage oil and essential oils. For example, you could ask them to give you a massage with a massage oil that contains essential oils for stress reduction like lavender or ylang ylang.When applied directly to your skin, essential oils can have side effects such as allergic reactions, sun sensitivity and skin reactions., To get some relief from the daily stress of cancer treatment, you could always take a bath with some lavender, rose or vetiver essential oils. These essential oils are great for reducing stress and anxiety.You can also get bath soaps and bombs that have essential oils in them. Look for bath bombs or soaps in your local beauty or health store.

