 Give your child an age-appropriate brush, which will be indicated by the product’s label. Using a brush with their favorite cartoon character, color, or other fun design will help encourage them to brush. Children’s toothpaste is great for younger toddlers who have difficulty spitting, but they aren’t all that effective.Fluoride-free children’s toothpastes are great while your child is just starting out brushing their teeth on their own, generally around 2 to 3 years of age.
Fluoride toothpastes are necessary after your child has mastered spitting out excess toothpaste, generally around age 3.
 Assist your toddler with their tooth care while they’re just starting to learn. They should be capable of brushing on their own sometime between the ages of 3 and 6. You might need to offer help flossing even if they’ve mastered brushing.Kids typically master brushing before flossing. Continue to floss your child’s teeth for them as long as they require assistance in order to ensure it continues to be part of their hygiene routine after they’ve started brushing on their own.
Take your child’s hand and exercise the correct movements in the mirror until they start doing the movements properly. Reward your child with a toy or give them a surprise for motivation.
 Pacifiers and thumb sucking is typically harmless, as kids will stop the habits on their own by their toddler years. However, if either continue past age 3, they can cause tooth decay and increase the need for braces later in life.Sippy cups also fall into this category. Filling sippy cups with sugary drinks increases the risk for tooth decay, so monitor sippy cup use and try to fill them with water when your child drinks from them.
 The most common checkup schedule is every 6 months. However, work with your doctor to determine the best exam routine for your child. Every set of teeth is different, and some that are more prone to decay require more frequent professional care.Try to make going to the dentist as fun an activity as possible. Tell your child that the dentist has to count their teeth, or take pictures of them. Help them to understand the situation in their terms and try keep it from being scary.Turning dental visits into an annual habit is going to have a huge impact on your child as an adult who will be more likely to find regular visits natural and relaxing. Prevention is less expensive and invasive.
Make it exciting for them, and make going to the dentist something to be proud of. Tell your child that it’s a sign that they’re growing up.

