 As soon as you get home, run to the bathroom and turn on the water. If you prefer to take a cold shower, you won't need to wait. Cold water will also motivate you to get in and out of the shower at a faster pace.;
, Obviously, you won't want to step in the shower if you have your clothing on. To save time, you can leave them on the floor and pick them up later.
 Once you're in the shower, it's recommended to shower with warm or slightly cold water. Hot water will convince you to take a longer shower, and you don't have time for that.
 You don't have time to clean everything, so focus on areas that you need cleaned.
 Pour some shampoo in your hand and lather your hair. To save time, you can leave the lathered shampoo in your hair, so you can rinse everything at once.
 With the shampoo still in your hair, pour some body wash in your hand and begin washing your face. Don't spend too much time; less than 15 seconds will suffice. Once you're done, you can rinse your hair and face at the same time.
 You'll want to keep this area clean, so washing it is highly recommended. Remember, you're on the clock.
 With your hair, face, and groin clean, you don't need to worry about anything else. If you're quick, you can be in and out in less than 10 minutes.
 If you have a mat, step on it, because you don't want to get water everywhere.
 If you have short hair, you don't need to spend a lot of time drying. For longer hair, use a blow dryer if you have one.
 You can focus on your torso, legs, and groin only, because other areas will dry over time.
 You still want to smell nice, so be sure to put some deodorant on. Your fresh shower smell won't last forever.
 As tempting as it may be, shave when you have time. You're on the clock; you don't have time to shave.
 You should probably get a fresh pair of underwear and socks, especially if you have to be somewhere nice. To save even more time, you can gather your clothes immediately after you dry your hair. This way, the rest of your body will air dry, and by the time you return to the bathroom, you will be mostly dry.

