 While stretching won't remove the knots, it can reduce your pain and definitely keeps future knots at bay.The following are exercises that you can try.
 These exercises, also known as shrugs, can help release tension in your neck and shoulder area, a common place for knots in your back to form.Sit upright in a chair, preferably one with a straight back. You can also sit on the floor or stand, but make sure to maintain good posture.
Bring your shoulders up to your ears. Roll them forward and then down in a clockwise motion.
Repeat this exercise in the opposite direction: up, backward, down (counter-clockwise).
Do two to four reps several times a day.
 This stretch will help blood flow into your shoulder blade area, which is a common site for knots.Begin by placing your hands palms-down on your shoulders. The right hand goes on the right shoulder and the left hand on the left shoulder.
Bring your elbows together, keeping your hands on your shoulder. You should feel a good stretch in your shoulder and upper back area.
Hold this position for three to five seconds and take deep, even breaths as you hold. Then relax. Repeat this exercise several times throughout the day.
 This exercise can help release tense and tight muscles in your upper back and shoulder area.Sit or stand with your arms at your sides. Squeeze your shoulder blades together. Hold this tension for a few seconds and then relax. Repeat several times throughout the day.
Imagine a string pulling your shoulder blades back and down. Do not just extend your chest forward.
 This exercise will help stretch and release tension in your shoulders.Bring your left arm across your chest. Reach as far across your chest as you can.Hold your left arm in place at the elbow with your right arm.
Hold the stretch for 30 seconds, then relax.
Repeat the stretch with your other arm.
 These exercises can help stretch the muscles in your lower back, although they aren’t as effective for the upper back or shoulders.


Sit on the floor with your legs tucked into your chest.
Hold on to your legs and roll back and forth to stretch the lower back.
 This stretch will help release tension in your lower back. If it causes additional back pain, do not do this exercise.Lie on your back on the floor. You can use a yoga mat for cushioning.
Bend your knees, keeping your feet flat on the floor.
Place both hands behind one knee and bring it up to your chest. Keep your lower back pressed to the floor during this stretch. Hold the position for 15–30 seconds, then relax.
Repeat the motion with the other leg. Do two to four reps for each leg.
 Pilates movements can help you stretch out the tense muscles in your back that are causing knots. One particular combination of movements goes from Prayer to Cat to Camel, and is very good at releasing tense muscles.Begin on all fours. Inhale, and lean back on your heels as you exhale. Extend your arms in front of you and lower your head to the ground. This is Prayer pose. You should feel a stretch in your lower back.
Move from Prayer back to all fours, inhaling as you go. Arch your back upward toward the ceiling. Tuck your head and abdominal muscles in. This is Cat pose. You should feel a stretch across your back muscles.
Exhale and arch your back toward the floor, lifting your hips and chin toward the ceiling. This is Camel Pose. You should feel a stretch in your upper back.
Return to Prayer pose. Repeat this movement sequence for five reps.
 Keep your elbows straight and arch your back. Place your palms outward and then turn them inward, facing you. Hold for 20–30 seconds.
 Bring your ear to your shoulder. Gently hold your head down with the hand on the same side. You should feel a light stretch, but not pain. Hold for 30 seconds, then relax.Repeat for the other side.Bring your chin to your chest. Hold where you feel a stretch for 20–30 seconds.

