 Your vet will determine how often your cat needs its blood tested. They can also determine the best location for you to test your cat’s blood. Additionally, your vet will be able to provide directions for preparations that might apply to your specific cat., Cats are empathetic creatures and can sense if you are worried or nervous. Your cat will reflect your mood, so if you are anxious, your cat will be too. On the other hand, if you are calm, cool, and collected, your cat will likewise feel at ease.To adopt a positive attitude when preparing your cat for a blood test, think positive thoughts. For example, you might think to yourself, “I can do this” or “I am helping to maintain my cat’s health.”

, After assembling your materials – the blood testing meter, test strips, bandages, and whatever other materials you employ when testing your cat’s blood – position your cat in such a way that it will not wriggle or escape during the blood test. You might try the “burrito method,” whereby your swaddle your cat tightly like a newborn in a blanket or towel.Alternately, you could try the “knee catch.” Using this process, kneel, then back your cat up so that it sits between the space between your knees. Grip your cat gently between your legs and place one hand around its chest to prevent it from dashing away.
 Before, during, and after the blood test, keep your cat in your lap, where it will be most comfortable and relaxed. This will reduce the cat’s anxiety and prevent it from struggling during the test. If your cat is struggling, anxious, or scared, its blood sugar levels will spike, throwing off the blood test results., If you’re pricking your cat’s ear to draw a blood sample, warming the ear can encourage blood flow and make it easier to draw a sample. To warm the cat’s ear, pack a few tablespoons of uncooked rice or rolled oats in a sock. Tie the end off in a knot. Microwave the sock for 20-30 seconds. Apply the sock to your cat’s ear for one or two minutes.Before placing the sock against your cat's ear, test it by placing it against your wrist. If it is hot, wait for it to cool. If it is warm, apply it to your cat's ear.
You might also warm the cat’s ear using a warm, wet washcloth placed in a resealable plastic bag. Alternately, wrap the ear around a pill bottle filled with warm water.

