 Eat five small meals each day, every 3-4 hours. Your blood sugar level will be steady, and you will not feel as hungry.
 Do not push your body too far until a couple hours after breakfast. Your body most likely will have very low energy stores, and this will result a loss in muscle before your body uses fat. You need fuel in order to burn fat, otherwise you're just using muscle as energy. Do NOT skip breakfast. It gets your body and metabolism moving and stops cravings later on. So even if it's just a banana and a cup of tea, it will do so much more than if you had nothing to eat.
 Bring a packed lunch and no money for food. That way, cravings are resisted. In your lunch, you should have sandwiches, two pieces of fruit and water. No sweets or fatty food.
 Have one specific place where you will eat all your meals (unless you are out with friends). This keeps you from eating food mindlessly in front of the TV. Take time to chew, count to 30 for each bite. Chewing more can help you lose weight. You will find that you will get full faster, and will not have to eat as much.


Remember that it takes at least 20 minutes to actually notice that you're full or not hungry anymore. Try not to overeat, when you feel satisfied stop eating and don't let yourself eat anymore if you're not finished.
 This will keep your body on a schedule. Because your metabolism isn't high at night (especially when you are sleeping), it also means your body won't be eating food when it can least digest it.
 If you really hate veggies, have some hummus or peanut butter with it, or instead, opt for a handful of unsalted nuts. Greek yogurt helps boost up your metabolism and tastes great (plain with honey and berries is an excellent choice). Popcorn, minus added salt or butter, are excellent munchies. They are full of fiber.
 Not only does this mean that you can choose something healthier, it also means that you aren't likely to give in to cravings and choose something you just can't eat.
 It's easier than trying not to eat everything you get because it's an automatic habit to finish your meals.Try eating on a smaller plate, too. It tricks your brain into thinking you've eaten more than you really have.
 You do not have to drink them down all at once, but keep sipping all day. Do whatever is comfortable and convenient for you, as long as you drink that amount of water. This will help you feel more full.


Other than water, almost anything you drink will contain calories. Learn to love the taste of water, and take in more fluids daily to improve your health and digestion. Fruit and vegetable juices, which are deprived of their fibers, are inferior to eating the fruits and vegetables themselves. Juices contain a lot of added sugar and many times are not even 100% juice, so try to avoid them. Try making your own juice at home with a juicer. It'as a great way to get tons of nutrients and adds in weight loss. It has also been proven that drinking three liters of water a day inhibits the loosening of skin, resulting in the formation of less wrinkles.

