 There are many different situations that qualify for therapy dogs. Most are in institutional settings, but other special situations may also warrant therapy dogs. If you or a loved one are in one of these institutions, continue to work towards getting a therapy dog. Therapy dog uses include:


Cheering up and elevating the moods of patients in hospitals and hospices
Countering grief and stress for mental health patients
Offering companionship and love to those in nursing homes and hospitals, especially children's wards
Being reading partners for children learning to read
Visiting libraries and schools to encourage children to socialize and read
Lifting morale in disaster situations;
, If you are looking into getting a therapy dog for you or someone you love, you need to make sure that the institution where you want the therapy dog is accepting of the concept. You may need to get them behind the idea by explaining why you want to have a therapy dog visit the facility.
 When you are trying to get a therapy dog, look for a certified therapy dog organization. These organizations ensure that the therapy dogs have been vetted and are suitable for the institution where you are. There are many different organizations that are certified by the American Kennel Club as well as other private certification organizations.


They also provide the owners and dogs with liability insurance as they go out into the institutions.Make sure you research these organizations online or ask a local veterinarian. The organization you want to get the therapy dog for may also already have a relationship with a therapy dog organization, so ask them as well.
 Therapy dog organizations are volunteer organizations that will never ask you to pay for their services. The organization's missions are to help people and provide comfort through animal interaction., Therapy dogs are beneficial for many different institutions. There have been studies done that prove that therapy dogs improve patients health by improving blood pressure, heart rate, and overall health. Therapy dogs also help improve depression, anxiety, loneliness, and quality of life.Therapy dogs are used in schools and libraries as reading aids because some children feel more comfortable reading to a dog than to a teacher., After you've contacted a therapy dog organization, you need to let them know what the purpose of the dog's visit will be. If you are getting a therapy dog for a hospital or hospice, the type of dog that will be allowed in these institutions may vary based on patient needs and allergies.If you are using the therapy dog for a school, library, or nursing home, the restrictions will be different.


All therapy dogs work well with children, adults, and seniors, so the needs of the patients or individuals are what has to be taken into account., Although you may be organizing a therapy dog for you or your loved ones, there may be others in the institution that might benefit from the therapy dog as well.


Depending on how many people would like visits from the therapy dog, you may need to coordinate to have more than one dog visit or to make multiple visits., Once you have found a proper organization and the right dog for your situation, schedule the visit. Talk to the institution where you want the dog to visit to find times where the dog will be most useful and cause the least disruption., Therapy dogs are very special dogs that go through a certification process that makes sure they are suitable for the task. Although therapy dogs are not considered service dogs, they should have many relevant qualities that make them fit to be therapy dogs. These include:


Being comfortable around all different kinds of people and dogs
Being well behaved, where they won't jump, growl, or bark
Obeying verbal commands from their handlers
Having up to date vaccinations
Enjoying being petted by strangers
Walking on a leash without pulling
Looking clean and well groomed
Staying for hours and remaining calm, When the therapy dog visits, his handler will be there with him. The therapy dog's handler accompanies him when he goes on visits. His handler, who is also his owner, stays with him and helps the dog interact with individuals.


The handlers also go through a process to make sure they are good fit for the kinds of situations where therapy dogs are needed.
The handler is a volunteer, just like the therapy dog. She is there with her dog to help make others' lives better., Once the therapy dog arrives, he will play and interact with all the individuals at the institution. The individuals are allowed to play games, throw toys, pet, groom, and generally interact in many different ways with the dog. As long as the health of the individual or the dog is not at risk, the dog is able to help in any way he can.


Depending on the health restrictions of the individuals, the therapy dog's activities may change.
If the dog is being used in a school or library setting, the children can read and play to the dog one on one or in a group., Once the therapy dog visit is over, you can schedule another visit with him. This should be less involved than the first visit, since you already have a relationship with the dog and the organization.


If you want to make it a regular occurrence, ask if you an schedule a regular visit with the therapy dog.

