 Keeping all of your assignment due dates in one place will help you turn in your work on time and help you keep up with multiple classes. Write down both the day your assignment is assigned and the day that it is due. Check off assignments as you finish them. If you have not finished an assignment yet, continue to add it to the following day until it is complete. You can keep your assignment book/planner in one of your binder pockets.
Look ahead in your planner to see when everything is due. Read your planner at the end of each day so you know what you need to take home with you.
 A pencil bag with holes can also be included in your binder. Put pencils, pens, erasers and other small items in the bag.

It is easier to stay organized when everything you need is in one place., You may not always have time to file your papers neatly in your binder throughout the day. Keep a special folder for items that need to filed. At the end of the day, file all the papers in your binder.

This will keep your papers from getting crumbled in the bottom of your backpack and keep your from forgetting the papers all together., Have a buddy in each of your classes that you can call in case you forget an assignment or have questions about something. Check in with this person at the end of class to make sure you both have written down your assignment information correctly. You can also ask the person what he or she is taking home from school that day.You can also share pens and pencils with your buddy if one of you forgets.
Trade phone numbers with your buddy in case you need to call them when you get home.
 In addition to having your binder, you can try using an app to help you organize all of your assignments. MyHomework Student Planner and Studious let you keep track of your class schedules, due dates, and reminders for assignments and are more suited for college students.Complete Class Organizer, EpicWin, Chore Pad HD, iHomework, and iRewardChart Lite are good for children and adolescents.These apps should be used in combination with your binder and are not a substitute.
 If you are struggling to stay organized or feel overwhelmed by all of your assignments, talk to your teacher and/or parent. They can help you organize your binder. Many students are able to stay organized once a good system has been set up.Do not be afraid to speak up. It takes time to learn good organizational skills.

