 Like everyone else, you have an inner critic that wants to tell you when you've done something wrong. However, that critic can start making you devalue yourself. If you can turn your inner critic into a positive voice, you'll begin to value yourself more.One way to see how often you talk badly about yourself is to take a simple tally over the course of a day. Every time a negative thought enters your head, make a note on a piece of paper or your phone. That process will increase your awareness of how often you are criticizing yourself.Once you've established how often you are talking badly, start trying to change those negative thoughts into positive thoughts. For instance, if you are thinking, "I hate my hips," try instead to think a positive thought about that body part, such as "I may not like the way my hips look, but they are strong hips that helped me produce a baby.", The people you socialize with affect your mental attitude. You deserve to be around people who try to be happy, as that will encourage you to be happier. Pick positive people for your life, and try to cut out people who encourage your negative side.In the same vein, skip media and news stories that bring you down. They can impact you just as much as the people you surround yourself with.
 Find books, podcasts, or radio programs that inspire you to be your true self. Every day, take time to listen or read from one of these motivational programs. That way, every day you'll get a jolt of positivity, and you'll be inspired to go out there with a positive attitude., Other people will try to make your feel bad about yourself. Maybe they'll judge you on your appearance or how you drive a car. The truth is, the only opinion that matters is your own. Most of the time, what people are saying about you is not really about you, anyway; it's about them trying to make themselves feel better by putting you down.As an example, if someone makes a comment about the sweater you're wearing, don't let it get to you. Instead, remember why you loved the sweater in the first place, and respond in kind: "Well, I'm sorry you don't like it, but I really love this orange. It makes me happy to wear it."

, By helping other people, you are making a positive difference, which makes you feel better about yourself, and encourages you to develop a positive attitude. In addition, it can help develop your sense of gratitude at what you do have in your life. If you're not sure where to volunteer, try asking at your local food bank, a homeless shelter, a nearby school, or a library. All of them are sure to have an opportunity for you to volunteer.

