 Be firm, positive and pray to Jesus for guidance. God gives The Holy Spirit with power for believers and guardian angels "For He shall give His angels charge over you, to keep you in all your ways." (Psalm 91.11) First and foremost be aware that what opponents to the faith are saying or writing may be intended to create doubt and fear. Understand, before you read a book, what the author's motivation is. Do some research on the Internet to find out about the author, and what their agenda may be.;
, There are many things to consider about low enthusiasm from many believers and "unbelievers" alike. Yet, you must resist the humanism of the times; you can act as a Christian ninja and resist such things by the Holy Spirit and in spiritual warfare!


Avoid hate, anger or despair over that media or those people who are challenging belief in God or even trying to make belief in God seem like a mental disability.
 Understand how they are and how they differ from your own Biblical standing.
:


theist - Someone who conceives God as personal, present and active in the governance and organization of the world and the universe.
pantheist - Someone who believes that the physical universe is equivalent to a god or several gods, and that there is no division between a Creator and the substance of its creation.
 You may think that kind of person is a "believer," but consider the facts; what does the fruit of the person's life reveal.
 Such arguments deserve no credibility in any area of belief about God. They do not know or "know-about" the real God! A conscientious scientist might leave religion alone, if one has ones own or professes accepted theories of getting life from non-organic sources/origins but not from a "Spirit." Religion receives little or no respect from such vocations as scientists, but rather negative statements on faith and religion, which is not a faithful use of their faith in science.
 Those guarantees don't mean that God or believers will receive anything except arguments as those people allow little or no room for living by faith.
 If they believe that single cell life came from some kind of bubbles in primordial soup, then they should be able to see that God could make that happen, if He wanted to. That would be a cause and effect.


All one has to do is accept that one is not faithful to science (to say nothing of God) if one is not aware that life comes from "life"...
Life is scientifically known to come from life in some manner (according to logic and facts).





God is "the way, the truth and the life."



, Of course, they want to make money and make a "name" for themselves. Just help your fellow man and be motivated by the thought that he will burn in hell if... think it over and show your faith.
 Read, listen or view these kinds of works at your own risk. Pray effectively: Let no one persuade you to doubt -- but if you do: you can get out of it, and believe.
 It's your soul, and eternity is in view... You, your child, and your nation will need strong faith to see the hard-times of the future sweetened, to be palatable. See the next generation through the bitterness to come!

, Teachings against Christianity and/or God are not necessarily honest factually, and unbelievers may use hypocrites and cruel persons from the past to attempt to discredit the faith. Your faith should not be based on humanism, hypocrisy or cruelty of people, but on God's love and your beliefs that you hold, fastened and sure.

