 Any time you suspect a billing error has taken place and the merchant fails to resolve the issue for you, you should write a letter to the card issuer within 60 days of discovering the error. Send all correspondence by certified mail so that you have a receipt confirming the date each letter was sent/received.Let the card issuer know the date of the purchase(s) in question, and provide as many details as possible to help build your case.The credit card company must acknowledge your complaint with a written response within 30 days, and must resolve the issue within two billing cycles, not to exceed 90 days.You can find a sample letter that you can use as a template for your billing error letter on the Federal Trade Commission's website.


Include your name, address, and account number.List the date of the charge in question, the amount that charge was for, and why you believe that charge was made in error.Include a photocopy of the receipt, if you still have it.In lieu of writing a letter, you can also initiate a dispute online by visiting your card issuer's website, or over the phone by calling your card issuer's customer service phone number., If there's a billing error on your account, it's most likely not the credit card company's fault. Even if the error was on the credit card company's end, the customer service representative you call or write to isn't responsible, and he's likely your best bet for getting the issue resolved. You may have heard the phrase, "You'll catch more flies with honey than vinegar," and that's particularly true with customer service correspondences.Be organized. Have all the information you'll need in front of you before you call or write to the credit card company. That way you won't get flustered searching for anything when you need it.Be professional and polite. Address the representative by name if he provides his name. If the representative you're communicating with can't help you, ask (politely and calmly) if you can speak to a supervisor.Keep a detailed written record of every correspondence you have with the credit card company. That way you can refer back to previous letters or conversations if need be.Make sure you have time to talk if you call a customer service representative. It's not going to be resolved immediately, so set aside some time to call when you don't have any prior engagements., Though it may be stressful to wait for the credit card company to conduct its investigation into your dispute, it's important to know what to expect during this waiting period.


You are not required to make any payments toward the disputed charge during the course of the investigation. However, you are still responsible for making payments on all other charges that are not in dispute.The card issuer cannot take any legal action against you to collect on the disputed charge while the charge is under review. The card issuer is also prohibited from threatening the consumer's credit rating or reporting the consumer as a delinquent cardholder., The decision must be sent to the consumer in writing, no later than 90 days after the initial dispute letter was received by the card issuer. That decision must either explain what actions will be taken to correct the charges, if said charges are determined to be erroneous, or must explain how much money you owe and why, if the charges are determined to be accurate.Even if the charges are determined to be correct, you may not required to pay the disputed amount if the card issuer took longer than 30 days to respond to your initial dispute letter or took more than two billing cycles to conduct the investigation. You are also exempt from paying the amount if the card issuer threatened to report or actually reported you as a delinquent card holder while the charge is being disputed.