 If you know what the teacher is talking about, the lecture will be less boring.


Print out the syllabus and, if they are available, the power-point slides for the class. This will help you keep track of when what assignments are due, and prepare accordingly.
Take notes on what you are reading.
Write down what you don't understand and ask the teacher about it in class.
 This will help you be attentive.


Check whether you are allowed to bring a beverage to class. If not, drink your coffee before class.
Know how much caffeine is enough to keep you alert. Every individual processes caffeine differently- so you don't want to be over-caffeinated and jittery.Drink the coffee at least ten minutes before the class starts. Caffeine takes effect as fast as ten minutes after the first sip, with alertness increasing 30-45 minutes after consumption., Even if it's not the most fascinating lesson, you may save yourself time on the homework or grief on the tests later.


Take exact notes on what the teacher is saying.
Use your favorite pen, or special paper to take notes- a little motivation can go a long way.
Think about how to structure your notes- you don't need to write it down sentence by sentence, but can organize your notes with bullet points, subheadings and even little drawings.This will help you understand the material and pass the time.
 The time will pass much faster when you are engaged in the material.


Ask about the assigned text and what you haven't understood. This will also give your teacher feedback, and will help them structure their classes differently in the future.Disagree with someone's point of view. In a respectful manner, argue your counter-point. Even if you lose the argument, you've sharpened your argumentative skills, paid attention, and passed class time.Offer to volunteer in group work or demonstrations- even if you are not perfect, your willingness to participate can boost your grade.Make eye contact with your teacher. Any teacher will respect you for trying your best and signalling them if you're lost.

