 If you would like to give a special needs cat a good home, call your local rescue shelter and plan to visit their facilities. Ask if there are any senior cats, cats with disabilities, or cats with illnesses that have been overlooked by other adopters. Some special needs cats can be in shelters for a long time, so ask an employee how long a particular animal has been there.When visiting a shelter, it is important to talk to them about your home situation to make sure you can properly accommodate the cat. Let them know whether you live in a house or an apartment, if you have children, whether you work long hours, and other information that may impact your ability to care for a cat.;
, There are many online databases that focus on rehoming special needs cats. Many of the animals listed on these databases have been spayed or neutered and have received the required vaccinations. You will also be able to search based on the cat’s age, sex, and size in addition to the type of special needs that it may have., Purebred cats are more likely than mixed breeds to develop particular health problems, behavioral issues, or other special needs.Consider finding a breed-specific rescue group to see if any special needs cats have been found or surrendered by their former owners. These groups often take in senior animals or animals with special needs that a regular animal shelter may deem as unadoptable.Persian cats, for example, are prone to breathing conditions, while both Sphinx cats and Maine Coons are known to contract a form of heart disease called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Breed-specific rescues can help you understand the needs of these cats., Contact your local rescue agency to discuss fostering a cat with special needs. As a foster parent, you will agree to provide a temporary home for a cat until a new owner has been secured. In this capacity, you will be able to help a special needs cat and discover if caring for a special needs cat is something you can commit to for the duration of the cat’s life.