 Watch movies and browse online galleries and photos to get an idea of the style you would like to achieve. You might want to have Leigh Taylor-Young's look from I Love You, Alice B. Toklas! or maybe you'd like to go au naturale like Janis Joplin?

, According to your skin color and type, obtain some basics: foundation, concealer, powder, bronzer, eye primer, mascara, liquid eyeliner, false eyelashes, lipstick or gloss. Hippie makeup is very simple unless you are adding in flashy eye shadow or things like sequins or feathers. In that case, you want to choose a nice, bright eyeshadow and possibly visit your local craft or costume shop for the proper accessories and adhesives.
 You want to start with a clean canvas. Gently scrub your face with face soap and warm water. Dry your face by patting it down with a soft towel. Moisturize your face with a moisturizer for your skin type.
 Hippie girls have bright, clean skin that is free of blemishes and dark circles. Apply a thin layer of concealer over anything on your face that you feel is a blemish, i.e. blotches, circles under the eyes, etc.
 You can use a brush or your hand, although using a brush is the better option because it does not spread oil onto your face as using your hand would. Apply a dab of foundation to each major area of your face: forehead, each cheek, nose, and chin. Then, using your tool of choice, spread the foundation together and continue to do so until it has been worked in flawlessly. There should not be streaks or uneven blotches.
 Take your powder, which should be nude and should match your skin tone, and dust a small amount lightly across your face with a fluffy brush. This is so that the foundation can set, preventing it from sliding down your face later.
 You want to use bronzer sparingly because it is darker than your natural skin color. Take a pressed powder bronzer and a fluffy brush and apply small, sweeping amounts of bronzer to your forehead, cheek bones, the bridge of your nose, and your chin. Make sure to blend when using bronzer. This gives your face a healthy, sun-kissed look.
 If you are going for a very natural look, you do not need to use eye primer or shadow. However, if your are going to use these items, then start by applying a small amount of eye primer to your eye lids. Then, using an eyeshadow brush, apply your bright eye shadow all over your lid. Do not go above the crease on your lid otherwise the look will become gaudy. You can also apply a white eyeshadow or eyeliner to the inner corners of each eye to make your eyes look wider and more awake. Use eyeliner and mascara too, if you wish, but keep it to a minimum! You want to highlight your features, not paint them over completely.
 Leave your lips nude or use a nude or soft pink color if you intend to use makeup. After applying, take a paper napkin or towel and press your lips to it a couple times so that the lipstick leaves a 'lip stain'. This provides for a more healthy, natural look.
 If you are going to a party or it's Halloween (or maybe you just feel like it!), you can use sequins, feathers, glitter, and much more to make your look groovy and hip! Using costume adhesive, apply your choice of accessories to the corners of each eye. You can also sprinkle a nude shimmer or glitter to your cheeks for a glow.

