 Almost all types of companies are required to have organizational documents, which may include bylaws, articles of incorporation, partnership agreements, operating agreements, or articles of organization. The first step in winding down your company is to review these documents and determine if there are any rules in place to guide dissolution.If the organizational papers do not provide guidance for dissolution, you can check the secretary of state’s website for the state in which the business was incorporated or formed for guidance on how to begin the dissolution process. You can locate secretary of state websites at: http://www.statelocalgov.net

If your company was formed as a partnership, you may want to consider hiring a third-party mediator to help the partners come to an agreement about the best way to end the partnership.;
, Corporations and LLCs typically require a vote by their shareholders or members to officially agree to close the business.


Corporations must call a board of director’s meeting and hold an official vote to dissolve the company. The vote must be recorded in the corporate records. A successful vote to dissolve the company must be approved by the Board of Directors.
Generally in corporations with shareholders, a majority of shareholders must approve/vote for dissolution in order for the company to be dissolved. However, some states only require two-thirds of shareholders to approve dissolution in order for dissolution to occur.Review the secretary of state’s website or check state laws at http://corporations.uslegal.com/corporate-dissolution/ to determine the number of votes needed for dissolution.
Votes for dissolution for an LLC must be recorded in the meeting minutes or with a written consent form maintained in the LLC’s records.Partnerships must record the vote or agreement to dissolve the partnership in writing., Once the company has decided to move towards dissolution, it is important to begin the process of closing the business and liquidating assets. This may include the following:


Notifying customers, suppliers and creditors of your decision to close the business.
Fulfilling any outstanding orders or negotiating the end of contracts.
Notifying employees of the closure.
Selling off business assets.
Paying off creditors., Before beginning the legal process of dissolving your company, you must review the law regarding dissolution from the state in which your business was formed. Each state has different requirements for dissolving a company and in order to legally end your business and limit your legal liability you must comply with all legal requirements. These requirements may include:


Filing articles of dissolution or a partnership dissolution agreement.
Filing state specific forms regarding dissolution.
Filing state and federal tax forms.
To review state laws regarding corporate dissolution, visit: http://corporations.uslegal.com/corporate-dissolution/.
To review state laws regarding LLC dissolution, visit: LLC http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/how-dissolve-llc-your-state.html.
To review state laws regarding partnership dissolution, visit: http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/50-state-guide-dissolving-partnership.
 Agreements dissolving corporations, LLCs and partnerships all have state-specific requirements. Generally, these agreements must include:


The name of the business.
The date that the business was formed and/or registered with the state.
The name and address of each officer, director, member and/or partner.
A description of how the dissolution came about, such as member or shareholder vote and the percentage of people who voted for dissolution.
The signatures of all members, directors and/or partners and the date.
Some states may also require a signed certificate of dissolution that should be available online at the secretary of state’s website.To review a sample articles of dissolution for a corporation, visit: http://www.dos.ny.gov/forms/corporations/1337-f-l.pdf.
To review a sample articles of dissolution for an LLC, visit: http://smallbusiness.findlaw.com/closing-a-business/forms-notice-and-articles-of-dissolution.html

To review a sample partnership dissolution agreement (also referred to as a termination of partnership or cancellation of partnership agreement), visit: https://www.legalzoom.com/assets/legalforms/LegalZoom%20Partnership%20Dissolution%20Agreement.pdf.
 Articles of dissolution must be filed with the same state agency where the company originally filed its articles of organization. In many states, this agency would be the secretary of state’s office. Generally, the agency will provide a fillable form or template for the dissolution forms.You can locate secretary of state websites at: http://www.statelocalgov.net.
 All businesses must file final federal and state tax returns and may also be required to submit the following:Payroll and State Sales Taxes.
Employer Tax returns.
Social Security, Medicare and Pension Plan withholding statements.Non-profit corporations are required to file IRS form 990, which officially dissolves the corporation for tax purposes. IRS form 990 can be located at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f990.pdf., Once all creditors and employees have been paid, the capital investment initially made by partners to create the partnership should be repaid., After debts and obligations have been settled, including the repayment of a partner’s initial investment, any remaining profits should be disbursed to the members, owners, shareholders, and or partners in accordance with the organizational documents or partner’s ownership interest., Once the time for creditors’ claims have passed, you should close all business bank accounts, credit cards, insurance policies, permits and/or licenses., You must keep all of your business records for up to seven years in case you are subjected to an audit or a lawsuit.