 When trying to trim your Japanese Bobtail’s nails, it will be more cooperative if you choose a relaxing environment. Find a well-lit, quiet room where you and your cat can both be at ease. Additionally, trim your cat’s nails when it is relaxed. Select a time close to your cat’s bedtime to trim its nails., With your cat in your lap, take one of its paws and give it a gentle squeeze. If the cat pulls its paw away, don’t let go. Follow the cat’s motion, but allow your cat to move the paw back and forth. Give one toe a slight squeeze when your cat is still. When your Japanese Bobtail extends it nail, give it a treat.Repeat daily until you’ve seen all ten of your cat’s nails.
 Sit near your cat with the clippers and a piece of uncooked spaghetti. Massage your Japanese Bobtail’s toe until a nail extends. Continue holding the paw with one hand, and clip the uncooked spaghetti with the clippers in your other hand. Give your cat a treat.Repeat with all toes.
 The quick is the pink part of your cat’s nails. It contains a delicate network of blood vessels. Only cut the white portion of your Japanese Bobtail’s nails.If you cut your cat’s quick, apply light pressure to the tip of the claw. Dip it in cornstarch or styptic powder as soon as possible. Do not squeeze the whole paw, as this will only increase blood loss., Sit your Japanese Bobtail in your lap facing away from you. Use the clippers to clip the sharp white part of the nail. Give your pet a treat as soon as you clip the nail.Clip your cat’s nails two to four times monthly.
Don’t trim all your cat’s nails at once. Work on one or two paws per session.
Don’t try to rush the process. If your cat is agitated, cut the session short or give it a treat.
 Use a soft infant toothbrush, a short-bristled finger brush designed for pet teeth, or even a soft cloth wrapped around your finger to clean your cat’s teeth. When first introducing your cat to the toothbrush, just dip it in a bit of chicken broth and rub the cat’s teeth for a short time. When your cat has grown accustomed to this process, add toothpaste to the brush and brush the outer faces of your cat’s teeth using gentle circular motions.Ideally, you will brush your Japanese Bobtail’s teeth daily. Less frequent brushing is also acceptable but not preferred.
Do not use human toothpaste to brush your cat’s teeth. Instead, use a specially formulated feline toothpaste in a flavor that your cat seems to prefer.
Ask your vet to demonstrate how to properly brush your cat’s teeth before trying it yourself.
 Japanese Bobtail cats don’t need their ears cleaned regularly, but you should check them from time to time. If the ears look dirty, wipe them with a cotton ball or a soft cloth dampened with a mixture of half water and half cider vinegar. Do not use cotton swabs on your cat’s ears, as you could hurt it.