 If indoors, let your embers cool down completely with the fire screen closed. Even if it appears the ashes and wood aren’t hot, they may remain warm and capable of starting a fire for some time. Allow several hours for the embers to cool. They will not radiate any heat when they are completely cold.Don’t allow a fire to keep burning overnight. If you need to go to sleep, put the embers out completely by covering them with sand.
Pouring water on a fire inside can damage your fireplace. If sand is not available, you can smother a fire with flour.;
, Let your campsite embers cool completely in your firepit. Do not leave your camping area with any warm embers still radiating heat. If you need to put your embers out quickly, smother them with sand or dirt.Don’t start an outdoor fire if you don’t have time to let the embers cool properly.
Avoid putting out your fire with water, which can wash away flammable accelerant., Wearing safety gloves, use a metal shovel to move the ashes into a metal bucket. Move the bucket close to the site of the fire, so you are not transferring ashes over your wood floor indoors or longer distances outside. Act as though the material still has the potential to be warm, even if you think it’s cool.Never use buckets or shovels made of any combustible materials, such as wood.
 Use a water bottle or watering can to wet down your ashes and any wood pieces in the bucket. Use enough water to saturate the materials in the bucket, so they are thoroughly wet. Do this whether you are inside or outside. If desired, you can put a plastic trash bag underneath your bucket inside to protect your floor.There’s no need to have standing water in the bucket, but it doesn’t hurt. As long as you’re okay with a little mess, you can use as much water as you like.
 Place your metal bucket of fire waste outside your home. Choose a location away from any combustible materials, such as oil or paper. While it might be tempting, do not discard any additional trash or flammable materials in the bucket., Pour off any extra water the morning of garbage collection, and empty the solid materials into your regular garbage can. Your used ashes and wood will be hauled away with the rest of your trash.

