

Is it not turning on?
Is it not staying on?
Is it vacuuming weakly or unevenly?
Is it leaving fuzz or other debris behind?
Is it tripping a circuit breaker?
Is it producing a noise or an odor as it runs?;
, If you don't have a circuit tester, try plugging in a lamp or radio that you know works. Yes, it's obvious, but without electricity, your vacuum cleaner isn't going to get any work done., Some vacuum cleaners have a device that stops the machine if it overheats. If your vacuum cleaner cuts out, unplug it, check your manual and wait for a period of time (perhaps 20 or 30 minutes). Then, check for obstructions or other problems, and carefully turn it on again.

Note that vacuums sometimes have a small in-line thermal fuse that's almost hidden between the switch lead and the coil of the motor. It's not easily noticed and has tape covering it. A common type is a SEFuse SF109e available for about $1-2 (US) each on line.
 If the machine operates but functions weakly (poor suction), or if the vacuum cleaner is leaving debris behind, or if you smell dust or a general burning sort of odor. Then check the vacuum cleaner again. If it functions satisfactorily, there is no need to proceed past this level.







Replace the bag and clean all filters.






Make sure the airways are clean. Clear any clogs in the hose using a broom handle or a bent coat hanger wire. Be careful not to pack clogs further in or punch through the hose with the wire.




 The belt connects the drive shaft and the brush roll.

Replace the belt(s). Make sure the belts are engaging the brush roll, the drive shaft, and any other moving parts, such as power-drive rollers. A slipping belt may produce a distinct odor, that of hot rubber and/or plastic.






Clean the brush roll and make sure it is spinning freely. Lubricate the bearings. Replace the bearings or the entire brush roll, if necessary. Brush rolls may be made out of wood, especially in older models, or out of plastic in newer models.
 One way is to turn on the vacuum cleaner and carefully look underneath. Never touch the spinning brush roll, and be sure to keep loose clothing, hair, etc. clear.

Some vacuum cleaners have an idler or switch that disengages the brush roll when the handle is up or when a switch is set for hard floors. Make sure that the switch is set for carpeting and that the idler engages when the handle is down.
 Use a multimeter to check continuity. You are looking for open circuits. Clean the contacts and replace any segment of this path that lacks continuity. Be certain to use the correct fuse. Reset the breaker(s).

From the plug to just before the switch.




 Testing continuity across a switch.

Across the switch when the switch is closed (in the 'on' position).




 Two types of fuse you may find in a vacuum cleaner.

Across any fuses or breakers built in to the vacuum.
From the switch to the motor.
Back along the other wire from the motor to the outlet. Remember that electricity must travel in a full circuit.




 This hose connection powers the brush accessory on a canister vacuum.

Across any electrical connections made on the hose.
The connection between the cord and the rest of the unit if there is a spring-loaded cord re-winder. Because it moves, this can be a point of failure.
 Is there a short circuit somewhere? Is the motor going out? Correct any problems you find., It may not be economical to replace the entire motor (it can cost as much as a new vacuum cleaner), but you may be able to service certain parts of it., If they are worn, replace them.





 Pry open the brush housing.

Pry open the brush housing.




 The motor brushes.

Remove and replace the brushes, making sure to reconnect the electrical wires as you found them and re-close the brush housing.
 There are bearings for the motor and blower (often connected). There may also be bearings for the drive shaft and any powered drive wheels. Look anywhere that something is spinning (or should be).

Before dismantling the motor or removing the blower, see if there is any side-to-side play in the shaft. If there is, it is a pretty good clue that the bearings are shot.
 Replace it if you find any. The blower is generally attached directly to the motor. Any unevenness could cause an imbalance, which could, in turn, damage the motor or bearings.

This is one place where you might find a left-handed screw thread, depending on the vacuum cleaner design.
 Replacing wheels is not a big deal, but broken wheels can sure slow you down. Here are wheels on two different vacuum cleaners. You may have to remove caps or covers to access the wheel attachment points.

This wheel has an E-clip holding it on. Remove the metal E-clip with pliers. Replace the wheel, then the clip.






Replace this wheel by squeezing these tabs together until the whole wheel pops off. The new wheel should snap right in.
 If something has punctured the hose, remove it with pliers and cover the opening with electrical tape. Silicone sealant is another good choice.