 If you can't shower, the next best thing is to dry off. It will help you look less sweaty, but it will also help you smell better, too, as you won't be drenched in your own sweat. Just make sure to hit all the major sweaty spots, including your underarms.Of course, the best option is to shower if you can, so you can start fresh with your look.;
, Baby wipes or other body wipes are also a quick way to freshen up. Use them to wipe down areas where you're particularly sweaty, including your underarms and any other place that needs it. Don't forget to add some deodorant., Baby powder is a great way to freshen up. It helps dry you off, as well as keep you dry after the gym, making you look less sweaty. In addition, it gives you a subtle, fresh scent so that you won't be quite so smelly.Sprinkle some on your feet or in your shoes, too, to help take care of odor.
 Even if you don't have time to shower, washing your face is a good idea. If you leave the sweat on your face, it can clog your pores, making you break out. You can use a facial cleansing cloth if you don't have time to stop and wash your face., If your hair is long, try to put it up while you work out. That keeps it out of some of the sweat (on your neck), plus you can use the time to create a look for after the gym. If you make a loose braid and tie it up in a bun, you can simply wash it as is afterwards if you have time to shower, then pull it down for a wavy look.This technique works best if you don't sweat too much.
Hair coils work well to put up your hair because they don't leave a crease.You can also use ribbon hair ties for less crease., One option, of course, is to use a hair dryer. Many gyms even provide hair dryers to use. You can also comb in dry shampoo or baby powder to help dry off your hair. Either way, you need to cut down on the sweat to help yourself look fresh.Another technique is to use dry shampoo on your roots before you work out, as it can help control your sweating., One way to look great after the gym is to create an easy hairdo like a messy bun or a loose braid. You can do these hairdos in just a few minutes, and they take advantage of your messiness to create a fun look.For a messy bun, pull your hair up into a ponytail. On the last loop, only pull your hair partway through. Scrunch it and pull it to create a messy bun.
 Another option is to just brush your hair out when you're done. If you've dried your hair off, paying a little attention to the shape as it dries, brushing may be all you need to do to create a nice look post-workout., If your hair is a bit out of control, you can try a few techniques. You can use dry conditioner on the ends to help it calm down. For a more down-to-earth approach, try running a dryer sheet over it to control fly-aways., After you work out, just apply a few of the basics for makeup. You'll have a natural glow from your workout, so you don't need much. Instead, stick to a basic lipstick and a touch of mascara, and you're good to go., To keep things smelling fresh, add a little perfume. You can even spray a bit in your hair, which if you've sweated, can pick up an odor. Hair perfume is a great solution, which many salons sell., One option for after the gym is to stay casual. For instance, if you wore a sports bra and leggings to the gym, you can throw on a casual shirt, such as a crop top, over your sports bra to finish running errands., Another option is to simply take a change of clothes with you. It can be casual or chic, depending on what you need to do afterwards. Plus, it will leave you feeling a lot fresher if you can change into clean duds., If you're creating a post-gym look, the shoes can help make the statement. Even if you're staying casual in your gym clothes, switching to a trendier pair of shoes can help pull the look together. With a more dressed-up look, you're obviously going to want different shoes than the ones you worked out in.