 Antihistamines increase the passage of white blood cells in your body while reducing your body's production of histamine, which your immune system releases in response to an allergen.Depending on the severity of your reaction, your doctor may recommend a prescription-strength antihistamine, or they may advise you to use an over-the-counter antihistamine.Diphenhydramine (Benadryl). In the case of severe allergy, it is always good to use diphenhydramine (Benadryl) as this is a strong antihistamine. Consider keeping some in your first aid kit for emergencies.
Other common over-the-counter antihistamines include loratadine (Claritin), cetirizine (Zyrtec), or chlorpheniramine (Aller-Chlor).The dosage you take will depend on a number of factors, including your age and the particular antihistamine you are taking.Follow the instructions on the package, or ask a doctor or pharmacist for dosage instructions.
Do not drive or operate machinery after taking antihistamines, as most first generation antihistamines (like Benadryl) can cause severe drowsiness, making it difficult to function.Do not use antihistamines if you are pregnant or breastfeeding. These medications may cause adverse side effects in infants and could cause birth defects in developing fetuses.Do not give antihistamines to children under four years of age. If your little one is experiencing a severe allergy, take them to emergency room. Do not wait it out with respiratory difficulties or facial swelling — get emergency care as soon as possible.
Some elderly patients experience adverse side effects from antihistamine. These side effects include confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, nervousness, and irritability.This places them at risk for falling. Falling and breaking hips can be fatal to the elderly, as their immune systems are not as robust as young to middle-aged adults.
 If you are experiencing a rash or hives caused by an allergic reaction, calamine lotion may help soothe the itching and discomfort.Calamine lotion contains a mixture of calamine, zinc oxide, and other ingredients. Calamine and zinc oxide are both known anti-itch topical medications.Calamine is for external use only. You should not ingest calamine, nor should you apply it near the eyes, nose, mouth, genitals, or anal areas., Low-dose hydrocortisone cream is available over-the-counter at 0.5 or one percent concentrations, though stronger concentrations are available by prescription. This topical medication suppresses your body's immune system reaction to relieve skin irritations, itching, and rashes.Hydrocortisone cream is a topical steroid. This class of medication is generally safe, but should not be used for more than seven consecutive days to avoid complications, including itching, cracked skin, thinned skin, and acne.Topical hydrocortisone should not be used on children under two years of age. Do not use this medication if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, unless otherwise directed by your physician.Apply to the affected areas one to four times daily for up to seven days. Avoid contact with the eyes if you are applying this medication to your face.