 In most states, any money in a joint account is considered marital property and you are entitled to half of it. If you are concerned that your spouse will drain the account, you should withdraw your share of the money before filing for divorce.Ideally, you want to take an inventory of all accounts, especially joint accounts, before you file for divorce. Make note of the institution, account number, date the account was opened, and current balance.
If there are any automatic payments or deposits scheduled through that account, you should note those as well. If they are payments for individual bills or debts, you'll have to change the payment arrangements.
Keep in mind that it's important that you take your money out of the bank account before you file for divorce. After you file for divorce, your ability to withdraw money from any joint accounts will be restricted.
However, regardless of your state's laws on division of marital property, you should never withdraw more than 50 percent of the money from a joint account – even if your spouse is unemployed and you've actually contributed all of the money.
 Although you may have had joint accounts when married, having separate accounts to which the other spouse does not have access can prevent fraud and other financial issues during the divorce process.Particularly if you're concerned about your spouse gaining access to your separate account, you may want to consider opening it at a bank where neither of you has ever done business.
If your paycheck is deposited directly, you definitely want to get a separate bank account in your name only and change the direct deposit so that your paycheck goes to that account.
Make sure any basic living expenses for which you're paying come out of your separate account rather than continuing to use the joint account.
 If you're concerned about your spouse taking out new credit accounts in your name to damage your credit, a fraud alert can prevent them from doing so without your knowledge or permission. There is never a fee to set a fraud alert.When you have a fraud alert, it simply means that lending institutions must take additional steps to verify your identity before opening up an account or line of credit in your name.
For example, you can provide a phone number that the lending institution must call to confirm your identity. If it is your personal cell phone number, that means your spouse would be unable to fraudulently open accounts in your name.
The lending institution would call you to verify, and you would tell them that you did not apply to open the account.
You can set a fraud alert with any one of the three major credit bureaus, and the remaining two will be automatically notified to place a fraud alert as well.
Placing a fraud alert also gives you access to free credit reports so you can monitor your report for unauthorized activity.
 In many states, joint credit accounts are considered community property, making you liable for half of the debts incurred. If you're concerned that your spouse will run up credit card balances during the divorce, the solution is to close those accounts.Keep in mind that if you are listed as a primary account holder, rather than simply an authorized user, you are responsible for the entire debt.
If you have your spouse listed as an authorized user on any of your accounts, contact the bank or credit card company to remove that authorization before you file for divorce.
Close joint credit cards and lines of credit to ensure that your spouse cannot run up additional debt. However, keep in mind this also means that you won't have access to that credit if you need it.
You also should keep in mind that closing active accounts can cause your credit score to dip. However, a lower credit score is a small price to pay if you're concerned that your spouse will rack up tremendous debts in your name and then leave you holding the bag.
 Once you have separate accounts, make detailed notes of any payments you make using your separate money, especially if your money is going towards a joint debt.Staying on top of your account balances and bills can protect you from any claims your spouse might make that you are hiding assets or spending money improperly.
Subscribing to a computerized accounting software service and linking it to your separate accounts is a good way to keep track of your finances that requires little effort on your part.
If you and your spouse have multiple joint accounts or a significant investment portfolio, you may want to consider hiring an accountant to help you keep your finances straight during the divorce.

