 If you already have an embarrassing set of tan lines and were planning on wearing a strapless dress to a big event, don't panic. You can even out your tan for the night with just a little makeup. For the best results:



Match your foundation's color to the tan portion of your shoulder. This will likely be different from your regular face foundation.
Dab a generous portion of foundation both directly onto your tan lines and the surrounding skin. You can use a brush, a makeup sponge, a cotton ball, or even your fingers to apply.
Blend the foundation well. This is the most important step for making your makeup look discreet and natural. Using your preferred application tool, make small circular buffing motions all over your skin until the foundation perfectly blends in.
If you used a liquid or cream foundation, don't forget to finish up with a dusting of colorless setting powder. This will help your makeup last as long as possible and prevent it from rubbing off onto your clothes., This tactic is similar to wearing body makeup but lasts a lot longer. While the main ingredient in most sunless tanners, dihydroxyacetone (DHA), may cause DNA damage in high concentrations,dermatologists consider it to be much safer for your skin compared to sun tanning. Rather than staining your skin directly, DHA interacts with amino acids in your skin, producing pigments similar to those found in suntanned skin.Clean and exfoliate your skin. Wait at least half an hour afterwards to make sure your skin is completely dry. Also be sure to skip the moisturizer; the drier your skin, the better it will absorb the tanner.
Use a clean makeup brush to carefully paint tanner over your tan lines. Be careful to stay just within the pale parts of your skin. Remember that DHA isn't a traditional dye and it may bring already tanned sections of skin to a darker shade than the previously pale portions.
Let the self-tanner dry and check the color of your tan lines. If they're still obvious, brush on another layer. Keep doing this until they match the surrounding skin. This may take a few rounds of application.
To help your tan lines blend in better, before an even, mix a little liquid bronzer makeup into your body moisturizer and apply it all over your shoulders., If you have the time and patience, another sunbathing session or two is the easiest way to help make tan lines disappear. Your paler skin will likely tan quicker and eventually catch up with the surrounding skin over time.


You can also try applying a sunscreen with a higher SPF to already-tanned skin and use a lower SPF on your tan lines., Exfoliation helps to even out your skin tone, including your tan. It's also especially important to exfoliate while tanning because properly exfoliated skin absorbs moisturizers more readily, keeping your skin hydrated and looking great.


Exfoliating is especially great for making a bad sunless tan fade faster. Exfoliating a few days after any sunless tan will help it fade more evenly.