 Blue eyes are by far Rory's most prominent feature. This is not a must, though. If you already have blue eyes, rock them! Rory's eyes are a bright, crystal blue, so buy fluorescent light bulbs and avoid places with awful lighting if you can.;
, Having brown hair makes you look serious and mature, and you would not look too outstanding, which is something Rory is well known for. You could even use a brown wig.
 Rory does not really wear much makeup, but if she does, she would keep it natural and light. A light pink blush and tinted moisturiser is all that is needed. Follow suit.
 Have brains and beauty if you can, but don't try too hard because Rory is pretty but isn't obsessed with her looks. She also always keeps her appearance neat and tidy.
 Try to keep your outfits quite simple, and don't be materialistic. Rory doesn't really seem to care about having the most expensive clothes. She has a classic look, which would definitely be taken away if she began shopping at only designer places. Buy plain colored, button down shirts, slacks, and a few funky shirts for the weekends. Be creative, but conservative. Be light on the accessories, but add something different for a soft touch. For example, Rory will add scarves and leggings/stockings to add something unique to her simplistic style.
 This would complete the Rory Gilmore look, or attitude.

Get straight A's, or at least the best grades you can. Rory is academically successful. Rory is extremely intelligent, and would never let her grades drop. Work to form excellent study habits. If possible, apply to an exclusive private school. This isn't necessary, but it would help.






Be organized and punctual.






Set both short-term and long-term goals for yourself - daily, weekly, monthly, etc.






Learn to drive. Rory likes to drive a car, that strengths her independence.






Read a work of literature a week. If you are choosing novels that are more trying and/or longer in length and have a busy schedule, going for one a month is a good idea. Have also an easier, enjoyable book to alternate with if you need a break from a more difficult book. Rory tends to read many classics: a couple of examples from the show are: The Art of War (one relatively short in length, by the way), Moby Dick. She also goes through a phase of choosing Russian authors. But any books with some kind of substance will do. Don't forget to carry around the book!






Keep busy by studying, volunteering, working, watching movies, and spending time with family and friends.






Drink coffee. On evenings, drink decaf. If you don't like coffee, try a chai latte or green tea when you visit your local coffee shop. (In fact, Alexis Bledel, the actress that plays Rory is so sick of coffee that she only drinks tea now.)






Perfect your etiquette. Rory has good manners. Avoid using vulgarities and slang.






Make lots of lists. Rory is always writing lists. She also makes her classic "pro-con" list to aid in decision making (eg. when she was choosing between Harvard and Yale and Princeton).






Be witty and keep up with the humor. You either have a similar sense of humor to Rory or you don't, so if you don't have a witty or dry humor naturally, then don't bother trying to. You might end up sounding dumb--like you don't know what your talking about. You can learn to Talk Like a Gilmore Girl however.






Read a lot; any kind of book. It is a must, because it is her main hobby, and she spends a lot of time doing it.






Be nice to everyone.







