 Do you feel.... love, empathy, gratitude, jealousy, anger, etc.? What does he/she do to you? Does he/she hypnotize you, paralyze you, and make you want to jump off a cliff? An example for this is, "When you stare into my gaze, I can find you, in a haze, I see your face, your hair, your skin, I find myself in love again.";
, Do you love it, like it, don't know, dislike it, hate it, etc? Analyze it a little deeper than you normally would. An example for this is, "It swims through my soul, it echoes in the hall, how am I supposed to know, when we're gonna lose it all?"

, If you feel love and passion towards him/her, but are unsure about love, it could go like, "I know what I feel for you, I don't know how to explain, But I know for sure, one thing, I'll never be the same."

, with everything else. (Also, be sure to put them in sections, like, "Step 1, 2, 3...) Is he/she beautiful, upbeat, cocky, impish, quirky, silly, cute, sexy, attractive, conservative, impossible, etc.? An example for this is, "You are so real, you are so fun, you remind me of, the setting sun."

, Is it an honest, loving relationship, a sexy, but somehow, at the same time, a fulfilling relationship, or is it just fun and light-hearted? An example for this is, "We might not be perfect, but everything is worth it, when I see your gorgeous smile."

, Can you see yourself living with him/her forever, or do you just want to live in the moment with him/her in your arms? An example for this would be, "I'm so utterly, completely in love with you, but I need to live in the moment, with you tonight, I need to be here in this moment, with you tonight."

, That'll be your closing statement: if you love him/her. An example for this would be, "The only thing I can say is... I'm in love with you."

, Ask your band for help with the musical stuff, like guitar, keys, bass, etc....... and sing the song for him/her, even if you have a bad singing voice. He'll/she'll appreciate the song, not to mention that you had the guts to sing it to him/her, instead of letting the lead singer (if you aren't the lead singer already, or unless you don't have one) sing it.

