 If you find yourself in situations where dieting comes up as a topic of conversation when friends or coworkers, use distraction tactics to change the subject. Remark on the latest television show or the latest movies. Focus on the latest office gossip or the latest news from a mutual friend. Shifting the subject away from a discussion on eating and dieting will help you avoid having to talk about your diet or address your eating habits.


Keep in mind it may be helpful to share your diet with close friends or family, as they can act as a form of support and encouragement. Rather than avoid the topic with people you are close with, you may want to consider being open about your diet so you can feel you are not doing it alone or out of shame.;
, Have a vague excuse ready of someone does decide to ask you about your diet, especially if it has happened around certain individuals recently and you have had to awkwardly change the subject. This could be something like: “I’m just watching what I’m eating,” or, “I’m avoiding certain food groups”.


While having a vague excuse ready can be useful, you should try not to lie when asked about your weight. For example, it would not be a good idea to say, “My doctor told me I’m allergic to carbs,” when in fact your doctor has not given you this diagnosis. Using a fake excuse could indicate that you are ashamed of your eating habits and are trying to hide your diet by lying to others. This could also come around and cause you trouble if you are later seen eating carbs.
 To avoid the awkward back and forth with the server when you are at a restaurant, prepare for eating out by looking up the menu for the restaurant in advance on the restaurant's website. This way, you can look through the menu and create a meal that fulfills your dietary needs at your own pace, rather than do it on the spot in person at the restaurant.


If you are eating out at someone's home, you may want to ask the home cook what she is planning to prepare. You may then be able to suggest certain dishes that might fit with her planned meal but still adhere to your diet. Even if the home cook does not agree to make a special meal for you, you are at least prepared for the meal and know what to expect when you sit down to eat.
 To avoid having to defend or address your diet, you may want to consider having your meals alone. This way, you will not need to hide your diet and can eat comfortably without feeling judged by others.


Eating alone can be an isolating and unhealthy experience, especially if it is done on a daily basis for all your meals.You may want to consider instead eating around individuals who will not question your diet or ask you personal questions about your eating habits as an alternative to eating all your meals alone. This could be friends that are also dieting or individuals that you met through a weight loss program.

