 You’ll better preserve their flavor and nutritional value if you blanch your veggies before packing and freezing them. Place veggies in a large pot of boiling water, cover them, and heat them for three to four minutes. Use a slotted spoon to transfer them from the pot to a bowl of ice water.Pat the vegetables dry after their ice bath.;
,  If you’re vacuum sealing a piece of meat without seasoning it, just pat it dry with a paper towel before placing it into the vacuum bag. If you prefer, before packing up your meat, you can infuse it with flavor by mixing seasonings or a marinade.For example, pack up a piece of salmon with salt, pepper, dill, and a slice of lemon.
 When you’ve prepared your food for packing, place it into a vacuum bag large enough to fit the item with some room to spare. Fold the edges of the bag’s opening over so your food doesn’t make a mess as you place it into the bag.Make sure there's one to two inches (three to five centimeters) between the food item and side of the bag that you're sealing. That way, you'll have room to lock the sealer's lid over the bag's opening.
Some vacuum seal bags have a maximum fill line, so check your product for a line near its opening.
 You can make vacuum bags by placing two equally sized plastic sheets on top of each other. Place one side of the plastic sheets into the vacuum sealer and press the Seal Only button to heat seal the sheets’ edges together. Repeat the process to create heat seals on three sides, leaving one side open for you to pack the item you want to vacuum seal., Open the sealer lid, position the bag’s opening at the vacuum mouth, then close the sealer lid and listen for a click that indicates it’s locked.Once it’s locked, press the Vacuum Seal button to activate the appliance and compress the bag.Sealers usually have one button to vacuum and automatically seal and another just for sealing. Check your user manual for specific information about how your device’s controls are labeled.
 To seal bags with liquid, watch the bag after you’ve pressed Vacuum Seal. Press the Seal Only button when you start to see liquid move up the bag. After sucking out the last bit of air, the vacuum will start pulling the liquid out, so you should use the Seal Only option to manually seal the bag.To pack items without liquid, you can just press the Vacuum Seal button and let the device seal your bag automatically.

