 You'll be making the parts of your cell out of various food and kitchen items. What you use is up to you but here are a few ideas:


Clear gelatin will work as the cytoplasm. If you are simply going for authenticity, non-flavored gelatin would work perfectly well. If you have decided to go edible, choose a variety that won't be so darkly colored as to obscure the model organelles you place inside.
For the nucleus, nucleolus and nuclear membrane: Purchase a pitted fruit, such as a plum or peach. The pit is the nucleolus, the fruit is the nucleus, and the skin is the nuclear membrane. (If you are not expected to deliver this level of complexity, a simple round food item will do).
Centrosomes are supposed to be spiky, try putting bits of toothpick through a gumdrop or other small gummy item.
Model the Golgi apparatus using cut-out pieces of cardboard, wafers, crackers, sliced bananas or, perhaps best yet, a fruit roll-up stacked like an accordion.
For the Lysosomes, use small, round candies or chocolate chips.
Mitochondrion are somewhat oblong, so try using lima beans or perhaps certain types of un-shelled nuts.
Ribosomes: For ribosomes, you'll want something small. Try sprinkles, peppercorns, or plain pepper.
The rough endoplasmic reticulum looks much like Golgi apparatus, in that it is a structure of flat, folded sections clumped together; though unlike the Golgi apparatus it has a rough-looking surface. You could use similar materials for it, but try to find a way to stick something rough or textured to it (perhaps sprinkles) in order to make the two distinct.
The smooth endoplasmic reticulum looks more like a tangled and irregularly sized series of connected tubes. For this, you'll want something smooth and bendy. Use cooked spaghetti, gummy worms, or stretched-out taffy.
Vacuole: For an animal cell, use a few moderately sized gumballs--ideally uniform in color, but with some transparent quality (there are essentially just sacks of water and enzymes, after all). Vacuoles in plant cells are much, much larger. If you really want to get tricky here, you could make a separate gelatin (perhaps made with the concentrated formula for extra rigidity) earlier and attempt to insert it into the model plant cell.
Microtubules can be modeled using uncooked pieces of spaghetti or, depending on the scale of your project, straws.
For chloroplasts (plant cell only), use peas, green jelly beans, or green beans cut in half. Keep them green.
 You'll need a mold to make your cell in but you'll need to decide what type of cell you're making first. Animal and plant cells have different shapes and will require different molds.


If you're making a plant cell, the first thing you'll need is a rectangular baking dish, preferably made out of porcelain. The dish itself will be your cell wall and membrane, in your model.
If you're making an animal cell, you'll want a round or oblong baking dish, like a casserole dish. This dish can be your cell membrane, or you can later remove the cell model from the dish and cover it in saran wrap cut to shape and size and call that the membrane.
 Cook the gelatin according to the instructions on the box--it usually begins by boiling water on the stovetop, and then mixing the gelatin in. Carefully pour the hot liquid into the casserole dish or baking pan. Put in the fridge and let it set for about an hour, or until it's almost hardened. Do not wait until the gelatin has completely settled. You want the gelatin to reform or solidify around the areas where you have inserted the model organelles.


If you can't find clear gelatin, buy the lightest color possible, like yellow or orange. You can also make gelatin from scratch.
 Start putting your cell parts into the gelatin. Here's how you might want to arrange the pieces:


Put the nucleus near the middle (unless you are modeling a plant cell).
Place the centrosome near the nucleus.
Put the smooth endoplasmic reticulum near the nucleus.
Place the Golgi body near the nucleus (though farther away than the endoplasmic reticulum).
Add the rough endoplasmic reticulum onto the other side of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum (away from the nucleus).
Arrange everything else wherever you have room. Try not to crowd too much into one space. In a real cell, there are a few structures that float all around the cytoplasm. These can be mixed in almost randomly.
 Allow the gelatin to settle for another hour or two until it is completely solidified.
 After you've added your cell pieces, write up a list of what part of a cell each item corresponds to (e.g., "Gelatin = Cytoplasm," "Licorice = Rough ER"). You'll probably need to be able to tell people about the parts of your cell later on.

