 While stopped with the vehicle running, apply the parking brake and press the clutch pedal to the floor. Shift the transmission through each gear, starting with first and culminating with the highest gear your vehicle’s transmission is equipped with. It should shift into each gear smoothly and without any grinding or crunching.If the vehicle cannot shift into any gears, your clutch may have failed.
If you have issues shifting into a specific gear, it is likely the result of a failed synchro for that gear.
 Manual transmissions are usually lubricated by gear oil instead of automatic transmission fluid (except in specific applications). Many manual transmissions have dipsticks similar to those found in automatic transmissions. Remove the dipstick and ensure the fluid level is correct.If you are unable to find the dipstick on your transmission, refer to your owner’s manual for guidance.
If you need to add gear oil, be sure to check your owner’s manual for the correct type of oil to add.
 When checking the gear oil in your transmission, determining if it has been burned through overheating will be fairly easy. Burned gear oil has a powerful odor that may resemble onions. If the gear oil in your transmission is burned, it will making shifting more difficult and may lead to a breakdown of the components inside.Burned gear oil will need to be drained and replaced.
If the wrong gear oil is added, it may be more likely to burn and lead to mechanical failures. If the wrong oil has been added to your transmission, it will also need to be drained and replaced.
 If you hear a noise that seems to come from the transmission at an idle, press the clutch in and continue to listen. If the sound changes or stops, it is likely caused by a problem with the release or pilot bearing. Other common issues you may be able to diagnose by sound are:A growling or grinding noises when the clutch is engaged likely means a problem with the transmission input shaft bearing.
If you depress the clutch and hear a squealing sound, it is likely caused by a bad pilot bearing or bushing.
A chirping sound that gets louder as you slowly depress the clutch pedal is likely caused by a faulty release bearing.

