 A floor routine contains a lot of tricky parts; here are the ones most people struggle with:


Dance
Motions
Sticking landings perfectly.;
, For the dance, do it exactly as your coach taught you. Suggest any new ideas to your coach at practice, not at a meet; that way you have plenty of time to practice and get it right. Be as consistent as you can, in full turn.
 Many gymnasts assume that motions are easy, and a bit of rest. However, they're also hard work and you should be trying your hardest in motions too, to get a good or a perfect score.
 This takes practice and time and requires you to put the skills that you've already perfected in your routine towards a perfect landing. For example, if you can't do a perfect round off back handspring back layout punch front, do a perfect round off back handspring back tuck instead. Go with what you know well and perform well.
 Unless you're a compulsory gymnast, put the hardest skills that you can do perfectly in your routine.
 Beam routines are very difficult to get a perfect score on because you have to stay balanced, have grace, and stick the landings. All of this is a lot to ask, but it is possible.
 Keep your body tight, it'll be over in less than a minute and a half.
 Even though beam can be difficult, it can also really pay off to be the beam champion, so perfect your skills.
 Ask your coach if your full turns are done well enough, if your leaps are split, or if your cartwheels are straight. Be guided by your coach's feedback and keep aiming to improve.
 The funny thing is that some of the so-called "harder" skill may be much easier for you, depending on your own approaches, so go through the list and cover them all to find your comfort zone.
 Bars can be tricky for all the strength it would take to swing around the bar, but it can still be the easiest to get a perfect routine on. However, stick with the basics, namely, the straight legs and the pointed toes.
 Kips can be impressive, and are common for a gymnastics bars routine, so it's better to use them than pull overs.
 It can be tiring, but it's one routine and it'll be over soon. If you do well, you'll be cool with your score.
 No matter what level you are in, circles will really help get a better score, and if you are above level 7, it's good to use giant swings.
 The tricky part is the dismount. When it's the dismount, look high, and flip with the same good form you had, and try to stick the landing. After all the connections and skills you have used, to get a perfect score, try your best to stick your dismount!

, The vault is the event that is tricky for some gymnasts, but as easy as a cartwheel for others. This is the event where all you can do is try your best.
 Some vaults start at 8.00, others start at 9.00, some start at a perfect score of 10.00, so you have to pick a 10.00 vault, to have a chance of earning a perfect score.
 Don't slow down, or stagger; you must sprint before mounting the vault.
 Then reach over, keep a tight body, and look at the vault.
 Just try your best; if you keep trying, you'll get a perfect score someday.

