 Japanese people consume large amounts of grain-based dishes, largely centered on rice or noodles made from whole grains. According to the Japanese government, you should try to eat five to seven servings a day. These foods should be the staple of your diet.One serving equals one slice of bread or ½ cup of cooked rice or noodles.
Among Japan's centenarian populations, whole grains are a main dish with every meal.;
, Just beneath grains on the Japanese dietary guidelines are vegetables, which are nearly as common as grains in Japanese cuisine. According to the Japanese government, you should eat five to six servings of vegetables a day. Common vegetables are sweet potatoes, mushrooms, carrots, and cabbage.A serving is 1 cup of leafy greens or ½ cup of any other vegetable.
The indigenous sweet potatoes and cucumbers of Okinawa are high in vitamins and minerals shown to lower the chances or cancer or diabetes.Seaweed is also thought to be particularly good for maintaining brain health and promoting longevity., Fish and other seafood are a staple protein in the Japanese diet. Japanese health officials recommend eating three to five servings of meat, fish, egg and soy dishes a day.Fish, squid, and octopus, which are consumed in large quantities by Japanese people, have been shown to improve heart and brain health.A serving of meats is 2 to 3 ounces (57 to 85 gm) of cooked lean meat, fish or poultry.
The centenarians of Okinawa on average eat three servings of fish, squid or octopus a day. They also consume small amounts of pork.Because of its high protein level, soy foods are included in the protein group and should be consumed at the same levels as meats. Soy products include tofu and fermented soy, such as such as miso, tempeh, soy sauce., In order to promote health and longevity, it is important to drink enough water. It is recommended that the average person drink roughly a half a gallon (2 liters) of water a day.In addition to regular water consumption, Japanese people drink large amounts of green tea, which is considered to help digestion and promote brain health.