


Provide the details of your work on your information page along with multiple ways to contact you to make it easy for potential clients to get in touch with you. Including a list of services or other offerings can help people assess how your business can benefit them. For further detail, include a link to your professional website to promote your business on Facebook.;
,


There are thousands of groups of professionals that have been created within Facebook. Do a simple search of keywords that are related to your business and see what you can find. These groups often serve as forums for other professionals that are looking to do the same thing you are -- advertise yourself on Facebook.
Sometimes these groups require an invitation in order to see certain content. Often you just need to message the group administrator, explaining who you are and why you want to join the group. This just serves as a way to ensure all members are joining for the appropriate reasons.



Companies create supplemental Facebook pages to advertise special promotions, new services or upcoming events. While this is something you can do as well, you can also click the "like" button on these other pages to show your support and show other followers that you are up-to-date with what is going on in the community of your business. When you click "like," a notification is posted to your wall showing that you have acknowledged this page.



You can "share" links to external photographs, promotional materials, video clips, etc., that you would like your Facebook community to see. The link will then be posted on your profile page as well as automatically show up in your friends' "news feeds" announcing that you have posted a new link.



While your friends' list may consist of personal and professional contacts, don't be afraid to seek out unknown contacts that may share your professional interests. You can look through the friends list of the professional groups you have joined and see if there are others in your area for you to make contact with.

