 And we’re talking Kool-Aid red. Obviously fake looking red. This is Hayley’s signature look. She usually dyes her red or orange hair to shock.


She’s even been seen with her hair dyed half orange-red and half bright pink. Sometimes her red hair has an orange hue.
At other times, it’s a vibrant candy apple red color. Hayley first started dying her hair orange when she was 13, and she constantly goes back to the look.;
, Although you will usually see Hayley with orange or orange/red hair, she’s also dyed her hair other vibrant colors. Hayley tried going platinum blonde once, but she didn’t like the look.


Hayley has also been seen with bright turquoise-blue short hair. She has also dyed her hair with alternating green and orange streaks. It’s best to play with different looks by using non-permanent color or even hair chalk. That way you won’t be stuck with blue hair for long!
She’s even been seen with her hair dyed like a rainbow. She once dyed her bangs purple and left the rest of her hair orange.
 Hayley is a fan of bangs. Her bangs are cut irregularly, so they don’t all fall at the same length. They are thick, and she usually has a few long wisps of hair at the side by her ears.


Occasionally, Hayley will push her bangs over to the left, where they fall about at the level of her eyebrow. She’s also worn her bangs very short, a few inches above her eyes. The bottom line is that Hayley is a fan of bangs, and she plays with them in different ways.
Hayley has even shaved some of the hair on the right side of her head, which is a dramatic look next to bangs. Typically, though, she goes for pieced bangs that have a bit of a shag to them.
 Hayley’s hair is heavily layered. It’s not usually too long. She is a fan of hair that falls to her shoulders or just past them.


She’s also worn much shorter looks, though. The one look you will almost never see Hayley wearing, though, is very long hair.
Hayley’s hair is often cut with jagged ends. She usually wears it straight from the eyes down, but more layered at the top.

