 Raw sugar makes a powerful body scrub, great for feet and extra-rough skin. Brown sugar has smaller grains and plenty of liquid, making it the most gentle option. Granulated white sugar falls somewhere in between: it has the same size grains as brown sugar, but none of the liquid molasses.


Before you begin, be aware that the scrub can cause temporary blotchiness in sensitive skin.Just in case, wait until you have an evening to yourself before trying it for the first time.;
, Olive oil is a common option, but any natural carrier oil will work. The oil makes it easy to apply the sugar, and can help your skin health at the same time. Choose the oil based on your skin type and personal preference:


For greasy skin, try safflower oil, hazelnut oil, or grapeseed oil.For very dry skin, try coconut oil, shea butter, or cocoa butter. Optionally, whip it for easy spreading.
To avoid strong scents, try grapeseed oil, safflower oil, and sweet almond oil., Mix 1 part sugar with 1 part oil for a basic scrub, forming a thick paste. For a more powerful scrub, try 2 parts sugar and 1 part oil.


If using white sugar, the 2:1 recipe is recommended.If you are treating an area with acne or broken blood vessels, use a very mild scrub, such as 1 part sugar to 2 parts oil. Exfoliants can make these conditions worse., For additional scent and possible health benefits, add an essential oil. No more than 1 or 2 percent of the scrub should be essential oil. Typically, you can use up to 48 drops per cup (240mL) of other ingredients, or three drops for every tablespoon (15mL).Thyme, mint, and other herbs and spices make antimicrobial essential oils.These are good at fighting acne but may cause irritation in sensitive skin.
Do not use citrus oils, cumin, ginger, and angelic oils before talking to your doctor. These can trigger photosensitivity, a painful reaction to sunlight., If your skin is dirty, use mild soap and warm water to wash it. If your skin is clean, just wet it thoroughly. Scrubbing dry skin can cause redness or irritation.


Hot water or harsh soaps can irritate your skin, leaving it tender and painful. Skin in this state might hurt even when a gentle sugar scrub is used.
 Gently rub the sugar and oil mixture over your skin. Rub in circular motions, for about 2 or 3 minutes in each area. Rub gently; any pain, discomfort, or redness means you are scrubbing too hard.
 Rinse off with warm water, and pat dry. Optionally, apply a moisturizing lotion, or an additional touch of oil without the sugar.
 Your outer layer of skin takes about two weeks to replace itself.If you repeat the scrub before this time is up, you may damage living cells instead of removing dead ones. This leads to red, raw skin, which may be vulnerable to infection.