 You can make your green eyes pop by applying different shades of eye color. Typically, purple shades look fantastic on green eyes. Try some shades of plum or violet.Pinks can also really help draw attention to your eyes, too. Try blending a lighter and darker shade for a dramatic effect.
Shadows with a gold tone can help make hazel eyes look more green.
Don't be afraid to experiment with different shades. Try going to a department store and asking the salesperson if you can try some samples. Samples are a great way to try new products without spending any money.;
, The smoky eye is one of the hottest looks in make-up right now. Not only is it trendy, but it really emphasizes green eyes. Try some new eye shadow tips to create this effect.Begin by applying a dark gray shadow just above the crease in your eyelid. Use a medium sized eye shadow brush to brush this color in an arch-shape. With your finger or the brush, blend the shadow downwards.
Use a soft black eyeliner to outline your upper lash line. Using your finger, blend this line.
With your smallest eye brush, apply a lighter gray shade along your lower lash line. Blend.
Apply a light silver shadow to the inner corner of your eyelids. This will make the overall effect look a bit brighter.
 Think of your eyes as the picture and your lashes as the frame. To draw attention to your gorgeous green eyes, you want to create a suitable frame. Focus on your lashes to help emphasize your eyes. Expertly applying mascara is the best way to do this.Choose a mascara that creates the effect you want: longer lashes, volume, or both.
It usually takes 2-3 coats to achieve lush-looking lashes. If you really want volume, go for 4 coats.
Don't use old mascara. Using a product that is past its prime is the main reason people end up with clumpy, flaky lashes. Get a new mascara every 6 months.
 You want your eyes to shine, and in order for them to look their best, you should practice good skin care. Taking care of your facial skin is key to making all of your features (including your eyes) look their best. Make it a habit to practice a good skincare routine every day.Protect your skin from the sun. Use a moisturizer that contains at least 20 SPF, even if it's not a sunny day.
Cleanse your skin morning and night. Make sure to gently pat dry with a clean towel.
Practice healthy habits. Get enough sleep, and eat a healthy diet. Your skin will show it.

