 Though it may seem unnecessary, having a theme will help you know what decorations to buy, what food to prepare, and what games to plan. Character parties are popular (think Sponge Bob or Scooby-Doo), but general themes work, too (pirates, fairies, princesses, cowboys, etc.). Unless they want something that just isn't appropriate, allow them creative freedom. Sit down with your child at the table with a pen and paper and write down all the ideas you both like.






Some themes will obviously be more difficult than others. Go with your child to a couple of party stores and see what's available or go online. It'll be easiest to pick a theme based on what you have at your disposal. Most parents aren't Martha Stewart; you certainly don't have to be.;
, There are a few questions you'll have to address: When is the party going to be? How long will it last? Where is it going to be? Is there anything going on communally or culturally that would prevent other children from coming? What time of day works into your schedule?






Take your child's age into account. Generally, the younger the child, the earlier the party. You do not have to entertain all day--a few hours is more than sufficient. If you're not having it at home, consult the desired venue to see what times are available.
 Once you have them picked out, it's time to finalize the details. Check your schedule to make sure there are no girl scouts or work meetings during the time you're thinking. On the invitation, put the start and end times, address, what each child should bring (swimsuit, etc.) and if there will be a meal so parents can plan accordingly.






As for guests, a good rule of thumb is the child's age plus 1.And if parents can come along, great! It's best to have a couple others to help with monitoring and clean up.
Have your invitations in the theme of your party. The other children will probably get excited, too. Your child can hand them out at school (if possible to do it discreetly) or you can give them to the parents if your child is too young (or forgetful!).

Your child shouldn't hand them out in front of those not invited -- it might make the others feel bad. Give them to the teacher to put in the take home folder or have your child put them in desks or lockers.
 For everything from table cloths to pinatas, a party store is your best bet -- or else you'll end up bouncing around town for days looking to piece it all together. And if they don't have a specific something, ask! They may be able to order it for you.






It's always an option to make your own if you're DIY handy. And your child can always help if you want someone to blame the poor penmanship on! As an alternative idea, a few children can come over a bit earlier to make decorations themselves, if they'd like.

