 Bottles of liquid dye should be vigorously shaken before use. Powdered dyes must be dissolved in warm water.


Mix the dye in a disposable plastic bucket or in a stainless steel container. Porcelain and fiberglass can get stained, so it is best to avoid using a container made from one of these materials. Plastic can also stain, so only use a plastic container you can dispose of later.
Follow the manufacturer's instructions to determine how much dye and water to use. Typically, you will use one package of powder dye or a half bottle of liquid dye for every 1 lb (450 g) of fabric or less.






When dissolving one package of powder dye, you will need to dissolve it in 2 cups (500 ml) of water.





;
, Place the nylon inside a large saucepan or stockpot and cover it with lukewarm water. Place this pot on the stove and heat on medium until the water reaches a temperature of about 86 degrees Fahrenheit (30 degrees Celsius).Typically, you will need to have 3 gallons (12 L) of water for every 1 lb (450 g) of fabric.






Take the nylon out of the water once it reaches the temperature noted above. Set the material aside for now.
 Add the prepared dye to the water in your saucepan. Stir well to distribute the dye evenly throughout the water.
 Submerge the nylon in the dye bath. Stir gently for several minutes while the dye bath continues to heat over a medium temperature on the stove.


Make sure that the material does not get tangled as it soaks in the dye bath. Tangles can cause the nylon to dye unevenly, creating unsightly splotches. To prevent tangles, stir gently and slowly. You should also avoid overcrowding the saucepan.
 Once the water begins to simmer, add a little vinegar to the dye bath. White vinegar can help the dye set into the fibers of the nylon.


Use 1 cup (250 ml) of white vinegar for every 1 lb (450 g) of nylon or 3 gallons (12 L) of water.You should wait at least five minutes before adding the vinegar to the dye bath, even if the water begins simmering before that point. If you add the vinegar too quickly, the dye may not soak into the nylon evenly.
While adding the vinegar, you can also add 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of liquid laundry detergent. Doing so will also help ensure even dyeing.
 Allow the nylon to sit in the warm dye bath for at least 20 minutes. Gently stir the material as it soaks to promote even dyeing.


Allow the water to continue simmering until it reaches a temperature of 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius). Most dyes are activated by heat, and the temperature of the dye bath will need to be at least this hot if you want to produce a strong color. Once the water reaches this heat, you can turn the heat source off.
The longer the nylon soaks, the deeper the color will be. You can leave the nylon in the dye bath for up to 1 hour.
You'll need to stir the material in the dye bath on a fairly constant basis.
 Take the material out of the dye bath and transfer it to a sink or large bucket. Rinse the material with hot water several times.


The water should be about 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius). Hot water is necessary in order to rinse out excess dye, but it should not remove dye that has already set into the fabric.
Change the water every few minutes to help the dye wash out. Continue doing this until the water remains clear after submerging the dyed nylon.
Alternatively, you could rinse the nylon under hot running water. Continue doing so until the water runs clear.
 Allow the nylon to air dry. Once it feels completely dry, the nylon should be ready to use.

