 Sprint by double tapping the forward key, to rush toward the creeper. While sprinting, your attacks knock back enemies.


Sprinting is not possible at low health or high hunger.
 An iron sword takes three hits to kill a creeper in Normal mode, but if you try to hit it three times in a row, you'll probably get killed. Instead, retreat after the first hit, then sprint in again two more times, or until the creeper dies.


Never come close while the creeper is blinking and hissing. This signals that it is almost ready to explode.
A wooden, gold, or stone sword takes four hits to kill a creeper. Tools or bare hands can take even more.
 If you set up a fence or other barrier that blocks movement but not sight, this makes retreating during the combat much easier. If you're quick and notice the creeper from a distance, you may be able to set up a short fence before it approaches.
 Water nullifies the explosion, so if you can lure the creeper into a body of water, you are usually safe. Stay under the surface whenever you are next to the creeper, and it will usually be unable to hurt you at all. Block its attacks with a sword if you want to be a little safer.


A creeper can drown in deep water.
 If you time it perfectly, you can trigger an explosion, but run away before it can deal you damage. This is a risky tactic, but if you encounter a group of creepers, a single explosion should kill them all. Consider trying this if you meet several creepers at once and don't have a bow.


If the creepers are spread out, first move in a large circle around them to herd them into one small group.
The creeper will first hiss and blink when you get close, but won't commit to the explosion until it starts flashing white.
 A diamond sword still takes three hits to kill a creeper, so it's not an improvement over iron in this case. Upgrading from anything else to iron, however, is highly recommended. Enchantment tables also provide a way to improve your weapon, potentially adding more damage, knockback, or the ability to set enemies on fire.

