 Usually, any claim that you are violating someone else’s intellectual property rights will come in the form of a demand letter. This is sometimes also referred to as a “cease and desist” letter, if the remedy that is suggested is that you stop using whatever item of intellectual property it is. This letter may be written directly by the owner or by an attorney.;
, There are generally three main categories of intellectual property. To prepare to defend against the claim that is made, you need to understand what type of intellectual property is being alleged.Patents are generally the legal protection of tangible things. A patent is a legal protection for some concrete item that you have designed, invented or created.
Copyright is the term used for the protection of literary, musical or artistic works. While you can actually look at or touch a painting or a sculpture, literature and music are less tangible.
Trademarks are the third major category. This is the protection of a brand, a logo or symbol, or sometimes something as intangible as a style.
 In the demand letter, the writer should identify the nature of his or her intellectual property right. It should be clear that he or she owns a copyright, claims to have a patent, or owns a trademark that you are violating. The writer should be able to provide some evidence of how the intellectual property right is protected., Regardless of the type of intellectual property, any demand letter needs to make a clear statement of what you are allegedly doing wrong. The sender may claim that you stole a chapter of a book, copied the melody of a song, or wrongfully made use of some confidential software, for example.If the writer cannot clearly articulate what you have done wrong, that could be an indication that you haven’t done anything wrong.
 Does the sender of the demand letter want to collect money? Or is it enough that you stop using a particular drawing on your website? You need to be able to understand the demand.If the demand is something minor, it may be easiest and least expensive just to comply. For example, suppose you use a particular illustration to advertise your company, and you get a demand letter from the Disney corporation saying that your illustration is too similar to the genie in Aladdin. You may choose to change your illustration, rather than embark on a legal battle against one of the largest companies in the world. Even if you didn’t intend to copy their drawing, you have to consider the cost of defending a lawsuit.
 The demand letter should include a deadline, by which date the writer expects you to stop doing whatever you are allegedly doing wrong. You need to make sure you identify this date. If you intend to comply with the demand, but need some time to make changes, you should contact the sender and ask for some time., Don’t assume, just because you receive a demand letter or cease and desist letter in the mail, that you have done something wrong or that the sender is right. Intellectual property is a tricky field, and allegations can be difficult to prove. Sadly, some individuals or their attorneys can abuse the use of cease and desist letters, sending them when the evidence is not strong.If you receive a letter like this, relax, read it carefully, and then begin planning a defense.
 As soon as possible after receiving a demand letter, you should consult with a licensed attorney who practices in the field of intellectual property law. If possible, try to find someone who has experience in the specific field of intellectual property law that you are charged with violating -- trademark, patent, copyright or trade secrets.


Even if you intend to handle most of the case on your own, consulting with an attorney can help you define the charge and focus some ideas for negotiating a resolution.
 If you see that there is a significant similarity, and if you cannot come up with a valid defense to the claim against you, then you may find that agreeing to the demand is the best course of action. But if you are convinced that your item (product, book, trademark) is substantially original, and if you believe you are not in violation, then you may wish to proceed.
 Either alone or through your attorney, contact the party who sent the demand letter. Try to set up a meeting to talk about the demand and review the dispute. Before the matter gets any larger, you may find that talking about it can help reach a resolution.
 When you go into a meeting to negotiate any legal matter, you need to be prepared.Your lawyer can begin doing research regarding the law of intellectual property. You can gather together all the facts and evidence that you have related to the intellectual property that is in question. This may contain any or all of the following items:


Samples of your item (writing, art, software, trademark, or whatever it is)
Samples of the other party’s item
Any notes or memoranda you have regarding the creation of your intellectual property. It could be a defense if you can show that you or your company independently created the item without reference to any outside work.
Written statements from any employees who worked on the creation of your item
Drafts, notes or sketches of your work in progress
Any market research you have that shows your sales or income due to this intellectual property item
Market research showing the other party’s sales or income related to the intellectual property item

, At this level of negotiation, you should be careful not to disclose too much information, but at the same time you need to share enough information to show the demanding party that you did not steal his or her intellectual property. Gauge the tone of the meeting, and decide if a resolution is possible. Some possible outcomes at this level might be:You may convince the other party, by a show of your evidence, that you did not violate the intellectual property, so you can both continue using your respective items.
You may reach an agreement for some minor modification of your item, so that it will no longer infringe upon the original.
Consider the possibility of a mutual licensing agreement. With such an agreement, you could be allowed to continue your use, while paying a small licensing fee to the other party. In doing something like this, be careful not to admit to any wrongdoing, or you may give the other party ammunition to use against you in court later.
You may agree that your item is in violation, and agree to stop using it. Although this is not a desired outcome, reaching such a conclusion at an early meeting like this is much cheaper than entering into a losing legal battle.
 If a simple meeting does not resolve the dispute, you and the other party may agree to mediation. This is a semi-formal process of negotiating, involving a neutral third party who is trained to help reach consensus. You can run an Internet search for mediation agencies in your vicinity, or contact the clerk’s office of the court in your area.In mediation, you each meet individually with the mediator, who sets some ground rules for discussion. The mediator then brings the two parties together to talk about the dispute, with a focus on the possibility of resolution. While the two sides are often focused on their own agenda, the mediator can bring a fresh viewpoint to get to resolution.
 Arbitration is often the final step before going to trial. It has some of the appearances of a trial, but moves faster and with less formality. In arbitration, you and the opponent each present your evidence to a neutral party, who listens to your presentations as though it were a trial. In the end, the arbitrator issues a decision. Before you begin the process, the two sides need to decide if they wish the arbitrator’s decision to be “binding” or “non-binding.”Binding arbitration means that you both agree to abide by the arbitrator’s decision, without further recourse to the court or further legal process.
Non-binding arbitration does not hold you to the arbitrator’s decision. You will go through the process of arbitration and hear the decision, to give you a good idea of what a judge or jury would likely rule. Afterward, you are free to decide to follow the decision, go to court, or settle the dispute in some other way.
 If, after reviewing the demand letter and after making any attempts at a resolution, you are unable to resolve the dispute, you may simply need to refuse the other party’s demands. If you are convinced that you have not done anything wrong, and you believe (after consulting with a lawyer) that the law is on your side, then you should send a written reply to the demand letter. Your reply should be civil and professional, but should be clear that you believe you have done nothing wrong and you will not comply with the demand. If your attorney so advises, you may want to include some brief description of your defense. This may convince the other party to drop the issue.


In some cases, you may just choose not to respond at all. The demanding party will interpret by your silence that you refuse, and then he or she is free to take whatever action he or she wishes to take. Some attorneys would advise that sending a letter may only provide possible evidence against you.
 If the other party chooses to proceed with further legal action, he or she will eventually file a complaint against you in court. When the complaint is filed, a copy will be served on (delivered to) you. You should read it immediately and share it with your lawyer.The complaint is the initial statement to begin any lawsuit. In the complaint, the plaintiff must set forth all the facts that establish his or her case against you. The plaintiff does not need to present every piece of evidence, but enough information must be presented to show why the plaintiff’s intellectual property should be protected in court. If the complaint is not clear enough, you may choose to file a motion to dismiss it, for failure to state a claim.
The complaint might be filed in either state or federal court. Because much of intellectual property law is controlled by federal statutes, you may wish to have the case tried in federal court. Discuss this with your attorney. There are procedures for moving a case from one court to another.
 An answer is your response to the complaint. In your answer, you respond, line by line, to the statements in the plaintiff’s complaint. For most statements, your response will be simply “Admit” or “Deny.” For some statements, you may choose to add some minor information, but the answer is not the place for lengthy explanations or arguments.Under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the answer in federal court is due within 21 days after you receive the complaint. Check the summons that comes with the complaint for the exact date that your answer is due.
Along with the statements of “Admit” or “Deny,” your answer can include any affirmative defenses that you wish to raise. There are numerous defenses that can be raised to an intellectual property claim. Some of the most common ones are discussed below in the following sections.
 Discovery is the phase of trial preparation in which the two parties try to understand each other’s facts and evidence for trial. You are entitled to ask questions (called “interrogatories”), request copies of documents or evidence, and interview key individuals (called “depositions”). At the same time, you are required to answer any discovery requests that come from the plaintiff., As discovery ends, you, either with or without an attorney, will need to prepare for trial. Organize the presentation of your evidence and whatever witnesses you will need to call at trial. Make copies of all documents, memoranda, notes or any other evidence that you will want to present. Get yourself as organized as possible and plan your strategy for the trial.
 At trial, the plaintiff will proceed first, by presenting whatever witnesses or evidence will help to show the patent, trademark or copyright that you allegedly violated. The plaintiff will also need to prove that your item is too close to its intellectual property, so that the court must stop your use or issue some monetary penalty against you. When the plaintiff is done, you will then present your witnesses and evidence, to rebut the plaintiff’s position. In the end, the judge or jury will decide.
 After all the evidence is presented, the court will issue its decision. This may be from the judge alone, or the trial may have a jury to decide. In either event, the order is final, unless you or the plaintiff appeal to a higher court. For infringement of intellectual property, the final order is likely to be one of these things:


A ruling that you have not violated the plaintiff’s intellectual property.
An order for you to pay monetary damages. The court may decide that your infringement can be solved by having you pay the plaintiff some money, to account for lost sales or diminished income.
An injunction. This is an order for you to take some specified action. This may be to change your item, to stop using a particular logo design, or some similar action.
A combination of monetary damages and an injunction.
 This usually includes the use of a portion of the work for criticism, news reporting or teaching.For the use of a work to be considered within fair use, the use must be limited in scope, generally for a non-commercial purpose, and must not interfere with the widespread potential market of the original work.
 Copyright law is a federal system of statutes, and the statutes include several defenses that allow for use of a copyrighted work. Some of these include reproduction by libraries, educational use by teachers, and others. These statutory defenses of the copyright law appear at 17 U.S.C. §§107-122.
 You are not likely to get a demand letter from William Shakespeare for wrongfully using part of Romeo and Juliet, but it is possible that you may get a demand letter for using part of a work that is in the public domain. Copyrighted works are protected, approximately, for the life of the author and an additional 70 years. Beyond that, the work becomes available in the public domain and is free to be used., For an inventor to claim to be protected by a patent, that patent must have been filed properly. You or your attorney may be able to do some research and find out that the patent was not, in fact, properly filed. This would give you a strong defense against the claim of patent infringement., Patents are not everlasting. After an inventor files a patent, and it is issued, the patent protection lasts for 20 years. If that time has expired, then the item is no longer protected, and you cannot be challenged or sued for using it.A patent can also expire or be terminated prematurely if the owner does not file annual maintenance fees with the U.S. Patent Office. To find out if this has happened, you can search on the website of the U.S. Patent Office.
 A patent provides protection against people who unlawfully use an inventor’s design or invention. However, the scope of the protection is quite narrow. If you have invented, created or designed something similar, but sufficiently different from the original, then your use may not be prohibited by the patent.The concept of being “sufficiently different” is difficult to define. You may raise this as a defense, but if the patent owner disagrees, you may have to go to court to get a ruling.
 Laches is a legal term that is similar to a statute of limitations, except that there is no specific statute. If you assert the defense of laches, you are saying that the trademark owner waited too long to assert his or her claim.There is no specific definition of how much time is “too long.” The strength of this defense will vary under different circumstances, in different communities, and based on different uses of the trademark itself.
 Estoppel is an affirmative defense that says the plaintiff may not succeed on its claim because of some action or inaction it has previously taken. For example, suppose you begin marketing some new product. The owner of a trademark sees your marketing campaign, knows about it, and recognizes that your campaign is impermissibly close to its own trademark. Nevertheless, the trademark owner says nothing. After a while, when your new product begins to catch on in the market and becomes popular, the trademark owner sends you a cease and desist letter. You can raise the defense of estoppel by saying that the owner’s initial silence led you to continue marketing the product, so it should not now be able to stop you.Note that estoppel and laches are similar to each other. For an estoppel claim, however, there is no requirement that any amount of time must go by. Your defense with estoppel is that the trademark owner’s action or inaction, no matter how long it occurs, prevents the claim.
 For example, in trademark law, a plaintiff sues for a trademark violation, but if that plaintiff already is in violation of the law by appropriating someone else’s trademark, the defendant may assert the defense of “unclean hands.” The plaintiff’s bad action should prevent him from winning the case., The “fair use” doctrine allows some limited use of an established trademark for a purpose other than marketing or sales. For example, you may refer to the trademark in advertising, in scholarly writing, or in a parody. These would all be allowed under the “fair use” doctrine.