 This one really depends on what kind of party you are at. If there is loud music and talking is barely an option, you may have to adapt. If it is quiet enough to talk, you can always join conversations that are going, but you should also try starting some with people who aren’t talking. Seek out people who aren’t talking to anyone and start a conversation with them.


You can start with a simple greeting, but add something specific as well. Instead of saying, "What's up?" try saying, "Hey, how long have you been here?" Or, "Hey, what have you been doing since you got here?" Anything that gives the conversation a place to go besides both people saying hello.
 If lots of people are standing around talking, it’s likely that the conversations are pretty basic and may not be more than boring small talk. You can stand out at the party by being someone who keeps conversations interesting and by being the one everyone wants to talk to.Find some common ground and share your thoughts on the topic. Ask them if they are a movie buff, know any obscure facts, or have a talent that most people don't.
If they don't readily have something, offer a story of your own like something unusual that happened on a family vacation. Interesting conversations will involve more than talking about school or just what is happening at the party. Use your imagination to think of topics.
 Find ways to go beyond the small talk level conversations. Don’t be vague, like asking, “How’s it going?” Instead try starting up a conversation by asking something more specific. Some examples would be: “Did you have to lie to your parents to come here?” “Did you see_____(insert something crazy that’s happening at the party)?” “What were you going to do if you didn’t come here tonight?”

, Being great at conversation means listening to what the other person says, not just waiting for your turn to take over and talking non-stop. If you get short answers at first, keep leading the person on and try to get more information out of them. Take their answers and build the conversation off of them rather than steering it in your own direction.
 It may seem risky, but try starting a really deep or totally weird discussion to get people interested and involved. Examples would be asking if people think that dinosaurs still exist somewhere, or if they would ever be willing to colonize another planet. It feels risky to start up a crazy conversation, but the payoff could be having a lot fun talking with people about topics they never thought of.


Ask them, "If we made some advancements in space travel and found a planet just like earth, would you be willing to go live there?"
Or say something like, "You know, I've read some news stories fisherman who pull out these fish that no one can identify. Do you think there are still creatures living in the ocean that we don't even know about?" The possibilities for interesting conversations are endless, but you have to be willing to give it a shot.

