 Increase the amount of water you drink. Try to get about six to eight eight ounce glasses of water a day. Water not only helps with digestion and flushing out toxins, it has no sugar. Replacing sugary drinks with water can make a significant difference.Some people say drinking water helps them feel full and not as hungry.
 Losing body weight when you have prediabetes can significantly lower your chances of getting diabetes. You don’t even have to lose a lot. Losing five to 10 percent of your body weight can lower your chances of diabetes over 50%.If you weigh 300 pounds, losing 10 percent of your body weight is only 30 pounds, and five percent is only 15. If you weigh 250, 10 percent is 25 pounds, and five percent is 13 pounds. These totals are not so large that they are unattainable. You can safely reach these goals.
Make sure to lose weight healthily. Extreme weight loss measures, like unhealthy diets or not eating, can negatively affect your blood sugar levels. One to two pounds a week (which can be achieved by cutting out 500 calories a day) is a safe pace for weight loss.If you make the diet changes to reverse prediabetes, you should start to see weight loss. Eat a healthier diet, which means including more fruits and vegetables, complex carbs, and lean proteins. You should limit sugar, refined carbs, fried foods, processed foods, and other junk foods.
Another healthy way to lose weight is to increase your physical activity. These can be small changes, like taking a walk each day, increasing the duration of your walk, or the number of days you walk. You can also start taking stairs, dance around your house, do a workout tape, swim, hike, or anything else that gets your moving and your heart rate up.
Talk to your doctor about a diet and exercise plan if you are unsure how to start.
 Increasing your physical activity moderately can help reverse prediabetes. You don’t have begin a strenuous routine. Simple changes and small increases in activity level can help. Try for 30 minutes of activity, a mixed activity if you want, at least five days a week.Start slowly so these changes become permanent lifestyle choices.


Find an activity that you can commit to. Walking, climbing more stairs, doing more outdoor activities, hiking, gardening, aerobics, using an elliptical, rowing machine or stationary bicycle and stretching are all examples of moderate physical activity.
Park your car further from the office, or get off the elevator two to three floors early and walk the rest of the way. The next week, park further and get off the elevator four to five floors earlier.
Start with 10 minutes of activity a day and begin adding on minutes every week. You may be quite amazed at how quickly the time passes. Don’t forget to warm up, especially if you are trying to jump right into it.
Consider joining a gym and getting a personal trainer. Make sure you know and understand any physical conditions that may limit your activity and find a trainer to help you get around those conditions safely.
 Making lifestyle changes, staying on track, and losing weight is difficult. Find people who will cheer you on, help keep you accountable, and offer support. This can be family or friends, or a diabetes support group.