 Bottom fishing requires you to go offshore with a boat. The deeper the water, the larger the grouper typically is. Locate an area where there are rocks, ledges, or other natural or man-made structures. To determine the current, drop a buoy and wait five minutes for your boat to drift. Then motor back to the buoy and drop anchor 150 feet up-current.


To get the best grouper, you should go 30 miles (48.2 kilometers) to 85 miles (136.794 kilometers) offshore.Grouper will naturally swim on the current and into your bait.;
, Dropping chum to the bottom of the ocean will attract grouper to the area.You can purchase a grouper specific chum block at a fishing shop or you can create your own. To create your own chum, grind up fish bait and put it in a fine mesh bag.


You can use Jack Mackerel, sardines, and some menhaden oil as the base for your chum.Talk to the fishing shop owner about the most effective chum for grouper.
 Using live bait is a great way to get the attention of grouper swimming near the reef. You can attach your hook to your baitfish in a number of locations, including its nostrils, dorsal, or throat. Putting the hook through your baitfish's throat is the best method for bottom fishing., A weight or sinker is required to drag your bait to the ocean floor where grouper usually congregate.The movement of your live bait should attract grouper to the area. If you feel a slight tug on your line, it could be a bite or it could be your baitfish trying to make an escape.


If you feel your baitfish trying to escape to the rocks or another structure, reel down and raise your rod so that you can keep your fish out of the rocks.Check on your bait regularly to make sure that it hasn't fallen off the hook.
 You do not want your weight to bounce off of the ocean floor. To avoid this, crank your reel a couple turns, and lift your rod to straighten out the leader. Then, slowly lower your pole so that the bait sits on the bottom., Waiting is an important part of fishing. Not all areas are going to be grouper heavy, and there's a chance other bottom dwelling fish are going to take your bait. When you feel a tug on your line, crank your reel hard, then raise your rod. Continue doing it in this pattern until you can reel in the grouper.


The grouper tends to try to escape to its natural habitat and can tangle your fishing line.
Lay your rod on the rail of the boat to help give you stability and power while reeling in the fish.
If the fish has pulled your line to the reef or rocks, you can wait until it comes out of the reef and try to reel it in again.
If you feel like the grouper has tangled the line on the reef or rocks, you should cut your line.
To learn more about reeling in a larger grouper, read Reel-in-a-Large-Fish


