 If you are still in high school, now is a great time to take any auto mechanic classes you can. Even though detailing isn’t the same as being a mechanic, gaining the technical experience these classes offer is a must. Finishing school tells employers that you can see a project through from start to finish.


If you school offers a specialized vocational or job training program, this is a great way to start out.
If you are beyond the point where completing high school is an option, consider working toward a GED or high school equivalency diploma.;
, You may have an idea what it means to be an auto detailer, but it is always good to research a little extra to fill in what you don’t know. Look into some auto detailer jobs and see what are listed as duties and responsibilities. Everything that goes into auto detailing may surprise you.Before you start fully pursuing this job opportunity or career, it is best to be very clear on what will be required of you to fulfill the job.
Understand the types of physical requirements you must fulfill, like standing for a long time or bending and crouching in the interior of vehicles.
Understand that you will be using various chemicals and cleaning supplies, as well as power tools.
 Although you do not need much formal education to succeed as an auto detailer, there are some job specific skills and work experience that are helpful to have before getting a job. Auto detailing seminars are a good place to start your training, but the best option is full training course. During most training courses you will learn many skills such as how to handle chemicals, use power like buffers and extractors, communicate with customers, run a business, remove stains and scratches, and remove smoke odors. Training of this type, more than reading, will give you the hands on experience you need to succeed.The International Detailing Association offers a course that uses written testing and hands-on assessments culminating in becoming a Certified Detailer.
Simoniz USA offers online training and certification at their website, http://www.simoniz.com/car-washes/professional-detailing/training-certifications/.
 If you are still completing high school or attending seminars or training is not an option yet, spend your time learning as much as you can on your own. Many websites are devoted specifically to teaching you what tools and products you need to be familiar with to be a good detailer.Even if you think you know enough already, or the job seems obvious, it never hurts to brush up on your knowledge base when it comes to jobs.
 You don’t have to wait until you get a full time detailing job to start getting the hang of doing the job well. If your own car could use a little extra love, this is a great way to start practicing. After you have done a lot of reading on auto detailing websites, try out some of the products and tips that you learned.
 Once you have put in the time making your own care look fresh off the lot, ask some other people if you can give them some free detailing work. You’ll benefit by getting to work on various types of vehicles, and they’ll benefit by having a cleaner car.


Before using any power tools or harsh chemicals, make sure that you are confident in your abilities.
 Becoming a top notch detailer will take time and hard work. One way to take some of the pressure off is to get good at one or two parts of the detailing process at a time. On your first time getting to work in your car, don’t try to get every part of the car perfect because it can get overwhelming. Make yourself proficient at one aspect of the detailing process at a time.


Give yourself a break if you don’t get the wax right the first time, or if keeping windows streak free is a challenge. You’ll gain mastery as you keep working on your skills.
 In the meantime, working at a carwash will offer the quantity of experience that you’ll need to finely tune the skills you are working on. A car wash may be more basic than the type of detailing you’d specialize in with your own business, but it’s a good training ground.
 It’s hard to get much of any job without knowing what a company needs out of their employees. As you begin to search for detailer jobs, take careful note of what requirements the job descriptions list as necessary. Look at postings from a few companies and see what they all have in commonAs you learn what companies want in a detailer, you can work to gain those traits and make sure they are reflected on your resume.
 To be hired by an auto shop or car dealership specifically as a detailer will probably require you to show on paper what you are capable of. Especially if you are able to attend training and gain certifications, a solid resume is a great way to make yourself impressive to hiring managers. You can look at various examples of car detailer resumes to see what are typically included as skills and previous experiences.If you are able to build up your resume over time, by completing high school and specific training, and by showing your car wash experience, employers will see that you have what they need.
If don’t have quite the qualifications that are best, find a way to rework your resume in a way that is similar to what auto detailers want to see. Maybe as a janitor you have worked with cleaning chemicals. Maybe you learned customer service in a retail job. Maybe mowing lawns taught you how to manage your time well. The best resumes take what you have to offer and package them in a way that’s desirable for the job you want.
 It may seem obvious, but the last step toward becoming an auto detailer is to get yourself a job as a detailer. You may have more options than you think. Do not limit your idea of what places might need a detailer. The main ones are auto dealerships, auto mechanic and repair shops, but you may also be able to find another auto detailer with their own company who is looking to expand.


More than just searching for job postings, try calling these places and asking if they have an opening or would consider hiring a detailer. You never know what might come of cold calling a business. They may be willing to hire you even if they weren’t looking for one yet.
 Even as you get a car wash job, or if you eventually start your own detailing business, learning new and better methods is a constant process. Don’t get so set in your ways that you won’t try something new.

