 In the method below this one, we talk about doing activities that make it easier to spend quality time. But in order to do that, you need to know what makes a date a "quality" one. Quality time is defined as "time spent giving all of one's attention to someone who is close."You know you're spending quality time with your boyfriend or girlfriend when you give them all of your attention.
 Making eye contact does a lot of things for human beings, including showing that you are listening. If you want to spend quality time with your partner—not just time, but quality time—then look them in the eyes.


Eye contact makes people feel like you are more “believable and earnest.”Looking at someone for long periods of time, also known as gazing, communicates that you value the other person and that the relationship more than the words you are saying to each other., One way to make sure your partner feels that they are more important to you than anything else is to spend time talking with them rather than staring at a screen.


That’s not to say that you can’t watch a movie or TV together. But screen-watching has its place, and if you are trying to spend quality time with someone, a movie or show is not the time to do it.
 If you don’t spend quality time together, your bond will eventually fade away. Quality time is a way to strengthen this bond.When you’re spending time together, show you care by giving your undivided attention.


That means doing things like putting away your phone, turning off the TV, and doing something together that forces you to look at the other person without distractions.
Giving undivided attention shows that the relationship is important to you., Listening also shows that a relationship is important to you. If you aren’t a good listener, learn to be a good listener by doing things like fully focusing on your partner, avoiding interruptions, and showing interest in the conversation.Show your desire to make the relationship stronger by listening well all the time, not just when you feel like it.
Show that you are listening by offering feedback after your partner is done talking.
 Another way to make your quality time have meaning is allowing the other person to talk just as much as you do. Or if you’re the quiet one, learn how to share your thoughts and feelings even it’s not something you like to do.

