 Halo has a lot of weapons, and the more you know about them better you will be in any mode. The essential weapon to learn is the battle rifle, which shoots accurate, 3-bullet bursts suitable for a variety of distances. With proper shot placement (the head), it can take down most enemies in a few hits, and the scope greatly increases your range. The Covenant Carbine is a similar weapon, though slightly less common. As you improve, you can move on to other weapons for more specific scenarios:



Pistols are really only useful when duel wielded, or against weak enemies when you want to conserve ammunition.

Rifles, Needlers, SMG are fast-shooting damage dealers used in mid to close range fights. Usually, you need to duel-wield them to be effective.

Sniper Rifles are essential for a good Halo player. They can kill most enemies with a single shot to the head, and are highly accurate.

Shotguns and swords are only good for close-range, quick kills. You need to be very close to the enemy for them to be effective, but they kill quickly.;
, Most enemies in halo, and all of the players online, have a full body shield that must be broken before you can do damage. The shield is always up and regenerates after a few seconds if the player doesn't die. Hitting any part of the body damages the shield, so unless you're sniping you should aim for the biggest target, the chest, until the shield breaks. When it does you'll see a little blue crackle. When the shield is down, a shout above the shoulders will take almost any enemy straight down.


Energy weapons, like the alien arsenal (plasma pistols, rifles, etc.) do extra damage to shields, but less to unshielded enemies.
Bullet weapons, like the battle rifle, do extra damage to unshielded targets. This is why most duel-wielders have one energy and one bullet weapon.
 A moving target is much harder to hit. It is also difficult to aim while strafing if you aren't practiced. When you're in a firefight, especially a one-on-one, keep moving back and forth unpredictably, taking 2-3 steps to one side, then 2-3 to the other. Practice moving your aim simultaneously with your body, allowing you to keep racking up shots while the enemy tries to hit you.


Strafing needs to be side to side – moving forwards and backward barely changes your opponent's target.
Avoid jumping a lot. Once you jump you're in the air, unable to change directions, and a good player will be able to pick you off., You can carry up to 8 grenades in Halo, and you should be using them frequently. Grenades deal massive damage in a small area, and they cause enemies to shuffle out of the way. This can bring them into the open, where it is easy for you to pick them off. You can toss them long distances over cover as well, and 1-2 grenades used in a small are could get you the kill.


Use grenades to start and finish fights -- pulling someone out of cover or getting the kill as they run away.
Don't use grenades in an open space when taking fire. They take 1-2 seconds to throw, and you'll be getting shot at the whole time. Chances are good you'll die before releasing the orb., Look sensitivity determines how quickly your cross-hairs move when you move the control stick. While it can be difficult to adjust to at first, a higher look sensitivity helps you aim and turn much faster, giving you an edge in a fight. Go into Options from the start screen and up the look sensitivity for 1-2 rounds. It will take some getting used to, but it will improve your game with time., If your cross-hairs go red, especially when holding the sniper rifle, pull the trigger. The red reticule means you have an enemy in your sights and they are in an accurate range. With a sniper, this can help you "smudge" head shots, which is when the game recognizes the shot once your reticule is red and automatically confers the headshot.