 Contingency equipment options are accessible equipment alternatives that can be used if and when normal business operations are disrupted.Where would you rent trucks if a disaster damaged or destroyed vehicles used in the ordinary course of business? Where would you rent computers? Can you use a business service outlet for copies, fax, printing, and other critical functions?
Alternative equipment suppliers typically do not have to be identified specifically, unless they are unique and an arrangement has already been negotiated (very rare).
It is more important to identify the services, equipments and/or resources a substitute must be able to supply. The key personnel entrusted with the responsibility of managing the relationship with the substitute must have the necessary authority to make relevant decisions.
 This is the place you will conduct business while your primary offices are unavailable.It could be a hotel – many of them have very well-equipped business facilities you can use. It might be one of your contractors’ offices, or your attorney’s office.
A storage rental facility near your regular site might be a great place to relocate and store products in a pinch.
Perhaps telecommuting for everyone is a viable option.
If you do have an identified temporary location, include a map to the location in your BCP. Wherever it is, make sure you have all the appropriate contact information (including people’s names).
 It should include step-by-step instructions on how to execute the BCP and address what to do, who should do it, and how. List each responsibility and write down the name of the person assigned to it. Also, do the reverse: For each person, list the responsibilities. That way, if you want to know who is supposed to call the insurance company, you can look up "Insurance", and if you want to know what Joe Doe is doing, you can look under "Joe" for that information.
 If you have critical vendors or contractors, build a special contact list that includes a description of the company (or individual) and any other absolutely critical information about them including key personnel contact information.Include in your list people like attorneys, bankers, IT consultants...anyone that you might need to call to assist with various operational issues.
Don’t forget utility companies, municipal and community offices (police, fire, water, hospitals) and the post office!

, A BCP is useless if all the information is scattered about in different places. A BCP is a reference document and it should all be kept together in something like a 3-ring binder.


Make plenty of copies and give one to each of your key personnel.
Keep several extra copies at an off-site location, at home and/or in a safety-deposit box.

