;
, The skin and bone adds thickness to the chicken breasts, essentially doubling the amount of time they need to cook.
 These strips of chicken are very thin, so they usually finish cooking in 10 minutes or less. This amount of time also applies to boneless chicken breast cut into 2-inch (5-cm) pieces.
 The addition of a bone adds more cooking time to this cut. Moreover, as dark meat, thighs need to cook for a little longer than breasts.
 Since drumsticks have less meat on them than thighs, they do not usually need to cook for quite as long.
 Add another 10 to 20 minutes onto the cooking time for each additional 1 lb (450 g).
 The exact size stockpot you need may vary depending on how large your chicken pieces are and how much room they take up inside the pot. As a general rule, the chicken should take up roughly 1/4 to 1/3 of the space in your stockpot.


An 8-quart (8-liter) stockpot is fairly standard and will usually be enough to hold a whole chicken. A larger stockpot may be needed for birds bigger than 4 lb (1800 g), though.
You can use an 8-quart (8-liter) stockpot for boneless chicken breasts, but you could also opt for a smaller stockpot so that the water will boil faster.
 Pour enough cold water into the stockpot to cover the chicken completely.


Cold water is preferable to warm water.
 You can sprinkle anywhere from 1 tsp (5 ml) to 1 Tbsp (15 ml) salt into the water. A smaller amount is better for boneless chicken breasts and chicken tenders, but a larger amount may be better for whole chickens.


Note that the salt is only optional. You could boil the chicken without salt, but it will be much blander as a result.
 Cover the stockpot and boil the chicken on medium heat. Follow the recommended cooking time listed in this article for your cut of chicken.
 Place enough chicken broth into your stockpot to fill the stockpot halfway.

Chicken broth intensifies the flavor of the chicken, so it becomes less bland than chicken boiled in water.






You can use pre-made broth, but if you do not have pre-made broth, you can combine chicken broth granules with water. You usually need 1 tsp (5 ml) or one cube of chicken bouillon per 1 cup (250 ml) of water.






Use chicken stock instead of broth for an even richer, deeper flavor.
 Cutting the vegetables up allows more of the flavor to seep into the cooking liquid.

Peel the onions and cut them into halves or quarters.






Wash the carrots with water and slice them into 1-inch (2.5-cm) coins.






Rinse the celery and cut it into 1-inch (2.5-cm) slices.
 Transfer the chopped vegetables to the stockpot. The vegetables add dimension to the flavor of the broth.


Strictly speaking, the vegetables are not needed. Chicken can be boiled in plain broth.
 Transfer the chicken to the stockpot. If necessary, add more broth or water to the stockpot so that the chicken is completely covered.
 Bring the broth the a boil over high heat. Cover the pot, and reduce the heat to medium or medium-low so that the chicken simmers slowly.


Cook according to the recommended cooking times listed in this article.
Remove the chicken with tongs or a slotted spoon when done.






If desired, strain the cooking liquid and save the broth as stock for future recipes. You can store stock in the refrigerator for 3 days or in the freezer for 2 months.
You will likely end up discarding the vegetables used in this recipe, since the texture will turn mushy. The primary purpose of the vegetables in this recipe is to add flavor, not to serve as a side dish.
 Pile the chicken into your stockpot and cover with enough water and apple juice to completely cover the chicken.

For a stronger apple flavor, pour 2 quarts (2 liters) of apple juice into the stockpot before filling the rest of the stockpot up with enough water to cover the chicken.






For a more subtle apple flavor, pour equal parts apple juice and water into the stockpot simultaneously.






You could also use apple cider instead of apple juice. Apple cider tends to have a sharper taste, which some find preferable to the milder taste of apple juice.






Make sure that the combination of chicken, water, and apple juice fills between 1/2 and 3/4 of the stockpot.
 The savory taste of the vegetables in this recipe balances out the natural sweetness of the apple juice.

Peel the onion and cut it into halves or quarters.






Rinse the carrots under running water and cut them into 1-inch (2.5-cm) coins.






If using cloves of garlic, mince 4 cloves of garlic. If using garlic powder, use 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) of the seasoning.






You can use anywhere between 1 tsp (5 ml) and 1 Tbsp (15 ml) chopped fresh thyme. If using dried thyme, cut this down to 1/3 the amount.
 Disperse the onion, carrots, garlic, and thyme in the apple juice mixture.
 Bring the liquid up to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat so that the liquid only simmers, then cover and let cook according to the amount of time indicated in the "cooking times" section.
 About 10 minutes before the chicken finishes cooking, begin preparing the apple. Peel the apple, core it, and cut it into small slices.


The addition of the apple near the end of the cooking time will infuse an even stronger apple flavor into the chicken.
 Strain out the chicken when done and serve without any of the vegetables, fruit, seasonings, or cooking liquid.


The other ingredients serve to infuse the chicken with flavor as it cooks. The ingredients themselves, however, will be too soft and mushy to be very appetizing at this point.
 Add the dry white wine and chicken broth first. Then, fill the pot with enough water to reach the halfway point.

Wine can infuse chicken meat with a tremendous amount of flavor, but using too much could be overpowering.






Only use chicken broth in equal parts with the wine. Otherwise, the flavor of the chicken broth could end up competing with the flavor of the wine.






Dilute with water only as necessary.
 Toss the pearl onions, salt, pepper, garlic, parsley, oregano, and thyme into the cooking liquid.


Pearl onions do not need to be cut beforehand.






If you do not have pre-minced garlic on hand, you could mince or crush 6 cloves of garlic instead.






If using fresh herbs, add 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of each herb. For dried herbs, cut this amount down to 1 tsp (5 ml) each.
 Bring the cooking liquid up to a boil over medium-high heat. Let sit at this temperature for 2 to 5 minutes before reducing to a simmer.


Doing this allows some of the flavor of the seasoning to be released and some of the bitterness of the wine to cook off.
 Add the chicken to the cooking liquid using tongs. Bring the liquid back up to a boil before reducing the heat again.
 Cover the stockpot and boil the chicken at a steady simmer for the recommended cooking time indicated.


Serve the chicken only. The liquid and other ingredients are meant to add flavor, not to be served alongside the chicken.
