 It is never too early to begin reading to your child. Reading with your child encourages language development, reading skills, and will help them succeed in school. Even if your child is too young to follow the plot of the story, they will pick up on the rhythm of the language as well as specific vocabulary.A recent study has also linked reading to behaviour. Children who are read to on a regularly basis are less likely to develop behavioural problems in school.;
, In order to succeed in school (and life), children need to develop strong organizational skills. For many young students, low grades are often more a reflection of poor organizational and study skills than intellectual ability. For instance, some students may forget to bring home their homework, or they can’t keep track of their research material. Foster organizational skills by:Creating a list of things they need to bring to and from school each day. Place a copy of the list at the door and in their school bag and have them check the list each day.
Asking your child how they keep track of their homework and come up with a way that will help them remember.
Shopping with them for organizational supplies such as notebooks, agendas, dividers etc.
Show your child ways to study effectively. Show them how to practice with flashcards. Encourage them to write notes as they read.
 Another essential skill for academic success is time management. Your child needs to be able to schedule enough time to complete an assignment by the due date. Many students struggle with procrastination and will wait until the night before to start an assignment. Try these tips:Keep track of their assignments on a monthly calendar.
Set aside time for homework each night and make sure your child sticks to the schedule.
Prioritize tasks that need to be completed sooner.
Encourage them to work and study ahead so everything is finished in a timely manner.
 Setting aside enough time to complete homework and other tasks is one thing, but making efficient use of that time is another. Help your child concentrate while working by removing distractions. For example, set up a quiet workspace with good lighting, and lots of space. You can also remove distractions by taking away their phone or tablet while they concentrate on their homework.If your child requests to have the television on while they complete their homework you could say "Try working without any noise or distractions. You will probably be able to focus better and complete your work faster. Once you are finished you can watch television for an hour before bed."
This will teach your child that they can work more efficiently without distractions.

