 Dogs are easily distracted by new places and situations. If your dog learns how to do the "sit" command perfectly alone in your kitchen, you may not be able to count on her to do it when she's at the park with her canine companions. Teach your dog to sit in many different environments to ensure that you can always count on her to obey you when it counts.


You may want to make the command part of your daily routine. For example, you can try doing it when you put her leash on, before going through doorways together, before she is fed, before you throw a ball, when she's around other dogs, or whenever else you think it's suitable.
 You don't have to feed your dog treats to reward her for good behavior. Almost anything that your dog likes can be used as an incentive, so don't be afraid to get creative! The main goal is to have your dog associate sitting with positive feelings — this doesn't necessarily have to mean food. A few more ideas you may want to consider include:


Play time
A favorite toy
Love, affection, and petting
Encouraging, praising words

, Once your dog is good at sitting, you can make your life as a dog owner easier by teaching him to sit to get what he wants. Make it a habit to command your dog to sit for his food, to get his leash put on, to get let out to go to the bathroom, and so on. As long as you are consistent, your dog should eventually learn that the best way to get these things is to sit and be quiet — not to bark, beg, and bother you!

, Most dogs shouldn't be too hard to train with either of the methods above. If your dog just doesn't seem to understand what you want when you're training him to sit, try pushing gently downward on the dog's lower back as you command him to sit. As soon as he gets into the correct position, praise and reward him as you normally would.


Be gentle here. It's never a good idea to use violence or intimidation when teaching a dog commands. Not only does this run the risk of confusing the dog, but also risks inflicting lasting psychological damage.

