 Steam cleaning is a simple and effective way to refresh your skin and prevent acne. You will need to following materials:


1-quart pot
Water
A clean towel
Essential oils
Dried herbs, if you do not have access to essential oils;
, You should use essential oils that have antibacterial or antiseptic properties. They will kill bacteria and other microorganisms that can infect your skin and lead to acne. You can choose from the following oils:


Spearmint or peppermint: Spearmint or peppermint has antiseptic and immune boosting properties due to the high percentage of menthol in these herbs.Thyme: This herb can boost your immune system and also provides antibacterial relief for your skin. It can also help to increase your blood circulation.Lavender: This herb is known for its soothing and calming properties as well as its antibacterial properties. It can also help with anxiety and depression.Calendula: This herb can help to accelerate healing and also has antimicrobial properties.You should always pre-test the oil on a small area of your skin before using it to ensure you do not have an allergic reaction or develop a rash. Place one drop on your wrist and wait 10-15 minutes. If there is no reaction on the surface of your skin, you can use the oil for steam cleaning.
 Tie your hair back so your face is exposed. Then, cleanse your face with a plant-oil based product so it is clean and ready for steaming. You can use oils like glycerin, grapeseed, and sunflower to create a plant-oil based product.


Apply the product to your face and use your fingertips to gently massage it in circular motions. Clean your face for about a minute and then use lukewarm water to rinse your face, removing the cleanser.
Pat your face dry with a clean towel.
 Take the 1-quart pot and fill it halfway with water. Set it on the stove and let it boil for one to two minutes. The water should produce a nice flow of steam.


Add one to two drops of the essential oils. If you do not have essential oils, you can use dried herbs instead. Add ½ teaspoon of dried herbs per quart of water.
Let the water boil for another minute and then take it off the heat. Use a potholder, as the pot will be hot. Turn off the stove and place the pot on an even surface in an open area.
 Cover your head with the towel first so you can positive your face 12-15 inches from the water. This will allow your blood vessels to dilate and your pores to open up, but the steam will not damage your skin.


Close your eyes and breathe in and out deeply. Try to relax as the steam wafts over your face.
 After one minute, take your face away from the steam and let your skin rest for 10 minutes. If you do not have an allergic reaction to the oils in the steam after 10 minutes, with no sneezing or itching, you can reheat the water and use the steam again.


Keep your face over the steam for up to 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, rinse your skin with lukewarm water and pat dry it with a towel.
 Finish the steam session by moisturizing your face with natural oils or a non-comedogenic moisturizer. Moisturizing after the steam session can help to keep your skin soft and prevent damage to your skin.


Opt for store-brand moisturizers that advertise non-comedogenic properties or non-clogging properties, like Olay, Neutrogena, and Clinique moisturizers.
You can also use natural oils that are high in non-comedogenic properties, such as hemp seed oil, shea butter, sunflower oil, castor oil, calendula oil, or argan oil.Start by moisturizing your face twice a day with natural oils, once in the morning and once in the evening. You can then do the steam treatment once a day, in the morning or the evening.

