 If you have time to prepare before you're in a situation in which you need to walk quietly, taking small measures can help you make fewer sounds when you walk. For example,


Stretch before you try to move silently. It is common that your joints and bones will click when you first exert them, so stretching before you're in the thick of the moment is a good idea. Stretching will make you feel looser and stop anything clicking and giving away your presence.
Don't go on an empty stomach, but don't have a huge feast either. Your body actually gets heavier after you eat, and therefore, louder.
Go to the bathroom before you attempt walking silently.
 You might be tempted to hold your breath, but it's better to take slow and measured breaths from the nose. That way, you won't risk inhaling or exhaling too loudly when you need air. If you're congested, open your mouth wide and take deep, controlled breaths.


You may feel your breath quicken as adrenaline moves through your body. If that happens, pause, catch your breath, and take a few deep, calming breaths to ease your anxiety. Make sure you're breathing normally again before you continue.
 If you're following someone, you can hide the sound of your steps by walking in time with him or her. As the person steps with his or her left foot, you use your left foot, and repeat with the right foot. This will help mask any noise your feet may make.


Be careful not to get carried away when you're matching someone's gait - it's still important to use the proper technique for walking silently. Otherwise, if the person stops abruptly and you keep walking, you'll be caught.
 If you are moving through a wooded area where dry twigs, brush, dense jungle or leaves will make absolute silence impossible, move in small, erratic increments and pause: don't move in a steady plodding, marching, pounding rhythm.


Mimic the sounds around you. For example, a forest might be filled with the sound of small animals foraging. They typically move a short distance, pause to sniff for food or predators, and continue to move a short distance.
Capitalize on any other sources of noise (gusts of wind, other animal movement, passing traffic) to suppress or camouflage sound.
 If your aim is to have the ability to move through terrain without making a sound, sometimes you'll see the need to be still. Stand still and observe your surroundings before moving forward. Take as much time as you need to notice the objects around you that could trip you up and give you away.


If you're following someone or trying not to be seen, there will be moments when you'll have to practice extreme patience. Be still and wait for the person to pass, or for the tension of the situation to dissipate, before moving forward.

