 Mindfulness is powerful tool to help you realize what makes you unique. Spend at least five minutes a day reflecting silently about yourself. Try to find a calm, quiet place where you can reflect without interruption.Sit with your eyes closed for between five and twenty minutes. Breathe deeply, and focus on your breath to help clear your mind. Once your mind is clear, you can start reflecting on your personal narrative.


Keep in mind that this takes patience and practice. Try not to get discouraged if it takes several attempts for you to get your brain to slow down and stay in the present moment.
If you have never meditated before, you can learn by watching a YouTube video, downloading a meditation app, or by taking a mindfulness class.
Sometimes listening to peaceful music or nature sounds can help you clear your mind.
 Narrative coaches are a type of personal coach who can help guide your story by asking relevant questions and helping you realize the larger picture. Narrative coaches can be found online or through motivational coaching services. Some narrative psychologists at universities or through private practices may also offer coaching.Coaches will often ask you questions to force you to consider elements of your narrative that you may have missed or glossed over.
If you're struggling with finding a positive framework to view your past, a coach can help you. They can also teach you positive thinking techniques to shape future narratives.
 The best way to learn the structure, themes, and metaphors of a successful leader is to look at how others have done it before you. Look to historical leaders as well as current business leaders, political leaders, and other success stories. Read their narratives, and reflect upon how their stories relate to yours.For example, if you work in management, you might read the memoir of a Fortune 500 CEO to learn their secrets.If you are struggling with a personal crisis, such as mental illness or a death in the family, you might read the memoir of someone who went through a similar ordeal.
If you are struggling with balancing family and work, you could look for stories from others who managed to succeed in both their personal lives and career.
You can even ask people who are close to you about how they overcame difficult situations.

