 When you wear a bold, highly pigmented lip color, every dry flake in your lips is emphasized. Before putting on your lip color, use a lip scrub to remove any dead, dry skin from your lips. Rub it in in circular motions, and wipe it away with a damp washcloth.If you don’t want to buy a lip scrub, you can make your own with ingredients from your kitchen. Mix ½ teaspoon (2.5 ml) of olive oil with 1 teaspoon (4 g) of sugar, and rub it over your lips to exfoliate them.
You can also use a clean, wet toothbrush or washcloth to exfoliate by gently rubbing it over your lips.;
, To ensure that your lips are soft and smooth for the lip color application, moisturize with a lip balm after exfoliating . Allow the balm to sink into your lips for 5 to 10 minutes to ensure that it’s fully penetrated before moving on to your lip color.After you’ve allowed the lip balm to sit on your lips for several minutes, blot away any excess with a tissue. Having excess balm on your lips can sheer out your lip color when you apply it.
 If you want your lip color to stay in place all day and go on as pigmented as possible, it helps to use a lip primer. It is usually a clear balm-like product that provides a sticky base for the lip color to grab onto and prevents the lipstick from bleeding outside your lip line. Apply a thin layer before lining and filling in your lips.If you don’t have a lip primer, you can use a little foundation primer. Apply it around the outside of your lip line, though, to keep your lipstick from bleeding beyond the lip line.
 Lining your lips before applying your lip color helps create a sharp edge and prevents feathering along the lip line. However, to ensure that your lip color is as pigmented as possible, you should also fill in your lips with the liner to create an extra layer of color.For the most pigmented lip color, use a lip liner that matches the lip stain and lipstick that you plan to use. That will add the most depth to the color.
Your lip liner doesn’t have to match your lip stain and lipstick exactly. As long as it’s in the same color family, it will work.
If you can’t find a liner that’s similar to the lip color that you’re going for, use a nude liner that matches your natural lip color.
 To avoid having to reapply your lip color constantly, create a base for your lip color with a lip stain or liquid lipstick. These are extremely long-wearing products that will cling to your lips even when a creamier lipstick wears off. Apply the stain or liquid lipstick to your lips, and allow it to dry for 3 to 5 minutes before moving on to lipstick.Choose a lip stain or liquid lipstick that is similar to the lipstick color that you plan to wear to ensure the most pigmented lip color.
Before applying your lipstick, blot your lips with a tissue to ensure that stain or liquid lipstick is completely dry.
 While using a lip brush to put on your lipstick offers more precision, you’ll get the most pigmented color if you apply it directly from the tube. Carefully smooth the lipstick over your lips in a thin, even layer.If you feel like you can’t get a clean edge when you’re applying the lipstick from the tube, use a lip brush to apply the color to the edge of your lips. Use the tube for the center part of your lips, and blend the areas together with the brush or a finger.
 To help the lipstick set, you want to remove any excess from your lips. Press a tissue between your lips to blot them. Next, let the lipstick sit for 2 to 3 minutes to allow it to fully set.If you have blotting papers, usually meant for blotting oil from the face, you can use those to blot your lips. They’re particularly effective because they remove the emollient layer from your lips while leaving the pigment behind., After your lipstick has set, apply a light layer of translucent setting powder to your lips with your finger. It will provide a base for the next layer of lipstick to stick to, and help keep your lip color in place all day.If you’re not concerned about making your lip color last all day, you can skip this step.
 Once you’ve powdered your lips, smooth on another layer of lipstick directly from the tube. Take another tissue to blot your lips once more, so you don’t have to worrying about your lipstick smearing.If your lip color isn’t as pigmented as you’d like, you can repeat the blotting and lipstick application process again. Just be careful not to apply too many layers of lipstick or your lips may start to look cakey. Three layers is usually enough.
 When you’re happy with the intensity of your lip color, take a small, precise concealer brush to apply concealer that matches your skin tone along the outside edge of your lips. That will help clean up any smudges or mistakes, so your lips look perfect.