 If it’s safe to do so and you feel comfortable doing so, calmly let your parents know that you can hear their argument, that it’s upsetting you, and that it’s preventing you from going to sleep.Be calm and don’t accuse them of anything.
Only ask them to quiet down if you’re comfortable that you will be safe doing so.
“Mom and Dad, I know that you’re unhappy right now and that you’re trying to work that out. But I can hear you arguing and it’s keeping me awake. I really want to go to sleep now and am wondering if you might lower your voices please.”
You can also just say, “Please, stop arguing. You’re really upsetting me and I'm scared"

, Arguments are never pleasant, especially when you only overhear parts of the argument and don’t know the whole story or how everything ended up. Explain to your parents that you respect their space and that their argument is theirs, but that you need to know that they’ve achieved resolution about the issue.They may tell you that they’d prefer not to discuss it, and that’s something you’ll need to prepare for.
 If it’s safe to approach them while your parents are arguing, you might choose to ask if they can talk with you about your feelings. You might, on the other hand, do best to wait until everyone has calmed down and they are likely to be more receptive to what you’re saying. No matter when you decide to have the conversation, letting your parents know how their arguing makes you feel will let them know that they are impacting you, and it might also help you sleep better because you’ll have talked with someone and gotten some resolution.Be calm and don’t accuse them of anything.
Tell them how you feel. “When you argue, I feel scared that one of you is going to leave. It makes me sad even after you’re done fighting.”

, If you suspect or know that the argument has turned violent, your safety must be your biggest priority. Don't confront your parents and don't attempt to separate them if they are in a physical altercation. If you fear for your (or another's) safety, you need to call for help.Call emergency services, if needed. You might be afraid of getting in trouble, but remember, everyone's safety is your priority.
If you have siblings, quietly try to get everyone in the same room.
If you need to, get out of the house and get to safety - a neighbor's house, a friend or family member's house, or even the local police station.
Lock your door - this will block someone from freely entering your room.

