 If you don't live in the same area as your mom, consider surprising her with a Mother's Day visit if you can afford the trip. Drive, rideshare, fly, or take a train. Do not tell her that you're going to come, then show up at her door with flowers and her favorite treat. Plan it out beforehand: speak with siblings, relatives, or your other parent to make sure that your mom is going to be around when you arrive.


Try further setting up the surprise by making up a story about how you can't come. Tell her you have an exam, or a meeting, and that you are very sorry that you aren't able to make it. She will be even more surprised if she specifically expects you not to come!
You don't need to show up on Mother's Day, specifically. You can come on Friday or Saturday and spend the whole weekend. If you do plan to stay the whole weekend, make sure that your mom has space for you to stay.
 Take care of all your homework, projects, and other obligations before Sunday rolls around. Don't make plans with friends or arrange to be out of town. Tell her that you want to spend the day hanging out with her, then take her out for a hike, to a show, or to dinner. She will appreciate the gesture, and she will love the chance to spend quality time with you.Be present. Set aside your phone, and don't spend your day on the Internet. Make the time to be there for your mom and give her your undivided attention.
If you think that your mom would rather spend Mother's Day reading in bed or being pampered at a spa, then arrange it so. If you think that she'd like to spend the day with you, then take the time to make that happen.
 If you aren't living with her, and you can't pay her a visit for Mother's Day, surprise her with a phone call. Wish her a happy Mother's Day, tell her you love her, ask her how she's doing, and tell her what you're up to. Life can get busy, and she will appreciate hearing from you. The simplest gestures can be the most powerful.
 Invite her friends and family, book her favorite band, and make sure that there are plenty of refreshments. Ask a sibling, your father, or other family members for help. Bear in mind that if you hold the party on Mother's Day, many of the guests may be busy with their own Mother's Day plans—so plan accordingly.


You know your own mother best. If she is a social butterfly, then a party might be the perfect Mother's Day surprise. However, if she is less prone to partying, she might prefer to spend a more intimate day with you and your family.
 Stay up late the night before Mother's Day, wake up early in the morning, or simply tell her that you're going to do her chores for her that day. Do the things that she's been planning to do: fix the leaky pipe, mow the lawn, do the laundry, clean the kitchen. Show your love with your actions.She will surely appreciate your help with the regular chores, such as laundry, yardwork, and dishes, but she may be even more surprised if you take the initiative to begin a big project that she's been planning. Help her install a new flowerbed, wash her car, or trim the hedge. Do something rare and special.
Bear in mind that while she will surely appreciate the thought and effort on your part, she may prefer to spend the day with you rather than laying around while you work.
 Bring her to her favorite restaurant, take her to the movies, or take her for a hike. Think about what your mom likes to do, and plan a day that allows the two of you to do that thing together. If you have siblings, be sure to plan something that you can all enjoy, or schedule with them ahead of time: for instance, you can agree that you will take your mom for a hike, but your brother will take her out to dinner.Although it can be great to surprise your mom, you may want to tell her about these plans in advance. If she doesn't know that you plan to take her out to dinner, she might make other plans for the evening. You can still surprise her in advance by telling her about the plans you've made.
She will be especially surprised if you plan out an unexpected excursion. If her favorite band or play is coming to town, buy tickets for the two of you (and, perhaps the rest of your family) to go. She may not even have been aware of the show, but there's a good chance that she will appreciate the gesture.

