 If you're having unusual problems urinating, you should make an appointment with your regular physician to figure out if there is a medical cause to your problem.


Your doctor will perform a medical and physical examination. If you are male, your doctor will probably perform a prostate exam.If the doctor feels a urine test is necessary; she may use a catheter to release urine. This is a tube that goes up the urethra and drains urine into a bag.Blood tests may also be needed to check for any signs of infections.Treatment depends on the problem's cause, but a variety of medications can be used to treat urinary problems., The inability to urinate can occasionally be a medical emergency that requires immediate care. Go to the emergency room if you experience any of the following problems:


Acute and painful feelings in the bladder or stomach could be a sign of a severe bladder obstruction. See a doctor immediately as you may need an emergency catheter to drain urine.Sudden and painful urine retention can be severe. Damage to the bladder and kidneys may occur without emergency treatment, so it's important to get to the ER as soon as possible., A variety of medications are used to treat urinary problems. Ask your doctor what medications she recommends.


Alpha receptor blockers are one class of medication used to treat urinary problems. They work by relaxing the muscles in the bladder and reducing whatever is obstructing urine flow. They are usually used for long-term issues with urine retention, especially enlarged prostates in men.These drugs include 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors and antimuscarinic drugs for urinary incontinence.
5-alpha reductase inhibitors shrink the size of the prostate gland, so such medications are only prescribed to men. They may take weeks or even months to work depending on how long it takes them to successfully shrink the prostate gland., If you have difficulty voiding, then there is usually a medical condition that is causing this to occur. Your doctor will want to do some test including a urine sample to make sure that you do not have an infection and that your urine is in working order.


Men who have a hard time urinating they may suffer from urinary incontinence. This is usually due to an enlarged prostate on physical examination. Risk factors for urinary incontinence include advanced age. The older you get, the more likely you are going to have problems going to the restroom.
Prostate disease is another concern especially those who have a history of prostate surgery or radiation.
A history of urinary tract infections can also lead to problems with urinating. You may have scars from the infections including strictures and fistula formation.
Further, physical limitation is also a risk factor for people that have a hard time peeing.
Neurological disease lead to urinary retention and problems with peeing. This includes problems with the CNS, spinal cord, stroke, or impaired cognition.
Further conditions including diabetes, sleep apnea, depression, and constipation lead to problems with urinary incontinence.

