 Although many fruits are very brightly colored, their juices do not always make for good food dye. Many citrus fruits, for example, have highly translucent juices (such as oranges and lemons), which do not stain other foods very effectively. Berries, on the other hand, are very effective for coloring foods.


To figure out which fruits will work best for your purposes, squeeze or blend fruits and pour the juice into a clear glass. Hold the glass up to the light; the less light that passes through, the better the juice will work as a food dye.
For red or pink coloring, raspberries and cherries are good options; strawberries produce a lighter, more pastel shade of pink. For blue or purple, try blackberries or blueberries., Unlike with boiling vegetables to leach out their color, fruit juice food coloring is made of the fruit itself. For berries, stick them in a food processor or blender in order to liquefy them for your dye. For hand fruits, you can use a juicer instead (but again, most of these types of fruits don't make good dyes).


You can start with either fresh or frozen fruit if you are blending it, but fruits must be fresh in order to juice them effectively.Be sure to remove any pits, large seeds, or inedible peels before tossing fruit into the blender; these can ruin your machine and will not help your food dye production efforts.
Add a very small amount of water to the fruit if you are using a food processor in order to allow the fruit to adequately liquefy., Any time you blend or juice fruits, tiny seeds, skins, or other fibers (pulp) can end up in the juice. In order to preserve the consistency of the food you wish to dye, remove these elements from the juice by passing it through a mesh sieve (with very small holes) or a cheesecloth.Straining is essential for maintaining consistency and smoothness in your dyes. However, if you are going for a less even look, you can choose not to strain the fruit juice (so long as there are no seeds in it!).
Very finely-blended berries will be impossible to strain completely and will most likely end up with tiny flecks of skin and fibers in them; if this is not acceptable, consider juicing or boiling instead.
Don't use a sieve or strainer with mesh that is large enough for seeds and fibers to pass through. Test-strain a small portion of your juice to make sure your mesh is effective.
 In some cases, the strained juice itself will be sufficient as a food dye. However, you can increase the intensity of the color by cooking off some of the water contained in the juice. Pour the juice into a small saucepan and cook it over medium heat until it becomes the consistency of a thick paste.This process results in a highly concentrated dye, which will have dense flavor, especially if it is made from berries. Be sure to use it sparingly to avoid flavor contamination.
Skip this if you are going for a lighter, more pastel coloring.

