 In order to get over your own scruples (if you have any) about confronting the person at work who smells bad, put yourself in their shoes. Remind yourself that if you had a body odor problem that concerned your coworkers, you would want to know. Imagining yourself in their place will put you in the right frame of mind for the coming conversation., In order to avoid embarrassing them more than you need to, find a quiet place to initiate the discussion. If you’re a manager, you can pull them into your office. If you’re just a coworker, pull them aside in the breakroom or another empty space when nobody else is about.To talk privately with the smelly person, ask them, “Can I talk to you?” or “Do you have a moment to talk?”

, Starting the conversation with praise will soften the blow and let the stinky worker know that you are not trying to be malicious. Be honest in your application of praise. If the person is not a good worker, for instance, do not suggest that they are. Find something else to praise them about.Tell the smelly person, for instance, “You are a hard worker and a valuable member of this team.”

, Before you get into the actual issue of the worker’s stench, acknowledge that the conversation will be a bit uncomfortable but is necessary nonetheless. Disarming the person who smells in this manner will show them that you’re on their side and sympathize with their position.Start by saying, for instance, “This is bit awkward, and I hope I don’t offend you, but...”

, If you leave the stinky person with vague comments about “hygiene,” they might think you’re asking them to brush their teeth to solve their bad breath. To avoid any confusion, be gentle but don’t mince words. Say, for instance, “You seem to have a disagreeable odor these days.”Never tell the smelly worker that anyone else has brought the issue to your attention. This will only cause them further embarrassment.
 After laying out the issue in gentle but explicit terms, find out if the person at work who smells bad knows that they smell bad. If someone at work who smells bad admits that they have a medical condition that causes them to emit a bad scent, thank them for being honest with you. There’s nothing more you can do about it at that point.Ask, for instance, “Is this a problem you’re aware of?” or “Has anyone ever told you this before?”
The smelly worker will then acknowledge your concern by saying, “I understand your concerns and offer my apologies. I will act to correct this issue. It will not be brought up again.”

