 Fur does not do well if it gets exposed to direct sunlight. The ideal place to store fur is a dark location. A closet, for example, is a great place to store fur.Choose an area of your home that does not get a lot of direct sunlight. A closet right by your bedroom window may not be a great place for a fur coat. A closet near the hallway, away from windows, may be a better option.;
, Fur does best at colder temperatures. You should store your fur in an area of your home that tends to be cooler. A closet on the first floor near the air conditioning, for example, can be a great place to store fur.It's especially important to store fur in cool places during the summer months.
 Humidity can be very damaging to fur. Many people try to store fur coats in the basement, due to cooler temperatures. However, basements tend to be very humid. You should never store fur in areas prone to excessive humidity.It may be a good idea to keep a dehumidifier in the room where you store your fur, especially if you live in an area prone to humidity.
 Both cedar closets and moth balls absorb moisture. This can dramatically increase humidity, which can be very harmful to a fur coat. In addition to this, fur can absorb odor from moth balls and cedar. Once absorbed, this odor can be very hard to get rid of., How you hang your coat matters. The wrong kind of hanger can damage a fur coat. In order to support the full weight of your coat, choose a broad-shouldered clothes hanger.You can buy a broad-shouldered hanger at a department store or online.
 A plastic bag is not suitable to use to store a coat. Plastic will dry out a coat. Buy a cloth bag big enough to comfortably fit your fur coat. You may be able to buy a cloth storage bag at the store where you got your coat.
You can also order a storage bag online.
 A coat should never be pushed into the corner of a crowded closet. Coats need ample room for safe storage. If you don't have room for a fur coat in a closet, do not squeeze the coat in. Either move other clothing elsewhere or store the coat in another area., If you live in an area with hot, humid summers, professional storage is strongly recommended. It's very hard to maintain safe levels of heat and humidity in your home, even with amenities like air conditioners. If professional storage is within your budget, it's worth the investment to keep your coat safe., When exploring your storage options, you want to make sure they're adequate to keep a fur coat safe. Any reputable storage center will maintain a 50 degree temperature and a 50 percent humidity. This is ideal for fur., You can find storage facilities online or in the local yellow pages. You should always ask questions when selecting a storage facility. Storing coats is expensive, so you want to make sure your coat will not get damaged by the wrong facility. Ask where the storage area is. Some facilities store fur coats in a cramped back room.You should also visit a facility in person and ask to see the storage area. You do not want to store your coat in a facility where it will be jammed in with other clothing items.
You should also ask about coverage in the event the fur is lost or damaged. If you have insurance, make sure your insurance still covers your fur if you choose to store it. You should also make sure the storage facility has insurance coverage, and ask whether or not you would be compensated in the event of damages.

