 Use an eyeshadow brush to cover your upper eyelid with a black eyeshadow. Go over the area from your lash line to the crease of your eye. When loading your brush with powder, don't forget to tap it over the container first. Removing excess eyeshadow will prevent "fallout" on your cheeks.








Use other dark colors besides black if you'd like. Navy blue, royal purple, and charcoal gray work well. Just make sure whatever you pick for the base is the darkest eyeshadow color you plan on using.
Cream eye shadows work best for this step.
You can also use an eyeliner pencil for the base instead. Outline your lid with the pencil and smudge it across your entire eyelid with a brush or smudging tool.;
, Pick a dark gray eyeshadow. This second eyeshadow should be a little lighter than the black eyeshadow while still being fairly dark. Brush it on starting at your crease and stopping about halfway down your eyelid.









If you used a color other than black for your base, try to match the lighter color to its hue as closely as possible.
 Use a blending brush. These brushes have thinner bristles in comparison to eyeshadow brushes, and are designed to create an airbrushed effect. Using your wrist, make a small circular "buffing" motion with your brush.









Blend the two eyeshadows together at the lighter color's lower edge. This will make the transition between the already close colors completely seamless. Start from the edge furthest from your nose and work your way horizontally across your entire lid.
Blend the eyeshadow at your crease. With a fresh brush, make these same buffing motions at your eye's crease. Stop about halfway between your crease and your eyebrow.
 Pick a third very light eyeshadow to use as a highlight. This can be either a shimmery metallic or a nude. Sweep some of this eyeshadow into a small line along the outer lower edge of your eyebrow. You can also dab some shimmery shadow onto the inner corners of your eyes for a brightening effect.. A splash of gold eyeshadow will especially make brown eyes pop.
 Pick an eyeliner that is either black or a similar color to your first eyeshadow. A pencil liner will work best, as liquid liner is difficult to smudge.









Draw the eyeliner across your upper lash line, starting on the outer edge and working your way towards your nose.
Apply eyeliner to the outer third of your lower lash line. Connect the upper and lower lines at the outer corner of your eye.
Use a smudging tool to blend your eyeliner.
 Apply 2-3 coats of black mascara to your upper lashes. For a more dramatic look, add a coat of mascara to the outer half of your lower lashes as well. If you find your lashes clumping, separate them with a lash comb.
 Once you've added the mascara, your eye makeup should be complete. Check for eyeshadow fallout on your cheeks. Do your best to brush off any stray eyeshadow powder you may find. If it leaves behind a stain, touch up the area with a little more foundation or concealer. Add lip color to complete your look.
 Before you apply your smoky eye makeup, you want your canvas to be perfect. Use either a cleansing cream or a mild soap. Keep the water lukewarm. Hot water can dry out and irritate your skin, while cold water doesn't cleanse as effectively.








At the end of the day, always remember to remove your makeup. Leaving makeup on overnight can clog your pores, causing acne., Make sure you have a perfect canvas before you begin putting on your makeup.









Massage a dollop of moisturizer into your skin using your fingertips. Properly moisturized skin will help your makeup to adhere and stay looking great for longer.
After you've moisturized, massage in a pea-sized amount of makeup primer to your cheeks, nose, forehead, and chin.
Brush on a layer of eye primer to your upper eyelids. General makeup primer can also work, but specialty eye primers are more gentle and have better results., Clamp a curling tool to the base of your lashes. Hold it there for five seconds. Curling your eyelashes makes eyes look more open and will especially enhance smoky makeup.








You may also choose to do this step after adding eyeliner. Just make sure to curl before applying mascara to prevent clumping and breakage.
 General skin makeup should be finished before you add eyeshadow. Start with foundation and follow up with concealer, sealing both with a dusting of pressed powder. Apply blush and bronzer after. If you prefer not using all of these products, feel free to skip one or more.


Wait until after you've finished your eye makeup before you put on any lip color.
 Because your eyebrows will be framing your smoky eyes, you want to make sure that they're flawless.Bold, dark eyebrows pair well with smoky brown eyes.









Keep up with eyebrow shaping to get a dramatic arch, but try not to over-tweeze.
If your natural eyebrows are a little thin or light, consider filling in or drawing on your eyebrows. You may use eyebrow pencil or other makeup of your choice. Consider setting your eyebrows with tinted brow gel.

