 You can do this from your computer or mobile device. The "Delete Google + Profile" option from the Google+ app's Settings menu leads to this website as well.;
, This should be the account you want to delete your Google+ profile for. If you see an Upgrade page after signing in, that account does not have a Google+ profile.
 This is everything that will be deleted when you get rid of your Google+ profile. It will also list data that will be kept.


Your Google+-specific data will be deleted. This includes any +1s, posts, comments, collections, and circles.
Your photos and contacts will not be deleted.
Your reviews will be hidden but not deleted.
Any Google+ pages you've created will be kept.
Your YouTube channel and uploads will not be deleted.
Your Google account will not be deleted. You will still have access to Gmail and Drive.
 You'll need to check the "Required" box in order to proceed. This is to prevent accidental deletion of your data.


Deleting your account is permanent. The data is not recoverable. Make absolutely sure that you want to proceed, because there is no going back.
 Your Google+ profile will be deleted and all of its data will be removed. It may take a few days for everything to disappear., Your local reviews will be stored in the "Your contributions" section of Google Maps. They'll be marked private and hidden. You can delete them permanently if you desire.


Log into the Google Maps website with the same Google account.
Click the Menu button and select "Your contributions."
Click the "Reviews" tab. A list of all the reviews you've made will appear here.
Click the More button next to the review you want to remove. Select "Delete review." Confirm that you want to delete it.
 Deleting your Google+ profile will not delete any photos that you've uploaded. You'll need to delete these through Picasa.


Visit picasaweb.google.com/lh/myphotos. Log in with your Google account.
Download any photos you want to keep. Deleting photos from Picasa will delete them across all of your Google products and devices. Make sure to save any photos that you want to keep.
Select an album. This is the quickest way to delete multiple photos. Deleting an album also deletes all of the photos it contains.
Click the "Actions" button and select "Delete album." You will be asked to confirm that you want to delete the photos. You will not be able to recover the photos after deleting them.
 Deleting your Google+ profile does not delete your Google profile. Visit aboutme.google.com to manage your public data. Check each section carefully. Remove any information that you no longer want associated with your Google account.
 If you want to completely remove your presence from Google, you'll want to delete your entire Google account. This is irreversible and will affect all Google products, including Gmail, Search, YouTube, Drive, and more.Visit the Google My Account website at myaccount.google.com. Log in with the account you want to delete.
Click "Delete your account or services" in the "Account preferences" section. Select "Delete Google Account and data."
Review everything that will be deleted. You will be shown a summary of all of the data that will be deleted.
Check the boxes to confirm that you want to delete your account and then click "Delete Account." This process is irreversible.

