 There are four types of dengue viruses, all of which all of which are spread by mosquito. Humans are the primary host of the disease and it is a very common illness in tropical areas.When a mosquito is infected by the virus, it will spread the virus through its saliva when it bites.
Dengue can also be transmitted from human to human. For example, infected blood used in a blood transfusion can cause dengue. Even organ donation and mother to child transmission are possible.
 The incubation period of dengue (period before which symptoms are visible) is about 3-14 days. Your symptoms may vary, depending upon the type of the virus and your level of immunity.The virus will circulate around your body after infection, attacking white blood cells and other antibodies, which will compromise your immune system.
The virus will further replicate within the cell until the cell bursts and dies, releasing cytokines that initiate the inflammatory response of the body as it tries to ward off the virus.
The death of the white blood cells will trigger leakage of other fluids from the cells, leading to hypoproteinemia (low protein), hypoalbuminema (low albumin), pleural effusion (fluid in the lungs), ascites (fluid in the stomach area), hypotension (low blood pressure), shock, and eventually death.
 A high fever will take place as a result of the body’s effort to suppress the virus.Like any other type of systemic infection, the body will increase its temperature to kill the virus.
 Intense headache is reported by most dengue patients.The exact reason for the headache is not known, but it is probably related to the high fever.
Increased body temperature can irritate the nerves of the head and cause a gnawing, radiating head pain.
 Dengue-related eye pain is often exacerbated when there is bright light in the room.The pain is characterized as dull and deep.
The eye pain is a side effect of the intense headache. Since nerve endings in the head share the same pathway, pain can be felt not just in the head, but also in the eyes.
 Widespread bleeding can occur, because the virus attacks your capillaries, the smallest blood vessels in the body.When the capillaries burst, blood escapes to outside the blood stream.
Blood pressure decreases as blood leaves the body, eventually leading to internal bleeding, shock, and death.
During a severe case, bleeding is more common in the nose and gums, where small blood vessels are located.
Your pulse may also become weak due to the decreasing blood volume in your body.
 As your fever decreases, skin rashes may start to appear.The rash is reddish, and similar to a measles rash.
The rash is caused by the bursting of small capillaries.
 The diagnosis of dengue is done through performing a physical exam, taking the history of the illness, and doing laboratory tests.Your doctor will try to identify your signs and symptoms. He will take into account whether or not you live in, or have recently visited, a common dengue area.
Your doctor will suspect dengue if there are warning signs such as abdominal pain, liver enlargement, mouth bleeding, low platelet and white blood cell counts, restlessness, and decreased pulse.
Your doctor may use an ELISA test to identify immunoglobins in your bloodstream that are unique to dengue infection.

