 This will help you to learn the classic push-up, and all the warnings and tips given there apply to this article as well. Read it? OK, here are some other things you can do:;
, Instead of resting on the balls of your feet, bend and rest on your knees (the feet will be pointing up in this position). This will make the push-up easier since you're lifting slightly less weight. This position is also the option given to women in some physical fitness tests where they have to do push-ups.
 Instead of putting your palms on the floor make a fist and put knuckles on the floor, or spread your fingers and raise yourself using only the fingertips. This will decrease the surface area of your support and make the stabilizer muscles work harder to keep you from toppling.
 Put your hands on a ball that is large enough to accommodate both your hands (basketball, bowling ball, soccer ball). This will also introduce instability to the exercise and give your upper body stabilizer muscles a sweat. Most people find this much harder to pull off than doing push-ups on the knuckles or finger tips.
 This is the same as the classic push up but instead of pushing yourself up steadily, push with enough force so that you can actually "lift" yourself in the air and have enough hang-time to clap once in mid-air before coming down.
 You will have to spread your legs and lean more towards the top of the single arm to maintain your balance. This can actually turn out to be a balancing challenge; there are people who have the upper body strength to pull it off but can't do it simply because they can't balance the body on top of the arm.
 It has been previously mentioned that keeping your elbows tucked to the sides during the push-up will work more of your triceps. Another way to do this is by placing your hands further down the body. Place your hands to the sides of the ribcage instead of under our shoulders, the further down the line, the more triceps you'll utilize during the push-up. However, there is a physical limitation to how far you can go since an average wrist will not bend more than 90 degrees in any direction.








