 Fungi have a nasty habit of sticking around in our bodies long after they show up on our skin. Continue your chosen method(s) of treatment for 3-6 weeks total, even after all external signs of athlete's foot have disappeared. This will make sure that the fungus has truly left your system, and making a second round of the skin ailment much less likely.
 But not too much. The amount of exposure your feet require takes walking a thin line; too much, and you might contract the fungus again. Too little exposure, and moisture build up will, again, cause a second bout of athlete's foot. Try to wear sandals and shoes that allow your feet to breathe, but avoid walking barefoot. When you are walking in moist areas (such as at a pool or in the shower), wear flip-flops or other shoes that protect your feet from contacting the fungi-filled floors.
 Any shoes you wore during the period of time you suffered from athlete's foot are inevitably contaminated with the fungi. Purchase an antifungal powder that focuses on this particular problem, and sprinkle it in all your shoes on a weekly basis., Fungi grow best in moist areas, making sweaty feet a prime environment. Keep your feet dry at all times, using a towel to absorb excess moisture between your toes and on the soles of your feet after showering, sweating heavily, or swimming. Doing this on a regular basis will produce an environment inhospitable to the fungi that cause athlete's foot.
 Heavy socks that trap moisture are a no-go if you are a sufferer of athlete's foot. Make the transition to wearing only cotton socks that allow your feet to breath and are easily washed and bleached. Additionally, wash socks on a regular basis, and wear each pair for a single use only.
 You’ve cleaned your shoes, cleaned your socks, and the one place left accountable for possible fungus growth is your shower. Clean the floor of your shower with a wash-down of bleach on a weekly basis. Any sponges or brushes that you may use to clean your feet in the shower should be thrown out and replaced or properly disinfected.
 Anything that might contain foot related fungi or sweat should be avoided, unless its your own. Keep your own towels, shoes, and socks to yourself and avoid borrowing those items from others.