 Since you will have to do some research when it comes to which company to invest in, focus at first on companies that you have some working knowledge of. This will make things a little more interesting and engaging as you get started.


Check local companies, as you may have more of an opportunity to engage them and get a feel for how their business affects your area.
 You'll need to do some research and math to determine the value of a company. You'll soon see that a one-dollar stock is not necessarily cheaper than a $40 one. A stock with a real value higher than the listed price is one that's probably worth buying.


Since buying stock means buying part-ownership of a company, determine if it would make financial sense to buy the entire company (assuming you had the money).
Find out how long it would take to pay off your investment from profits if you bought the entire company. Use the results to determine if it is worthwhile to invest in shares.
Keep in mind that profits can change wildly as markets change. Technologies can become obsolete, or regulations could change, rendering a company's products less valuable or even useless.
 These include Future Performance, Cash Flow, and Revenue, among many others. Future Performance. A company's worth is based largely on projections of future performance. Past performance is important only as an indication of how the company will perform in the future.

Cash Flow. In general, a company that has a lot of assets and high operating costs has less cash flow than a similar business with less assets and a lower operating cost. Cash flow is cash on hand that can be used to pay debt.

Revenue. Revenue is one of the major factors when valuing a company. If two companies have the same cash flow, but one has a higher revenue, that company will most likely be worth more.
 While it is important to invest in what you know, you don't want all your eggs in one basket. If something happens to the industry that you are invested in, you could lose much of your investment in short order. Invest broadly to minimize risk of sudden loss.


Invest in a broad range of economic sectors. If you are heavily focused in technology, consider investing in consumer goods, real estate or any number of other industries.
Most investment experts recommend against putting all of your investable funds into the stock market. Also consider bonds, currencies, and commodities.
Try to create a portfolio of around 20 different stocks that aren't related. This should be a manageable number to keep track of while still providing a wide array of earning opportunities. , Buying at the right time is essential to successful investing.


Don't buy everything at once. If the market takes a downturn right after you buy, you could lose most of your investment. Instead, spread out your initial investment over several months to minimize the risk each time you buy.
Consult a stock chart when considering stock purchases. Google and Yahoo both provide comprehensive online stock charts, and there are many other similar services to choose from.
Check to see if the stock trend is rising. This means that the price has been increasing steadily. Look for stocks that are increasing but not necessarily rapidly. Stocks will only go so high, so if a price is climbing rapidly, there's a good chance that it will level off or drop soon.
Check the volume of trades. If a stock is finding steadily more buyers, that's a good indicator of the stock's health. A rising price with a declining volume could mean that the price will drop soon due to lack of interest.
Find the moving average of the stock. The moving average is the average price of a stock over time. Ideally this average would be increasing and the listed price would be above this average.
Avoid volatile stocks. If the price jumps too much, and there are a lot of spikes in the chart, the stock is probably too unstable to safely invest in.
 In order to buy stocks, you must go through a licensed stockbroker. There are many options to choose from, but they boil down to four main choices. Determine which one will suit your needs best.



Online/Discount Broker. Online brokers are essentially order-takers. They provide no personal assistance, and leave the decisions of what to buy and sell up to you. Fees are usually per-transaction, and they typically require very little initial investment to open an account. The research will be up to you.

Discount Broker with Assistance. This is essentially the same as the category above, except the broker may provide a bit more basic research, such as newsletters and in-house research reports. The fee is often higher than online-only because of these extra services.

Full-Service Broker. These are the traditional stock brokers who will meet with you and discuss your full financial situation, as well as risk analysis. They will help develop financial plans and give advice in other financial areas such as taxes. Full-service brokers will be quite a bit more expensive than a discount broker, but many offer significant benefits.

Money Manager. A money manager takes full control of your personal finances. Their clients are typically those with a significant amount of income, and the usual minimum account is $100,000 or more.

