 On the right side of the screen, you will notice your name beside an arrow. Click on your name and let the menu appear. The first option you can select is titled “Edit Page”; click on this to open up the Edit Page window.
 There are 4 options at the top of the Photo page. The third one over says “Facebook”; click on that button to make a small menu pop up below the Facebook button.
 A message below the “Facebook” button will say “Please add Facebook to you page to access your photos.” If you look beside that part, there is a button that says “Add Facebook.” Click on this.


A screen will pop up asking for your e-mail address and password for Facebook. Log in much like you did when you signed in with your About.me account.
When you click “Sign in,” a new pop-up will appear that lets you customize the syncing.
 The first decision you will have to make is what to share. The three things you can share are your photos, your updates, and your friends. You can share all three of these things. Just click on the box beside each option to share that particular part.
 Aside from photos updates, and friends, you can also agree to share your About.me information with your Facebook page:


The first option will share when you make a physical update to your page. This can be selected or deselected by clicking on the box beside the first option.
The second option will share on your Facebook page when you are added to a directory on About.me. This is also a check box, and you can choose to pick it, or not, just by clicking the box.
The final option to consider before sharing your pictures is whether you want to share your compliments or when you favorite a page on your About.me account. This is a similar check box to the previous two.
 Now you should go back and look through all the information you are about to submit. Ensure that you have the “Show photos” button clicked so that you will share your Facebook pictures.


Once you are sure everything is the way you want it, click on the blue “Add Facebook” button on the bottom of the page.
You have now linked your Facebook to your About.me page. Your pictures can now be viewed right from your regular About.me home page.

