 Knowing that you have some medical necessities in case of a cut or fall will make you feel more secure and ready to enjoy your campout:Items to pack in your first aid kit include adhesive bandages, gauze pads, nonstick sterile pads, and medical tape. You should also include antiseptic wipes, antibacterial ointment, blister treatment, tweezers, and safety pins.
Medications to include are ibuprofen or acetaminophen for pain relief, an antihistamine for allergic reactions, aloe vera gel for sunburn, poison ivy/poison oak treatment, and insect sting treatment.
In case of a sprain or strain, elastic wraps and finger splints are also useful to include.
 In case you have a more extreme accident, it is a good idea to know ahead of time the location of nearby medical facilities.


Just knowing the information could help you relax and have a good time while camping.
Make sure you also bring your insurance card or coverage information in case you need to go to the hospital.
 Give a friend or neighbor your contact information. You can leave your cell number, along with a number of the camp site that you have selected. You will be at ease knowing that your whereabouts are known in case you get lost while hiking or have car trouble.


Additionally, you won’t miss out on urgent news from home if you are easily able to be located and contacted.
 Even the most experienced campers sometimes face insurmountable storms or blizzards. If you plan ahead and have the locations of local options, you will be comfortable embarking on your camping trip.


Many national and state parks offer cabins and lodges, which could be an option if you face bad weather.
Often, camping sites are in recreational areas that have at least one motel or hotel nearby.
 One concern of new campers is how to avoid poison ivy or spider bites. If this describes you, having the knowledge of what plants and insects to avoid could add to your enjoyment of your trip.


Poison ivy is native to every U.S. state, except Alaska and Hawaii. It is characterized by its three pointed leaves that change color with the seasons. It can grow as a vine or as a bush.Poison oak also has three leaves, but these leaves resemble oak tree leaves. It can grow as either a low shrub, such as in the eastern part of the country, or as a climbing vine on the West Coast.
Poison sumac tends to grow in wet areas. It has smooth, not saw-toothed, leaves and red stems.The black widow, characterized by red marks on the underside of its abdomen, is a poisonous spider found throughout the United States.Another spider to watch out for is the brown recluse, which is brown with a dark violin-shaped mark on its head. It also has six, instead of the usual eight, eyes. Brown recluse spiders are most commonly found in southern and Midwestern states.

