


If using the radio, turn it to a talk station so that the squirrels constantly hear human voices. The radio does not need to be loud enough for you to hear, but it must be loud enough for the squirrels to hear. This may have limited usefulness if you are dealing with squirrels that are used to humans, though.
Ultrasonic repellents produce a high-decibel noise that only small animals can hear. It can make your attic an unbearable place for squirrels that have recently moved in, but squirrels can eventually adapt to it and settle in. Note that it may also bother other animals in your home, even though you cannot hear it.
 Leave the attic light on or install flashing strobe lights in the attic.


The constant light provided by a standard attic light may be enough to drive many squirrels away, especially those that are not accustomed to being around people.
For tougher cases, a pulsating strobe light might be more effective since the sudden, bright flashes of light might startle a squirrel and cause it to run off. When using strobe lights, though, you should also back the method up with exclusion techniques to prevent the startled critters from braving their way back inside.
In either instance, make sure that the scared squirrel takes any offspring with it. If not, you may need to trap the offspring and take them outside or hire a professional to do so.
 Purchase a chemical or natural squirrel repellent from a manufacturer and apply the spray according to label instructions, focusing specifically on squirrel nesting areas inside the attic.


Try an animal repellent made with predator urine. The most commonly used predator urine is fox spray, which can be purchased by itself from various hunting supply stores. This is a fairly non-toxic product and relies on the squirrels' senses of smell and self-preservation. When the squirrels get a whiff of a natural predator, they learn to avoid the area.
Note that no repellent proves quite as successful as physical removal, but many people do seem to have some success with them.



Ammonia is mostly a folk remedy against squirrels, so there is no definitive proof that such a method is effective. Many homeowners have reported luck with it, though. To increase the likelihood of experiencing success, you should also employ trapping and exclusion techniques to keep the squirrels out.
As the theory goes, the strong, pungent smell of ammonia will drive the squirrels in your attic away.
After the squirrels have cleared out of your attic, run a few electric fans to clear the air inside the space. Ammonia can burn your nasal passages and cause other health concerns, so you should air out the attic after using this method to prevent future trouble.
Prohibit kids and pets from entering the attic while this method is in use.
 Place mothballs near possible entrances to the attic and around any cardboard box or other area with detectable signs of infestation.


Note that there is no scientific evidence supporting the use of mothballs as a squirrel repellent. Some homeowners report that mothballs work against squirrels, while others insist that they do not. To maximize your odds of having success, use mothballs in conjunction with exclusion or trapping techniques.
Modern mothballs are made of para-dichlorobenzene, but older mothballs may contain naphthalene. Since naphthalene is flammable, you should use precaution when using old mothballs.
Keep mothballs away from small children and pets. This is not usually a problem if you only use mothballs in the attic, since this area is not usually frequented by kids or household animals, but if it is an issue then you should secure the mothballs in breathable mesh bags or keep them out of reach by placing them on a high shelf.

