 Before you begin, write a comprehensive resume. This should include everything that you could ever want to include on a resume: your entire work, educational, and volunteer history, as well as highly comprehensive lists of your skills and abilities. This will save you time later.









Don’t worry: this comprehensive resume will be tailored into a more specific one later. Starting broad will simply save you from having to go back later and find more information.;
, This will be a very important step. Employers will frequently do a search on employees. If you have embarrassing information about yourself out on the web, knowing about it beforehand will give you the chance to remove as much of it as possible and prepare to counter anything that cannot be removed.
 Once you’ve removed all of the undesirable material from the net, you may want to replace it with the kind of things that you’d like potential employers to see. Establish a portfolio, business-related blog, or social media profiles appropriate for work.









Creating a website is a great way to establish an online presence. If you’re looking for design or creative work, use your site to host a portfolio. If you’re more business and marketing-minded, start a blog where you can talk about your ideas and link to examples of your work as well as work you admire or would like to emulate. You can also start a profile on social media websites which are geared towards professionals.
 Try the usual job hunting websites (Craigslist, Monster, Indeed, etc.). These will allow you to search by the industry that you’d like to work in, as well as sorting through part-time and full-time work. These websites will cover a wide variety of jobs at a variety of levels, from entry-level to higher positions.









Be aware, however, that many times employers will not want to go to the extra trouble or cost of advertising on websites like these. Do not treat them as a comprehensive list of all positions currently available in your area.
These websites are also full of scammers and fake postings. Be extremely wary of all postings you see.
 If you don’t have luck with the broader job websites, try various government resources. These websites have the benefit of being very trustworthy and the jobs are usually well paid (proportional to the work involved). Oftentimes they will include benefits as well.









Most states will have websites similar to Craigslist or Monster where employers can post job openings. This service is intended to help the unemployed members of the state and as such are usually attached to the website for the unemployment office. These job advertisements are usually vetted by the state before being posted.
The state itself will usually have a website devoted to positions available with the state government. These positions can range from entry-level positions cleaning public parks or as a clerk at the local courthouse, all the way up to department directors and other high-level positions. State jobs will be particularly appealing because they almost always include at least some benefits, so long as they are full-time.
Federal jobs are also a possibility. You’ll need to browse the federal job openings websites. Don’t be intimidated: working a federal job may not mean working in the capital. There are usually several local jobs with the federal government, especially if you live in a big city. Federal jobs, like state jobs, will also usually come with great benefits.
 If you are currently in college or have graduated from a college, make use of the job-hunting services they provide. Many colleges will have a website where local businesses can post wanted ads but they will also have broader searching resources if you ask for help.









Colleges and universities will also often have positions open. These are not just teaching positions; many of the open jobs will be in maintenance or office work. Working for a college or university can be especially good for someone who was never able to attend college, as many schools will allow employees to take classes for free or reduced tuition.
 Most companies will advertise through their own websites before advertising anywhere else. If there is a major company somewhere in your area, check to see if they’re hiring. You can also check the websites for box stores and chain stores in your area, if you want to work in retail, sales, marketing, and other related fields.
 Oftentimes, you will be able to find a job with a little old-fashioned networking. Ask your friends over Twitter or Facebook if they know anyone who’s hiring. They may know of positions opening at their place of employment, businesses nearby their home or that they frequent, or they may have noticed one of their friends mentioning a job opening.









Alumni or association groups may be good networks through which to find jobs. Email friends in associations you belong to or contact your alumni association to find out if they can help you find anything. Professional networking is one of the major benefits of belonging to such groups, so take advantage of this if you can.
You can also use social media websites specifically designed for professionals. Websites like LinkedIn will have job postings to which you can apply using your profile on the website. You can also use professional social sites to contact people you’re connected to in order to find work.
 If you are desperate, you can use these to find a job but be aware that they will often lead to inferior jobs, may not be worth the money you often have to pay them upfront, or may just simply take advantage of you. If you use one, be sure that it is credible and certainly be wary of any which asks for money first.








