 If you're suffering from morning sickness, sometimes the last thing you feel like doing is eating. However, it is important that your body gets the vitamins and nutrients it needs to keep you and your growing baby healthy.


Try to avoid an empty stomach by eating small, frequent meals throughout the day.
You should also try to eat at a slower pace than you normally would to avoid overeating, which may make you feel even worse.;
, It's extremely important that you stay hydrated, especially if you're getting sick frequently. If you let yourself become dehydrated, you will feel even more nauseated. Sip fluids throughout the day, using a straw if it helps. Try to refrain from drinking 30 minutes before or after eating, however.


You should try to drink about 6 to 8 glasses of water each day. However, if you've been getting sick a lot, you can try replacing some of the water with a sports drink containing glucose, salt, or potassium to help restore lost electrolytes.Alternatively, you can try drinking cold, carbonated beverages, as some women find these easier on the stomach. Other women also find sour drinks, like lemonade, easier to keep down.
Avoid drinking too many fluids, though. Liquids can give you a false sense of fullness which may cause you to feel less hungry throughout the day., Many women insist that crackers are a necessity when dealing with morning sickness. They make a great snack as they are portable, inexpensive and easy to digest. Keep a stash of dry crackers beside your bed and eat a few before getting up in the morning, then continue to nibble on them throughout the day.If you need to get up to use the bathroom in the middle of the night, try eating a cracker or two then as well. They'll help stave off hunger and settle your stomach before the morning.It doesn't matter what kind of crackers you eat, saltines, wheat thins, rice cakes - it's a matter of personal preference. If you're not a cracker fan, try eating dry cereal instead.
Avoid coating your crackers in greasy butter or fatty spreads, they may make you feel more unwell and are harder to digest. Eat the crackers dry, if possible.
 Stick to bland foods as much as possible when dealing with morning sickness. They smell less strongly and are easy to digest.


Do your best to avoid spicy, acidic, and fried foods, as these are more likely to upset your stomach.
Try the BRAT diet, which consists of bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast. These foods are bland and low in fiber and thus gentle on your digestive track. They are also very inexpensive.You can also add tea and yogurt to the list to go on the BRATTY diet.
 After a while, you will start to notice that certain foods or smells will trigger your nausea. It may be pizza, bacon or anything at all. Once you know your triggers, you can take steps to avoid them.Try making a note of when and why you feel queasy every day, in order to identify your food triggers.
 Indulge your cravings, especially if it helps you to feel better. If you have a craving for a particular food, your body may be trying to tell you something. If you are craving dairy, perhaps you need calcium. If you are craving peanut butter, perhaps you need protein or more calories., A lot of women find carbohydrate-filled foods the most appealing when feeling nauseated. Stock up your cupboards with carbohydrate-rich pasta, bread, pretzels and granola bars., Some women find that high protein foods help to ease their morning sickness. Whether it's scrambled eggs, peanut butter, or a lean piece of meat, try to find a protein-rich food that works for you., Try to eat your food either cold or at room temperature, because food tends to have a more pervasive smell when heated, and strong aromas can be major triggers for morning sickness.Stick to sandwiches, fruit and raw vegetables, and salad (when it's properly prepared to prevent listeria).
 Fatty foods take longer to digest and can be rough on your digestive system, which can worsen feelings of nausea.They are also less healthy, providing fewer nutrients than other types of foods and have a tendency to smell quite strongly, which isn't good. Avoid!

, Brush your teeth thoroughly and swirl some mouthwash after you eat. This will prevent odors and tastes from hanging around your mouth after eating. Get your partner to brush his teeth too, while you're at it. Nothing like a pepperoni pizza breath kiss to trigger your gag reflex.
 You should avoid lying down for at least 30 minutes after eating, as the horizontal position can interfere with digestion and lead to queasiness.