 Blonde hair needs more attention than other hair colors. Keep in mind that transitioning more than two shades lighter or darker will require a stronger effort to maintain. When your roots begin to grow out, you will need to use the same professional process to do a touch up. If high maintenance is an issue, err on the side of caution when deciding to go blonde or not.
 Do not attempt to bleach or tone your hair at home. Bleach is an extremely harsh chemical that strips your hair follicles. You will need to pay a saloon professional to transition you to blonde and for all of the maintenance visits. While a DIY color job might be the cheaper option, bleaching at home can create a hair horror that you won't want to deal with.


You can easily fry your hair, turn it orange or lose all of its volume. To be safe, you will have to be able to afford to see a professional.
 To keep your hair at the desired shade and your roots matching, you need to touch it up every four to six weeks. When your roots start to show, you will need to bleach and tone them to match your hair. Also, you will need to have your hair trimmed at almost every visit for blonde hair causes split ends.


If you are going to a saloon for touch-ups, which is highly recommend, this endeavor becomes pretty pricey. Consider the long term expenses and be sure you have not only the time for saloon visits, but also the money it will take to maintain your blonde hair., Going all blonde at once is not recommended. It is natural to become excited about having an all blonde look, but it is important you work your way up to an all over color. Depending on how dark or damaged your current hair is, your saloon professional is going to want to gradually lighten your hair using blonde highlights and then slowly build on them over time. This prevents your hair from going into shock and breaking off.


Most stylists will deny a full coverage bleach job because they know how damaging it is to your hair.
Your stylist is going to ask you about past color treatments and process jobs. It is important for them to know how damaged your hair follicles are and what your hair is capable of enduring, so be honest.
 It is going to take multiple trips to the saloon before you walk out with one beautiful shade of blonde, and that is going to cost money. It would be helpful to plan out the financial costs so you can be prepared for the expenses.


You can try calling saloons to ask for their prices, but most of the time, in order to give you an accurate price, a saloon professional will need to see and examine your hair to figure out the right treatment plan for you.
Once you discuss what you want and the best way to get there, your stylist can have a better idea about how much going blonde is going to cost you financially.
 The chemicals that develop beautiful blonde colors also take a toll on your hair follicles. In order to replenish essential vitamins, minerals, and moisture back into your hair, you have to use quality products. This includes shampoo, conditioner, deep conditioning treatments, heat protectants, and after showering moisturizers. If you want to keep your hair looking healthy, you will have to buy quality products.


Ask your saloon professional what products they recommend for blonde hair.
It is important to restore the moisture and strength back into your hair that bleach strips away. You may experience a texture change after you process your hair and would then have to use additional products to add back shine, volume, and softness.

