 You don't need to douse yourself in perfume if that's not what you or your boyfriend like. But you should be sure to bathe, groom yourself, and wear deodorant before your date. It will help you feel more confident, and make your boyfriend want to get close to you.
 No matter how modest you are, there is certainly some aspect of your appearance that you feel is the strongest or most attractive. One way to remind your boyfriend of how cute you are is to accentuate the parts of yourself that you feel are your strongest or most attractive qualities. If it's your eyes, try wearing eye liner and/or eye shadow that brings out the color in your eyes. If it's your lips, try a new lip gloss. If it's your hair, try a new hair style to better frame your beautiful face. Whatever you feel is your best features, accentuate them to remind your boyfriend how lucky he is.

Accentuating your favorite features will not only get your boyfriend's attention - it will also help you feel better about yourself and increase your confidence., If you go to the makeup counter at a department store and ask an employee there for help trying out new colors, you may be able to get a free makeover out of it. Let her know what shades you normally wear, and ask her to try out something new and bold. If you like the way it turns out, you can buy makeup in those shades. At the very least, you'll have a fresh new look to show off to your boyfriend.
 Hairstyles are easy to stick with once you find something that's comfortable. But if you want to rev up your boyfriend's engines, a new and exciting cut might help catch his eye.

Let the person cutting your hair know what your comfort zone is with hair cuts. Don't go drastically different if you're not comfortable with it. You can still get a fresh new look with only minor alterations to your usual style.
 No matter what you have in your closet or what your body type is, you can put together a stunning outfit that will accentuate all the right curves. Think about what kind of look you want to aim for, and work your way toward completing that ensemble.


Choose a bra that will create a stunning silhouette. Some fashion experts recommend starting with the bra and building your outfit around the silhouette your undergarments create.Wear jeans that make you feel attractive and confident. If you prefer skin-tight skinny jeans, then slip into your favorite pair. If you prefer something a little more comfortable that can still give you a tailored look, try a pair of flared jeans.Don't just aim to impress your man. The most important thing is to dress in a way that makes you feel empowered. If you feel sexy and confident, your boyfriend will notice and will turn on the charm.
 Locking eyes with your boyfriend, even if you've been dating for a while, will excite and engage him. Flirting is often thought of as something only single people do, but flirting with your significant other can help reignite the passion in your relationship.

Hold his glance for a few seconds, then smile and look away. It will make him feel like you're playing just enough "hard to get" that he may work a little harder to romance you., Everyone has a sort of "barrier" around his or her body, which we tend to think of as our personal space. Even if you've been dating someone a while, entering his personal space will invariably trigger an arousal response. That's because having our space invaded by someone we're attracted to is stimulating and prepares us for the possibility of a romantic encounter.

Find little ways to enter his personal space, like leaning close to tell him something. It will no doubt excite him and remind him of the many reasons he's attracted to you., Flirting is largely reliant on body language, but you can incorporate some light touching into your flirtation. Try hugging your boyfriend when you see him, and use that occasion to set a precedent for continued touching/handholding throughout the evening. You can also touch his hand or shoulder to get his attention, and hold his hand or elbow any time you lead him to another room.

