 A BitTorrent client is a piece of software needed to manage torrent files. A ".torrent" file can be readily downloaded from the Internet, but you'll notice the file is tiny and cannot be opened. This is because the torrent file is just a plain text file that helps the BitTorrent client find the pieces of the real file and download them from other users. Many BitTorrent clients are available free of charge. Some of the most popular ones are Deluge, uTorrent, and Vuze.;
, To begin working with torrents, you'll need to download a torrent file - one with a ".torrent" extension. This can be done by searching for the file using a regular search engine, or by using specialized torrent search engines such as Isohunt and Pirate Bay. Once you find the file, download it onto your hard drive.


As with many file sharing systems, there are many torrents which are empty or corrupted. If you use a specialized torrent search engine, make sure to check the user ratings of the file to ensure its integrity before downloading.
 Once the torrent file is on your hard drive, load it into your BitTorrent client. You can do this by either double-clicking on it or by opening your BitTorrent client and choosing to open the file through the "File" menu. Depending on your BitTorrent client and your preference settings, you may be prompted to either start downloading the torrent immediately or place it in a queue.
 With the torrent file loaded into your BitTorrent software, the software will automatically search for users that have the file you want. It will begin downloading pieces of the file from those users, reassembling the complete file when finished. Download speeds will depend on how many users are uploading the file.
 Once you've finished downloading the file, do not delete the torrent file immediately. Leave it (and the completed download) in your BitTorrent software to "seed," meaning to upload to other users. This will increase your upload-to-download ratio, which determines the speed at which you're allowed to download in the future.

