 There are many different games you might use so that lunch making is more enjoyable for your kids. You could have a time attack game, where every day your kids try to make their lunch as quickly as possible. You might also:


Use "lunch goals." For example, for one week, you might set the lunch goal of "making a healthy lunch" or "making the most delicious sandwich."
Create a challenge where you tell your kids what ingredients they can use. Then have them create their own lunch from those ingredients.
 This is also an effective technique for coaching good habits, like time management and cleanliness, in your kids. If you have less time than usual, you might add the special limit of, "all lunches must be made in less than 10 minutes." If you've noticed your kids haven't been cleaning up after themselves, you might add the condition, "the kitchen must be clean after making lunch."


By calling these "limits" and "conditions," or giving them a special name, it'll sound less like you're telling your kids what to do, which may make them more willing to participate.An example of a special name you might use for a time limit could be "The Final Countdown." You could even play the song "The Final Countdown," which contains these lyrics, during the time limit to make it more fun.
 Most games or challenges involve completing activities to win points. These points don't have to be exchanged for anything special, like a prize, but can be a useful way of tracking progress.


When you notice your kids doing especially well and earning many points, tell them what a great job they're doing.
You can award points any way you see fit. For example, you might award one point for packing veggies, one point for fruit, one point for a sandwich, one point for cleaning up, and so on.
You may want to make a point chart, so your kids can see their progress. Hang this chart somewhere visible, and mark points earned each day., A little bit of competition might be just the thing to engage your kids in their lunch making. Beyond that, competition will likely lead to the job getting done faster. Do this by praising the efforts of your kids as they learn and develop good lunch packing habits.


Involve your kids in their own lunch making improvement by asking questions like, "how do you think you could pack your lunch better?" or "is there anything that would help you make your lunches more easily?"
Be sure to focus your praise on the applied effort of your children, on their work ethic, on their improvement in certain areas, and so on. This will help prevent children who are lower performers from feeling like they are not as good as higher performers.