 Whether you answer the telephone at home, are questioned by a stranger about not being in school, or are asked something by a teacher, give a confident answer about not being there. If you sound suspicious, you are more likely to get caught.


Speak loudly and clearly rather than in a soft mumble. Give straightforward and simple answers so it doesn’t sound like you are making anything up.
If you answer the phone at home, disguise your voice so you sound sick or try sounding like one of your parents. Overall, it’s best not to answer the phone unless you know it’s very important.
If you are seen outside of school and are questioned about it, say, “I’m actually working on an assignment, so I was allowed to leave school. I’ve got to get this done quickly, though, so I can’t stay and talk.”
Say, “I’m on my way to an appointment, but I wanted to make a quick stop while I was passing through this part of town.”

, When you skip school, it’s tempting to go out on the town and have a lot of fun. The downside to this is you increase your chances of someone seeing you, maybe even your parents. Have a fun rest day at home so that no one will see that you aren’t at school.It may not sound fun to stay home all day, but think about how often you actually get the house to yourself. Take the time to do whatever you usually can’t do with people around.
Lounge around in your pajamas all day. Turn the TV up loud. Take a long bath without being bothered. Get a friend to skip with you and hang out together so you don’t get bored.
Being in school is important, and you will miss a lot if you skip. Make sure you make the day something to remember and use it wisely. You’ll regret skipping school if you waste the whole day.
Keep in mind that skipping school is never a good idea and the fun you might have is not worth the trouble you’ll get in if you get caught.
 If you go out for the day, make sure to come home around the time you normally do so your parents don’t question the time difference. If you stay home all day, go out somewhere so your parents don’t come home to find you there before you are usually home.


If your parents typically get home late, you may not need to leave because they’ll expect you to be there anyway.

