 Cut two circles from your felt. Each circle should be about two inches. You may also trace an old spool of ribbon to help you create a smooth circle. Then cut around five feet of ribbon. Be sure to use ribbon with wire in its construction. Use thicker ribbon for a greater blooming effect. Be sure to pull a bit of the wire out of the ribbon and fold it over so that it doesn’t pull through the ribbon when you gather it.Choose felt that complements the colour and pattern of your ribbon. You can buy both at your arts and crafts store or dollar store. The length of the ribbon depends on how large you want to make your flower. For a very large flower use about two arms' lengths worth of ribbon. For a smaller flower, use about half an arm's length of ribbon.
 Pull the bottom wire from the other side of the ribbon. You should be pulling on the same side that you kinked the wire. Gather the whole ribbon by pulling the wire in one direction and the ribbon in the other.Push as you gather the ribbon to push the gathered bunch of ribbon along the wire.
 Fold the raw edge of the ribbon down and glue it onto the felt. On the outside of the circle, glue the ribbon so that it covers the edge of the entire circle. Don’t put too much glue. Glue about an inch at a time.To add extra ruffle, gather more ribbon as you glue. You can also pull out more wire if the ribbon is gathered too tightly. This is entirely personal preference.
 Continue gluing to create a spiral pattern around your circle. Cut off about two inches of ribbon once you reach the center of the flower. This will create the center of the flower., Place the raw edge of the ribbon down and squish the ribbon. The wire in the ribbon keeps the ribbon in place so fuss all you want until you get the look you like. Once you’re happy, lift up the petals and dab some glue at your desired points to set your look., Glue the ends of the ribbon to keep it sealed. If you are using the flower as part of a bouquet or on a headband, you can also glue the ribbon down onto the stem or headband.