 Sure, it's fun, it's even quasi-fancy, but in reality, for many people, prom is just a formal dance with a few cheesy decorations and parting gifts. A lot of people who went to prom say it was one of the best nights of their lives. But there are just as many others who say it was a waste of time and money, and would have rather done something more exciting. There is a saying that "most people who went to prom wishes they hadn't, and most people who didn't wish they had."

, Taylor Swift, Mila Kunis, Madonna, Owen Wilson, James Franco, Mena Suvari, Uma Thurman, Conan O'Brien, Diane Sawyer, syndicated radio host Delilah, and Drew Barrymore never attended their official senior proms - though Swift later attended someone else's, in addition to her record company throwing a prom-themed party for her when she got her first platinum album; and Barrymore has hosted a "prom party" on at least two separate occasions.
 It's not the end of the world. Although it can be a fun and exciting experience, prom is not usually an event that defines the rest of one's life. Often times, people who were popular in high school lead fairly dull adult lives. Just as there are many celebrities who didn't go to prom, there are many prom kings/queens who sell insurance or work at the local supercenter.
 True, Madonna was never prom queen. Then again, how many prom queens had platinum albums? You may have had an experience that few others get to have for themselves. Make a list, and refer to it whenever you feel blue about not having prom pictures or memories.
 This does NOT necessarily need to be anything even closely related to a prom. Maybe this is getting tickets to see your favorite rock band perform live, or taking a Greyhound to Hollywood to see the Walk of Fame. Save up some money if you need to, and treat yourself with rare experiences like these.
 This might give you just the closure you need. Nearly every major city has some kind of formal events that are accessible to the public. This could be anything from a charity ball for breast cancer or child abuse awareness to a film festival's opening night gala, depending on what your city or area (or one you're willing and able to travel to) has to offer. For instance, most film festivals have an opening night gala that is either formal or semi-formal. These usually get publicity on the evening news or in local media. You can dress up just as formally as you would for a prom - and you'll be helping a good cause. A prom is basically just a formal event, in all honesty.
 They are usually sponsored either by ballroom dance clubs and/or by fraternities or sororities, but many in fraternities/sororities allow those outside the Greek system to attend as well. Call a friend up and invite him/her to the event.

. If your campus is not known to have formals that are open to all students, check to see if there is a ballroom dance club, and if there is, if they are aware of competitions., A section has been added below with ideas. Don't worry about feeling silly, or what others (friends, family, etc.) think of your decision. There is nothing wrong with giving yourself the closure you need, no matter what anyone tells you.
 This may be hard or impossible depending on your situation. If your parents wrongfully grounded you five hours before the prom for something you didn't do, and have since tried to make amends to make it up to you, perhaps it is time to let it go. If your brother sold your dress to a pawn shop the day of the dance to buy drugs, that may be a different story, depending on whether he's turned his life around and made things right with you.
 You did not have to buy a fancy dress,rent a tux,or get over priced photo packages. All your friends are probably broke,while you might have some money left over.

