 This procedure will create 1 jar candle. If you decide to use a glass receptacle that isn’t a mason jar, be sure that the thickness of the glass is similar. Thin glass can crack once the candle is lit. Before you begin, cover your work area with butcher paper or newspaper.1 pound bag of soy wax flakes
Wax colorant; chips, bars or in liquid form
Candle pouring pot
Medium sized wicks and wick stickums
Wick holder sticks
Wooden spoon
1 Pint-sized mason jar – 5 inches (height) x 3 inches (width)
Scent oil of your choice (optional)

, Remove the inner seal part of the mason jar lid, since the finished candles won’t make use of them. Clean your jars with warm water and mild soap. Wipe them completely dry, especially the inside, where the wax will be poured. For best results, the wax should be poured into a clean, dry vessel.One pint-sized mason jar will use almost the entire bag of wax flakes.
If you want to make multiple candles of this size, multiply the supplies accordingly.
You will need about a pound of wax flakes for each candle.
 Run your fingers along the wick to smooth it out, since they often become crinkled in their packaging – you will need the wick to be as straight as possible. Prepackaged wicks will come with a thin, circular metal base already attached to the end.









The wick stickum, which is essentially a double-sided sticky sheet of paper, will also be circular in shape.
Peel it off its packaging and stick it directly onto the bottom of the metal base., The stickum you’ve just attached will keep the wick and its metal base firmly attached to the bottom of the mason jar. Drop the wick into the jar, metal base first. Aim for the center, but it doesn’t have to be exact.









Use the end of a spoon or some other utensil to press the metal base securely to the glass.
Once you pull the spoon away, the stickum will keep the wick and its metal base firmly in place.
 Wick holders are two small wooden rods with rubber bands on each end. These will hold your wicks straight up in the middle of the jar during the pouring process and while the wax is setting. Try to balance the wick as close to the center as possible to avoid a crooked wick.








If a wick is crooked and the wax sets, it won’t burn straight or well.
Once you put the holders in place, you won’t be removing them for about 24 hours to allow the wax to fully set.
 Pour all of the flakes into a large pot. Place the pot on your stove and turn the burner on the lowest heat possible. You will leave it at this setting during the entire melting process. You will need to keep the wax melted, but never boiling.









Stir the wax and continue stirring almost constantly as the max melts all the way down.
White wax flakes will look yellowish when melted down, so don’t be alarmed when you see that.
 If you’re using chips or blocks for colorant, use a knife to break them up into chunks the size of small marbles. Refer to the packaging of your product, since it may have specific instructions for ratios to achieve specific shades. Otherwise you can experiment. Pour in some of the chips, stir well and then observe the shade. If you want the color to be brighter, add a little more. Stir well.








You can start by using the primary colorants (red, blue, yellow) straight, or you can mix them to create secondary colors.
Achieving exact colors and shades will take a bit of practice.
You can add as much color as you want – the colorant won’t have a negative effect on the soy wax.
 Scented candle making oils are sold in all craft stores and come in almost every fragrance you can imagine. Choose your favorite or try something new. The ratio of scent is usually 1 ounce of oil for every pound of wax.

Since you’re working with about a pound of wax, you will need to measure out 1 ounce of your fragrance oil.
Pour it in and stir vigorously., Remove the wax from the heat. For best results, allow the wax to cool for about 20-30 minutes before you pour it into the jar. It should be thickened but still pourable. The consistency you want is close to a fruit smoothie in thickness. If you pour the wax too soon, before it’s cooled down sufficiently, the center of your candle may end up sagging or cracking once it has set.








Pour the wax carefully into the mason jar, stopping just under the base of the lid, leaving about 1 to 2 inches of empty space at the top.
Work carefully to pour around the wick. Try not to nudge it.
If you do, move it immediately back into place as best as you can.
 After you’ve poured the wax, leave the candle to set, with the wick holders still holding the wick firmly in place. Unless you live in a very hot climate, your candle will probably be cured slightly sooner than the full 24 hours but for best results, give the wax that much time to set.After 24 hours, remove the wick holders.
Trim the wick to approximately ½ inch.
Your mason jar candle is now ready to light.

