 Keep lights and breakable ornaments away from the bottom of the tree where your dog can reach them. Don’t string your tree with edible ornaments like popcorn, gingerbread, and/or candy that may be tempting to your pooch.Make sure that all fragile ornaments are fastened securely towards the top of your tree.
If you’re worried about a cherished ornament breaking, don’t put it on your tree. Relocate it to a less risky place where your dog definitely cannot reach or disrupt it, such as hanging from a window, doorway, or ceiling.
Avoid getting trees that have been flocked to make the branches look glittery or frosted since these chemicals are toxic to canines.
 Some dogs love to chew on cords. You can minimize the risk of your pet chomping on or playing with any loose wires by keeping extension cords short, taping any slack to the floor or wall, and hiding plugs and sockets behind the tree., The water that feeds Christmas trees can make a dog very sick if they lap any of it up. Many cut trees are chemically treated, and the stagnant water at the base of them can include run-off and toxic bacterial growth. Be sure to cover the dish with a tree skirt to keep them out of harm’s way.If you don’t have a tree skirt, cover the dish with aluminum foil, a thick cloth, or a thick plastic bag secured with tape.
 Eating pine needles or consuming tree sap can also be dangerous for dogs, causing mild to severe irritation to their mouths and digestive tracts. If your dog is attracted to your tree, it’s best to keep it out-of-reach by elevating it and/or putting a barrier around it.Fire screens and mobile fencing for kids or pets make good barriers.
You can also simply keep them out of the room with the tree when they’re unsupervised.
 Many wintry flowers and berries commonly displayed for the holidays are poisonous to dogs. If you do decorate with them, be sure to put them in a location that your pooch cannot get to, especially if they love to chew.Poinsettias, mistletoe, holly, lilies, and amaryllis are all toxic to dogs. They can cause mild to severe gastrointestinal, circulatory, and respiratory issues.
If your dog does get into one of these plants, contact your veterinarian and/or local poison control center immediately.
 Candles always pose a fire risk, but the risk’s much greater when you have a curious or rambunctious pooch around. Minimize any potential hazards by using flameless, battery-operated candles.