 Hermann’s tortoises like to dig and hide, so it is important to provide a place where they can feel safe. Try building a small "tortoise house", or simply giving the tortoises a plastic food container with a hole to enter and exit.. Tortoises tend to sleep in their "hiding area".


This is especially important if you are keeping your tortoises in a very hot place. Make sure that your animals have a shady place to retreat if they get too hot.
If you have an outdoor enclosure, make sure that it is safe from predators – including birds. Tortoises are hardy creatures, but they cannot defend themselves against all animals.
 Hermann’s tortoises do not eat meat or grains. They eat a variety of vegetables (endive, radicchio, dandelion) – ideally, weeds and some flowers. Give them fresh food every day and every other day when they're older, wash it carefully with water before serving. Replenish a supply of clean water in a shallow bowl or container daily.Tortoises also need calcium in their diet. Let them nibble small pieces of grit from your garden. They are also fond of clover.If Hermann leaves something, it means they do not like it. It usually easy to tell a tortoise's preferences by watching its behavior.
Hermann's tortoises kept outdoors will often make a point of coming out during a rainstorm and drinking from puddles.
Never feed a tortoise with cat or dog food. Dog and cat food usually contain meat, grains, and other bits that tortoises can't easily digest or over consume.
 Replenish the water and food trays daily. Change the substrate once a month, or whenever it seems especially filthy - If you can't afford to completely refill the substrate, try churning the soil and/or plant live greenery that absorbs Ammonia and Nitrates.
 Be aware that putting many tortoises together can cause problems, that includes enclosure space issues. Two males, put together, will tend to fight over territorial disputes.However, tension may also arise if the female to male ratio is too small: the male often won't leave the female alone, and she can become too stressed. If you notice that the tortoises are bothering one another, you need to move them into separate enclosures.
 Hermann's tortoises do not usually enjoy behind handled.Make sure to treat your animals gently when moving them into their new enclosure. Hold a tortoise with two clean hands, and do not drop it. Avoid handling the tortoises for at least a few days after you bring them home. They can be slow to adjust, and they need time to settle into their new enclosure.

