 When you get notice – whether through a demand letter or a lawsuit – that someone is suing you for making false allegations, look at what they're saying you said or did and consider the context of your statements or actions.At this point, assume they have proof for anything they claim. Look at your own records and see how their story matches with yours.
For example, suppose you made a post on social media about a neighbor having a romantic dinner with someone who wasn't their spouse. As a result of seeing your post, their spouse has filed for divorce, and they are suing you for making the false allegation that they were cheating on their spouse.
In that situation, you would want to go back and look at the post to which they refer. Figure out if you actually said anything at all about them cheating, or if that was just an insinuation that their spouse made.
Consider whether the statement you made actually was true. Even if the person's life was irreparably damaged by your statement, they can't sue you for saying it if it was true.
However, if you intend to raise truth as a defense, you will have to prove the truth of your statements.;
, State laws are different, but essentially a person who wants to sue you for making false allegations must prove that you said negative or defamatory things about them to someone else, and that the things you said were false.The person who sued you may have listed the specific law in their complaint. If that's the case, simply do an internet search for the number of the statute.
Otherwise, search for "false allegations" or "defamation law" with the name of your state to pull up the law you need.
If you need help applying the law, you might want to consider talking to an attorney. You also may be able to find free legal advice online if you just have a simple question about how the law applies to your case.
However, take any law you receive online for free with a grain of salt. You shouldn't accept it as definitive, and you should consider the expertise of the person providing the advice.
 If you have homeowner's or renter's insurance, it typically includes liability insurance. Depending on the context in which your statements were made, you may be covered by this insurance.Call your insurance company's customer service number and speak to someone in claims to find out if the situation is covered by your insurance policy or not.
If you do have insurance coverage, send them written notice of the claim immediately. If you've been served with a complaint, you may want to make a copy of it and attach it to your letter.
After your insurance receives your notice, they typically will take over your defense. The good thing about this from your perspective is that the costs of defending yourself, including any damages paid to the plaintiff, will be covered by your insurance company.
However, keep in mind that your rates on your policy may go up as a result. If you have reason to believe the plaintiff will accept a non-monetary settlement, such as a public retraction and apology from you, offer that first.
 Even if you are covered by liability insurance, you still should consider hiring a private attorney to represent you in the lawsuit. Although the insurance company will have its own legal staff, those attorneys represent the insurance company, not you.This is especially true if the plaintiff is already represented by an attorney. Defamation law can be very complex, and having a lawyer on your side can potentially save you money – as well as a lot of time and effort.
Additionally, if you're not covered by liability insurance, an attorney can help you resolve the case quickly.
Although you're typically not going to be able to get free legal assistance from a legal aid organization as a defendant, you may be able to find an attorney who's willing to work with you on fees if you ask, and are upfront about your financial limitations.
 If you're served with a summons and complaint, make sure you understand everything contained in these documents. You need to know what the plaintiff is accusing you of as well as the procedural rules you must follow to respond to the lawsuit.You will have a deadline to file a written response to the lawsuit, which will be included on your summons.
If you don't file a written answer with the court before this deadline expires, the plaintiff may be eligible to win their lawsuit against you by default.
Don't hesitate to seek assistance if you find any statements in the complaint confusing or can't figure out the court procedures you need to follow.
You can always call the clerk's office if you have questions about the summons or the deadline to respond to the lawsuit. They cannot give you legal advice, but they will be able to explain court procedural rules to you.
 Each state has a deadline, called a statute of limitations, for any plaintiff to file a false allegation lawsuit. This deadline typically is measured from the date the plaintiff alleges the false allegations were made.A false allegations lawsuit is considered a type of personal injury lawsuit, so you need to look for the personal injury statute of limitations.
This deadline varies widely among states, but typically for this kind of case it will be two or three years from the date the false allegations were made.
Once the deadline passes, the plaintiff is forever barred from suing you. This means that if the plaintiff files their lawsuit after this deadline, you can get the lawsuit dismissed.
 You may be able to get the plaintiff's lawsuit dismissed if they filed it in a court that does not have jurisdiction over the plaintiff's claim or over you personally. This personal jurisdiction is likely to be an issue if the court where the plaintiff filed their lawsuit is far away from where you live.Jurisdiction can be tricky, but often the clerk of the court can answer basic jurisdiction-related questions for you – or at least point you in the direction of rules or other resources where you can find the answer to your question.
The public law library in your county's courthouse also is a good place to go to find answers to your jurisdiction questions. The court also may have information about its jurisdiction on its website.
Keep in mind that if the plaintiff has filed their lawsuit in a court that does not have jurisdiction – either over the case itself or over you personally – you can get the case dismissed.
However, this type of dismissal normally does not prevent the plaintiff from refiling the same lawsuit in a different court that does have jurisdiction.
 The plaintiff's complaint will contain a series of numbered paragraphs, each of which includes a single factual allegation. The complaint as a whole claims that if all of these factual allegations are proven, you will have violated the law.When you answer the lawsuit, you must respond to each allegation specifically. You can state whether you admit, deny, or don't have enough information to admit or deny the allegation.
Typically, a defendant will deny most, if not all, of the allegations in a complaint. Denying the allegation doesn't mean you're saying it isn't true. Rather, you're requiring the plaintiff to prove it is true.
The person who sued you has the burden of proof for all of their allegations. By denying the allegations, you force them to meet that burden of proof.
However, there are strategic reasons to admit certain factual allegations. Issuing a blanket denial of every allegation in the complaint can come across as overly aggressive and contrary.
For example, if one of the allegations simply states your name and place of residence, there's really no point in denying that allegation (unless, of course, the plaintiff got your name or place of residence incorrect).
 Your answer is the legal document you'll file with the court to formally respond to the plaintiff's lawsuit. You'll address each of the plaintiff's factual allegations, as well as listing any other defenses you might have.Keep in mind that if you've filed a claim under your insurance, you typically don't have to file an answer in your own behalf. The insurance company will take over the litigation.
If you're not covered by insurance and have decided to represent yourself, contact the court clerk or check the court's website to see if there are forms available that you can use to draft your answer.
If the court where the plaintiff filed their lawsuit doesn't have any fill-in-the-blank forms available, you typically can get copies of answers filed in similar lawsuits that you can use as guides to format your answer correctly according to the court's rules.
You also may want to have an attorney draft your answer. Even if you can't afford to have an attorney represent you in the case as a whole, you typically can find someone who will draft an answer for you for a relatively low flat fee.
In addition to your answer, you also might want to file a motion to dismiss. If you believe you have a strong case that the plaintiff's lawsuit against you should be dismissed, talk to an attorney.
 After you've finalized your answer, take the original and two copies to the clerk of the court where the plaintiff initiated their lawsuit. The clerk will stamp your documents "filed" with the date and give the copies back to you.Some courts may charge you a small filing fee (under $100) to file your answer, but in most courts there is no fee to file an answer to a lawsuit.
You will, however, have to pay to have your answer served on the plaintiff. You must use legal process serving procedures so the court has evidence that the plaintiff received your answer to the lawsuit.
If you want to have your answer hand-delivered to the plaintiff, you can pay a small fee to a sheriff's deputy (or a U.S. marshal, in federal court) take the documents to the plaintiff in person.
Another option is to use mail service. Have someone mail your answer to the plaintiff using certified mail with return receipt requested. You'll get a green card back in the mail when your answer has been delivered, and you can use that to complete the court's proof of service form.
 Unless you have an extraordinarily strong defense, it typically is in your best interest to attempt to settle the false allegations lawsuit as quickly as possible. Evaluate the plaintiff's damages and try to find a low compromise amount.Consider the plaintiff's claims and the damages they've suffered. The lower – or more difficult to quantify – those damages are, the more likely it is that the plaintiff will accept a relatively low amount.
In some situations, your public apology or other attempts to help them repair their reputation may be more meaningful and important to the plaintiff than any amount of money.
When deciding what to offer, it helps if you know the plaintiff relatively well so you can get a better sense of what would be appropriate. If you don't know them very well, you may want to talk to mutual friends about it.
 Through mediation, you and the plaintiff work with a neutral third party to negotiate a mutually agreeable settlement to the case. Some courts require parties to a case to at least attempt mediation before they will schedule a trial.Keep in mind that even though the court may ultimately require you to attempt mediation, the process itself is still entirely voluntarily – meaning there's no requirement that you come to an agreement at all.
Mediation gives you and the plaintiff more freedom to compromise as well as more control over the outcome. Litigation will be expensive for both of you, and may not end up favorably.
Another benefit of mediation is the fact that everything said during the course of mediation is confidential. You're free to discuss the issue with the plaintiff without worrying that something you say in mediation could be used against you later at trial.
 Typically, negotiation begins with both parties and the mediator together in one room. After introductions, the mediator will invite each party to give a brief opening statement that describes their position with regard to the dispute.Once you've each made your opening statements and the mediator has discussed the basic ground rules for the session, the mediator typically will move you and the plaintiff to separate rooms.
If, based on your opening statements, there seems to be a few minor things on which you can agree, the mediator may mention those things and start there. Opening negotiations on common ground can be a way to encourage further compromise and agreement.
As you negotiate with the plaintiff through the mediator, try to keep an open mind and put yourself in the plaintiff's shoes. Understand that they have been hurt by your statements or actions, and be willing to do what you can to make things right.
Having the right attitude going into negotiations will increase the chances that you and the plaintiff will be able to come to some resolution that you can both live with.
 If you and the plaintiff are able to reach an agreement through mediation, the mediator will set forth the terms and conditions of that agreement in a written contract. Once signed, the settlement will be legally binding and enforceable in a court of law.Read the agreement carefully before you sign it, and make sure it reflects your understanding of the compromise you and the plaintiff made.
You may want to have an attorney look over the agreement before you sign it – and the plaintiff should give you time to do this. Especially if there's money involved, it can't hurt to exercise caution.
If you and the plaintiff are not able to come to an agreement during mediation, this means you'll have to start preparing for trial. However, that doesn't mean you can't continue to make offers to settle the case.

