 Smile and act friendly. When someone is talking to you, make eye contact to show that you are interested. Eye contact is a way of connecting with another human being on an intimate level, and is key to being well-liked by others.


This means putting away your phone and being present in the moment. Whether you are ordering a drink at the coffee shop, sitting through a boring family holiday get-together, or out with friends, be present with those around you.;
, Honesty and realness are key to getting people to trust and like you, which is a huge factor in making them respond to you with a joyful smile.When you do something for someone else, it should come from a place of sincerity and empathy in your heart, rather than as a motivated way of trying to manipulate someone to like you. Developing empathy can help you to be more genuine in your daily life.
 Most people struggle to ask for help but often wish that someone would recognize their areas of need and step in with assistance. Whether its help juggling too many grocery bags or help with household chores after the arrival of a new baby, you can give assistance where it is needed even without being asked.


Get to know people and anticipate their needs. If you have a friend who is struggling with an illness, offer to cook for his or her family or come by and do the laundry. If an acquaintance posts on Facebook about an upcoming medical procedure, ask if you can bring them a meal afterwards.
Watch strangers and step in when you see someone struggling. You might see a mom with her hands full trying to bag her groceries while her toddler throws a fit; offer to bag them for her. If you notice an elderly person who drops his mail, help pick it up.
 Only about 4 in 10 American adults know most or all of their neighbors!You can head next door with a small gift for the holidays, or simply to introduce yourself at any time. Exchange phone numbers, and let them know that you want to be a good neighbor to them. You never know when you might need them!


In residential neighborhoods with elderly residents, befriending your neighbor can be the difference between loneliness and friendship for them. Other neighbors like stay-at-home parents might feel isolated and be grateful for the human contact.
 Maintaining a garden is a great way to learn how to care for other living things. In fact, studies show that growing plants can increase your capacity for empathy and tenderness,making you a more likeable friend.


Use your skill to grow fruits or vegetables to share with a local food bank or a neighbor. You can also grow flats of flowers to give to someone who might be down. Depending on where you live, tomatoes, green beans, and marigolds are hearty and easy to grow.
 Everyone feels insecure sometimes, and a sincere compliment is a great gift you can give someone that costs you nothing. Since everyone's favorite topic is themselves, offering a compliment is a great way to endear you to someone and make them smile.Offer a compliment about something that is in the person's control, such as how they performed during a sporting event or how well they did on a test. Avoid compliments that focus on things that are out of someone's control, like appearance or body features.
Check out this helpful wikiHow guide for great advice on how to offer a heartfelt compliment.

