 You can avoid a lot of trouble if you only hang out with your friends in open, well lit areas where plenty of people are likely to walk by. Notice which places bullies or gangs are most likely to hang out – like a certain park, bathroom, or parking lot – so you can avoid them.Avoid taking shortcut through dark or isolated areas, especially by yourself.
Be sure your parents and friends know your usual schedule, so if you are attacked someone will notice that you aren't where you're supposed to be.
Don't be distracted by your phone if you are walking alone, and don't wear headphones. Be alert to all the sights and sounds around you.
 In one study, nearly 20 percent of students reported being bullied at school. Avoiding trouble doesn't mean you are weak, it just means you are smart. Avoiding a fight in the first place is the best way to avoid getting into trouble.Try to avoid being in situations where you will be alone with a bully – walk home with a friend, and eat lunch with a group.Don't take the bait. Sometimes if you ignore a bully, they will get bored and leave you alone.
It's usually best to speak up and answer a bully. If a bully thinks you are weak, he or she will try to take advantage of it by being even more aggressive.
 If someone is threatening you with violence, they are probably already on edge and pumped full of adrenaline. Fighting back might make them even angrier, which will make the situation even worse.Learn to control your own temper, so you won't lose control when you feel threatened.
If you find yourself alone with a violent person, sometimes it helps to just agree with them until they calm down. You don't have to actually agree with them – just tell them what they want to hear.
If someone is taunting you, distract them by saying something like, “Is that the bell?” or “I think that was my phone.” Then calmly walk away.
If a bully is being really persistent and won't let you leave, tell them you will meet them after school. You don't need to actually fight them, you are just trying to buy yourself some time.
 In some situations, it's best to just hand over your homework or lunch money to avoid being hurt. Experts almost always recommend giving a mugger your wallet right away, to avoid a violent situation.Tell your teacher or a someone in the office what happened, so they know you actually did your homework.
Tell a parent or guardian when this happens, so they can make sure it doesn't happen again.

