 It is important to be a good listener and to show people that you genuinely care about what they have to say. Pay close attention when other people are talking and ask them leading questions to find out more about the things they say or to have them clarify. This will let them know that you are paying attention and are interested.

Try asking something like, “Your trip to Florida sounds really nice! What else did you do while you were there?”

, It’s not a bad thing to share the way you think or feel about a certain topic, but it isn’t good if you’re not open to others having a different opinion.If someone disagrees with a statement you’ve made, genuinely ask them to share why.
Show an interest in another point of view and open your mind to other perspectives.
Don’t view your opinions as facts.
 Notice if you’ve been chatting nonstop and provide an opening for someone else to voice their thoughts.


Don’t cut others off in the middle of a sentence to ensure you get your point across. If it’s important enough to the conversation, wait for a pause.
Ask other people questions about how they feel and view a situation.
Notice others’ body language and whether they seem engaged or disinterested.
Try not to talk just for the sake of talking. If you feel like you are, say something like “I feel like I’ve been talking so much, tell me about your life.”

, Avoid saying statements in absolutes, especially when meeting new people as they can make others feel inadequate if that’s not they way they think, feel or act.Notice if you say statements that start with something like ‘you should always’ and urge yourself to shift your language to something like ‘I believe’ or ‘in my experience.’
Tell yourself that everyone comes from a different background with different experiences and resources.
Keep an open mind during new experiences and inquire more information if someone shares a differing opinion.
 Reach outside of your comfort zone and learn about a new culture, sport or hobby. Being a beginner can keep you humble about your knowledge and experience.


Learn about something new regularly. Make a goal to read about a new topic or do something you’ve never done on a monthly, weekly or even daily basis.
Ask experts on the topic, whether you personally know them or can connect with them virtually.
Keep in mind that it is perfectly okay to say “I don’t know.” Avoid pretending that you know about a subject if you don’t. Just be honest about what you know and don’t know.
 Catch yourself if you start to offer your own opinion when it wasn’t requested. Follow the advice that you would theoretically give someone else.Instead of giving advice, simply explain that you are there to help if needed.
Let other people make decisions and mistakes and avoid pointing out mistakes of others if the outcome doesn’t come out well. No one wants to hear “I told you so” --even if you think it's warranted.

