 Especially when you're just starting out, look for a place to run where there are few distractions or safety concerns. If you're going to meditate, you should run in an area where there isn't much traffic, such as a running trail in a park.If you run in the evening, make sure the area where you plan to run is well-lit and not too isolated.
Make sure you're dressed appropriately for the activity, the location, and the weather. For example, if you're running on a wooded trail, you may want to wear long pants to protect your legs.;
, To meditate, you need something specific for your mind to focus on. You may have heard Buddhist chants, but your point of focus can be something more familiar to you, such as a happy mental image or motivational phrase.Many people choose to focus on their breath, the sound of their footsteps on the ground, or the feeling of the environment around them.
A more rhythmic point of focus, such as the sound of your feet, can work better for a running meditation. Focusing on your breath may put you out of sync with your running.
A mental image or symbol is a common point of focus, but be careful with visualization if you're running in an area where you have to be aware of passing traffic or other runners.
 When you're ready to start, go slow for 15 to 20 minutes to warm up your muscles and relax your mind. During this phase, let yourself think about anything that comes to mind. Give yourself time to get adjusted to your activity and your surroundings.You also can use this time to fully observe and become comfortable with your surroundings, particularly if you're running at a location with which you're not completely familiar.
Get used to the way the air feels and the ambient noise around you so you won't be easily distracted.
Start to relax your mind by decreasing your attachment to thoughts or feelings as they come up. If a problem or area of concern comes up, note it and move on rather than trying to solve it or allowing yourself to get distressed by it.
 When you're warmed up and ready to start your run, bring to mind the point of focus you chose and concentrate on it. Tell yourself that there is nothing more important than that thought or image.If you were doing a seated meditation, you would close your eyes – but closing your eyes isn't a good idea while running. This is one of the reasons a visual point of focus may not work as well for running meditation.
Assume you've decided to make the sound of your feet your point of focus. Gradually start focusing on that sound, pushing all other sounds into the background. Think about how the ground feels and connect that feeling with the sound of your footsteps.
As you increase your focus, increase your speed until you're running at a comfortable pace.
 Especially if you're new to meditation, you'll find that the more relaxed and open your mind becomes, the more your mind will drift to seemingly urgent thoughts or interesting observations.Keep in mind that it can take weeks to train your mind to meditate effectively – combining meditation with running is no different.
If you're not a regular runner, you also may find that your muscles aren't ready, or that your cardiovascular system isn't up to the challenge. It's okay to slow to a walk if necessary.
Combining meditation and running isn't like other sorts of exercise, where you're pushing your body to the limit. Rather, you want to be comfortable with the activity so you can keep your mind tuned to your point of focus.
 The point of meditation is to stay in the moment. If you find yourself thinking about something other than your running, your point of focus, or your environment, take note of that thought and save it for later.Rather than cutting off the thought or trying to stop it from happening, let it come. When it does come, acknowledge it and allow it to recede on its own.
Being aware of your thoughts rather than letting your mind wander unconsciously is part of the practice of meditation. You may have heard that meditation means clearing your mind and thinking about nothing, but this is not entirely the case.
For example, suppose you are deep in your meditation and running when suddenly you think "Oh wow, I have to do laundry tonight or I'll have nothing to wear tomorrow!" Acknowledge that thought and say to yourself "I will do laundry tonight." Then return to your point of focus.
 Meditation isn't a competition, and you shouldn't allow yourself to get angry or frustrated if you find it difficult to concentrate on your point of focus. Avoid attaching negativity or self-criticism to the fact that your mind wanders.Your natural instinct may be to mentally chide yourself for getting distracted – try not to do this. Just gently guide your mind back to your chosen point of focus.
This doesn't mean you should ignore other thoughts, just that you shouldn't get caught up in them or follow them.
 If you have difficulty maintaining your focus at first, you may want to use a guided running meditation. Search on your favorite music service for an album or playlist that you can download and listen to on your runs.Guided meditation albums typically incorporate gentle music or ambient sounds with a voice chanting a phrase or word on which you can focus.
Some guided meditations will direct your attention toward different things, such as the sound of your footsteps, the wind in the trees, or your breath.
Make sure you choose a guided meditation that is designed to be used in active or dynamic meditation, rather than one that is designed for a seated meditation.
You can use other running playlists or albums as well. Simply select one where the beats per minute roughly match your running pace, and use it to focus your attention.
 Especially if you're a beginner with little experience in meditation, you'll find it difficult to maintain your focus for extended periods of time. Meditation is exercise for your mind just like running is exercise for your body.If you're a beginner, start small. Keep in mind that just as you can't wake up one day and decide you're going to run a 5k with no running experience whatsoever, you also can't go from not meditating at all to meditating for 20 minutes straight.
Try meditating for 30 seconds, then resting and letting your mind wander for 30 seconds. Then return to your point of focus for 30 seconds.
If 30 seconds is too difficult, take it down a notch and start in 10 second increments. As meditation becomes easier, you can gradually increase this time.
 Even if you do other types of exercise two or three days a week, you should try to make time for meditative running every day, even if it's only for 10 minutes or so. While it is physical activity, combining meditation and running is not necessarily designed to give you a good workout.Use other workouts for strength training or to lose weight. Meditative running is just as much about your mental health as it is your physical health.
Because of the meditative aspect, you may find that you get more value from meditative running if you do it at the end of the day rather than first thing in the morning.
Try to schedule your meditative running session at the time of your day when your stress is at its highest. For example, if you find that you get stressed over the course of the workday, culminating in your commute home, you might want to go on a meditative run on your way home from work each day.
 Particularly if you engage in exercise or other athletic pursuits, you probably have a relatively competitive nature. You may be accustomed to setting regular fitness goals to accomplish within a set period of time.The point of meditative running is to explore yourself and your consciousness, and relax your mind and body. Apart from that, there is no goal. Meditation isn't competitive, and you shouldn't be striving for some particular goal.
If you continue doing meditative running, do so because it adds something to your life and makes you feel more at peace. Don't do it because you think you'll achieve something in particular.
This same mentality holds if you start to think that there's no point in your meditative running, or that you're not getting any benefit from it. While it may take you awhile to adjust your mindset, you ultimately want to keep your meditative running practice apart from any other exercise or fitness goals you have.
 One way to recognize your gains from your meditative running, as well as keep track of any ideas you get while on your run, is to keep a small notebook to take with you on your runs so you can jot anything down afterward.The presence of this notebook is a good way to avoid getting attached to thoughts when your mind wanders. Just tell yourself that you'll write the idea down when you finish your run.
Over time, if you read back through these notes you may start to notice that your thoughts are becoming clearer and more focused, and that you have more of a handle on how to deal with stressful situations.
Don't look at your journal as a requirement or a chore. If you have nothing to write down after a run, don't force yourself to write something down just for the sake of making an entry.

