 When you wake up, avoid springing out of bed and getting ready immediately. Instead, spend some time in bed breathing deeply and reflecting on your body and surroundings in that moment. Allow any thoughts about your day to wash off of you and try to focus only on your breathing and how you feel.In order to avoid being bombarded by thoughts of the day ahead, think about how your arms, legs and back feel against the sheets of your bed. Reflect on that as well as any sounds or smells around you. This will help you stay focused in the moment.;
, One of the surest ways to help you stay present in the moment is to simply breathe. Before beginning a task or doing something that will require a lot of attention, take a moment to breathe. Sit in a chair with a flat back, place your hands on the armrests, close your eyes, and inhale slowly through your nose. Hold it for a moment or two and then exhale slowly from your mouth. Do this until you feel relaxed and focused., Perhaps you have a tendency to drift away whilst in conversation with someone, or you get sidetracked when completing a project. Instead of allowing yourself to miss the moments in front of you, focus on witnessing them first hand. Look people in the eyes when they are speaking and try to repeat back what they’ve said to you every so often to hold yourself accountable.You might be talking to a friend about her relationship problems and say something like “So, it sounds like you’re saying that you weren’t really mad at him for not coming to the party but that you were more hurt by it.” Not only does this help you become more present, it helps you become a better friend and listener, as well.
 Meditation is another instrumental way to become a more present person, and it has been proven to reduce anxiety and increase mindfulness and compassion. Take at least ten minutes each day spent quietly and undisturbed in meditation. Pick a word, phrase, or quote and meditate on that to calm, center, and focus you.For instance, you might choose to meditate on the word “present” or “focus.” You can simply repeat it quietly to yourself while sitting with your eyes closed. Try to think of nothing but that word.
You might also choose to meditate while taking a walk alone or at work during your lunch break.
 Yoga is a form of exercise and stretching that incorporates meditation and mindfulness. Find a yoga studio near you or sign up for some classes at your local gym. You can also find some yoga videos online and practice at home. This practice will not only improve your overall health, but will increase your ability to focus.
 Though you are trying to stay present, know that sometimes you will get a bit sidetracked. To prepare for these times, incorporate small reminders of mindfulness into your space to recenter you. Consider something small like wearing a white string around your wrist., Know that you can also employ many of these techniques during your work or school day. Take a few moments when you first arrive to breathe deeply and commit to focusing. Know that others will take your attention throughout the day, but these few minutes are just for you., You can also work to incorporate mindfulness techniques into your daily life. Take a few minutes before a meeting to breathe deeply to center yourself. Don’t always listen to music during your commute; instead use this time to focus on the drive. Instead of always listening to music when you workout, skip the tunes occasionally.