 Next time you do your taxes, make sure to include information regarding any interest you’ve paid on your loans. This information will be provided to you by your loan servicers (on a form 1098) and will earn you a tax deduction. This will increase the likelihood of your receiving a tax refund. If you’re able, use the refund to make a payment on your debt. If you’re still paying tuition, you may be eligible for a tax credit, which could save you even more money. Similarly, use any unexpected income to pay down debt. If you win a lottery, receive an inheritance, win a lawsuit, or collect on an insurance claim, use this money to reduce your debt. , Some employers will help their employees pay off student loans. There are several different ways this is done. Ask your employer directly if a program exists and whether you may be eligible to participate. , This may help motivate you to take the steps necessary to pay off your debt quickly. In particular, calculate how long it will take to pay off your loans with different monthly payments, and how much you’ll wind up spending overall with different payment plans. Simply having this information in front of you may encourage you to make larger payments whenever you’re able. , Aside from increasing your income, the only way to be able to make higher payments and pay off your debt more quickly is by reducing your spending. Some of the easiest ways to reduce spending include canceling unused monthly services (such as cable or a gym membership), eating out less often, and reducing the amount of alcohol you drink. One great way to reduce spending is to give yourself a limited cash allowance each week and to limit discretionary spending to this amount. This will work especially well if you tend to spend a lot on snacks and drinks.
There are templates in software such as Excel, as well as free apps such as Mint that can help you keep track of your spending.
 Look for freelance work online using a skill you already have. With a little searching you may be able to find a job related to a personal interest. For instance, if you like to stay up-to-date on new tech appliances, you can probably find a job writing articles for one of the websites you frequently read. Similarly, if you have graphic design or other software-specific skills, you can likely channel this into a part-time or occasional job. You can work a few nights a week in the service industry or participate in the sharing economy by driving for a rideshare company at whatever times suit your schedule.

