 Before you get started, take off the cabinet doors, pull out drawers and pop off false drawer plates. You'll also want to unscrew any handles, pulls, stops or hinges that might get in the way while you’re painting. This way, you'll be able to work without obstructions. Keep everything together in one place to avoid losing important pieces.Labeling the individual bits of hardware or placing them in separate plastic bags can make it easier to keep track of everything.If you’d also like to use this project as a chance to install new hardware, this would be an opportune time.;
, Go over the outside of the doors, panels and baseboards with a high-grit sandpaper. There’s no need to remove every trace of paint or lacquer—you just want to make the cabinet’s outer surfaces coarse enough for the primer to cling to. Work out any rough edges or irregularities and aim for a smooth finish.Sand using smooth, circular motions, moving outward as you progress. Run the sandpaper straight along edges and narrow panels.
Don’t forget to get inside corners and along the inner edges of the cabinet doors.
Use a Shop-Vac to deal with the dust and debris when you’re done.
 Apply a basic primer to the areas you plan on painting. One thin, even coat should do the job. Primer will be useful for protecting the cabinet’s underlying materials and getting the paint to hold better.Primers should be specially formulated for use with the type of paint you’re working with. Water-based primers, for example, should be used only with water-based paints.Lightly sand dry primer to make the painting surface more uniform.
 Use a few strips of painter’s tape to mask the underside and inner edges of the cabinets, including the area where the cabinet meets the wall. Make sure the tape is straight and even to avoid glaring mistakes. Painter’s tape will allow you to establish exact boundaries for your paint job and cover areas that you want to keep clear.Wider tape will give you a greater margin of error and can be useful for painting near walls and trim.
If you’d prefer not to remove your cabinet doors prior to painting, fold a piece of painter’s tape over the hinges to keep paint from getting on them.
 Make sure your paint is thoroughly blended and free of clumps or separation. You can do this with an electric drill with a paint paddle attachment if the paint has been sitting in storage for a while, or simply give it a stir if you’re just bringing it home. The better the paint is mixed, the smoother coverage it will create.Oil based paints may separate more than other varieties.
Do your blending outside and set down a few sheets of newspaper or cardboard to protect from splatters.
 Paint cracks, crevices and other hard to reach spaces first, using a brush to give you greater control. Afterwards, go over flat, broad surfaces using a dense foam roller. Let the initial coat set up for a couple of hours before applying subsequent coats.Don’t worry too much about making the first coat flawless. You can cover up any visible imperfections with later coats.
 Most cabinets will require two to three coats for a seamless finish. For the final coat, use a steady hand and a consistent brushing pattern. Watch out for drips, as these can permanently settle into the complete finish once it dries. When you’re done, the your cabinets should have a rich, uniform appearance.Use your best judgment after applying the base coat to decide how many follow-up coats will be necessary.
Many new types of paint are self-leveling, which means they won’t run or clot as easily. Working with these paints can save you a lot of frustration in achieving the perfect finish, as well as additional mess during cleanup., The paint will dry to the touch within 24-48 hours, though it may take up to a week for it to harden to the point that it becomes resistant to scuffs and other marks. Leave the doors open to provide air flow. Once the cabinets are dry, reassemble the doors, put all hardware back into place and enjoy the newfound beauty and relaxation of your bathroom!Keep small children and pets away from wet paint as it dries.
Leaving the fan running in the bathroom may help the paint set up at a faster rate.
 Most experts recommend choosing a paint with a smooth, creamy consistency, rather than one with a lot of luster or texture. This will make your cabinets easier to clean. It can also help diffuse the lighting in your bathroom and create a soft, warm atmosphere. Silky finishes also tend to last longer, as they don’t lose as much shine as time goes on.Smooth paints are easy to clean and resistant to mildew buildup, which will be a plus for humid bathrooms where bathing is done.
A single gallon of paint should be more than enough to redesign your bathroom and still have some left over for future projects.
 When picking out paint for your bathroom, listen to your gut and get as creative as you please. Now is your chance to reimagine the room with a beachy aesthetic complete with a seafoam green vanity, or lend it a peaceful springtime glow using lavender or other pastels. Feel free to explore new, daring ideas.Compare samples until you find a paint that really stands out to you.Don’t be afraid to experiment with different colors in order to find the right one. If it doesn’t come out the way you want, all you have to do is repaint.
 If you’ve traditionally had light or dark cabinets in your bathroom, switch things up and reverse the appearance of the room. Redo dark shades or wood stains in a light cream finish, or paint over plain white surfaces with sleek, attractive colors like gunmetal or hunter green. Taking your bathroom’s color scheme in the opposite direction will make it look and feel like a whole new room.Lighter shades will be good for country-style homes and bathrooms with large windows, and for making small half baths look roomier.Dark colors can be used to establish a relaxing spa-like atmosphere, especially when paired with natural hues and materials.
 Choose a paint that suits the rest of the decor in the bathroom. For instance, you could bring out the ruddy hues of a brass faucet with teal or rustic red paint, or use navy or charcoal gray to highlight the polished shine of chrome hardware. Look at the entire room as a whole and go with colors and finishes that look natural and tasteful together.Neutral colors will go with the widest range of accessories.
Bright colors should be chosen carefully so as not to clash with ornamental fixtures that attract a lot of attention.