 You will need seven 10 foot (3.0 m) ¾” PVC pipes, ten converter pieces, a PVC pipe cutter, and fabric and a sewing kit or sewing machine to create the cover.









The ten converter pipe pieces all need to measure ¾”. You will need four T’s, four 45 degree angle elbows, and ten 3-way connectors.
 You can buy these new or find them used and give them a good washing before use.









You may choose to use ribbons to sew to the inside of the fabric so that the tent portion can be tied on and removed to be washed whenever you desire.
 The frame will consist of a base and a top, four supporting beams, and a triangular roof piece. They will be put together using the









To create the base and the top, cut the pipe into four pieces that measure 6 feet (1.8 m) long, and four pieces that measure 4 feet (1.2 m) long. Connect them into two large, separate rectangles with the 3-way connectors on each corner.
Slide a t-shaped connector facing upwards on each of the four corners of the top piece for the roof to connect to. You may have to cut 1–2 inches (2.5–5.1 cm) off the pipe to make room for these connectors to connect to the corners.
Create the support beams to form the walls. These can be cut at your discretion to meet your preferred ceiling height. You will need to cut four pieces of pipe all of an equal length. Attach them to the two corner slots at the top and bottom of the pipe, forming a large empty cube.
Make the roof. To do this, cut four additional pieces of pipe the same length as the sides. Fit them together at a right (90 degree) angle, creating two large ‘L’ shapes. You will need to use the 3-way corners to fit them. Then, cut another piece of pipe 6 feet (1.8 m) long, and run this down the center between the two L’s. Attach the entire roof structure to the base by putting them in the T-shaped slots on the top rectangle.
Make sure all the connections between the pipes are strong, and you are finished with the structure!

, Using the fabric you got, take a measurement of all the sides and the roof. Cut these pieces, and use a sewing machine to stitch all the sides together in the same shape as your playhouse.









It may be easier to attach the tent to the playhouse if you make it a little larger than the real size. This way, slipping it over the pipes and removing it for cleaning will be a cinch.
Sew 6-inch ribbons to the inside of the tent perpendicular to the seams, so that when the tent is placed on the pipe-frame they can be tied on to allow movement.
Cut a slit from the bottom till ¾ of the way up one of the sides to create a tent-flap style door.
If you want, you can cut holes in the sides to act as windows. Feel free to use a thick, clear plastic as play-glass to fill these holes.
 Once you have completely sewn the tent pieces together, you are finished! This can be used indoors or outdoors, and the fabric covering can easily be removed to wash.







