 A tapeworm can cause a variety of different symptoms that mimic other medical conditions or it may cause no symptoms at all, so it can be hard to tell if you have a tapeworm by looking for symptoms. But being familiar with the most common symptoms may help you to determine if you need to see a doctor. Some of the common symptoms of tapeworm include:abdominal pain
nausea and/or vomiting
diarrhea
weight loss
dizziness
insomnia
malnutrition
jaundice (yellowish tinge to the skin and eyes);
, One way to tell if you have a tapeworm is to examine your stools for pieces of the worm. If you notice any particles that look like grains of white rice, then you may have a tapeworm infection. These small white segments contain eggs from the tapeworm., It is common to lose your appetite when you have a tapeworm, but some people experience an increase in appetite. This is more common in tapeworm that has been caused by eating undercooked beef or pork. Watch for any unusual changes in your appetite., Tapeworm caused by eating undercooked fish may lead to a vitamin B12 deficiency because the tapeworm may be sucking up all of your vitamin B12. This may cause you to become anemic because your body needs vitamin B12 to make red blood cells.Symptoms of anemia caused by a vitamin B12 deficiency include:


pins and needles sensation in your hands and feet
loss of sensation in your hands (no sense of touch)
wobbly walk and trouble walking
feeling clumsy and stiff
dementia, In some cases of tapeworm, the larvae may hatch and work their way through your intestinal wall and into other parts of your body. There are different symptoms associated with this type of tapeworm and they include:frequent, painful coughing
headaches
seizures
fever
allergic reactions such as wheezing, sneezing, itching, a rash, and swelling, Although tapeworm has some obvious symptoms, the only way to be sure that you have a tapeworm and not some other parasite or virus is to see your doctor for a diagnosis. Your doctor will do a physical examination and order lab work to confirm whether or not you have a tapeworm.
 One way that your doctor can determine whether or not you have a tapeworm is by ordering a lab analysis of your feces. Before your appointment, ask if you will need to collect a stool sample., If a stool sample shows negative results and you have symptoms that indicate that you may have a tapeworm, then you may need to get a blood test. A lab analysis of your blood will show whether or not you have been infected with a tapeworm., If you do have a tapeworm, then your doctor may want you to have a CT (computed tomography), ultrasound, or MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) to see if a tapeworm has caused damage to other parts of your body.These tests are not painful, but they may be a little uncomfortable and time consuming.
 Your doctor will prescribe a medication to help you pass the tapeworm. Carefully follow your doctor’s instructions for how to take your medication. The most common medications prescribed to treat a tapeworm infection include:Praziquantel (Biltricide). This medication works by killing certain worms. Do not take this medication if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, allergic to any ingredient in the medication, have a worm infection in your eye, or if you are on rifampin.Albendazole (Albenza). This medication prevents newly hatched worms from growing in your body. It treats specific types of tapeworm infections, including those you get from eating pork and from being around infected dogs.Nitazoxanide (Alinia). This medication is mainly used to treat parasites that you pick up from swimming in a lake or spending time in other moist places., If you have to pass a large tapeworm, it is likely that you will have some pain and cramping.This is normal, but make sure that you call your doctor if the pain becomes severe.
 To ensure that you are tapeworm free, your doctor will need to check your stools again one month following your treatment and then again three months after your treatment.Make sure that you keep this appointment even if you are feeling fine.

