 Therefore, take courage and don't approach the girl you love with a desire to ask her out, then quickly back out at the last minute and run away. Although you might be afraid that she'll decline your invitation, you'll never know if she is really interested in you or not if you don't take the courage to ask her.;
, If you update yourself every day on her interest in you, you'll be able to tell if she likes you or not. Gestures such as touching you for little things (ex: you told her a funny joke), keeping a steady eye contact, and showing up where you are a lot. However, how bold and obvious her actions are will depend on the amount of confidence she has in herself.


If she has high confidence, it'll be easier to read her body language.






If she has low confidence, it may be a little more difficult to read her body language.
 Small gestures of affection - such as sitting next to her in class - will not only possibly make her heart flutter, but it will also single her out from all the other girls and let her know that she is the one on your mind.


Don't forget to give her space that she needs. Avoid sitting next to her all the time or else her friends will begin to grow annoyed and possibly annoyed.
 This will build some bridges on the long way of dating. Also, it's helpful to know what her favorite band is when you're trying to purchase her a poster for her birthday.
 They don't have to be big gifts, but sweet and small things will mean a lot to her. It will also let her know that she is on your mind and that you care for her.
 Otherwise, she may choose to decline your invitation, thinking that you aren't the right kind for her or are intimidated by her. Keep your tone friendly and polite. Make sure your sentence is sweet, short, and clear.
 Be a bit romantic while trying not to get carried away and also keep an eye on her body language without being noticeable. If she is turning away from you, know to stop the romance at an appropriate time. Note what turns her on and what doesn't.
 If you're already doing that, you're definitely out of the game, and you also might be scaring her, unless if she is the confident type that doesn't mind guys checking her out. When you eye her below the neck, you're labeling yourself as someone untrustworthy who is perhaps only interested in the girl's body rather than her personality. Also, if word gets out, your reputation could be lowered and your relationship with that girl teeters on the edge of shattering to pieces. Give her the respect she deserves, and she'll most likely notice and appreciate you for that.

