 Vermicelli kheer is one popular variation of a rice pudding-like dessert often made in southeast Asian countries like India and Pakistan for special occasions.This simple and quick recipe is a year-round favorite that can be served topped with any number of things from chopped nuts like pistachios or almonds to spices such as cardamom and saffron.


There is no one standard recipe for kheer. Each family and geographic region makes kheer using some variation of the recipe.Vermicelli kheer is also known as semiya payasam., You’ll need to gather the ingredients for your vermicelli kheer before you start cooking it. The recipe is fairly simple, but you may need to go to a specialty Indian food store for ingredients if your local supermarket doesn’t carry them.


For vermicelli kheer that serves four people you need the following ingredients: ½ cup roasted vermicelli; 2 ½ cups warmed whole milk; ½ cup sweetened, condensed milk; 2-3 tablespoons mixed, dried fruits and nuts; ½ teaspoon cardamom powder; 1 tablespoon ghee; a pinch of saffron.If you live near an Indian food store, you can buy roasted vermicelli so that you don’t need to roast it separately.The amount of milk you use can increase or decrease depending on how creamy you want your kheer.Use any dried fruits and nuts you like such as raisins, dried cherries, cashews, almonds, or pistachios.Ghee is a type of Indian butter. If you cannot find it, you can use clarified butter.
 Before you can start cooking your vermicelli kheer, you’ll need to quickly roast the dried fruits and nuts. If you don’t live near an Indian food store or simply just prefer to do the work yourself, you’ll also need to roast your vermicelli.


Use any small or medium heavy bottomed pan that you have to roast the nuts and dried fruits and vermicelli.Heat the pan over a medium gas flame or electric stove setting and add the ghee.When the ghee has melted in the heated pan, add the nuts and brown slightly. Then add the raisins until they puff up.Set this roasted mixture of dried fruits and nuts aside while you roast the vermicelli.
Add the vermicelli to the remaining ghee or clarified butter in the pan until it is also a golden brown. Leave in the pan., Once you’ve roasted the vermicelli and dried fruits and nuts, you’re ready to cook the vermicelli kheer. Make sure to not leave the pan at this stage so that it doesn’t burn.


To the roasted vermicelli in the pan, add the milk and a few of the nuts.Put a lid on the top of the pan for about 6-8 minutes to cook the vermicelli., Once the vermicelli has cooked, remove the pan lid and add the ½ cup sweetened, condensed milk; ¼ teaspoon powdered cardamom; and pinch of saffron.Taste the mixture and add more condensed milk if you want the kheer to be sweeter.After you’ve added the condensed milk, cardamom, and saffron, allow the mixture to cook for a few more minutes and thicken to a desired consistency.Let the mixture thicken over the heat and decide how thick it gets. Some people like their kheer thinner like a creamy soup while others like their kheer thick like oatmeal.
 If you like, you can garnish with different fruits and nuts than are in the kheer for more complex flavors.
 The time has come for you to enjoy your vermicelli kheer! You can serve the dish either hot or cold, depending on your taste and the time of year.


You can also garnish your vermicelli kheer with fruits like strawberries, bananas or apples for extra flavor and visual effect.

