 Do you have a license? Good, now lets continue.;
, To run a successful fun dog show you’ll need lots of reliable people to help you. Assign everyone a job and make sure everyone knows their role.
 Make sure that you are allowed to hold a public event here. Also decide what to do if it rains. Is it indoors? Will it get muddy? Is there somewhere to do agility if you are holding that event? Make sure that once you have your venue, book it with plenty of time to organize everything else.


Village/school halls with access to a playing field are good choices. Marquees are another option but expensive. You will also most likely need good parking facilities for spectators and competitors. Also make sure you toilet facilities.
If you have a second ring for Agility/ Obstacle course or Obedience, then a notice of that ring’s purpose should be displayed on a prominent notice board.
The ring should be large enough for the contestants to stand along 2 sides and maybe partway down the third side. For a 6 class novelty type show, you should consider a ring of some 20 meters (65.6 ft) by 20 meters (65.6 ft). If the contestants are stood along 4 sides then the ring is too small for purpose - so make it bigger next year. Spectators should be able to sit along at least 2 sides of the ring, if not 3.
 More serious shows use qualified and experienced judges. Fun dog shows are just that and taken less seriously by all concerned. With either however you need to plan out a good show programme with the right number of classes etc.
 If you are stuck for ideas you can look up classes. Here are some ideas:


Suggested Pedigree Classes
Puppy - Any breed (6 - 12 months)
Yearling - Any breed (12 - 24 months)
Gun-dog - Any breed
Hound and Terrier - Any breed
Working or Pastoral - Any breed
Toy and Utility - Any breed
Any Variety - Open
Suggested Novelty Classes
Best Veteran - Any breed (7 years and over)
Best Crossbreed
Best Rescue Dog - Any dog that has come from an animal shelter.
Most Handsome Dog
Prettiest Bitch
Most Appealing Eyes
Waggiest Tail
Best Condition
Best Brace - 2 dogs alike
Best Irish Brace - 2 dogs of different types
Best 6 legs - Dog and Owner
Best Junior Handler
Dog The Judge Would Most Like To Take Home

, Owners are invited to let their dogs have a try-out at various challenges such as walking along planks, over hurdles or in and out of sticks etc. These competitions are usually just a bit of fun and an added attraction to your fundraising event.You may however like to consider inviting your local dog agility club. These clubs are often keen to demonstrate the skills of their pets and regularly feature in all sorts of summer fundraising events. A run through of their routines can make a great attraction at your event.
 Some shows give rosettes to the first four places, whilst some shows have rosettes down to 6th place. You do not have to award six places in every class. You could also do certificates. Remember do order these early and in plentiful supply. Cups are also a good option.
 Every show will have its own style of Entry form. Ideally, the form should be A4 size with the entrant keeping the top half - which has venue, class list, class fee, sponsors, etc. The volunteer booking in the entries should write the classes entered on to the kept section, or on to the back of the ring number cards as they are issued. The bottom half should be submitted at the entry point, and include:


Name, age and breed of dog
Owners contact details
Classes being entered
Total entry fee paid
Dog Club membership number (If a DC event)
You may also want to have forms for the judge to fill to say who came where. This is especially important if you are holding a best of show class.
 You can also hold little raffles, tombolas, etc.
 Make sure have either professional judges, or volunteers willing to do it. Either way they should have experience with dogs.
 Make posters, put notices in newsagents’ windows or on council notice boards, use local newspapers and radio stations, and advertise on Facebook. Make noise and get the word out there. You will want to do this anywhere from a month before to a couple of weeks before, depending on how much publicity you want.
 Depending on how early you are allowed at the venue, you may need to get a wiggle on. Lots of volunteers are useful. If you are running an agility course you will need to set up, plan and number a course.
 Think about the venue and activities that you’ve chosen. Is there anything that could put a dog or owner at risk?


Vets — you should have a vet on hand should a dog need medical attention. You could ask a local vet to be a judge.
 Enjoy it!

