 Your first day of middle school will be, in some respects, like your first day of kindergarten: new places, new faces, new things to do and new ways to do them. Even if your buddies from elementary school are still around, things will still feel different. Chances are you will make new friends and they will too, the dynamic is totally different. Go into it with an open mind. Embrace the chance to try things in a new way. You adapted well to school once, if you can remember that, so you can certainly do it again.


People you’ve known for years may start to seem different to you. You may start to seem different to them as well. This is a natural part of growing up.;
, Is it academic achievement? Being a good person? Perhaps ideally it should be a combination of both of these. The best judge of whether or not you are a success in middle school is you. But you have to know your criteria. A good thing to do is to get the inside scoop from an older sibling or friend who went there to, to make the best first impression.


Your parents will have their own ideas of what success means for you. This is, of course, important as well. Talk with your parents about your goals for middle school and how you can work together to achieve them. Remember: you may disagree with your parents priorities but if you stay professional and don't throw a big tantrum if you don't get what you want you can usually work out a reasonable situation with both sides still happy and talking to each other.
 The middle school years are always a time of awkwardness. You are growing, your body is changing, and your interests are evolving. Yes, you’ll get pimples, trip over your own feet, feel embarrassed to get changed in the locker room, get rejected by that boy or girl you like, and so on. Don't worry it happens or has happened to all of us. A good thing to do is to imagine yourself in other people's shoes and try to imagine how you would feel in their situation and realize no one is analyzing everything you do. So chances are if you have one of those days where everything goes horribly and terribly wrong it's probably not going to be the talking point of the whole school for 5 years after. So just take a deep breath and relax.


For a good list of “survival skills” for common awkward situations in middle school, check out Survive Middle School. Also, don’t be embarrassed to talk to your parents, a teacher, the guidance counselor, you're friends or someone else who can help.
 The pressure to conform, or to be like everyone else, grows as you become a teenager. Don’t let peer pressure dictate who you are or what you want to achieve. Although if it does, don't freak out. It's ok to fit in a little bit despite what all the books say. Do what is right for yourself and what you’re interested in.


Stick up for what you believe in and what you know is right. For instance, turn in someone who is bullying you or other kids. If this costs you a childhood friend, don’t worry. You’ll have plenty of opportunities to make new, better friends in middle school.
 Teenagers may not have the reputation for being the neatest, most organized bunch. But you can work to keep yourself and your school materials in order. Doing so will increase your ability to be successful in school. A student planner book is a calendar where you can write down when assignments are due, when you have soccer or choir practice, and when you have sleepovers with friends. Keep track of your schedule and look at your planner every day. Writing in it after every class can be a good way to start the habit if you're having trouble. , Have one notebook for each of your classes. You may even want to color-code them, so you know that the blue notebook is for History and the red notebook is for Algebra.


Keep these binders organized. Use dividers to separate notes from assignments. The less time it takes you to find your notes, homework, and study guides, the more time you have to actually get things done.
 Go ahead and decorate your locker to show off your personality. Make sure that the things you put in your locker are practical, the biggest mistake is to make your locker an extension of the locker decorations store and not be able to put anything that actually needs to be in there because you decided to buy a locker rug, pool table, chandelier, and minibar. Definitely make sure to organize it so you can be in and out of it quickly. You don’t want to have things spilling out of it every time you open it.
 Carve out a place for yourself at home to do your homework. This will ideally be a desk with a chair and computer or laptop. Keep the desk clear so that you can easily sit down and do your homework after school every day.


Store all your school supplies in one place so that you’re not hunting all over the house for the pencil sharpener.
 Talk with your parents on Sunday afternoon to see what the week looks like. Use this time to remind your parents about your upcoming game or concert. You will also know which nights you might have to help out with dinner.
 It sounds obvious, but it’s a key part of being successful in middle school. Studies show that good grades and consistent attendance in middle school are indicators of future academic success in high school and college.Get to school on time and don’t skip classes.If you need to miss school, make sure you talk with your teacher about the material you missed. While you're gone email him or her and check their website if they have one for assignments. Catch up on your homework as soon as possible.
 Whether you had to do it in elementary school or not, the amount of note-taking you will need to do in middle school will be a new experience. Good note taking doesn’t mean furiously writing down everything the teacher says. Instead, try these strategies to take good notes:Keep your notes organized by starting a new sheet every day. Put the date at the top of the page and what you're learning.
Listen for audio cues by your teacher. She will tend to vocally emphasize what is most important.
Don’t worry about writing whole sentences. Instead, develop your own shorthand and shortcuts. Remember, no one has to be able to read it but you, go ahead a write a squiggle every time your teacher says "Mitosis". It's okay as long as you understand it.
Review your notes each day when you’re doing your homework. Rewrite your notes more neatly and fully. This will also help the information stick in your brain better.
 Like note-taking, the amount of studying required in middle school will likely be a surprise. Good study skills do not mean simply memorizing the textbook chapter. Here are some ideas for studying successfully:Learn to identify the most important concepts. Highlight key names, themes, etc., in your notes and put sticky notes in your textbook to mark key passages.
Rewrite your notes so that you can organize the information and make your writing neat and easy to follow.
Create study aids such as flash cards, diagrams, and so on.
Find a study buddy. This is ideally someone who has a good grasp on the material. Working together may help you see things from a different angle. Work hard to stay focused on studying. Talk about music or football another time.
 Tests may be more complicated and you’ll be responsible for knowing more material. To take tests successfully, follow some of these strategies:


Listen to instructions that your teacher gives you. Read all the directions on the test.Pace yourself. Be sure to leave yourself enough time to finish the entire test. Don’t keep looking at the clock, since that might stress you out more. But gauge how long it might take you to answer questions in each section of the test. If a question stumps you, come back to it later.Double-check all of your answers.
Reduce anxiety you might feel about taking tests. When you are more prepared and understand the material, your anxiety will lessen. Take deep breaths before the exam and repeat to yourself, “I will do well on this test.”, There are more demands on your time in middle school. You’ll have more classes, more homework, more tests, and more extracurricular activities. Improving your time management skills is key. Make your schoolwork a top priority, so that you get it done on time.


Try to complete all your homework as soon as you arrive home from school. Do this before distractions and responsibilities take over. If you have to attend to other things as soon as school is over, block out a specific time each evening for homework completion.
Keep limits on your “screen time.” This includes your phone, TV, computer, etc.Don’t play computer games or text with your friends until your homework is done, for example.
Take responsibility for your own learning and homework. Don’t copy your friend’s homework.
If you’re having trouble keeping up in a class, talk to your teacher sooner rather than later. Don’t wait until you’ve fallen hopelessly behind.
 As you get older, more of the responsibility for your academic success rests on your own shoulders. But this doesn’t mean you have to go it alone. There are many different people who want to help you, so let them.


If you’re having trouble with pre-algebra or early American history, for instance, talk to your teachers about additional resources that might help. Your teachers may even be able to suggest tutoring options.
 If you haven’t done your homework, don’t lie to your teacher. Instead, tell your teacher that you will work on it tonight and hand it in tomorrow. Your teacher will appreciate that you’re taking responsibility.


Don’t cheat on tests or copy other people’s homework. If you do and you get caught, don’t try to lie your way out of it. Tell the truth.
 In middle school, you’re in more classes with new people. Instead of feeling sad about how things are different, seize the chance to expand your horizons. There are so many opportunities to get active and get involved when you reach middle school.


Join a club. Math clubs, service organizations, and the student council are some of the opportunities in middle school. Meet new people (or old people in new ways) and discover your passions and what the new, more mature you can accomplish.
Play a sport. Try out for the basketball or soccer team. Even if you end up riding the bench, you’ll enjoy the camaraderie and competition.
Volunteer. Do a trash pickup or help set up a bake sale for a good cause. Recruit old and new friends for the cause. Don’t be afraid to take the initiative.
 As soon as you hit middle school, you’ll be mixed in with new kids as well as older kids. You’ll have opportunities to connect with people who seem exciting and new. But in your preteen and teenage years, it’s important to surround yourself with positive, supportive people. The friends you have in middle school are good indicators of how well you’ll succeed in the coming years, so choose wisely.If you feel like a “friend” isn’t very nice to you, talk with her about it. If she doesn’t change her ways, it’s probably better in the long run to move on.
Make sure to stay away from others who are reckless and get into trouble a lot. Even if they are your friends, don't let them drag you down with them and possibly jeopardize your academic success or other relationships and friendships.
 In middle school, kids are experiencing puberty full-force and hormones start up. You’re probably thinking about that cute boy or girl and whether you might start dating. It’s important during this time to understand what a healthy relationship looks like. Studies show that middle schoolers experience sexual harassment and dating violence at high rates, in part because they don’t recognize what is appropriate or not.


Healthy relationships start with respect, trust and friendship. You should also feel free to have other friends and be independent.
Don’t feel pressured to start dating yet. You may feel that because your friends are dating, you should be too. But some studies show that when you start dating too early, your attention turns away from academics and you may actually perform worse on your school work., People change as they become teenagers. It may well be that some kid you’ve known for years but never really were friends with has become a natural fit for the older you.


Teenagers naturally seem to organize themselves into like-minded groups or cliques. This isn’t always a bad thing, but don’t be too quick to judge and exclude people. Be welcoming and inclusive to others. Set a positive example.
 Treat other people with kindness and friendliness. Put yourself in the other person’s shoes before you say or do something hurtful.


Stand up for others if you see bullying going on. Don’t stand by and let others be bullied. If you are being bullied or see it happening to someone else, report it to a teacher. Bullying is not acceptable behavior.
 Your middle school years are about the time when you start feeling like you can do everything on your own. But keep in mind that there are plenty of people around you who are ready and willing to help. Your parents are great resources, believe it or not. They went through a lot of the same things you’re going through now.Ask for advice on things like taking notes in class, studying for tests, staying out of trouble, even (gasp!) asking a boy or girl to the school dance.
 Older brothers and sisters have more recently gone through middle school. They’re likely to have good tips about how to deal with each teacher, which lunch line to choose, and so on.
 At the start of the school year, talk to each of your teachers about class expectations and ideas on how to do well in the class. Continue talking with your teachers throughout the year to make sure you are meeting expectations. It’s important to take responsibility for your own learning.


Get to know other adults at the school as well, from administrators and guidance counselors to nurses and librarians.
 There is no shame in seeking help when you need it. The school counselor is there to help you, and is knowledgeable about the issues that are troubling to middle schoolers. This person can give you guidance about academic challenges as well as social and personal issues.If you have thoughts of suicide, call the National Suicide Prevention Hotline at 800-273-TALK (8255).
 Life gets busier in middle school, and will keep getting busier after that. Being rested, refreshed, energized, and focused is the best way to stay ahead of the curve instead of falling behind. Your body is still growing and going through changes. You need adequate rest to function at your best. If your schedule is especially busy, you’re using up lots of energy during the day and you need to replace it. Aim to get eight to nine hours of sleep every night.If you’re having trouble getting to sleep, turn off all screens about 15 to 30 minutes before bed. Studies show that your brain is engaged when you are looking at information on a screen, which can contribute to difficulty getting to sleep., Proper nutrition will help your memory, concentration, mood, energy level, and self-image. These are all important components of a successful middle school student. So skip the vending machine and eat real food. Try to get lots of fruits and vegetables, proteins, whole grains and low-fat dairy. Stay away from processed and fried foods, as well as foods high in refined sugar.


Start the day with a good breakfast. Studies show that a good breakfast will help you improve your performance on school work throughout the day.Try a fruit and yogurt smoothie, oatmeal or eggs and toast., Exercising regularly is a great way to reduce stress, boost brain function, and improve your mood. Kids and teens should get at least 30 minutes of exercise every day. Skip watching TV after school and instead, head out for a bike ride with a friend., There will be times when it seems like too much – too much homework, too much pressure, or too many annoying kids in English class. But know that you can and will make it. Keep your goals in mind and focus on what you need to do to achieve them. You can be a success.


You’ll figure things out as you go. You learn by trying, and sometimes failing, and always by getting back up and trying again.

