 Slide one paperclip to the exact center of the straw. Slide the other two paperclips onto opposing ends.









The paperclip in the center should be turned upward and the two at the ends should face down.
Place the paperclips at the ends roughly 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm) away from their respective ends.;
, Follow the same procedure to make two other straw-and-paperclip units.









Each straw should have one paperclip in the center, facing up, and two paperclips on opposing ends, both facing down.
 Make the mobile look more interesting by creating chains of varying lengths.









You can use as many paperclips as desired to create chains that are as long or short as desired.
For an example, however, connect the second straw unit to the first by clipping the center paperclip of the second to the right paperclip of the first.
Off the left paperclip of the first straw unit, hang three additional paperclips. Attach the lowest of these paperclips to the middle paperclip of the final straw unit.
 Draw stars, hearts, geometric shapes, letters, numbers, or other simple shapes on colorful construction paper. Cut them out with scissors.









You should have about four to six shapes for this mobile. The first straw unit should not have any shapes hanging off of it directly, but each additional unit should be able to fit three shapes.
 Clip the paper directly to the paperclips hanging down from the ends of the straw unit.









You can also create chains of paper clips in order to create a less symmetrical mobile.
For instance, on the second unit, clip the left-most paperclip directly to the shape. Hang two paperclips from the center paperclip and attach another shape to the lowest one. Hang an additional three paperclips down from the right-most paperclip and attach your shape to the lowest.
On the third unit, attach the shapes directly to the paperclips on each end. Hang two paperclips down from the center before attaching your final shape.
 Since your paperclips and stars may be slightly uneven, you might need to slide a few of the paperclips over in order to keep the mobile balanced.









If the paperclips seem loose and move around even after you finish positioning them, hold the paperclips in place using a small square of tape or a dot of glue. Let the glue dry before continuing.
 Clip your remaining paperclips to the top paperclip on the first straw unit. Use as many as desired in order to achieve the length you want.








