 What starts as mild hypothermia can worsen into a condition that needs immediate help. Some signs to look for include confusion, shallow breathing, a weak pulse, or body parts like limbs or lips turning colors, which can indicate moderate to severe hypothermia.


If you see these signs do not try to move the person as these jarring movements can cause severe complications, especially to the heart. Severe hypothermia can cause complications like deadening of tissue like frostbite or even death. However, be sure to cover the person in dry blankets and remove wet clothing while you wait for help to arrive. , This includes a heating pad or hot water because this can cause irregular heartbeats or a burn injury. If you have access to something like a warm first-aid compress, apply this to her neck, chest, or groin. Do not apply to arms or legs because this forces cold blood from her extremities back into her lung or heart. This can be fatal.
 Do not stay out in the cold too long, particularly if you are not wearing the proper clothing.


Just because someone is indoors does not eliminate the risk of hypothermia. People, especially infants or elderly, that are in places with inadequate heating or air conditioning that is too cold can get hypothermia. , A number of factors like age, health, and medications can make someone more prone to hypothermia. You can take extra steps to make sure these at-risk people are not exposed to environments conducive to hypothermia. People who are very young or very old. Older people can have trouble regulating temperature and are more susceptible to environmental problems. Children lose heat faster than adults and may also lack the development and faculties to remove themselves from a situation, such as playing too long in the cold.
Alcohol and drug users. Alcohol causes blood vessels to dilate which means the body will lose heat faster. Also, the shiver response to cold that can help warm the body naturally is diminished when intoxicated. If you or a friend are intending to drink alcohol, avoid situations that can lead to hypothermia.
Medical conditions can affect the body's ability to regulate body temperature. These include an underactive thyroid, nerve damage, or even arthritis. If you or someone you know has these medical conditions you'll want to be aware of their sensitivities to environmental extremes like cold. Also, medications to treat a variety of conditions can affect how the body is able to regulate its own temperature. If you have any questions about the risk factors of a certain medication you should consult your physician. , Make sure to wear warm clothing in the cold, stay dry, and avoid activities that would make you sweat too much in cold weather.


Watch children carefully. Make sure they are adequately dressed. If they begin to shiver or are outside for too long, make sure they are coming inside regularly to warm up.
Keep emergency kits in your car. Anytime you are driving in the winter, a simple car malfunction can put you at risk for hypothermia. Keep candles, matches, blankets, and food and water in the back of the car in case you get stuck. If you break down somewhere cold, take the supplies in the car with you and if there are more than one of you, huddle together for warmth.
Be careful of exposure to cold water. Water does not need to be extremely cold to cause hypothermia and prolonged exposure to even cool water can bring it about. If you fall in cold water, get out as soon as possible. While you are in the water, do not attempt to swim unless you are close to safety as this can use up energy. Do not remove your clothing while in the water since this can help insulate you from the water.

