 So if you are offered free money for no reason, you are being scammed. Oftentimes, free money scams come in the format of an email from someone stating that they need to transfer a large amount of money into an account. They will pay you a percentage for your time, or course, but you just need to send your bank details. Don't ever send your bank details, or any other personal information, to a complete stranger. You will find your bank account emptied and your identity stolen.;
, Unless you are purchasing a franchise, you really should not have to invest in a small business opportunity. Pyramid schemes, bulk email contacts, chain letters and envelope stuffing are all examples of job opportunity fraud that come to you as great business opportunities that require sending money. If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Be cautious about everything you read, and with the convenience of the Internet, you can Google anything. Google an opportunity that comes your way, and you will learn pretty quickly whether it's a scam or not.
 If there were real opportunities to get paid with minimum effort, we would all be doing it. If you see a job opportunity that you want to inquire further about, again, check the Internet. People would be talking about such a fantastic opportunity, and if it's a fraud, they will be talking about it even more.
 These pills don't work, and if they did, you really don't want to be losing weight in a day. Websites that promise weight loss, muscle enhancement, breast enlargement or some other magic for a physical part should be avoided. You will be disappointed in other ways besides losing your money.
 You can get free toys if you review them through a legitimate company, but it is not as easy to get these opportunities. Therefore, promises of free computers, laptops, vacations and other big ticket items should be cause for scrutiny. You will be expected to do something in return, and that something will likely involve handing over some funds.

