 Tap the App Store on your iPhone or iPad to launch it.;
, Type in “AirDisk Pro” on the search field and tap the “Search” button to begin the search.
 Locate the correct app; its developed by Felix Yew. Tap the “Install” button beside the app to download it., Locate the app on your mobile device. It’s the orange icon with the folder and Wi-Fi icon in the middle. Tap on it to launch it.
 Tap the gear icon on the bottom toolbar to go to Settings. Swipe up until you see Cloud Services, and tap on it.
 Cloud Services allow your various cloud accounts to be linked with AirDisk Pro so that you can transfer files between them. This is an add-on functionality that requires an additional purchase. Tap on “Unlock Cloud Services” to purchase it.


iTunes will process your purchase. A pop-up message will appear to confirm your in-app purchase. Tap on the “Buy” button to continue. The Cloud Services add-on costs $0.99.
 The cloud accounts currently supported by AirDisk Pro are iCloud, Dropbox, and Google Drive. Tap on the appropriate toggle button to enable your cloud accounts.
 After enabling a cloud account, the app will request permission to access the files and folders from that cloud account.


Enter your account username, or email, and password in the appropriate fields, then tap the “Sign in” button. You need to do this to authenticate your access.
A message will indicate that AirDisk Pro is requesting access to your files. Tap the “Allow” button.
 All the cloud accounts you connect will appear under the Root folder of AirDisk Pro., Go to the location where the files you want to transfer are located. Tap on the folders to do so.
 Tap on the “Edit” button on the upper right corner to bring out the selection checkboxes. Tap on the files to select them; they will be marked with a red checkmark.
 Tap on the middle icon on the bottom taskbar to bring out a submenu. Tap “Move” from here, and the selected files will be marked for transfer.
 Navigate through your folders until you reach the location where you want to move the files to.


If you’d like to transfer files from your local storage and upload them to one of your cloud accounts, select files from your local storage as the source and use your cloud folders as the destination.
If you’d like to transfer files from one of your cloud accounts, select files from your cloud folders as the source and use your local storage as the destination.
 The selected files will be moved to the destination selected.