 If you really want to get authentic, you could make your own tortillas with Masa Harina and water. Although it sounds like an ordeal, the process is actually quite simple. Mix water and Masa together in ideal proportions, press out, and fry up quickly over a hot surface.


Flour or corn tortillas — which to choose? Flour tortillas tend to have a softer, sweeter flavor. Yet the classic Mexican taco calls for homemade corn tortillas, where the meat takes center stage.Then again, the only thing that matters is what tastes good to you. Experiment with both and choose for yourself.
Crispy or soft taco? Again, the choice is up to you. It's easy to make a taco crispy by frying it in oil, but many authentic Mexican recipes call for soft tortillas.
Adding two tortillas or just sticking with one? Many places in Mexico will serve two tortillas per taco. It's more filling, it helps keep the ingredients from breaking through a single tortilla, and it's an easy way to get rid of staler tortillas.If you're sticking to the more calorie-conscious meal, opt for only one tortilla.;
, It's incredibly simple, but a taco just doesn't taste right without it. Combine the following ingredients and allow to sit for a few hours:


1 onion, finely chopped
1 head cilantro, finely chopped
2-3 limes, juiced

, Pico de gallo is a simple mix of tomato, onion, garlic, cilantro, and lime. It's a kind of salsa that many people associate with tacos and, like onion relish, is quite simple to make.
 Whether you want to cook your salsa verde in a crockpot, oven, or over the stove, the basic idea is all the same: Cook tomatillos, onion, garlic, and jalapeño peppers over heat, and blend with a little bit of lemon and/or lime juice. A delectable addition to any taco.
 When it comes to tacos, this is definitely to most important decision. The meat will make or break your tacos (unless you're making vegetarian tacos, in which case it will do neither). Which is why this tutorial gives you plenty of options (see below) when it comes to which meat to use. There are several different kinds of kinds/preparations of meat you can use in your tacos:



Carne asada ("grilled meat," e.g. beef)

Carnitas (literally "little meats," e.g. pork)
Al pastor (literally "shepherd's style," e.g. pork)
De pescado (literally "of fish")
De camarones (literally "of shrimp")
Other cuts like lengua (tongue), sesos (brains), cachete (cheeks), trompa (lips), etc.
 You taco is pretty much complete when it has tortilla(s), meat, onion relish, and salsa verde or pico de gallo. But if you want to make it interesting, you can always add the following to your tacos to spice them up:


Beans (black or refried)

Guacamole or avocado
Cheese (queso fresco or "Mexican blend" cheese)
Grilled corn

, Common garnishes include radishes and lime wedges, although you might get a little more fancy with pickled onion or other pickled vegetables such as carrot. Devour your tacos and make your guests proud.

