 One of the most effective exercises to burn calories is steady-state cardio activities. These burn extra calories to help you lose weight.


Steady state cardio exercises are those that raise your heart rate and keep it raised at a fairly consistent level for at least 10 minutes.Include a minimum of 150 minutes or about 2 1/2 hours of cardio each week. Try to split this up throughout the week to help get yourself activity most days.If you do not see adequate result or you are interested in faster weight loss, you can try to increase your cardio time to about 300 minutes for additional calories burned.;
, In addition to steady-state cardio, there is higher a intensity interval training. This is also categorized as cardiovascular exercise but has slightly different effects compared to steady-state activities.


High intensity interval training or HIIT workouts alternate between both high intensity aerobic activities and more moderate intensity aerobic activities.
The result of HIIT workouts is that you burn more calories from fat (which can help decrease flab) and it raises your metabolism for much longer after the workout has been completed.Although HIIT workouts may seem like the best bet, it's better to have a combination of both steady-state and HIIT workouts to maximize your calorie burn.HIIT workouts can be done with any type of cardio. You can alternate between sprinting and jogging or sign up for a spin class which alternates between high resistance spinning and more moderate resistance spinning.
 When you're increasing your exercise and relying on your activity levels to burn calories and lose weight, it's important to take care of your body so that you can continue your routine without any injuries or issues.


Warm-ups are really important for your exercise routine. They can increase blood flow to your muscles, slowly rev up your heart and lungs and also reduce muscle soreness after your workout has been completed.A warm-up typically includes doing the planned cardio activity but at a slower pace. For example, if you're going to go for a run, do a fast walk or very slow jog for 5-10 minutes prior to going full speed.
A cool-down also provides your body with significant benefits including: allowing your heart and lunges to recover and helps regulate blood flow.A cool-down is similar to your warm-up. You should decrease your pace and intensity of whatever exercise you're doing and continue at this low intensity level for about 5-10 minutes.
 Many studies show that lifestyle activity or baseline activities can offer similar health and weight benefits as more structured activities like steady-state cardio.Lifestyle activities are things you do in your typical day that get you moving. For example, walking up the stairs to your bedroom or walking down the driveway to get the mail can count towards lifestyle activities.
These types of exercises don't necessarily burn large quantities of calories alone. However, the more you move around and the more active you are overall, the more calories you'll burn throughout the day.
Try to think of your typical day and plan for times when you can add more movement or steps to your day. Can you take more steps by parking farther away or taking the stairs instead of the elevator? Or can you take a 10 minute yoga break over lunch, stand at your desk instead of sit or do jumping jacks while you watch TV?

, Strength training or resistance training can also provide you with weight loss benefits in addition to cardio exercises.


You may not think strength training burns as many calories as aerobic exercise - which is true. However, strength training helps build lean muscle mass which burns more calories at rest compared to fat.The more muscle mass you have, the higher your metabolism will be.
Also, if you're interested in losing excess flab or body fat, strength training exercises will provide you the toned, strong look after some initial weight loss.
Include at least 1-3 days of strength training each week. Ensure that each session lasts for 20 minutes and you work every major muscle group., When you start strength training, there are two methods to lifting weights. You can do more reps at a lower weight to help increase muscle bulk or you can do fewer reps with higher weights to help increase strength.


If you're looking to lose flab, you may be looking to help increase muscle definition and to tone up. If you want to see a difference in the way your muscles look, try doing much fewer reps but with much higher weights as well. Fewer reps with a heavier weight build your strength.However, if you just want to lose excess body fat and be a little bit stronger, do more repetitions of the exercise with a slightly lower resistance. Many reps with a light weight build your endurance.Most people should do a combination of both types. You'll be able to lose weight and excess flab while building strength and getting a defined and toned look.
 Whenever you're doing weight training (or any type of exercise), it's important to include a few rest days during the week.Do not work the same muscles two days in a row. A rest day should allow your muscle to recover and repair. Allow a day in between weight lifting or a day in between each muscle group.
Much of the muscular growth and strengthening actually happens during your rest and recovery days.
On days that you're taking off, still make yourself active. Increase your lifestyle activities or participate in low intensity activities like yoga or walking.
 Stretching and flexibility training do not burn many calories and will not necessarily contribute to your weight loss. However, they can ensure that your body is ready for activity and can continue with more vigorous exercise over time.The benefits of regular stretching include: increased range of motion, decreased risk of injury and improved performance. Some studies show that stretching may also help decrease muscle soreness after exercise.Stretch very light after your warm-up and more intensely after you've completed your workout and cool down.
Stretching should never feel painful. In addition, do not bounce as you stretch. Hold your stretching position steady for at least 20 seconds before slowly releasing.
Also ensure to stretch every major muscle group. This will help make sure all muscles are well stretched.
 If you're trying to lose weight, you'll get the best results by combining a calorie controlled diet with your new exercise routine.In addition to your new workout routine, manage your total caloric intake. Use an online calorie calculator or a food journaling app to figure out how many calories you should be consuming each day.
If you cut out about 500 calories daily from this amount, you'll generally lose about 1-2 pounds per week. In combination with exercise, you may even lose slightly more.Do not cut out more than 500 calories daily or eat less than 1200 calories per day. Even without exercise, this is not safe as your body will start using lean muscle mass for energy and you're at increased risk for nutrient deficiencies., In addition to monitoring calories, try to make most of your meals lower calorie and nutrient dense foods. These will help you stay satisfied and meet nutrient recommendations without going over your calorie limit.


Protein will be an essential food and nutrient to include in your diet. Lean protein will help you stay within your calorie goal and support your new exercise routine. Include a 3-4 oz (85-113 grams) serving at each meal of items like: poultry, eggs, lean beef, legumes, low-fat dairy, seafood or tofu.Also make half of your meal a fruit or vegetables. This foods are very low in calories yet offer a variety of other essential nutrients. Include a 1 cup (236 milliliters) serving of vegetables, 2 cups (472 milliliters) of leafy greens and a 1/2 cup (118 milliliters) of fruit.Also have no more than two servings of 100% whole grains each day. These foods are high in fiber and other essential nutrients. Include a 1 oz (28 grams) or 1/2 cup (118 milliliters) portion at most meals., If you're relying on exercise to help you lose weight and excess body fat, you'll need to make sure you support those workouts with the right type of fuel.


Some ideas for pre-workout snack include: a piece of fruit, bowl of oatmeal or a small yogurt.
After you workout, you'll need to replace both the energy you used during the exercise and the protein you broke down.Eat a snack that combines protein and complex carbohydrates.
Ideas for a post workout snack can include: one tablespoon of peanut butter on a celery stick; a glass of low-fat milk with an apple; 9 almonds and an orange; or two tablespoons of hummus with carrot sticks. In general, your post-workout snacks should stay under 200 calories.
 Like pre and post workout snacks, it's important to stay well hydrated with elevated levels of physical activity.


Drinking adequate fluid daily helps maintain proper hydration. With increased levels of physical activity you may sweat more and lose more fluid through your sweat.
While exercising make sure you're drinking adequate fluids. However, you'll want to make sure you drink enough fluids the rest of the day as well.
Aim to drink at least 8 glasses of fluids daily. On days you workout, you may need to consume up to 13 glasses of fluid daily.Stick to no-calorie, caffeine-free beverages. This will help you stay within your calorie goal but also keep you hydrated. Try water, flavored water, decaf coffee and decaf tea.

