 Before you start creating your costumes, you will want to gather all of your materials. Gather:


A skirt, petticoat, or tutu that fits you. Start with a solid cother like white or blue.
Blue feathers or boas
Hot glue gun
Leggings and a tank top
Craft mask or a homemade mask;
, You will want to start with a solid color that will emphasize the blue of the feathers. You will want to pick the colors of a bluebird, such as blue or white. Avoid garish colors (green, orange, red).
 Use a hot glue gun to attach the boa, starting from bottom hem and working toward the waistband.


Apply a line of glue all the way around the bottom edge of the skirt and press the feather boa into the glue until the entire bottom edge is covered.Continue to wrap the boa upward in a loose spiral to create a feathered look.
Note that if the petticoat or tutu has a fringe at the bottom, you should glue the feather boa above this fringe. Do not overlap the fringe with the boa.
If you want a more elaborately feathered skirt, repeat this procedure with a second feather boa in a slightly different shade of blue. Glue this feather boa around the bottom of the skirt, directly above the boa at the bottom.
You can repeat this once more with a third feather boa in yet another shade of blue.
Let the glue dry before you continue.
 Take a desired material (such as blue felt or poster board) and trace a mask around your eyes, forehead, and over the bridge of your nose. Cut the shape out.


Make sure you cut holes large enough so that you can sufficiently see out of.
Thread a piece of ribbon or elastic on the sides of the mask. You will want to poke a hole using a pair of scissors or hole puncher to do this.
Or, to skip the above steps, you can purchase a simple craft mask at a craft store that you can then decorate.
 Use hot glue. Do this when the mask is not on your face. Start at the outside corner of one eye hole. Use a hot glue gun to glue the feathers so that they fan out diagonally from this corner.
Move in toward the inner corner of the same eye hole. Glue more feathers so that they fan outward to the same side, overlapping the previous layer of feathers but not the eye hole itself.
Repeat this procedure with the other side of the mask.
Trim a few feathers down to 1 inch (2.5 cm) lengths. Glue these pieces in the center of the mask, covering the overlap space between the two previously feathered halves.
Let dry.
 Now that you have the feathery parts done, you need to dress with a good foundation outfit. Try and stick with colors that will not stand out but will create a good background for your feathery accouterments.


For example, you could try wearing a leotard to bring more attention to your craftiness. Or, try and wear leggings and a tank-top.
You can wear simple black shoes, or if feeling more adventurous, try and mirror a bird's legs by wearing orange leggings/shoes.
 Everything should work together and you should look like a pretty blue bird!


The blue feathered skirt corresponds to the bluebird's blue feathered tail, and the blue mask similarly corresponds to the bluebird's blue face.
A chest of a bluebird is usually a mixture of tan and white, which is why a tan boa or white tank top may be used instead of blue ones.
A blue shrug or sweater represents the blue wings of a bluebird.

