 Running signals to the bear that you are prey worth chasing, and they are incredibly fast animals. Screaming or yelling will spook the bear into believing it is threatened. As hard as it may seem, keeping cool, calm, and collected will always be your best bet.
 If you see a bear from a long distance (greater than 300 feet), leave the area. If you need to continue on, make a wide detour around the bear. If the bear has not seen you, do not disturb it: retreat calmly and quietly, and then make ample noise when you are well away to prevent future chance encounters. But if you're up close and the bear notices you, stay calm and keep your distance, shuffling sideways to avoid tripping and keeping your eyes up., It doesn’t matter what you say, but say something as you retreat to the sides, keeping an eye on the bear. Your goal is to communicate to the bear that you are human (i.e. that you can defend yourself and are not frightened) while also letting it know that you are non-threatening, and that you are leaving its territory.


Never yell, scream, or make high-pitched noises!
Pick one phrase or mantra and just repeat it calmly: "There is nothing to fear, I am not here to cause harm," or something similarly calm and simple. It's not the words that matter, of course, but the tone and the fact that you keep saying them., Again, you must do this calmly and slowly. If the bear sees you and is closer than 300 feet (91.4 m), or if the bear is approaching you, remain calm and try to look as large as possible. Stand your ground and try not to look frightened. Some things to do include:


Open and spread your jacket wide at your sides.
Slowly raise and wave your arms, indicating that you are human and not prey.
Continue talking in a low, calm voice.
 If you've cornered the animal, get out of the way quickly but calmly. Remember that most bears are posturing and don't actually want to fight, but if the only way out is through you, they're going to take their chances. Immediately provide a pathway allowing them to escape.
 A little bear psychology can go a long way—your response to an attack should be shaped by the bear’s motivations. First, if a bear appears to be stalking you (disappearing and reappearing, for example), or if a bear attacks at night, it most likely sees you as food, and any attack will be predatory. If you surprise a bear on the trail, if the bear has cubs, or if the bear is eating from or protecting a carcass, the bear will most likely be acting in self-defense.


A bear attacking as a predator, no matter what type of bear, should be fought off. These bears are often desperate, but know that these attacks are extremely rare.
 If you are sure this attack is meant to see if you're prey (and only then), you should get louder and bigger. Stamp your feet, wave a walking stick menacingly, and or bang some pots and pans. Let it see that you aren't worth the effort. That said, don't hit it until it comes after you and makes contact. Never forget that their first charge is frequently a bluff-- hold your ground, but don't look meek.


Again -- this is not the norm. Predatory bear attacks are extremely rare, and you must read the situation appropriately.

