 Tap the App Store on your iPad to launch it.;
, Type in HP All-in-One Printer Remote on the search field.
 Locate the correct app and download it. Tap the Install button beside the app. It’s free.
 Locate the app on your iPad. Its icon has an HP logo on it with a printer and a tablet. Tap on it to launch it.
 Make sure both your iPad and your Windows computer are connected to the same Wi-Fi access point.
 To be able to transfer files between your devices, you have to enable file sharing on the iPad. On the left panel menu, tap the gear icon for Settings. Tap the Sharing menu then tap the File Sharing option to ON.
 Once file sharing on the iPad is turned on, a Port tab will appear with a URL beneath it. Copy this URL. You will need it to connect to the iPad from your computer.
 For added security during file transfers, it is recommended that you add a password to this connection. Tap the Password Required option to ON and input the Username and Password on the appropriate fields.
 Once you’re done setting up your iPad for file sharing, go to your Windows computer. Click the Start menu, and then choose Computer.
 In the Computer folder, click the “Map network drive” button on the header toolbar. This tells your computer that you’re adding another network or device for it to talk to. A Map Network Drive window will appear. Type in the URL you got from Step 3 on the Folder field.


Click the “Finish” button to initiate the connection with your iPad.
 Go back to the Computer folder. You should see a new item there under Network Location. This is the network folder shared from the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app from your iPad.
 Once the iPad is made accessible from your computer, you can access all the files stored with the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app. Double-click on the network folder you’ve just added to see the files inside.
 If you want to copy, move, or delete the files, use the basic Windows commands to do so. You can now treat this network drive as if it’s a local folder.


Do note that the files in the network folder aren’t really stored in your computer. They’re still on your iPad. You can just access them remotely.
 You can also send files from your computer to your iPad by putting the files inside the network folder. Whatever you put here will be transferred to the iPad.

