 The longer a stain is left to set, the more difficult it will be to remove. If at all possible, remove the stained clothing item immediately. If clothing cannot be removed immediately, at least try to remove excess food immediately, and coat the stain in cool water.Be careful while removing the offending item, as you do not want the stain to transfer to multiple areas. To prevent this, you can cup your hand over the stain as you remove it.;
, Once the garment has been removed, blot the area using a clean, white rag. Gently dab at the stain, avoiding a wiping or scraping motion, as these can bury the stain deeper into the fibers.Your rag can be damp or dry, but for this step, avoid an extremely wet rag. The goal here is not to transfer water, but to remove any lingering tomato residue.
 Fill a sink or small basin with fresh, cold water, and place the stained article of clothing into the water. If the stain is small, you can place the stained area into the cold water, instead of the entire garment.If you are using the sink, make sure to clean it thoroughly before using it for laundry. Stains transfer to fabric easily, so you do not want any debris left in your sink.
 Place a dab of laundry detergent onto the area and rub it in using your fingertip, making small circles. After 5 minutes have passed, rinse the area in cool water. If the stain is persistent, you can reapply the detergent and try again until the tomato stain has been eliminated.
 If you want to try using household items to get rid of tomato stains effectively, you can use any number of remedies found in your kitchen cabinets. Typically, the best way to go about this is to make a paste and rinse in cool water.Create a paste of water and cream of tartar. Apply this paste directly to the stain, then rinse with cool water.
Baking soda and water. Similar to cream of tartar, create a baking soda and water paste, then apply directly to the stain. Let it sit for ten minutes, then rinse with cool water.
Blue Dawn dish soap can be used. Apply an eraser-sized amount of Dawn soap to the stain, rubbing it in with your finger. Rinse the stain in cool water until the water runs clear and no more soap bubbles are visible.
 After applying your stain treatment, place the garment in the washer, using the cold water setting. If it is a large stain, you may want to place the garment in the washer on its own to prevent transferring the stain to another garment., After the wash cycle has finished, remove the clothing item and place it in the sun to dry. This will speed the drying process and help remove any residual staining.