 With so many brands and choices, it is easy to be overwhelmed with selecting a shampoo. When it comes to selecting the best shampoo, decide what your hair needs most. If you dye or add color to your hair, select shampoos that will protect your treatment. Also, most shampoos have extra benefits such as volume and shine. Purchasing multiple shampoos for different benefits is a good idea because most shampoos have a long shelve life. , Hair is both young and old, with the younger being closest to the scalp and the natural oils. By lathering from the root to the tip, you help move the oils to the oldest, driest parts of the hair. Doing this will help longer hair stay healthy without worries of dried, split ends.
 Washing hair boils down to two parts, the lather and the rinse. For the lather, a warm temperature helps ensure the shampoo gets a good lather while rinsing away soap particles. For the final rinse, cool water helps ingredients lock in to your hair.


Avoid using really hot temperatures. Too much hot water can damage hair and dry up your scalp.
Rinse out all soap. The amount of shampoo you use is up to you, but do not leave soap in your scalp.
 Shampoo does only so much for hair. Conditioner helps two fold. It makes hair more manageable, and it helps prevent split ends. Utilize a good conditioner after rinsing out your hair. When showering, leave the conditioner in your hair for a while before rinsing it out, and even then, spend less time rinsing out conditioner than you would shampoo.Figuring out the best conditioner for you can be trial and error. The key to a good conditioner is one that helps you style your hair.
 After a shower, our hair is at its most vulnerable. Fresh from cleaning, hair can be damaged easily if dried too aggressively. Be sure to damp the scalp and be gentle with the tips. For better drying, try a microfiber towel; it's smoothness and lightweight help ensure gliding through the hair. For another simple trick that is more cost efficient, use a t-shirt. A t-shirt will not have the rough grooves of a towel. The t-shirt can smooth out the hair and prevent the stripping away of essential oils of the scalp, and as an added benefit, it will help prevent frizz.