 This knowledge helps you understand the process of building your new coffee table. Any table is composed of 3 parts - a top, apron or stringers and legs.;
, The easiest top to make is from .75-inch (.19 cm) plywood. The plywood can have a finished side that is made from just about any veneer you choose, from pine to mahogany or cherry.


Cut the plywood to the size and shape you need. Most coffee tables are rectangular.
Generally, plywood edges are rough. Therefore, you will want to add banding or edging to the outer perimeter. Edging, with thin self-adhesive veneer on one side, can be applied to the perimeter following the manufacturer's directions. The edging must be slightly wider than the plywood.
Trim the edging until it is flush with the plywood surface using either an edge or utility knife.
 The dimensions discussed below are general measurements.


Use 1 x 4-inch (2.5 x 10.2 cm) or 1 x 6-inch (2.5 x 14.6 cm) stock.
Cut the stock to length approximately 3 inches (7.5 cm) less than the length and width of the table top. You will cut the ends with a miter saw at 45 degrees.
Take the apron pieces and assemble with the beveled 45 degree ends together by gluing and using corner clamps. Secure these with 2-inch (5.4 cm) brad nails.
 You need to screw a minimum of two on each side for cleats to attach the top.
 The most common for this project are made from untreated pine 4 x 4-inch (6.2 x 6.2 cm) posts cut to the length you chose for the height of the table minus the top thickness.


With the legs cut to length, sand the edges with sandpaper or use a round-over bit in a router. Also, chamfer the bottom of the leg to keep from chipping the ends when the table slides over.
 The most secure way is to screw it into place using deck screws. Pre-drill holes and counter-sink the screws to keep from splitting the ends of the aprons. Then fill with wood putty to hide the screw heads.
 Center the apron on the table top.


Now attach the apron and legs to the top with screws through cleats attached to the inside of the apron. Pre-drill the hole to keep from splitting the wood used for the cleat.



Wipe the dust from the coffee table using a lint-free cloth.
 Start by applying a coat of linseed oil rubbed into all exposed surfaces.


Rub down with "000" steel wool after the linseed oil has dried. Now, begin applying 3 coats of varnish with a brush or rag. Rub down the finish between coats with "000" steel wool and wipe with a lint free cloth.
