 Listen to how people speak in your area and see if you can detect a “posh accent.” If so, try to imitate it. Avoid contractions – for example, say "you will" instead of “you'll.” Use elongated vowel sounds, and avoid swearing; it shows a lack of manners and wrong conduct.;
, This is a very elegant, classy, and rare trait which is a valuable tool in becoming posh. You can work on your posture by taking drama classes, or walking around with a book on your head – it does work!

, It is useful to become politically, culturally, and religiously aware – even the most basic knowledge can save a person from embarrassment and awkwardness. If you know in advance that you will be spending time with someone of an unfamiliar background, it is a good idea to do more in-depth research to avoid embarrassing faux pas.
 Excellent presentation is half of the battle! If you’re a girl, never wear anything you feel uncomfortable in, even if it’s fashionable – it is important to remember that modesty is vital in earning the respect of others. Stick to nice colors. Don’t pick something violent or that stands out – look for anything light, clean, and fresh looking. However, remember that what matters most is how you carry yourself – brands and fashions are only the frosting.
 You cannot be posh if you are dirty and smelly: shower daily, brush your teeth regularly, and keep your nails groomed and clean. If you’re a girl, find a light but fresh scent and stick to it, and keep your hair clean with plenty of volume.
 This is very important! Posh people have good manners and know the boundaries in human relations. They know not to tread on toes but equally they know how to upbraid people who do. Manners are a form of currency for the posh person and the more you know of them, the better.
 Don't stuff your face with food – chew your food, don't make any noises or gulp it down, and don’t take huge bites. Avoid eating anything that could get messy or sticky. Don't slouch when you're sitting in a chair – press your back against it and press your feet against the floor, and avoid folding your arms; it can make you look unsure about who you are and where you stand.
 When necessary, voice your opinions appropriately and constructively. This encourages your audience to listen carefully when you speak. But if someone is bullying you, you have the right to insult. Always be nice to other people, unless you have something against them.
 Posh people are not materialistic - that easily becomes garish and common. Rather, posh people seek out quality and style whatever it may be - a handbag, a house, a car. Buy the best that your money can afford and go without the trinkets. Try not to buy badly faked designer items, for example, do not buy a trashy bag with a huge metal G on, or a metal tag that has been stuck on askew, as it will be obvious that it is fake, and will identify you as poor, a chav or a wannabe.
 Begin playing sports. Sports like hockey, lacrosse, golf and tennis are great; but always find the right type of exercise for you instead of joining the latest trend. Never over-eat or over-indulge. Posh people know their limits and respect them; especially since respect in the eyes of others is very important for a posh person.
 Stay intelligent and keen in school, and try hard in every subject you take. Always hand in homework, and don’t talk or pass notes in class. Ask questions and participate in class discussions. Help others if they're struggling, and don't suck up to your teachers. Just try hard, be punctual in everything and share your knowledge.
 Label your things and look after them to make sure they don't get lost or damaged, and try covering your text and school books in clear contact paper to make them look neater. Buy some nice pencils and pens, and make sure you always have enough of everything – constantly asking to borrow things isn't very posh. Go for light and neutral colors and items that are good quality. Don't buy anything in dark colors like navy blue or black.
 Having a selfish and nasty attitude towards others is never posh! Always have a smile on your face, and be willing to let people borrow things from you. Be nice to everyone, and never label people as “losers.” Everyone deserves a chance, so make sure you give it to them. Don't exclude people from games, gifts, or secrets, keep your promises and don't gossip. When someone gossips about someone else, politely tell them you find gossiping rather mean and would prefer not to. Never be impulsive or hot-headed – always keep your cool.
 If you just aren’t a posh person, don’t try to pretend you are – you’ll make more friends and be happier if you stick with who you are. Don’t let people convince you to be posh (or not posh) if you really are.

