 If you have a lot of apps running on your computer or phone, try closing them before making a call. Having too many apps open can drain your resources, which can cause dropped calls, choppy audio, and poor video connections.
 The best way to hear someone clearly is to use headphones or a headset. Try plugging some headphones into your phone or computer and see if it helps you better hear your friend (and ask your friend to do the same for you).


If you are using speakerphone on a smartphone, try switching to handset mode instead. Tap the speaker icon to change to handset mode, and then hold the receiver to your ear as you would a normal phone call.
 If you’re making audio or video calls over a wireless network, try a wired connection instead. Run an Ethernet cable from your computer’s networking card to the LAN port on your router. If this is not possible, try disconnecting other devices sharing the wireless network, or moving closer to the wireless access point.
 Poor Skype call quality can be the result of a slow Internet connection.Check the speed of your Internet connection and compare it to what you should be receiving from your service provider. Have your friend do the same.


If you or your friend determine that your connection is slow, you may still be able to chat on Skype by turning off the video portion of the call. Tap the video icon in the call to switch to an audio call.
 If the audio portion of your call is fine but your friend reports poor video quality, try moving into a room with better lighting.Overhead lighting is great, but you can also improve quality by positioning a lamp behind your camera, with the light shining on you.
 If your computer’s built-in webcam still underperforms, consider an external USB device. Skype recommends any external Logitech or Microsoft LifeCam model, as well as the HP HD WebCam HD-2300.If you’re already using an external webcam but experiencing poor video quality, try plugging it into a different USB port. Some computers have multiple USB ports that have different speeds—make sure your camera is plugged into the fastest port, if applicable.
 To be sure you’re getting the best possible performance, be sure to use the most up-to-date version of Skype on your computer or mobile device.The person with whom you’re chatting should also update their version of Skype.


Windows: In the “Help” menu, select “Check for Updates.” If an update is available, you’ll see the option to click “Download.” Follow the prompts to install the update.
Mac: Open the “Skype” menu and select “Check for Updates.” If an update is available, click “Upgrade.”
Android: In the Play Store, tap the ≡ menu and select “My apps & games.” If you see Skype listed in the “Updates” list, tap it and follow the prompts to update the app.
iOS: Search for “Skype” in the App Store, then tap it to view the details. If you see an “Update” button, tap it and follow the prompts.