 Not your debit card, but your credit card.


The only payment method you should use is credit card.This is the only payment option that protects you from Internet scams. Why? Because your bank has your back.
Usually, all banks have a period of 6 months or more from the initial transaction date when the customer can dispute the payment. Sure, it may take a while for your money to show up on your account, but it always does. This is also the reason why most replica companies offer a 6 months repairs warranty. They know that during this time the customer can make a chargeback if he isn't satisfied with the order. If you pay with any other form of payment, such as Bank Wire or COD then chances are that you won't get anything or you will get an inferior watch that will never be replaced or repaired.;
,


You will see that all Western Union or Bank Wire payments get an additional discount. This is because for a replica company, a Western Union or bank wire payment means no risks of a chargeback. They love this! If you don't like the replica or if it breaks then there is nothing that you can do except accept what ever solution they provide, if any.



Don't believe the old "no questions asked, money back guarantee" line.They will ask you tons of questions about what are your reasons for not being satisfied with the watch. If the reason is a defect, then they will request photos of this. And even if they accept your return, there are additional costs that you will have to pay, like the return shipping fees and a restocking fee. You will end up spending a lot of money and time on this.
Make sure it has a repairs warranty. A trustworthy company doesn't necessarily mean a good quality replica watch. Even if the fake watches website has the best intentions and provides the best services and guarantees, it may still end up delivering a faulty replica watch. This happens because the quality control of fake watches factories is very poor. As a result, buying again from a company that once sold you a perfect replica doesn't mean that you will get the same degree of quality. It's a game of chance. The only thing you can be certain of is that a decent store will always replace or repair a defective replica watch.



All replica companies will tell you that no one will be able to tell the difference between one of their replicas and the original watch. That's bogus! Of course, there are people who can tell the difference; people who know a thing or two about the authentic model. No matter how good the replica is, there are still some differences either at the outside or at the inside of the watch.
 Triple wrapped gold plated" replica are not actually 18 k gold plated watches. These have only a regular gold paint that will start to fade of or discolor only a couple of months. If you want to buy a fake watch, then the safest thing to do is to buy a full stainless steel one.
 No fake watch is or will ever be waterproof. All of the more expensive replicas have a rubber seal around the winding crown and case, but water will still get in. Again, this is due to the poor quality control. Keep this in mind and do not even think about exposing your replica watch to water! This will damage the knockoff and the warranty does not cover any water damages.
 There is no such thing as Swiss or Japanese replicas. No part of any replica watch is manufactured in Switzerland or Japan. Any small piece of a fake is solely produced in China. The so called 'Japanese replicas' are the medium quality ones, the 'Swiss replica's are actually the replicas with a more durable and accurate movement- the best you can find in China.
 Many replica websites use pictures copied from different sites or pictures of the original products. Contact the customer service and ask them for an actual photo of their products, one taken in their factory or warehouse and not in a professional studio.
 If a replica watches store says that it ships packages from USA or UK, this is designed to make the company look good. Its factory and warehouse is in China and all the orders are dispatched from there.

