 Before you send your album through the necessary channels, you need to make sure that it is polished and presentable. Create album artwork for it, edit all the song titles, and add a description if necessary.


Selling your music on iTunes can be fairly simple even for amateur artists, but you will have a great deal of competition to deal with, and your odds of having success will improve vastly if you make sure that your songs are in top condition.
If you have no experience with mastering and do not know how to polish the music up to commercial standards by yourself, hire an engineer or specialist to do it for you.
 Convert the files to WAV, set at a 44.1 kHz sample rate and 16 bit sample size. You can convert your audio files in iTunes by importing them to the library using the WAV encoder, set to custom settings., You also need cover artwork and complete track credits to submit before an online service will help you add your music to the iTunes store.


You must have rights to the artwork.
Aim to make the cover image a JPG file set to 1,000 by 1,000 pixels.
 Before you can sell your album, it needs to have a UPC code. Fortunately, obtaining one is pretty easy. You can obtain one by registering directly with the Uniform Code Council, or you can ask a CD manufacturer or distributor if they offer the service. The latter may prove to be a cheaper option. You can also get a UPC online through various online distributors like CD Baby or DiscMakers, and these tend to be even cheaper options.
 Even if you do not qualify to work with Apple directly, though, you can still work through a third party.
 Check the Apple iTunes application page for a list of approved aggregators. There are many to choose from, each offering different services at different prices, but TuneCore, CDBaby, and Songcast are among the most popular.


These will usually require you to pay a fee, but there are other aggregators like ADEDistribution that also provide a limited free service with few additional services.
When looking for an aggregator, stick with a company that allows you to retain your rights. If you sign over the rights to your music, you will no longer be able to alter or use it as you please.
Aggregators that allow you to keep all or nearly all of the royalties are also considered preferable since you will be able to earn more money off each sale.
Read the fine print. No matter how popular or frequently used an aggregator is, you should read all the fine print about costs, fees, and legal matters before subscribing to the service. If you do not understand the legal aspect of things, find an acquaintance who does or hire a law professional to review it with you.