 For the sake of discussion, consider the myriad issues and problems plaguing the Middle East. While complete understanding of these problems is impossible, there is a lot more to the area than ISIS and oil wars. To start better understanding it, you have to dive into the broader events and issues that have been affecting the Middle East for thousands of years, not just the events of the last six months.


What sorts of things do you think about when you think about the Middle East (or any region)? Do you have any actual evidence or proof of these beliefs, or could they be explored further?
Being understanding requires forgetting about your baseless ideas and stereotypes and diving deeper. Very few things in the world are black and white, and believing they are will get in the way of an open, inquisitive mind., More often than not, where a person lives has a far greater impact on what they do than any sort of conscience choice. The violence in the Middle East is caused by a myriad of sources, by one very large one is the incredible and lasting drought in the region -- the worst drought in 900 years.When people can't get basic amenities like water, they are much more prone using violence to protect themselves. Think about where people live to gain a deeper, more nuanced understanding of how they live.


Look no further than the United States for proof. While there is an overarching "American" culture, even light travel reveals that people have different attitudes and customs from state to state. Geography matters., Continuing with the Middle East, the current cycle of violence makes much more sense when you realize that, after World War I, European nations re-drew country boundaries to force warring tribes to live together.These long-standing conflicts were ignored by the British and French colonists, who wanted in-fighting to prevent rebelling against the Europeans. Unfortunately, this inter-country strife is rearing it's head again today in bloody civil wars, but these wars make much more sense when you know the underlying historical issues.


Understanding goes hand and hand with knowledge. The more you know about a region or group of people, the easier it will be to understand them., Understanding is less of a goal and more of a process. You can never "completely" understand a culture, but you can remain open-minded to new ideas and practices as they come to you. By trying to keep an open mind, letting go of old ideas in favor of learning everything you can, you remove the biggest roadblock to understanding others.


It is easy to say that "Islam is a violent religion" because of recent violence in the Middle East. But such a claim blinds you to the millions of peaceful, driven, and kind Muslims in the world, as well as Islam's own peaceful aspects.
 If you're traveling, bring around a collection of photographs from home, as this is an easy and immediate way to start conversations. Don't be afraid to share foods, experiences, and ideas. Understanding is a two-way street -- if you make an effort to share something from your life, most people will make an effort to share parts of theirs.


You don't have to travel to start this -- host an exchange student or family, go see a traveling cultural event from another country, or volunteer with a refugee program.
 The sorts of books, music, and movies people enjoy can say a lot about what they value. What are the sorts of quests their heroes embark on, for example? Currently, the US is in the grips of "superhero mania," which may suggest a desire that anyone can be extraordinary, as well as the growing powers and responsibility of god-like technologies. Even if your insight isn't quite as clear-cut, just sharing in the arts of another culture is a wonderful way to begin understanding it.


Think about how often you ask new friends, "what music/movies/tv shows do you like?" Humans bond and socialize over art, learning about each other indirectly.