 It’s normal for a fresh piercing to be pink; you just received a puncture wound, after all. However, redness that get worse or spreads to a larger area is a sign of possible infection.Keep an eye on your piercing and make a note about whether your redness is improving or worsening over a day or two.;
, The area around your new piercing will likely swell for about 48 hours as your body adjusts to what it perceives as an injury. After that time, swelling should start to go down. Worsening swelling, swelling that appears after a time of being normal, and swelling accompanied by redness and pain are symptoms of infection.Swelling can cause loss of function, like if your tongue gets swollen and doesn’t move easily. If the area around your piercing is too painful or swollen to move, you could have an infection.
 Pain is your body’s way of telling you something is wrong. The original pain from your piercing should subside within two days or so, around the same time that swelling starts to decrease. It’s normal for this pain to be stinging, aching, burning, or tender. Pain lasting longer than a couple of days or that gets worse may indicate infection.Of course, if you accidentally irritate your new piercing you’ll probably experience some pain. It’s pain that gets worse or doesn’t go away that you want to watch out for.
 With redness, swelling, and pain comes heat. If your piercing is really inflamed or infected it might feel like it’s giving off heat or even feel hot to the touch.If you’re going to touch your piercing area to check for heat, always wash your hands first.
 It is very normal and healthy for a new piercing to ooze some clear or whitish fluid that then might crust around the jewelry. This is lymph fluid, and it is a part of the healing process. On the other hand, thick whitish or colored discharge (yellow, green) is probably pus. Pus might have an unpleasant odor.Any thick, milky, or colored discharge should be considered a likely sign of infection.
 Discomfort you feel the day you get pierced probably isn’t infection; it generally takes a day or more for signs of infection to develop. It’s also unlikely that you will develop an infection in a piercing you have had for a long time and is already healed. However, infection in old piercings is possible if any sort of injury occurs to the area; any cut or opening in the skin can be a doorway for bacteria.
 If the piercing is in an area of the body more prone to infection, you should suspect infection more quickly. Ask your professional piercer about how likely your piercing is to become infected.



Navel piercings must be cleaned well. Because they’re in a warm, sometimes damp location they have a higher risk of becoming infected.
Tongue piercings have higher risk of infection because of bacteria in your mouth. Because of its location tongue infections can lead to serious complications like infection of the brain.