 Place room-temperature egg whites into an electric mixer or a food processor fitted with whisks. Beat them using a medium-low speed setting until they turn foamy.
 Keep beating the eggs using a medium-low speed setting until the eggs form soft peaks., Add the sugar 1 tablespoon (15 grams) at a time. Beat the eggs for about 30 seconds before each addition of sugar.Superfine sugar is also called "baker's sugar" or "castor sugar." It is not the same thing as powdered sugar or confectioner's sugar.
 How much you add depends on what color you want the cookie to be: pale pink, dark pink, red, etc. The more gel you add, the darker, deeper the color will be. You can also leave the hearts white, if you'd prefer., You can also use another flavor if you prefer. Strawberry or raspberry would work especially well if you are going to make the meringues pink.Be sure to stir it in well., Use a high speed setting this time.The mixture should not feel grainy if you rub it between your fingers., Cut open the tip of a piping bag. Insert a ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) wide decorator's tip into the bag.You can use a round tip or a star-shaped one. A round tip will give you smooth hearts, while a star-shaped tip will give you ridged hearts.

A large piping bag will work the best. If you use a small one, prepare to refill it often.
 Place the bag into a tall glass, then roll down the top edge over the rim. Use a rubber spatula to transfer the meringue into the bag. Twist the end of the bag shut and tie it off., You can also use a silicone baking mat instead. Use a light-colored baking sheet if you can. This will help prevent the meringues from turning brown., Start by making a tight question mark for the right side of the heart. Make a backward question mark for the left side.Make the hearts 2 to 4 inches (5.08 to 10.16 centimeters) wide.You can leave a small gap in the middle or fill it in.
If the bottom of the heart is too sharp, dip your finger in water and smooth it down.
If you want to make meringue ice cream sandwiches, make the cookies bigger., This allows them to form a crust at top and keeps them from cracking.During this time you can preheat the oven to 225°F (107°C)., If you have not already, preheat your oven to 225°F (107°C). Insert the baking sheets into lower third of the oven.Allow the meringues to bake for 1 hour. Don't worry if they don't look done at the end of the hour., Leave the meringues in the oven until the oven is completely cool. During this time, the meringues will finish drying at a lower temperature. By the time the oven is cool, they will be ready to use, If you have any left over, store them on the counter in an airtight container. They will last 1 to 2 weeks.Do not store them in the fridge, or they will absorb too much moisture.If you want to make the cookies fancier, read the next section for some decorating ideas., Melt some white chocolate in the microwave or in a double-boiler. Pour it into a piping bag fitted with a small, round tip. Drizzle the melted chocolate over each cookie in a zigzag, Add some sprinkles on top before the chocolate sets.Confetti sprinkles will look wonderful here, but you can use other types too.
 Melt some white chocolate using the microwave or a double-boiler. Dip a meringue heart halfway into the melted chocolate. Set it down onto a sheet of wax paper, then sprinkle colored sugar or sprinkles on top. Repeat for the rest of the cookies., Prepare buttercream frosting, then flavor it with strawberry puree or jelly. Pipe the buttercream onto the back of one cookie, then press another cookie on top., Coat the back of one heart with melted white chocolate. Flatten the top inch (2.54 centimeters) of a paper straw. Press it into the melted candy and place a second meringue heart on top. Squeeze the two together until the melted chocolate oozes out. Dip the edges of the pop in sprinkles to hide the melted chocolate.For an added touch, wrap some pink, white, or red satin ribbon around the middle of the straw and tie it into a bow.
 Use an ice cream scoop to place soft vanilla or strawberry ice cream onto the back of one of the hearts. Place the another cookie on top, and gently flatten it. Be careful not to break it! Do this for all of the cookies.The cookies will crack when you bite into them, but that's okay!

