 There are a number of different ways that you can lower yourself down into your chosen split position.


You can begin by practicing static stretching, which means getting into a position where you feel light tension and holding it for one to two minutes.
Try dynamic stretching, which involves a soft bounce the force of which is increased gradually.
Doing yoga may help you stretch toward a split. An instructor can help you by using straps, blocks, or the wall to increase flexibility and prepare you to do the splits.
If you want to be extra careful when training to do the splits, consider hiring a trainer to review and guide your movements. Trainers can personalize your routine and ensure your safety. Visit your local gym to inquire about personal training programs., If you don’t take your time and you rush to try to do the splits quickly, you could end up with strained muscles or otherwise injure yourself. Remember: your safety is of utmost importance.


Always warm up prior to stretching or attempting the splits.
When doing the splits, you should feel an intense stretch. You should not feel pain. If you do, stop immediately, as you are going beyond your limit., Doing the splits can take a week or it could take months, depending on how much you practice every day. It is certainly not something you can learn overnight, so you must be patient. Set a reasonable timeline based on your current ability for when you would like to be able to do the splits and practice accordingly.


If you are not at all flexible right now then you may need to practice more often or longer every day. For example, if you can't touch your toes bending down but you are determined to learn how to do the splits, then you could practice for half an hour daily. If, for example, you can already do side splits but want to learn how to do front splits, then you might only practice for 15 minutes every day.
The most important thing is to adapt the exercise routine to your needs and goals, being careful not to hurt yourself.
 Repeat your warm-ups and stretches at least once a day so that your body gets accustomed to this new range of motion.
 Theoretically, everyone should be able to do the splits with enough training; however, your body might not be able to reach the full range of motion required to do the splits without injury. If you are unsure of whether this is your case, it is best not to push yourself too quickly.


Understand that some people are born more flexible than others and acknowledge that splits are difficult. Keep doing your stretches, but only to the point where you feel comfortable.

