 These are the basics of good manners! You might be speaking to a teacher at school or a waiter at a restaurant, but you should always express your appreciation.Say “please” if you want something.
Say “thank you” if you are given something.
Say “no, thank you” if you want to refuse something.
If someone gives you a gift, write them a thank you note to express your gratitude.;
, There are certain situations in which you will need to excuse yourself. You may need to leave the dinner table early, or you may need to take a call in another room. Do not just disappear without saying anything. This is extremely rude. Try saying one of the following.


If you need to leave the dinner table, you may ask, “May I be excused?”
If you need to use the restroom, simply say, “Excuse me. I’ll be right back.” You do not need to tell them where you are going.
If your phone rings, say, “Excuse me. I need to take this call.” When you return, apologize to the other person, and explain that it was important. Only take the call if it is important. It is rude to be on your phone in social settings., The dinner table is not the place to be reading your phone or texts. You should put away all distractions during a meal so that you can speak to the people you’re eating with.


Eat most of what your host gives you, and at least try everything. If you have an allergy or special diet, try to tell your host as far in advance as possible.
Wait for everyone to get their food before you start eating. If you’re visiting someone, you do not start eating until your host begins. At a restaurant, wait until everyone has been served their food.
Chew slowly and quietly. Do not slurp noodles or soup.
Ask for food to be passed for you. Do not reach over the table.
Do not talk with your mouth full. Close your mouth while you eat., Always offer your assistance when you notice that someone might need help. Ask if there is anything you can do, even if you are certain that the other person will say no. Some ways you can help include:


Offer to help clean up after dinner.
Bring a dish to parties and events.
Drop off medicine to a sick friend.
Drive an elderly family member around on their errands.
 Maintain good hygiene by showering daily. Make sure that your clothes are clean and ironed. You should understand that different situations require different types of clothing. While jeans and a t-shirt may be fine for hanging out with friends, you should wear something nicer when at a wedding. There are certain guidelines you can follow while dressing:


Formal events — such as weddings, award ceremonies, and some religious ceremonies —require a nice cocktail dress or gown. Your dress should be at least knee-length, if not longer. Heels or nice flats are required.
Business formal (also known as business professional) includes tailored trousers, knee-length skirts, blazers, button-up shirts, and nice blouses. Heels are recommended. These would be worn in a corporate setting.
Business casual includes nice khakis, black slacks, button-up shirts, knee-length skirts, and cardigans. You can wear heels or nice ballet flats. This is for a more informal office setting.
Casual dress includes jeans, t-shirts, shorts, tank tops, short skirts, and sneakers. This should be worn when doing errands, hanging out with close friends, and during informal outdoor events., It is proper to sit up straight when you are at dinner or in a meeting. Brace your shoulders back so that they form a straight line. Stretch your neck so that your head is looking straight forward. Do not slump your shoulders or hunch over while you sit or walk. When sitting, do not lean back on your chair.Make sure to cross your legs or keep them together when wearing a skirt.
If you are having trouble correcting your posture, you can do core exercises, such as Pilates or yoga.