 If you wear a uniform, make sure to keep it in excellent condition - ironed, stain-free and neat. If there is no uniform, wear well kept, slightly formal clothing. This gives the customers a better first impression and will keep your boss happy. Check your appearance periodically to see if you look disheveled or have spilled something on yourself without noticing.


Keep your nails clean and tidily cut.
Wear nice looking shoes, not tennis shoes, and keep them tightly tied. Never wear sandals.
Refrain from wearing perfume or cologne as some guests may have allergies to these scents. Similarly, try not to smoke before work or during your break, as it can leave an obnoxious smell.
Keep jewelry and makeup subtle and unobtrusive.;
, Being familiar with every item on the menu will save you a lot of time and trouble when taking orders. Study the menu on your own time if necessary to avoid mistakes and slow orders.


Become familiar with every option for every order. If a customer orders a sandwich, you should know which breads are available, which sides come with the sandwich, and how to phrase these questions clearly.
Know which dishes contain meat, dairy, and common allergens, such as peanuts. Be ready to suggest similar alternatives for customers who cannot eat those ingredients.
Familiarize yourself with the daily specials before each work shift.
 Politely ask whether the customer would like a drink, a side, or an upgrade to their order. Management will love you for this and your tips will increase as your customers purchase more.


Know which liquors are expensive and high quality. Suggest their use when a customer requests a mixed drink.
Always ask if the table would like an appetizer.
Never be pushy or deceptive. Present the option to the customer politely, and don't try to pass off an upgrade as though it were free.
 You'll have a much easier shift if you can accomplish three tasks in one trip to the kitchen and back. Take empty dishes from tables whenever you're on your way to the kitchen. Fill up a tray when several tables want condiments, drinks, or similar items instead of carrying them out one by one.Unless you are an experienced waitress who can confidently remember every task, write your orders down immediately and make additional notes if you need to remember to do something in five or ten minutes.
 Keep track of how long its been since you checked on each table, and become familiar with how long each meal takes to cook. Plan to visit each table after they've finished each course. Move briskly without running and try to maintain a steady pace to keep everything running smoothly.Pass on your knowledge of waiting times to the customer. If someone orders a well done steak, let them know it will take longer. If a soup just ran out and the cook needs to make a new one, let the customer know how long that will take and suggest an alternative.
 Especially when there are special requests involved, you can save everyone a lot of headache by making sure the order is correct before bringing it to the table.


If an order has been messed up, let the kitchen and the customers know. Apologize for the additional delay and, if allowed in your restaurant, try to give them a discounted meal or something extra to make up for it.
 Most customers want ketchup with their burger. Kids frequently drop their silverware. Once you get to know which requests are popular with which meals and customers, bring them to the table in advance. This saves both you and the customers time and makes them feel taken care of.


Extra silverware, condiment packets, and napkins can be kept in your apron pocket if you have one.
 Never complain to a table about a bad tip, no matter how great your service was. Not only could you get yourself fired but it sets you up as the complaining type and creates bad relations with the other waiting staff.


Some people never tip appropriately regardless of service. Others may not be able to afford the tip, or may be visiting from a country where tipping is not common practice.
 If you have no customers to take care of, clean! There's always work to be done in a restaurant. Show your employer that you're able to take initiative and work hard.


If your current tables do not require attention, look at the other customers as well. Some of them may be trying to flag down a waitress for a small request that you can fill without stepping on the toes of their waitstaff.

