 One of the main reasons it's sometimes difficult to maintain a sleep schedule is electronic lighting. Electronic lights stimulate the brain, resulting in you not feeling tired at sunset. In order to help you ease into a segmented sleep schedule, shut off electronic lights when you're getting close to your sleep times.During the day, it can also help to darken the room by closing the blinds.
 The light emitted from electronic screens can stimulate brain activity, making sleep difficult. Before your set sleep segments, stay off electronic devices like phones and laptops.Instead of using your phone near sleep times, try doing something relaxing like taking a warm shower or reading a book.
 One major issue with segmented sleep is social commitments. If you're usually asleep between six and seven, for example, this can pose an issue when making dinner plans with a friend. Strive to plan social events around your schedule. Remember, the stricter you are with a sleep schedule, the easier it is to maintain.Let friends and family members know that you're practicing segmented sleep. Explain to them what times you will be napping or in bed.
Try to plan your social calendar around when you'll be asleep. You can also adjust sleep times depending on your preferred methods of socialization. For example, if you like to stay out late on the weekends, plan nighttime sleep segments for later in the evening.
 Many people practice segmented sleep to achieve more during the day. If this is your goal, you may be wired by the time you need to get back in bed. If you've been doing something stimulating, like writing, it can be difficult to turn your mind off. Look for effective ways to unwind so you can easily stick to your schedule.Have a pre-sleep routine you stick to before each sleep segment. Your brain will learn to associate certain activities with bedtime. For example, read a book before each sleep segment.If there's something stressing you out or occupying your thoughts, give yourself 15 minutes to write it out before bed. This way, troublesome or stimulating thoughts will be out of your system near bedtime.
Do not use your bed for anything other than sleeping. You do not want to associate your bed with stimulating activities.

