 Combine the quinoa and water in a small saucepan. Put on the lid and bring the mixture to a boil over medium heat. Once boiling, reduce the heat to low and cook the quinoa for 30 minutes. Remove the pot from the heat and let the quinoa rest for 10 minutes.After 10 minutes, remove the lid, stir the quinoa, and set it aside to cool for at least an hour.;
, Fill a medium saucepan with water. Bring the water to a boil over medium heat. When the water is boiling, gently add the eggs. Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer the eggs for six minutes. Remove the eggs from the water with a slotted spoon and run them under cold water to stop the cooking process.Set the eggs aside to cool fully for at least 30 minutes.
 In a blender, combine the lemon juice, vinegar, garlic, oil, honey, and ginger. Process the ingredients for one to two minutes, until the mixture is smooth and all the ingredients are incorporated.For some extra heat, add 2 teaspoons (10 g) of Dijon mustard to the dressing as well.
If you don’t have a blender, mince the garlic and ginger and combine all the ingredients in a small bowl. Whisk everything together until the ingredients are fully incorporated.
 Combine the arugula, tomatoes, cucumber, cooled quinoa, and almonds in a large mixing bowl. Drizzle the dressing over the ingredients and toss everything together to coat the vegetables with the dressing. Add salt and pepper to taste, and stir to combine.Instead of cherry tomatoes, you can use beefsteak, heirloom, Roma, or other tomato varieties. With larger tomatoes, cut them into bite-sized chunks.
Instead of arugula, you can use kale, lettuce, spinach, or any combination of leafy greens.
Other additions you can make to this salad include a diced bell pepper, ½ cup (113 g) of cooked bacon, or ½ cup (75 g) of Prosciutto., Tap each egg gently with the butt of a knife to break the shell. Use your fingers to peel the shells from the eggs, being careful not to damage the eggs as you peel. Transfer the peeled eggs to a cutting board and cut each one in half., Divide the salad into four equal portions and transfer the salad to individual serving bowls. Garnish each bowl with two egg halves, a few slices of avocado, and a sprinkling of fresh herbs. Season with extra salt and pepper before serving.

Good herbs for this salad include dill, mint, and basil.
You can also garnish the salads with fresh sprouts and cheese if you like.