 The title is the first thing that people browsing Craigslist will see. Make sure that it is both eye-catching and informative. If you don’t give enough details, people may not click the ad to see what you’re offering.


If you are selling something include a few descriptions of the quality of the object you are selling. Make sure to lead the title with the object, followed by some descriptors. Use caps sparingly to add emphasis. Consider some of the following phrases:

LIKE-NEW
One owner
Mint
NEED TO SELL
Works GREAT


If you are listing an apartment or house, use homey words to create a sense of comfort in the reader. Include the basics of the property, including number of bedrooms and bathrooms, as well as square footage.
 The description is the bulk of your post. This is the body of your ad, and what users look to for details. Set yourself apart with good grammar and spelling.


Tell a story. This is a very useful tactic when selling something. Never say you want to get rid of something because you don’t like it anymore. Instead, let someone know that you’re upgrading, or that you need to sell because you’re moving.
Talk up the product. Approach the ad as a salesperson would. Tell the reader why he or she needs your product as opposed to all the others that showed up in their search results. Include specs and details to make the ad appear more professional.

Compare your asking price to the object’s initial cost. This will drive home the value that the reader will be getting if they buy from you. It helps put the price into perspective. This is very useful for more expensive items.


When advertising a rental property, give a detailed description of both the interior and exterior. Discuss the good aspects of the neighborhood, such as schools, close proximity to good food, recreation, etc. Mention any new renovations. Also make sure that you outline when new tenants can move in, as well as rental costs.
If you are offering a job, include the amount of time the job is expected to take as well as compensation. Discuss qualifications needed, as well as what applicants can expect if they get hired. You can typically leave compensation as DOE (Depending on Experience).
If you are offering your services for potential employers, sell yourself. Play to your strengths and list everything that you are capable of (in regards to that particular field). Treat the post as you would a cover letter for a resume. Let anyone who reads it know that you are the best person for that job.
If you are writing a personal ad, get creative! Make your post stand out with witty writing, poems, and more. A unique post is much more likely to get noticed than a typical “dating site” post. Craigslist is a crazy and anonymous place, so have fun and be safe!If you are posting to find a relationship, remember to sell yourself much like you would a product. List all of your strengths, and what makes you unique. Be assertive in your post, and let readers know that you know what you want. Make sure that your personality shines through in your writing.
Be sure to avoid any identifying personal information. Make initial contact through an email that can’t be connected to your real name, address, or occupation.
 Use the Craigslist picture uploader tool to add photos from your computer to your post. You can add multiple pictures, but the first one is the one that will appear next to your listing.


Pictures help immensely when selling a product. If a reader is looking for a physical object to buy and there is no picture, they are very likely to skip over it. Potential buyers like to be able to see the condition of what’s for sale.
When selling a car, make the first picture a profile shot of the car. Use the other photos to show the interior and other angles.
When advertising a rental property, show the front of the house or apartment in the first shot. Use the other picture for interior shots, as well as the backyard and other angles.
If you’re posting a personal ad, you have to decide how comfortable you are with posting your picture for strangers to see. If you do decide to use a picture, make sure that it is flattering and does not violate any Craigslist rules.
Craigslist will soon be phasing out direct linking to external images. If you want to add images to your post and you don’t want your post flagged, be sure to use the uploader. Craigslist does allow simple text links in ads to other pages, so since buyers like to see many high quality photos, you may find it helpful to use a service like photobucket, listhd, or classpics to add images then add a text link in your craigslist ad "for more images".
 Craigslist supports basic HTML coding for posts, which allows you to manipulate the text. You can make text bold, italic and different colors, use bullet points, and more. Check out the Craigslist help page for specifics on the code that is available and how to use it. Using bullet points for features can really help buyers understand your item much quicker as opposed to having it all in paragraph form.
 Select the city that you want to post you ad in. Craigslist is separated by cities and regions.
 Every post on Craigslist starts here.
 The broad categories are broken down into 6 general sections: Jobs, Housing, For Sale, Services, Personal, and Community. Choose the starting point that best matches the ad you are posting:


"job offered"
"gig offered" (short-term, small, and odd jobs)
"resume/job wanted"
"housing offered"
"housing wanted"
"for sale by owner"
"for sale by dealer”
"item wanted"
"service offered"
"personal/romance" (missed connections)
"community"
"event"

, For example, in Services Offered, you can choose from: automotive services, beauty services, computer services, financial services, real estate services, and more.


Each category has subcategories to pick from. Choose the one that most suits the needs of your ad. For example, if you are selling a video game system, be sure to put it in the “video gaming” category and not the “toys & games” or “electronics” category. This will make your ad easier to find.
If your ad fits multiple categories, try to find the most applicable one.
 Each main Craigslist city or region is broken down into subareas. Your ad will still be posted in the main site for the larger area, but this will help you find local buyers and sellers.
 If you are advertising a yard sale or something where an address is necessary, include it here. Otherwise, be sure to leave out any identifying information.


Many posters use this field for phone numbers and websites. Be sure to include http://www so that it is a live link.
 The price field will appear for posts that are related to selling items. Make sure to set a fair price, and you can include OBO (“or best offer”) if you are willing to negotiate.
 Craigslist needs a contact email in order to create a post. The default email option will anonymize your email, which means that no one can see it from the site, or when they respond to an ad.


The anonymous email only works for the first email from the site. Any subsequent emails between you and the other party will display your actual email. It is recommended that you create an email address specifically for your dealings on Craigslist.
You must put a valid email address in order to receive the confirmation email from Craigslist that will allow you to publish your post.
 Craigslist now gives you the option to put your post on an interactive and searchable map. This will allow people to see where you are offering something.


You can just enter your city and postal code, or you can choose to enter your exact address as well. A small map will be added to your post, and your post will appear when people do map searches.
 Once you have chosen your images, you may be asked to complete a CAPTCHA and then you will receive an email from Craigslist. This email will have a link to your post, where you can make any final edits before publishing it.


Some sections of Craigslist require verification over the phone before your post can be published. This is to cut down on automated spam posts.

