 This method calls for three pieces of 8.5”x11” paper to make the folder.Generally speaking, the heavier the paper you use, the more durable the folder will be. Heavy cardstock paper is preferable followed by construction paper, but you can use regular printer paper if you have to.


The paper dimensions here assume that you’ll store mostly lined paper in the folder. If you need to store printed documents that already use 8.5”x11” paper, then your three sheets should be slightly larger. However, the paper size does not have an effect on the rest of the folder-making process.
If you must use regular printer paper, you can use six sheets instead of three and use a glue stick to double up each sheet.
 Take two of your sheets of paper and line them up so they are completely flush with one another. If you chose cardstock with a design on one side only, then make sure that the design on each sheet faces outward because these will be the front and back covers of your folder., With the two pieces of paper flush, use a long strip of tape to make a spine and attach the two sheets.Apply the tape so that half of the strip runs the length of one of the 11” sides of the first sheet, and then fold the tape around to adhere the second half of the strip to the second sheet.


Try to adhere the tape to both sheets without causing any creases or bubbles in the tape.
Make sure the two sheets stay flush as you tape or the folder won’t close symmetrically.
To reinforce the folder, you can also place additional strips of tape on each cover that overlap the edge of the first piece of tape., Once you have the outer spine taped, open the folder and place another strip of tape in the same spot but along the inside fold.This will reinforce the spine of the folder, and it will also adhere to the other piece of tape so that it doesn’t stick to your folder contents.
 To start making the pockets, you must first trim approximately 1/4” off the width of the third sheet of paper. By width, that means you will trim along the length of the paper. The end result will be a sheet that is 8.25”x11” in size., You will use this one sheet of paper to make both inner pockets on the folder, so you need to cut it in half. This cut will be perpendicular to the trim cut, and you will end up with two pieces of paper that are both approximately 5.5”x8.25”, Take one of the smaller pieces and line it up with one of the bottom corners of the inside of the folder. You want to place the smaller sheet so that the 8.25” side runs parallel to the 8.5” side of the folder cover. Once you have the corners perfectly aligned, apply strips of tape that fold around both edges the same as you did in step 3.


Again, try to keep the tape straight without any creases or bubbles.
As with the tape on the spine, you should reinforce the pockets with additional strips of tape that overlap the edges of the first strips. This will increase the life of the folder by quite a bit.
Repeat the process for the second folder on the other side.
 If you chose plain paper as opposed to cardstock with a design, you can easily personalize your folder with stickers, drawings, or even subject-specific pictures.

