 If you worry your child may have ADD, make an appointment with a child psychiatrist. Only a trained mental health professional or doctor will be able to test for the condition.


Prepare for the appointment ahead of time. Make a list of your child's symptoms and any difficulty he or she has in school. Take stock of personal information regarding your child, including any recent changes that may affect his or her behavior.Make sure you know all your child's medications, including any vitamins or herbs you give your child. Such things can potentially affect your child's behaviors, causing symptoms similar to ADD.If your child has been tested for ADD or other mental health disorders before, bring any evaluations you have with you. Sometimes, schools may do testing for ADD and then recommend your child see a psychiatrist., On the scheduled day, bring your child to his or her doctor's office. Be open with your child about what's going on but phrase things in non-judgmental terms.


It's important to phrase things in non-judgmental terms for your child. You do not want your child to feel stigmatized for having a mental health issue. Instead of saying something like, "We're going to the doctor to see what's wrong" try something like, "We're going to the doctor to see how we can help you."
Evaluations for ADD are primarily a matter of information gathering. A doctor or psychiatrist will ask your child a lot of questions. If your child is too young to answer or understand all the questions, you may have to step in and help on occasion.Your doctor or psychiatrist may give you a series of questionnaires regarding your child's behavior. These will have to be filled out by family members, teachers, and babysitters.As a lot of information must be gathered to diagnose ADD, it's unlikely that a single appointment will be enough. You'll usually be asked to come back for a follow up, with all the information you and your child were asked to fill out., Symptoms of ADD can be caused by underlying medical conditions. To rule out a medical cause, your child will have to have a basic physical. Depending on the child's age and medical history, additional exams or blood work may be required.Your child’s vision and hearing may also be evaluated if there are any concerns.
 Your psychiatrist or doctor will ask you a variety of questions about your child's behavior. Strive to answer all questions to the best of your ability.


You will be asked about symptoms of other mental health conditions such as anxiety, depression, or conduct disorders. These can cause symptoms that are similar to ADD, and may often go along with ADD as well.
You will be asked basic questions about your child's behavior. Your doctor will want to know when the troubling behavior started, how severe the behavior is, and whether it occurs all the time or only in certain situations.The doctor will also ask about your child's eating, drinking, and sleeping habits. He or she will want to know whether your child gets enough sleep, whether your child consumes caffeine, and whether your child's diet is high in sugar.You will also be asked about your discipline methods as a parent and the typical daily routine in your home.Keep in mind symptoms must be ongoing for at least 6 months to warrant an ADD diagnosis.Symptoms that have been occurring for a short period only could be the result of a variety of factors, like changes to your household or routine.
 You should ask questions. ADD can be a confusing disorder and difficult to deal with as a parent. Have some questions ready when going into an appointment.


You will probably have questions about how to proceed if your child does have ADD. Ask your doctor about the various treatment options and what resources are available for parents.If you're considering medication for your child, be sure to ask about side effects and the best means to administer medication.Ask for printed materials or website recommendations you can use to learn more about ADD., Diagnosing ADD is a long process. In order to help get the big picture, you'll need to see a variety of specialists in addition to your child's regular physician.


Clinical psychologists, social workers, school psychiatrists, teachers, learning specialists, and others involved in a child's life and education will be consulted to make a diagnosis. Learning and language disorders can also have symptoms that are similar to ADD and may also affect how it is treated, so your child's teachers and other school personnel can help with the evaluation and treatment of ADD. As a parent, providing as much information as you can regarding your child's behavior, schedule, and symptoms can help the process.Be proactive about getting your child diagnosed. If your child does have ADD, the sooner a diagnosis is made the better. Check in with any doctors or specialists you see to get test results and assessments. Make appointments with any specialists recommended by your doctor as soon as you can. Call your child's school and speak to the principal. Be open about the fact you are trying to determine if your child has ADD. By law, public schools are required to assist you in these matters.During the course of diagnosis, there will be a variety of test taking an information gathering. Your child will likely have to take standardized screenings for ADD. He or she may also need to take a basic IQ test and psychological tests that measure social adjustment. A family medical history is important to diagnosis as are interviews with a child's teachers, babysitters, and other caregivers. You can help by staying up-to-date on what information is needed. Try your best to provide this information at the request of doctors and specialists.