 Find a horse riding school, barn or farm that specializes in the type of riding you want to learn. Once you find the credited instructor that teaches the kind of riding you want to do, start taking lessons.;
, For the lessons to be effective it is recommended for lessons at least once every other week, but ideally at least once a week is best.
 This depends on the type of riding you want to do, but there are a few staple things every equestrian needs to wear whilst riding.
 This is the most important part of your riding attire. It must fit properly and be certified to the helmet standards relevant for your country. (For example, ASTM/SEI certified.) Remember that the helmet must be replaced every time you have a bad fall, except for a few special helmets. Don't skimp on the quality of a helmet because a helmet can save your life––they regularly prevent severe injuries to many riders.
 Wear thick pants, jeans or breeches. This is to protect your legs from saddle sores and to help you grip the saddle.
 Wear hard toed shoes with a 1-inch heel; this will prevent your foot from slipping through the stirrup.
 Wear your hair back with a hairband and perhaps a hairnet as well.
 You may find some of the following help:


belt
chaps
gloves
crop.
 Don't try anything on your horse that you haven't done with your riding instructor. Until you can be considered an advanced rider yourself, it just isn't worth the problems that might arise for you when it's unfamiliar.


Don't push yourself too hard, or you'll end up getting hurt.
You know yourself when you're at your limits. If your instructor asks you to do something and you're uncomfortable doing it because you don't think you're ready, don't do it. Just tell your instructor that you feel unsafe doing it yet.
 Even if it's just a short ride from one end of the yard to the other, put that helmet on. Horses can get spooked by anything. Even if you think your horse is bombproof its not. You can't predict a gunshot, or a deer jumping out of the woods. Also, don't ride without a helmet because you think you have a "bond" with your horse. Horses are flight animals and they run at the first sign of danger, regardless of that special bond.
 This is important because if you stay on the horse, you could end up getting more hurt than had you dismounted as safely as possible, rather than getting bucked off and thrown into a wall.


If you do fall off, make sure that you're out of the horse's way. However, stay down for a few minutes to make sure you're not hurt too badly. Then, slowly assess yourself, first wiggle your fingers and toes. Next, your hands and feet. Then feel your head, check for any blood. Next slowly, slowly, sit up. Sit for a minute, then try moving your legs. Next slowly stand up and retrieve your horse.

