 The female neck is often thinner, though not necessarily longer, than the male neck. While male necks will often begin at the jawline, a female neck should begin notably inside that. Use the outside of your eyes as a guide. The clavicles (the two lovely curved collar bones) are usually more pronounced in females, as are the tendons that run up the neck between the clavicle and the head.
 Female shoulders are generally narrower than male shoulders, and are slanted downward at a steeper angle.
 The breasts are the most obvious addition to feminize the silhouette, but they aren't the most important. Femininity is summed up by the softly curved, rounded hourglass silhouette. The top of the hourglass is not created by the breasts--it is created by the shoulders. The shoulders and hips should be spaced roughly equal, with the torso narrowing significantly in the midsection. The narrowest spot should be just below the ribs, and just above the navel. Creating this silhouette will feminize even the most poorly 'endowed' figures. When articulating the abdomen, many people gravitate to a complete straight, even concave belly. Even when illustrating a very fit woman, the very curve of her frame will create a gentle, round slope beginning at the navel and descending to the groin. The buttocks are similar in that extra roundness in this area will feminize any silhouette (male or female!)

, Female limbs are generally more slender than male limbs, and less muscularly articulated. This is because woman have a greater ratio of body fat to muscle mass than men do. This obscures most of the muscular striations. Because of this, articulate your muscles softly. It is not necessary to make your females flaccid and unfit to feminize them, simply use a gentle hand and avoid hard, sharp lines when illustrating muscles. It is also important to note that women carry more mass (fat and muscle) below the waist than above it, and the legs will often be round and substantial, even with slender arms.


Work hard on the hands. A small palm with slender fingers, tapered at the tips to avoid looking 'stubby'. The wrist bone will also be more pronounced here than on most male figures.
Work equally hard on the feet. As above. Small, slender, with more articulated anklebones.

