 When roasting beef, red wine is the best option. The added acidity tastes great with the beef texture. Beef roasts pair best with light or medium-bodied red wines. For a beef stew, you might select Sangiovese. For fattier cuts of beef, you might choose a bolder red wine like Barolo or Napa Cabernet.Sangiovese comes in two basic varieties. One is a fruitier variety like the type produced by Ciacci Piccolomini d’Aragona. The other is the rustic and traditional variety typified by Casisano Colombaio Brunello di Montalcino. This type has a bit of an oregano aftertaste and is very savory. Both taste great with roast beef.Barolo might be hard to find at a bargain price. A cheap bottle is about $30.Napa Cabernet tends to be expensive, but you can find a Sauvignon Blanc from the Napa region for under $20 per bottle. Popular producers include Cake-bread, Joseph Phelps, and Hall.;
, Lamb is more delicate than beef, and tastes great with a bold red wine like Malbec, Touriga Nacional, and Petit Verdot. Each of these wines has its own unique flavor that you should look for at a discount price.Malbec is known for flavors of blackberry, plum, and cherry. It doesn’t have a long finish, and also pairs well with blue cheese, mushrooms, and cumin.Touriga Nacional has a rich taste that can encompass blueberry, plum, and blackberry. It matches well against other flavors like potatoes, cheese, cauliflower, cilantro, dill, and apple. Portuguese red wines blended with Touriga Nacional are available for $10-$12.Petit Verdot evokes flavors like blackberry and blueberry. It also pairs well with cheeses, mushrooms, raisins, chestnuts, anise, cloves, and cinnamon. Petit Verdot is available for $12-$20 per bottle., Unlike most roasts, veal generally pairs best with white and rose wine.For instance, you might enjoy White Burgundy (Chardonnay), German Rieslings, or Austrian Grüner Veltliners.Austrian Grüner Veltliner is a dry white wine. It is native to Austria and, in addition to veal, pairs well with cheese, potatoes, green beans, spinach, celery, broccoli, ginger, and allspice.White Burgundy (Chardonnay) is an extremely popular wine with hints of apple and citrus. You should be able to obtain a bottle of Chardonnay for less than $20.German Rieslings are white wines with nutty or honey-like flavors. Except for Kabinett varieties (which is dry or off-dry), Rieslings tend to be sweet.A heavier veal dish might pair well with Chianti or Pinot Noir.