 These offer the best price. Many modern opaque sites will allow you too choose everything you want by showing you the best deals.;
, Enter the location and arrival and departure dates, and then browse the results. You can often narrow the results by free accommodations, cost, and rating. Motels and inns are often cheaper than hotels, and free breakfasts are usually cost- and time-efficient.


Major travel sites. You can also compare all the major travel sites at once with hotel comparison sites. You can even compare hotels within each site by checking the box next to hotels you like and then clicking on the 'Compare' button. This way, you will have page view of three hotels side-by-side that you can also print for later review. Some hotels do not include free internet, breakfast etc. That can be seen using this 'Compare' feature.
 These sites are very popular today. They allow you to instantly search hundreds of different travel websites and then post the lowest rates. Using these search engines to find and sort hotel rates can save time and money. Don't forget to check DealAngel to make sure the rate you book is actually a bargain.
 These sites can offer lower prices because the rates aren't available to the general public. Vacationist is a members-only site that holds special sales on luxury hotels around the world. Hotel Engine is a members-only site that offers discounted rates on a ton of hotels and claims to beat the prices found on other sites most of the time. Membership in both clubs is free.
 If you are flexible about the date of your stay, investigate different days of the week or an alternative week.
 If the hotel is merely a place to stay, consider a motel or inn instead, with a free continental breakfast so you can continue with your trip quickly. If you'll be staying at the hotel with loved ones for two or more days, consider spending more for nicer stays.
 Sometimes it will pay off to pay more for a hotel nearer your destination.
 These include free breakfasts, Wi-Fi, elevators, and swimming pools. Most places offer a free breakfast and Wi-Fi, both make your stay more convenient and efficient.
, Investigate the prices on the site. Do they have any specials? Sign up to be notified of any specials by email. Note the prices for the date you'll be traveling.



Tell them you are interested in getting a good deal. When they say the price, make a counter offer and take a hard line when negotiating. Most hotels will offer very good deals for the night after 6:00 P.M. if they have a lot of unsold inventory (otherwise the revenue will be lost on those rooms). After 8:00 P.M., you may be able to negotiate to a 75% discount, especially with smaller, owner-managed, hotels.
Ask for any discounts. Most places don't advertise the discounts, but will offer them upon being asked. There are multiple types of discounts, so see if you'll qualify for one or two of them:

Automobile association cards
Senior rates
Entertainment cards
Business traveler rates
Government/veteran rates
Discounts for booking more than one room, or staying more than one night.


Ask if the hotel will match its price with a cheaper hotel of similar quality.
 After you've gathered the details, you can book your room and be confident that you are getting the best rate possible.
 If you are a walk-in guest (meaning you don't have reservations at the hotel) take advantage of the front desk staff. Tell them you're only looking for a place to sleep, and ask them for the best deal they can give you. Chances are, they'll lower their advertised price in order to keep you from walking out the door. Most hotels are willing to negotiate their rates down by about $20. In the eyes of the business, selling a room for $20 less than planned is better than not selling the room at all.
 If a hotel isn't full, you can often get an upgraded room, like a king bed or corner room, just by asking. This may not save money, but it will get you more for the money you are spending.

