 Most traditional business cards are printed on one side with the back side left completely blank. One creative way to make your business card stand out is to use the back of the card as well as the front.You may want to include a picture, image or photograph that is related to your business or position on the back of the card.
The back of your card could serve as a place to list services or products that your business offers.
Printing on two sides costs more than one, so take that into account when budgeting.
 Many printers can use the die-cut process to cut holes in your cards in order to make your business card functional or unique. You can die cut a business card to give it a different shape, or to make the interior of the card stand out.You can cut holes that fit the size of a typical rolodex to make your cards more practical for some people. However, most people use an electronic version of a rolodex instead.
Cutting holes through the middle of the card may be a good novelty for certain products and services. A company that specializes in replacing windows may want to have a hole cut through it with a design that makes it seem like a broken window.
Dies are expensive to create but become more economical based on the number of business cards you order.
 Another way to make your business card stand out is to have your card’s information printed on unusual materials. There are many different kinds of materials you may want to have business cards printed on, but be aware of the cost associated with each.You may want to print your card on thin wood or metal. These would be the most expensive options but offer a significant “wow” factor.
Tech companies may want to use plastic that resembles a computer chip for their business cards,
Different materials can make your card stand out visually but also by touch when someone is looking for your card among other business cards they have collected.
 Using different materials or the die-cut method can allow you to create business cards that serve a number of purposes. You may want to die cut slits that permit your card to be folded into something or have your information printed on materials that serve other purposes.You could cut your card to be foldable into something that holds smart phones or office supplies like a pen or pencil.
You may want to have the information printed directly onto things like keychains or even pet treats a person could give their animal. The business card will go away when it’s fed to a pet, but the card would certainly leave an impression.
 QR codes are comprised of black and white squares and can be read by various devices such as smart phones. QR codes often contain website addresses, so when a person scans the QR code on your business card it takes them to a specific website.You may want to include a QR code on the back of your business card that takes people to your company’s website.
If you work by commission or need to maintain personal relationships with customers or clients you may want to use a QR code that takes people to a form they can use to contact you.
 Even non-traditional business cards must contain all the necessary information to help someone reach you. Make sure your name, title, and contact information is easily read and understood regardless of design and materials used in printing your business cards.Different inks may be necessary to keep your information clearly visible on different materials.
Make sure the design elements don’t clutter the card so much that it’s hard to find the information someone needs to contact you.
 Make sure that the card you design is something you can order in quantity and re-order when you need to. Non-traditional cards can be extremely costly to design and produce so you should make sure you can afford to have as many of the cards made as you need.The more complex the design of your business card, the higher the cost to produce them will likely be.
Ask your printer to keep any dies or special materials they create to produce your cards to reduce the cost of having new ones printed in the future.
There is no need to spend a ton on business cards, especially since the information on most business cards is transferred to an electronic version.

