 A good relationship with your teacher can mean recommendations to a university or even a job. Getting your first job is difficult without any experiences so you have to rely on your references. If your teacher likes you, she can be the reference you need.If you have questions about your career goals, your teacher may know contacts who can mentor you. For example, your science teacher may know chemists who can answer any questions you have or even offer you an internship.;
, Your teacher may help you both find and apply for grants and scholarships. If you are having problems making friends or just looking for extracurricular activities, your teacher can help you meet new friends and pursue extracurricular activities to help you fill out your resume or college applications.If your school has study abroad or exchange programs, your teacher may be a great resource to help you fill out the application or find information about other cities and schools you may be interested in exchanging to.
 Your teacher may be a great resource to help you find community programs that suit your interests. You may also need your teacher’s support in order to run for a student office. Both cases look great in a college application or when applying for a job., Your teacher may be a valuable mentor, provide guidance, or give another adult perspective when you need one. Get answers to questions you can’t ask your parents, ask for advice or general help with personal problems., Do you not get along with your teacher because you dislike the subject she teaches? Your relationship with your teacher can be affected if you don’t find the class engaging. Think of the class as step to the finish line. Whether your goal is graduating or making it to a prestigious university, keep perspective to help you get through a tough class.Find the practical value of a class you don’t enjoy. For example, if you hate math think about how you can use it to calculate how much money you need to save each month to get you a car before sophomore year in college.If you don’t like a class because the subject is difficult, ask your teacher or parents for extra help. If you mention your difficulties to your teacher, she may be able to provide you with another perspective to get you engaged. For example, if you are having problems with history she may assign you a project to work with your grandparents in order to learn about their experience with the war they experienced growing up as kids.
 You can learn more than just homework and class work as teachers know more than just their subject matter. Teachers can help you become a well-informed and insightful person. There will always be at least one teacher who will stand out and change your life. You won’t know who that is until you make a connection., While you may find class or homework difficult, you can always put in maximum effort. Make sure to submit everything on time and be on time for class. When in class, be respectful, stay alert, and ask questions to keep yourself involved., Your teacher has an obvious interest in the subject he is teaching so the more engaged you become in the subject, the more attention your teacher can give you. If you have a genuine interest in the subject your teacher may also provide guidance in making it a career path., Get extra help, ask general questions about how to do better in school or how to get a job, or ask about how you are doing in your teacher’s class. You may find that your teacher is easier to talk to when not in front of the class.Do not ask for a meeting if you do not have anything prepared. You do not want to waste your teacher’s time or yours.
 It’s impossible to get your teacher to like you if you don’t show up to clas. If you need to be absent, make sure to let your teacher know in advance or email her as soon as you are able. When in class, be attentive and participate. You should be a welcome presence in the classroom., Even if an assignment is not due for several weeks, study to ensure you are prepared and keeping material fresh. Don’t wait until the last minute to study or complete an assignment as your work will suffer. Include studying as part of your daily schedule., Don’t slouch when the teacher is reading and take notes as you follow along. Write down any questions you may have and ask them at the appropriate time.Slouching or lying on your desk can not only make you tired but it can also be seen as disrespectful to your teacher.
 Finding a regular studying location gets your mind prepared to work each time you arrive. Make sure that there is no noise and minimum distraction so that your work can have your complete focus. Try not to listen to music, talk to friends, or eat at your studying place., Don’t try to cram a lot of information in long study sessions as your memory won’t be able to retain everything. A great rule is to study two hours for each hour of class.Studying three times a week for one hour works better than studying once a week for three hours as you’ll be less fatigued and be able to concentrate better at each hour long session.
 Schedule yourself to finish papers and assignments several days early. Give yourself time to revise them and ask for additional help at your school’s writing center if you have one. You may even get friends to read it or get guidance from your teacher., Use your teacher’s office hours to your advantage. Your teacher has office hours for a reason as he wants to help you succeed. Come prepared with questions, even if they are about assignments due later in the year., While everything can be found online, the library is a great resource to help streamline your research. Talk to the librarian to help you find books, papers, or other resources for your assignment., Ask your teacher for helpful study tips. She may give you specific chapters to focus on. Assemble a study group to help support each other and test each other prior to the exam. Studying early lets you find the most effective study method that works for you., School should not feel like a chore. A happy and productive student is a great addition to any classroom. Your teacher will appreciate you if you brighten up her day with your enthusiasm and attitude., School can be stressful so join a club, sports team, or simply participate in activities like free movie nights to give yourself some relief from stress. Check your school paper or community bulletin board for activities or clubs that you can join.Becoming a well-rounded student also helps with job and college applications as well as helps with social skills.
 Whether you have a job or are in a club, you should not neglect your studies. Extracurricular activities are meant to round your out as a person. Make sure you prioritize your schedule.If you have a goal to save money with your job, make sure you can handle your workload and don’t over commit. While money is a great incentive for hard work, it is short-sighted to place material possessions over education.
 It’s difficult to get along with everyone all the time. Your teacher is a person with a unique personality. Learning to get along with different people is an important life skill. Learn more about your teacher until you find some common ground and work from there.No matter what your life goals are, you will always encounter people that you don’t completely get along with. Learning how to relate to your teacher can be invaluable moving forward. For example, ask about where your teacher grew up or what hobbies he likes. He may surprise with similar music tastes or similar religious background.
 Any relationship needs respect so don’t expect to have a good relationship with your teacher without showing her respect first. Be polite and courteous even if you don’t agree with your teacher’s opinion. Be a responsible student and let your teacher know when you need to miss class or when you will make up for a late assignment.Don’t think your time is more important than any other student’s. Showing initiative and being responsible for yourself is a great way to keep your teacher’s respect and keep you in high regard.
 Teachers will resent you if you are being insincere with your efforts to make a connection. Your teacher will be able to sense if you suddenly change your demeanor after asking for a college reference or a job recommendation., Your classmates will resent you if your actions are phony and your teacher may call you out in front of the entire class if she finds your actions to be too much., There may be rules for your teacher not to accept any gifts but it’s find to show your gratitude if your teacher has helped you. However, if you give him something expensive or flashy, that could send a wrong message and get you in a lot of trouble.It is a teacher’s job to help her students and your education and well-being is reward enough. While material gifts may seem like a good gesture, doing well in school and growing up into a productive member of your community is exactly what your teacher hopes for you.
 You may question a grade or ask to retake a test but don’t do this more than once. If you continually second-guess your teacher, he will see that as disrespectful and come to resent you. If you always knit pick about points for a grade, you may wear your teacher’s patience., Your teacher may be affected by something happening in her personal life. Don’t be quick to judge if your teacher seems to be off. Your teacher may be cranky, irritable or unable to concentrate because of job stress, family problems, or health issues.Conversely, don’t automatically assume your teacher is going through personal issues. Your teacher may become offended if you make false accusations.
 If you constantly butt heads with your teacher, keep in mind your permanent record will reflect all the disciplinary action that you have received. This may make it extremely difficult to get into college or get a job., Talking while the teacher is talking can be very disruptive. In contrast, sleeping, doodling, or text messaging can also be distracting and is very disrespectful to your teacher. When you do participate in class don’t be rude or try to be the class clown.There’s a difference between participation and being obnoxious. While making your classmates laugh may be fun, there is an appropriate time and place., Let her know why you feel your relationship is strained. For example say something like, “I feel embarrassed when it’s like you're trying to single me out" or "I feel like you only ask the same people to volunteer." Try to work together to find a solution., If you don’t mesh with your teacher’s personality, get to know her and what she is knowledgeable about so that you find some common ground. There is a part of your teacher’s personality that you can use as a tool to help you learn. You will strengthen your relationship with her as you try to find that part of her personality., Perhaps this isn’t just an isolated incident. Talk to your peers and ask them for tips, tools, and create a plan to get along with your teacher. Sharing notes can help you get support and another perspective on how to understand a subject.If you’re too shy to talk to your classmates, watch what the successful ones do and try to mimic their actions. You’ll find that a lot of them ask a lot of questions and frequently participate in class.
 If you have exhausted all your resources and made a genuine effort to build a relationship with your teacher, ask your school guidance counselor or vice principal for help. They may be able to offer tips or act as mediator to help you and your teacher come up with a solution., Let your parents or guardians know that you are having problems getting along with your teacher. Let them know why you think your relationship is strained and what you have done to try to rectify it. Your parents or guardian may be able to meet with your teacher and better express how you’re feeling., If you encounter and physical or verbal abuse, like racist or sexual comments, report it immediately to your principal, parents, and even police. If your teacher is making you uncomfortable in any way you do not need to put up with it.Don’t keep your safety and well-being at risk or the safety and well-being of other students at risk by remaining silent. Your teacher should not be abusing his position so don’t feel intimidated or scared. Your principal, other teachers, and parents will all all put an immediate stop to inappropriate behaviour and you won’t have to deal with your teacher again.

