 You can use glyphosate, triclopyr or a combination of these chemicals to kill the poison oak plants. Do this at the beginning of the growing season, while the plants are still green. The plant will will drink in the chemical down to the roots. Once the plants are dead, you'll need to go back and dig them out.Start by covering yourself from head to to. You won't be directly touching the plants this time, but you still need to be careful.
Use long-handled loppers to cut down the poison oak plant so that the stems are just 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5.1 cm) above ground.
Immediately after cutting the stems, apply a of chemicals with a 1-inch wide paint brush or a squeeze bottle.
Thoroughly cover each stump with the chemical. You will have to re-treat any new growth that shoots out of the stump.
When the stems turn brown a few days later, use a shovel to dig out the dead roots.
Don't mulch or burn the dead material; throw it away, since it could still cause a rash.
 Choose an herbicide made with triclopyr. This chemical is most effective early in the growing season, and you can it from spring to mid-summer when plants are growing rapidly and flowering.


Don't spray on a windy day. The chemicals will kill nearby plants in addition to the poison oak, or they may blow back in your face.
Don't spray trees.
Spray when it's dry, not when it's rainy out. The herbicide will need at least 24 hours to work effectively.
 Use an herbicide made with glyphosate late in poison oak's life cycle. You can use glyphosate after the poison oak has flowered, but while its leaves are still green. Apply a 2 percent solution of glyphosate to the poison oak, spraying it directly on the poison oak plant's leaves. Glyphosate will damage or kill other nearby vegetation, so be careful where you spray it.


Don't spray on a windy day. The chemicals will kill nearby plants in addition to the poison oak, or they may blow back in your face.
Don't spray trees.
Spray when it's dry, not when it's rainy out. The herbicide will need at least 24 hours to work effectively.
 If you don't want to go near the poison oak, it might be best to hire someone else to do it. A licensed professional will apply a high-powered pesticide such as Imazapyr to wipe out the poison oak. It's best to do this in spring or early fall.

