 There are lots of different types of doorknobs as well as many different manufacturers. Depending on those factors, as well as the age of the knob, there are many different ways to release the mechanism. Here are the various methods, organized by which you should try first:


Screw Method: Remove any visible screws. The screws around the latch plate between the two sides of the door are standard. The location of other screws can change though, depending on the type of doorknob and the manufacturer. Try looking on the round, doorknob plate on one side of the door or on the neck of the knob itself.
Hole Method: Look for small holes on the doorknob shaft or the base there maybe a small hole with a deep set screw you can use an allen wrench to loosen. If you see that there is a hole but no screw there maybe a release in the holes. Find a wire (clothes hanger) or other implement which can fit and then press down with the doorknob in a variety of different positions. While trying different positions keep tension on the knob (pulling away from the door) One position should release a latch with your tool pressing down in the hole.
Behind the Plate Method: Check the round plate against the door. This is called the rosette. If there is a notch in the rosette use a flat head screwdriver to pry the plate up. There is a heavy plate behind this that may have two notches. Using a flashlight to see if you can spy the small screws that mount this plate to the door. The screws should be in slots that have a larger hole at one end. Try to turn the heavy plate with screw drivers in the outer notches so that the screws line up with the larger hole. Once the screws pop into the holes the knob, rosette and heavy plate should come right off.
Latch Method: With a knife, flat head screwdriver, or other narrow implement, pry the round plate surrounding the knob away from the door. It should snap away easily. With that out of the way, you'll be able to see a thick metal plate that had been covered by the round plate. There should be a hole or gap with a visible latch inside the plate. Switch the latch down and the structure should come apart easily.
Thread Method: Use a wrench or your hands, screw the round plate surrounding the knob counterclockwise until it comes loose. By hand, turn it the rest of the way until it is out of the way. Do this for both sides. On the thread of the handle which should now be exposed, you will see a hole. Turn the handle until you see a spring or latch inside the hole. Press that down with screwdriver and tug the handle off. It should come off easily.;
, With the mechanism released, you should be able to pull the knobs off. Remove both and set them aside.
 This is the metal plate on the edge of the door where the latch bolt sticks out. Unscrew the screws above and below the latch bolt and gently pry the plate off with a slotted screwdriver.
 With the latch assembly unscrewed, you should be able to pull it and the other inner workings away from and out of the door. You're done! Use the manufacturer's instructions to install your new doorknob or follow wikiHow's.
