 If you need to make your clothes last, check out their construction before you buy them. Keep in mind that any extra little add-on (like unnecessary buttons, sequins, or silkscreens) is just one more thing that might fall off or fall apart. Don’t get stuck with, say, a t-shirt that looked stylish on the rack but now looks like a hand-me-down because the silkscreen flaked off! Put it back on the rack and pick out a simpler item instead.”Simple” doesn’t have to mean “plain.” Remember: a pair of black-and-white striped pants isn’t constructed any differently than a pair of solid black pants! If you want a little more jazz in your clothes, look for items made with different prints and materials.
 If budget is an issue, check the care label for each item while shopping. Only buy clothes that say, “Machine Wash.” If the care label tells you that the item needs to be dry-cleaned, put it back. Bear in mind that dry-cleaning is often pricey, so get the most wear out of your purchases by sticking to items that you can afford to wash regularly.Give your machine-wash clothes a longer life by only using cold water to wash them. Then dry them in a machine with low heat, or simply let them air-dry.
 There are exceptions to every rule, but beware: a cheap belt often looks cheap. Don’t spoil your casual-chic look by holding up those stunning pants with a dinky-looking belt! Only buy pants that stay up just fine on their own, even if you already have a good, quality belt at home (just in case it gets lost or ruined).If you do need a belt for pants, don’t worry about it. You’re aiming for stylish but casual, so keeping your shirt untucked is a perfect way to hide it.If you like to wear loose dresses and draw attention to your waist at the same time, wear a more form-fitting top or jacket instead of a belt.
 Obviously, high heels are pretty chic, but if you are going for a more casual look, look for something else. Get more for your money with a pair of shoes that is perfectly stylish and a bit more versatile. Instead of high heels, shop for an eye-catching pair of flats, low heels, or sneakers.