 If you already exercise, such as by going to a gym or taking walks, then you will probably be more likely to use an exercise machine at home; however, if you rarely exercise, then having an exercise machine at home may not change that.Take an honest look at your current activity level to determine if you will actually use the machine. If you are currently sedentary, then you might want to develop an exercise program for yourself first.
For example, you could start taking a 30 minute walk after dinner every night or do low-impact aerobics at home using a video.
Try to work your way up to the recommended 150 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise each week. An easy way to break this up is to do 30 minutes of exercise five days a week.
 Advertisements for exercise machines may make some convincing claims about the product; however, it is important to remind yourself that these claims are meant to sell you the product and should not be considered guarantees. Some this to be wary of include:Claims that the product is easy to use. Exercise is challenging no matter what. There is no easy, sweat-free way to get into shape.

Claims that the product will target one area. It is not possible to burn fat and lose weight in just one part of your body. Losing weight requires burning more calories and this will result in overall body weight reduction.

Before and after photos and testimonials. Avoid relying on these as your only proof that the product is effective. Read reviews to find out what people who have bought this machine have to say about it. Try to seek out reviews on sites that are not affiliated with the product, such as 3rd party online retail sites.
 Trying the machine before you buy it may be a good idea, especially if the machine is expensive. You might be able to try out the machine in a store, at a local gym, or at a community center.You might also ask about refund options for the machine. For example, can you return the machine if you are not satisfied with it? If so, how long do you have to return it? Will you get a full or partial refund?

, Even if a machine has a low cost payment plan, exercise machines can cost thousands of dollars by the time it is paid for. You may also have an increased electricity bill from using the machine. Take some time to calculate the total cost of the machine you are thinking about buying.You might compare the cost of buying a machine with the cost of joining a gym. For example, if you will be paying $150 per month for the next two years to pay off a top of the line treadmill, and a gym membership costs only $40 per month, then you would save a lot of money by joining the gym.

