 Look into a mirror and smile a wide but natural smile. Gauge the general location where you want your fake dimples to be.









When you smile, natural creases should form outside of your mouth. Your “dimples” should fall just outside of these creases, beginning roughly around the area just above the upper points of your lips.
Make sure to smile broadly, but not unnaturally so. Real dimples are most prominent during particularly wide smiles, so you will get a better idea for where your cosmetic dimples should be if you make a wide grin, rather than a reserved one. Don't be shy!

Note - this method works best to create temporary dimples suitable for pictures. It may look unnatural if worn out in public.
 Dimples usually appear as short lines or slight crescent shapes. Using a dark brown pencil eyeliner or eyebrow pencil, make a small dot at the top of where you want your desired dimple line to be.









Dark brown works bests because it blends into the skin more naturally. Black and colored eyeliner should be avoided.
 With the tops of your dimples marked, relax your mouth. Draw a small, slightly curved line starting at the dot you have marked. Use the same eyeliner or eyebrow pencil you used to create the dot.








The line should extend no further than 1 inch (2.5 cm) below the dot. It should be just barely curved - slightly straighter than the curve of a fingernail.
 Now that your dimples have been drawn on, you need to adjust your makeup so that the final product appears subtle and natural. Use your fingers or a smudge stick to blend the line into your skin, rubbing the line up and down rather than side to side.









One application may not create a line of suitable darkness, so you may need to draw over the line and blend it in several times.
 Critique your new dimples in the mirror - are they even? Are they too dark? Not dark enough? Do your dimples look unnatural in certain types of lighting? If anything about your makeup doesn't seem quite right, don't be afraid to wash it off and try again.








