 These are two features that will help you phase out of your old email. If people continue to email you after you have closed your account an automated reply will tell them where they can now reach you. You can also have those emails forwarded to you at your new email address. However, some email accounts will close completely after a waiting period, and automated replies and email forwarding will stop after that time.


For example, If you have a Microsoft account, go to “Managing your account”, and select “Email forwarding”. Enter in the new email address you want your emails to be forwarded to. Under “Managing your account” you can also select “Sending automated vacation replies”, and follow the steps to write the automated message.
When you delete your Gmail account, it will not close or reuse your email, because you will still have an account through Google.
If you have an Outlook.com email address, your old email address can be recycled to another user after 60 days.
 For example, go to Gmail, and do not go to Google Accounts. The reason this can be confusing is that you use your email account to sign into your Google account, so be careful not to delete your Google account if you are trying to delete your email. If you delete your entire account with Google, for example, you will loose your YouTube account and Google search history. Delete the email address by going to the settings for the Gmail app.
 This page may be under your "Settings" or the "Manage your account" tab. If you have trouble locating the page, go to the support page for your email service, and use Ctrl+F to search for “delete my account”, or just “delete”. Follow the steps and navigate to the page to delete your account.


You will have to re-enter the password to your account to confirm your identity and delete your account.
There will be a list of reasons why you want to delete the account. Choose whichever reason applies to you, or click “Other” and write in your response.
 The service will most likely try to convince you to keep your account. Continue to the bottom of the page, and confirm that you want to close your account.


For example, in Microsoft emails the final step will say “Mark account for closure”, click on this button to finish the process and delete your account.
 If you change your mind and want your account back, log back into your email account, and proceed through steps to reactivate the account. Most email providers will wait for a period before they permanently close your account. Check with your email service to see how long their waiting period is by looking at the FAQs or Support page for information on their account closing policies.


For example, for Microsoft, they will wait 60 days before they will completely close the account and reuse your email address.

