 The primary concern relating to marijuana involves its safety. All medical drugs must be proven to be relatively safe. Marijuana use can result in an increased heart rate, which may in turn trigger a heart attack. THC can induce an altered state and may cause what has been referred to as acute psychosis. Some studies have also indicated that marijuana use may be associated with schizophrenia. However, marijuana may help to improve certain mental disorders. This is partially demonstrated by the fact that cannabidiol is an anti-psychotic. Scientific studies have also shown that cannabidiol is not psychoactive (won't get you high), and can at least partially counteract the negative psychoactive effects of THC. Cannabidiol is also relatively safe. Smoked marijuana may contribute to diseases of the lung, but has not been shown to be overly associated with lung cancer as cannabinoids may help to prevent cancer. Cannabis sativa can be bred to have very high levels of cannabidiol and very low levels of THC. As such, safer types of marijuana can be developed and distributed. The effective lethal dose of a drug is important, especially when evaluating the risk that is involved with taking various drugs. It is estimated that a minimal effective dose of unrefined smoked marijuana must be increased one million times to produce a lethal dose of unrefined smoked marijuana.;
, All medical drugs must be found to be effective, in addition to being safe. Marijuana is an effective drug because all people have cannabinoid receptors in their brain and throughout their body. Marijuana has been used with success as a drug to increase appetite for people who have debilitating diseases such as HIV, AIDS and cancer. Marijuana has also been used successfully to alleviate glaucoma and certain types of chronic pain. Cannabinoids are phenolic-like antioxidant compounds and have been shown to be neuroprotective (protect the brain against damage from alcohol and other toxic compounds as well as from trauma). One recent study conducted in part by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) states that cannabidiol is devoid of psychoactive effects, is anti-inflammatory, and is an antioxidant. The study also concluded that cannabidiol may help to improve the pathologies that are associated with diabetes and atherosclerosis (see source by Rajesh et al below). It is important to understand that while THC can cause a noticeable high and binds to cannabinoid receptors in the brain, other cannabinoids exert their effects by binding to receptors outside of the brain, and do not cause one to get high. These cannabinoids may be important for relieving pain and ameliorating or preventing various disease states.
 Synthetic THC is an approved prescription drug. Modern cannabis-based drugs that are available outside of the United States (such as Sativex) contain cannabidiol as well as THC. Sativex is a standardized extract made from marijuana plants, and may be a safer, more effective medical drug than pure synthetic THC. Sativex also contains other active cannabinoids and plant constituents. As there are over sixty different cannabinoids in marijuana (not just the cannabinoids THC and cannabidiol), the whole marijuana plant has a greater potential as a more useful, effective drug that can be used for a greater variety of conditions. Medical marijuana may have less debilitating side effects than some approved medical drugs. Opiate-based painkillers, over the counter analgesics, and many other drugs that may be taken instead of marijuana can all be fatal and damaging to the body if too much is taken. Also, various prescription drugs are highly addictive. Marijuana has been found to be habit-forming, but less so than many other medications and legal substances such as nicotine. It is also important to understand that marijuana is a non-standardized plant, while prescription drugs are completely standardized. As such, very specific doses of drugs such as synthetic THC can be administered, while the doses of marijuana must be estimated. In other words, the exact milligrams of THC and cannabidiol that are supplied by a dose of marijuana must be estimated. Also, the effects of the many other cannabinoids that exist in marijuana cannot be accurately predicted.
 Doctors prescribe medical marijuana. Doctors can actively monitor patients who use medical marijuana, and therefore help to ensure that the marijuana is used in a safe an effective manner. All medical drugs are approved for specific medical conditions. Approved medical drugs have also been thoroughly researched to determine the benefits and risks that are involved with their use. In the case that marijuana is an officially recognized medical drug, doctors as well as patients can be more assured that the marijuana that they prescribe conforms to specific standards. These standards help to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the marijuana. In the case that marijuana is not an officially recognized medical drug, doctors may not be able to prescribe marijuana with complete confidence that the marijuana will be safe or effective.
 Prescription drugs and over the counter drugs must be regulated in such a way that they are only distributed to the patients who need them. Drugs must not be easily obtained by people who are not authorized to use them. Some medical marijuana patients can legally grow their own marijuana in a controlled, regulated manner. Other medical marijuana patients obtain their marijuana from authorized as well as unauthorized dispensaries. Some countries and US states have considered implementing dispensaries as well as marijuana farms that are entirely controlled by local or national governments. This system would help to ensure that only approved medical marijuana patients receive medical marijuana. This type of system would also help to ensure that patients are actively monitored and receive correct dosages.
 Marijuana is a plant that grows readily in many different climates and geographical locales. Marijuana can also be grown indoors. This makes marijuana affordable and readily available to all people. Essentially all other medical drugs must be manufactured in factories and distributed by pharmacists. Other medical drugs may also be quite expensive.

