 This involves speaking to your spouse about your feelings, making as much time as possible for each other before they leave, creating keepsakes for them to take with them or for you to keep with you during their absence, etc.


Take pictures together. This will give both of you portable reminders of each other and of your love. Other possibilities include their favorite kind of underwear (since they won't be wearing other civilian clothes), a love letter, or (possibly) a customized pillowcase for them to take with them.
Buy a planner with spaces broken down by the hours in the day. This will help you to fill up all of your time so that you have no time to sit around and miss him/her.
Make plans together before they leave for things you want to accomplish while they are away. These can be mundane things (repaint a room in the house, etc.) or things that have sentimental value to both of you (make a family quilt, research your ancestors, etc.).;
, Try putting together a care package project for some of the guys in your spouse’s unit.
 Working out reduces stress, increases mental wellness, and releases endorphins, which can help boost your mood.
 Use the down time to improve yourself in other ways than simply getting physically fitter. Read books your spouse has read or recommended in order to feel closer to them, take classes that you always wanted to take (whether it's cooking, dance, languages, or science/literature/photography).
 You will not be able to speak with your spouse as much as you both would like to. Keeping them all inside, however, can damage your emotional health.
 Invite company and try to have social gatherings that don't exclusively center around the issue of deployment.
 These books should not have to do with the war or politics unless that is the only thing you are interested in.
 If he/she was home and you were stressed he/she would tell you to do the same thing!

, Even if your spouse does not have regular access to the internet, finding messages from you whenever they get a chance will brighten their day and give them something beautiful to draw strength from.
,,