 Is somebody in your family allergic? Do you live in a tiny apartment unsuitable for a canine to live in? Is Rover too much money? There are many problems that may arise, but that's okay, because they're fixable.;
, There are many hypo-allergenic dogs out there that you can get. Research where you can find hypo-allergic dogs in your area and go visit them. Bring along the person in your family that is allergic to them, so that you can see if they have an allergic reaction or not. If they don't, great! If they do, keep looking for other kinds of hypo-allergenic dogs.
 If you live in an apartment, you can't get a huge German Shepherd. You'll have to settle for a small dog such as a Yorkie. Since your home doesn't have a lot of space, you'll need to make sure that you take the dog out for at least two walks a day, so that it can get its energy out. If you can't commit to going out with your dog that much, you may need to settle for another pet, such as a kitten.
 If this is the case, sadly, you're pretty much stuck. However, you can still get the dog owner experience...with someone else's dog. If you know an elderly person with a dog or someone without the time or energy to play with their dog or take their dog for a walk, ask them if you can come over a few times a week and play with their dog. The dog owner will most likely say yes, because they'll love the fact that their dog can get exercise without them lifting a finger.
 You've seen those pet store prices, and they're high. However, you can save a little money on the initial purchase of the dog by going to your local animal shelter/rescue group. There are many great dogs there that need a great home like yours. There are even some pure-breeds there! Because these animals need to be adopted, the prices for them are several hundred dollars lower than those pricy pet stores. However, be warned that you'll need to pay for more than just the dog. You'll also need to buy its food, toys, leash, vet bills, etc., which can rack up to a large sum of money. If you and your guardian decide that your financial situation isn't suitable for a dog at the moment, you might just have to wait a few years until you can afford a dog. Sometimes patience is rewarded! If your guardian decides that getting a shelter dog would be a good choice for your family, congratulations! You'll get that pooch of your dreams while being a dog-saver!

, Do extra chores around the house. Look after your neighbor's pets while they're away on vacation. This will teach you a lot about animal care. Look after your younger siblings/family members to show your guardian that you're responsible enough for a dog. Don't whine, cry, beg, blackmail, or bribe them to get you a dog. This shows a huge lack of maturity, and will actually decrease your chances of getting a dog. Write your parents a letter or make up a contract saying that you'll be fully responsible for the dog and that you'll take care of it. This shows that you're serious about getting a dog.
 Do you want a Saint Bernard, but your guardian wants a Chihuahua? Or vice versa? Make a compromise and decide on a medium-sized dog, such as a Beagle. Do you want an energetic dog that wants to play all day, but your guardian wants a lazy lap dog? Decide on a dog that's ready to play when you are, but can also be able to calm down and sit on your lap.

