 Whether you are angry, scared, upset, anxious, jealous, or even just completely excited, there is nothing wrong with what you are feeling. Change, whether you consider it to be good or bad, is very stressful, and you can feel lots of different things at lots of different times--or all at the same time!


Pregnancy and the birth of a child can be some of the most stressful times in a person’s life.Your life is in transition right now, and transitions are not always easy.;
, Find a close friend or an adult you trust to talk about what you are feeling. A supportive person will listen without judgment and will not tell you to feel a certain way.
 Maybe you are stressed about taking on extra responsibilities in the house, or sick of always hearing about the new baby. Let her know what is bothering you in a respectful way.


Instead of saying, “You always talk about the baby! You don’t care about my life!” try saying, “Sometimes I feel like all you talk about is the baby coming. I’d like to talk about my life with you, too. I miss talking to you.”
Instead of saying, “You make me do everything around here!” try saying, “I know you’re tired and there’s a lot to do right now, but I am feeling overwhelmed by everything you are asking of me. Can we come up with a list of ways I can help you out and stick to those?”

, Keeping a journal during this time can help you work through some difficult emotions. This is also a good option if there is not someone available to talk to., Being pregnant isn’t easy. Your mom may feel sick, tired, sore, overwhelmed, anxious, and more. Plus, she is still dealing with demands of her everyday life. Do your best to be patient with her.
 Remember, you and your family are going through a transition. You are likely experiencing some stress as a result of this change, even if you are excited and happy about a new baby coming.


Be aware of physical symptoms of stress, like an upset stomach or headache, and emotional symptoms, like feeling easily frustrated or overwhelmed. Make sure to talk to someone if you are feeling stressed out.Take a break. Find some ways to take a break from your family life if your mom’s pregnancy is getting to be too much to deal with. Go to a friend’s house, see a movie, get some exercise, read a book--do some of your favorite things to take your mind off it for a while.

