 Develop a routine so that your abs get stronger and firmer over time. Don't work on your abs every single day; your muscles need a day in between workouts to rest and repair themselves in order to gain strength. Aim to work out your muscles every other day or every 3 days.


On your days off of ab exercises, work out other muscle groups, like your back, chest, gluteals, quadriceps, hamstrings, and shoulders. Developing full-body strength will definitely help your core stay firm, too.
Focus on going all in every time you work out. When you notice that your ab exercises are starting to feel easy, push yourself a little harder. Add more reps, go faster, or add some weight to the mix. If you don't, you're likely to plateau instead of seeing the results you want.
 Getting abs is no easy feat, and there will definitely be days when you're tired of working so hard at it. Having strong, nice-looking abs is always a work in progress, and it's okay if you backslide a bit now and then. That said, it's important to have some tricks up your sleeve to stay motivated and pick yourself back up when you're ready to quit. Setting goals with a friend can be a huge help - you can call each other up and commiserate, have workout sessions together, and trade tips that work for you.


Have a scheduled day of the week when you and your friend do an ab workout together. You won't want to back out on your friend!

, Tell yourself you're going to follow this routine - eating healthy, sleeping well, drinking water, and exercising - for 2 months. If you don't like what you see after two months, you're allowed to stop. 2 months of focusing on your abs is definitely enough time to see results, so hopefully you won't want to stop when the time's up.
 When you start to see your waistline shrink, treat yourself to something nice to motivate you to keep going. You could buy a new pair of pants, a nice box of green tea, or treat yourself to a movie night. Just don't let your indulgence be too high in calories - that'll just negate all your hard work!

