 Most Nokia phones come with their own data cables. Use these to plug and connect your phone to your computer.;
, If your phone has Bluetooth, turn it on and have your phone and your computer pair up.


If this is your first time to link the two devices, you will be asked for a passcode that you would need to enter in both devices.
 Look for the Nokia PC Suite under your programs in the "Start" menu of your Windows desktop. Click on it to launch.
 Depending on your phone, you can do several things with it from the Nokia PC Suite. Navigate through the menus and the functionalities. All the connected phones will be listed on the left side of the program window.
 Click file cabinet icon. A Windows Explorer window will appear.
 Double-click on the phone memory icon. Go inside the "Gallery" folder.
 Just like the folders in your Windows PC, the folders inside the Nokia phone are structured the same way. Locate where you want to put your music, photos, or document files.


You can use an existing folder or create a new one.
It’s a good idea to put similar file types under the same folder for easier organization.
 Search for the files you want to copy to your phone from your PC. Select all of them and copy.


The process is just similar to copying and pasting in Windows.
 After you’ve selected the files, go to the destination folder in your phone and paste them there.
 Once the copy is complete, you can view the files directly from your phone, if they are compatible with it.
, The Nokia Video Manager will launch.


Unlike part 3, transferring video files is safer when the Nokia Video Manager is used. The video files will automatically be converted by this program into something compatible and playable from your Nokia phone.
 Set where the source video files on your PC is located.
 The program will automatically scan your PC for video files. Wait for the scan to finish.
, Click on the “Convert into mobile format” icon at the bottom. The selected files will be automatically converted into a format set in the video quality settings.


Converting into mobile format is optional. If you don’t want to convert your videos, skip this step and proceed to step 6.
The converted files will be stored in the My Videos folder in your PC.
You can transfer these files directly to your phone, and they would play there properly.
 If you want to skip step 5 and immediately transfer the videos to your phone, click on the “Transfer to phone” icon on the bottom. The selected files will automatically convert into a format set in the video quality settings.


The converted files will be transferred to your phone and a copy would also be stored in the My Videos folder in your PC.
 You can go to your Nokia phone and open the appropriate media player to play the videos you’ve just transferred.
