 Your child is never too young to start volunteering in your community, even if all he can do is give a toothy smile to a person in need of care. Don't let your children think that volunteering is just something they should do in high school to pad their college application; teach them that it's important to give back to the community as often as you can.


There are an infinite number of ways to give your time, whether it's by working at a local canned food drive, putting in a few hours a week at a nursing home, or volunteering at a soup kitchen. Volunteer as often as you can and bring your child along so he can help out.;
, If your child is only used to being around white upper middle class people, or Chinese middle class people, or whatever types of people you surround yourself with, then he won't develop an awareness of the existence of a variety of cultures, socioeconomic statuses, and races that contribute to making the world work. Make sure to take your child outside his comfort zone until he feels like he can make conversation or be around any type of person.


Many people aren't exposed to people of different races or classes until they go to college; don't make your child wait that long.
 This doesn't mean you should take your child to a fancy vacation in France every summer; it does mean that you should travel as much as you can to a variety of cities, states, or even countries, if your budget will allow it. Let your child see that there are many different types of people in the world; they may look different and speak a different language, but at heart, all people are not so different.


If your child is aware of many different lifestyles and cultures early on, he won't grow up to separate different cultures of the world into "us" and "them."

, Thanksgiving shouldn't be the only time your child stops and thinks about what he is really thankful for. Your child should compile a "gratitude list" at least once a week, maybe before bed, so he or she is always thinking about all of the things there are to be grateful for -- a loving family, good food on the table, a roof over his or her head -- and all of the things that many people in the world don't have.


If your child gets into the habit of reciting this list like a mantra, then gratitude will become second nature to him.
 Though it may not serve your best interests to make your child watch a news story about homicide or genocide at the tender young age of three, you should make a habit of watching relevant news stories, or reading the paper, with your child early on so that he or she develops an awareness of the domestic and international issues that are prevalent in the world.


Make the news digestible. Talk to your child about what you read or saw and discuss how what so-so did was wrong, and why.
Let your child see that the world isn't black or white. Like the decision of whether or not the United States should invade Syria, current affairs always run in shades of gray.
 Even if you don't have the budget to travel to other countries, your child should have a globe and a few books about other countries as early as possible. At first, you can just play a game with your child, helping him or her memorize the capitals and flags of each country. As your child gets older, you can talk about the relationship between different countries and the importance of mutual respect between nations.


Helping your child develop awareness about the existence of other countries will help him not think that his own country is the center of the universe. This will influence your child to make more just and fair decisions in the future.
 Though reading any book to your child is essential to developing his or her reading, writing, and critical thinking skills, you don't have to only read fictional tales to your child once he reaches a certain age. Though there are many great lessons to be learned from The Berenstain Bears or fairy tales, you can also pick some light non-fiction to read to your child, whether it's to educate him or her about different animals, or about different country.


Teaching your child more and more about the real world can help develop his sense of awareness.

