 Begin by preheating the oven to 400°F (204.4°C). Put two baking sheets in the oven as it heats up. Keep them in the oven until you are ready to bake the sandwiches., Take out 24 pieces of white bread. Melt two sticks of butter in the microwave, or in a pot on the stove. Pour the butter into a bowl., Use a pastry or basting brush to apply the butter to the bread. First, butter 12 slices of bread and lay them face down on a cutting board. Then, butter what will be the outside of the other 12 slices of bread., You will need 24 slices of cheddar cheese. Put 2 slices of cheddar cheese squarely on top of 12 slices of bread. Make sure you are putting the cheese on the unbuttered side of the bread. You can put more or less cheese on each sandwich, depending on your preference., Put the remaining 12 slices of bread on top of the cheese. Again, the unbuttered side of the bread should be placed on top of the cheese. You should have 12 sandwiches when you are finished., Take the baking sheets out of the oven once you are done making the sandwiches. Arrange the 12 sandwiches evenly on the first baking sheet. Depending on the size of the baking sheet, you may be able to fit more or less than 12 sandwiches. If you can’t fit 12 sandwiches, use the second baking sheet, and quickly warm up two more baking sheets in the oven.Make sure to use oven mitts to protect yourself when you remove the baking sheets from the oven.
 Once you’ve arranged the 12 sandwiches, lay the second baking sheet on top of them. Be careful as you are doing this because the sheet will likely still be hot from the oven. The second baking sheet acts as a panini press, making both sides of the sandwich crispy., Carefully place the baking sheets in the oven. Allow them to bake for 10-12 minutes. The time may vary depending on your oven, so check the sandwiches after a few minutes. Remove them from the oven when the bread is golden brown, and the cheese has melted. Allow them to cool for a few minutes and then serve warm., You can spread mayonnaise on the bread instead of butter. Any type of mayonnaise will work. Mayonnaise spreads easier than butter, and the bread often comes out with an even golden brown., Experiment with different types of cheeses on your grilled cheese. Outside of cheddar, you can also use provolone, pepper jack, Swiss, mozzarella, etc. Use one type of cheese on each sandwich, or use at least two types of cheeses on each sandwich., If you don’t like white bread, you can experiment with other options. For example, you can use wheat and sourdough bread. Keep in mind that the thickness of the bread will affect baking time.