 Another scenario: It is your first day back to school after being home sick for two weeks. You got caught up on all of your homework. You did two weeks worth of homework in four days. You are pretty proud of yourself knowing you are all caught up. First period, you have a test in history and that you did not know about. You are a straight A student, but you did not get a chance to study, and you have an algebra/chemistry/literature/history cocktail swimming in your head from all of the homework you just did. You tell your teacher that you did not know about the test, to which she replies curtly "You are part of this class, you will take the test when everyone else does". How are you going to handle this one?

You 'could' angrily tell your teacher that it is not fair, you hate her class and she cannot do this. This might make you feel better, for a couple of seconds, get some cheering from your classmates, and ultimately get you sent to the principal's office.
You could keep quiet and take the test with the rest of your class, knowing darned well that you are not going to do well. Your stomach will be in knots until you finally see your results. You do not want to even think about what grade you will get on the test.
You could take a deep breath, try to relax, and do the very best you can. Yes, you are likely not going to get the A that you are used to, however, whatever grade you get, you be proud of. You are taking a test for which you were unprepared, after doing a mountain of catch up homework. When the time comes for the term grade to be posted, maybe, just maybe, your teacher may surprise you, and give you an overall grade based on the type of student you have been the whole term.
 As any child becomes a teenager, they go through many changes, physically, mentally and psychologically. For some, it is a time of great memories and friendships. For others, it can be a time of insecurity, isolation and loneliness., When a person is in a situation where they are angry, but they know it is not appropriate to vent their anger, they hold it inside. This is called "stuffing". It is alright for a short time, but we cannot "stuff" our feelings forever. It is not healthy to bottle up your feelings. It can cause irritability and irrational behaviour over time., Sadly, this does not occur solely between children anymore. It is reported that students are now being victimized by their teachers.Children are in a particularly precarious situation, because the teacher is in a position of power and children are taught to treat their teachers with respect. In cases, such as the example given above, the child will typically suffer in silence. The children need to be coaxed out of their silence, if and when their parents see a change in their child's demeanor. The parents then need to meet with the school executives to do what they can to get the situation resolved.

If you are a victim of bullying, do not:

Think it's your fault. Nobody deserves to be bullied!
Fight back or bully a person back.
Keep it to yourself and just hope the bullying will "go away." ...
Skip school or avoid school or afterschool activities because you're afraid of the bully.
Be afraid to tell someone....
Hurt yourself., When a straight 'A' student conceives that they will not do well on a project or test they have taken, they feel that they have let themselves down, their parents down. They feel the weight of the world on their shoulders. They, too, feel helpless, hopeless, and they should seek professional counseling.