


Undiluted hydrogen peroxide from the bottle will also bleach your hair, but it is much stronger and thus more likely to damage your roots--which is why many people use honey to gently lighten their hair.
Honey also acts as a moisturizer, which counteracts the drying effects of the peroxide within.
 This should be easy to find at most grocery stores and health-food outlets.
 Mix until the ingredients are thoroughly combined.


Honey is very sticky, and water loosens the consistency so that it is easier to apply to your hair. Apple cider vinegar acts as a natural conditioner.
If you want a more drastic color change, consider adding several capfuls of hydrogen peroxide to the mixture. This accentuates the peroxide that is already present in honey, and reacts with your hair to bleach it several shades lighter. Do not add the extra peroxide if your hair is black or very dark brown--it may come out orange.
For a reddish-blonde hue, you can add henna powder, cinnamon, or ground coffee to the mixture. Several tablespoons of hibiscus petals will add a strawberry-blonde tint., This will allow the ingredients time to settle.
 Drape a towel over your shoulders to protect your clothes, then gradually pour the mixture over your head in small doses. Use your fingers to massage the honey into your hair, and continue until your hair is completely saturated with honey.


Consider standing on a towel to protect your floor from drips. Honey can be sticky and difficult to clean up.
 Use a shower cap or plastic saran wrap to keep the honey from dripping. Keep the honey in your hair for at least two hours to see a tangible effect. If possible, keep the honey in your hair overnight.


If you have long hair that's hard to keep up under the plastic, twist your hair into clips to pin it up while the honey treatment is working, then put the plastic over your clipped up hair.
If you can manage to keep the honey in your hair overnight, you'll get much lighter results. It also acts as as deep-conditioning treatment. Put a towel over your pillow and sleep wearing a shower cap.
There's no need to use a blow dryer to apply heat. The honey works well at room temperature.
 Rinse it out with warm water, then shampoo and condition your hair as usual. Pat your hair dry with a towel and either let it air dry or blow it out. Your hair will now be honey-colored.
 Mix 1/4 cup honey and 1/2 cup conditioner. You can use any conditioner you like, as long as its scent mixes well with honey. Stir the conditioner and honey in a bowl until they are thoroughly combined.


Store extra conditioner in an old conditioner bottle for later use.
Use the same ratio of honey to conditioner to make a larger batch.
 After you shampoo your hair, use the honey conditioner just as you would your normal conditioner. Distribute a small amount through your hair and rinse it out when you're finished.


Leave the conditioner in your hair for 5-10 minutes while you finish your shower for a greater lightening effect.
If your hair feels sticky after rinsing, decrease the amount of honey you use and increase the amount of conditioner.

