 You don’t have to like the teacher, you just have to deal with them. If you have reflected on your teacher’s behavior and you have determined it is just a personality conflict, understand that this is how life works sometimes. There will be many people in your life you have to deal with who you won’t like. Consider this practice for adulthood, when you will have to work with people you don’t like, or may have a supervisor who is unfair, or need to get along with your in-laws.Be civil to your teacher. Even if you don’t like them, there is no excuse to be impolite. Say please and thank you, and do not give them an attitude.
If you want to debate the teacher in a class discussion, make sure you use a calm, warm tone of voice that does not convey anger. A good teacher will encourage classroom debate and discussion. You could say, “Mrs. Lawrence, when I read that story, I thought differently. To me, it seemed like the character….”

, Get motivated to be successful. What is the goal you are working toward in your education? Maybe you are working toward a career goal, or college, or excellent grades to get into an elite university. Whatever your goal, focus on how success in this class will help you to achieve it.


Complete your assignments, study hard, and do your best in the class in spite of a personality conflict. Think of your success in their classroom as a way to not let your teacher get the better of you.
 Try to keep space between you and the teacher. If your teacher comes close to you, step back. An aware teacher will note your reaction and will correct their body language to make sure you are comfortable. If the teacher doesn’t, find an administrator with whom you can address your concern.If your teacher is talking to you too closely, take a step or two back. If the teacher moves toward you again, you could say, “I’m sorry, I’m just weird about my personal space. Could you give me some more room, please?”

, If you are still finding your classroom environment intolerable, talk to your guidance counselor about switching classes. See if you can find another teacher who teaches the same subject, or see if you can change to a different subject entirely.


Be respectful about your problems with your teacher. You could say, “I’ve had a difficult time getting along with Mr. Roberts this year. He is a good teacher, but I think we have a personality conflict. Would it be possible to switch into Mrs. Ramos’ geometry class instead?”

