 Make sure you have enough fabric to more than cover one side of the headboard.


Choose a fabric that will stand up to wear, especially if the headboard will see a lot of use as a backrest.
Batting is sold in bags, and you will need 4 bags for 3 or 4 layers.
 The batting should extend about 1 foot (30 cm) over the edge on each side.


It will take at least 3 layers of batting to create a soft headboard. Adding more layers than that creates extra softness and a more pronounced look.
 Staple the batting to the back of the plywood with a staple gun.
 Tuck the edges under, and flip the headboard so the back faces up.
 The fabric should cover the batting on the back completely. Once it is secured, trim away any excess fabric with scissors.
 Then run the needle through a large button.
 You can do this with either one or two drilled holes, depending on what you decided. Whichever you choose, make sure you pull the button tight to create the tufted look in the batting. Here are the two methods.


To tuft a headboard with two holes drilled for each button, simply loop the needle back through another hole in the button. Then push it back through the second hole in the plywood and pull it tight. Loop the needle back through the two holes a couple of times more, and then tie off the thread securely.
With only one drilled hole, use a finishing nail to hold the thread in place. Loop the thread through the button and back through the original hole in the plywood. To keep the thread from simply pulling through the single hole, lay the finishing nail across the back of the hole and loop the thread over the nail and back through the hole. Repeat a few times and then tie off the thread to the finishing nail. Twist the nail to tighten the button down into the fabric to the desired depth. Use a staple gun and staple diagonally across the nail to secure it and keep it from unwinding

,, Use a headboard hanger, which you can get at most home improvement stores. These have two pieces of metal, one that you attach to the headboard and one that you attach to the wall. They slot together, securing the board to the wall.

