 Use a pool net to fish out any large, visible debris in the water. Organic debris commonly includes leaves, branches, and dead insects.


Organic debris can decay and add sediment to the water. The dirt on the debris can also cause cloudiness.;
, Keep the pool filter running 24 hours a day, seven days a week until the water is clear again.


If the pressure gauge is 8 to 10 lbs (3.6 to 4.5 kg) higher than it is at the pool's clean starting pressure, you should backwash or clean the filter.
As long as the pressure has not reached these levels, though, you should let the filter remain dirty. Some dirt and debris in a filter can actually be helpful since it can make it easier for the filter to trap small particles.
 Determine the pool water's pH, chlorine composition, and cyanuric acid levels. After testing it, you can make any necessary adjustments to correct off levels.


A home testing kit is usually sufficient.
If you do not have a home testing kit or if you suspect that the results might be inaccurate, take a sample of the water to a local pool store for professional testing.
Chlorine levels should be between 1.0 and 3.0 ppm, and pH levels should be between 7.2 and 7.4. Cyanuric acid levels should be at about 40 ppm.
Also pay attention to the levels of calcium hardness and total alkalinity.
 If the amount of chlorine in your pool is remarkably low, you can shock the water by adding 3 lbs (1.35 kg) of granular chlorine per 10,000 gallons (2500 L) of water.


Low chlorine levels are among the most common causes of turbidity in pool water. The sunlight can damage chlorine and make it less effective. When this happens, bacteria can build up in the water, causing it to become cloudy.
If you tested the water and the chlorine levels are only slightly lower than usual, you can correct them by adding the amount of chlorine called for on the label instructions. Shocking the water is only necessary when the chlorine is abnormally and severely low.
 If you have a high level of cyanuric acid in the water, shocking it with chlorine may not be enough. Lower the cyanuric acid levels by draining 20 percent of the water and refilling the pool with fresh water.


Too little cyanuric acid can make it easier for the sun to break down the chlorine in your pool, creating water that is less resistant to dirt and bacteria. As such, you should only dilute the pool water if your cyanuric acid levels are at 100 ppm or above.
 When all else fails, you can try correcting the cloudiness by adding a "pool clarifier" chemical. Dosage of these chemicals vary by manufacturer, so check the label for instructions before proceeding.


Clarifier chemicals bind and coagulate small particles, making it easier for filters to trap them.
 If none of these solutions fix the turbidity, there might be a problem with your filter. Diagnose and correct this problem before trying again.


Make sure that your filter is not undersized for your pool.
Verify that the filter media is still active and not in need of replacement.
Check the pressure. Abnormally low pressure could indicate a clog or blockage in the filter. It could also indicate a damaged backwash valve.
If you have a DE filter, disassemble it and clean the entire thing thoroughly. Look for tears or other damage as you clean it.

