 This recipe will make about 6 servings of Beef Stroganoff. This is a hearty dish that is most often eaten in the chilly winter months. Families love it, and it’s also a perfect solution when you need to serve something tasty to a group without a lot of time to prepare.Preparation will take about 20 minutes.
It will take you a total of about 40 minutes to cook the entire dish.;
, Carefully remove the excess fat from the sirloin and dispose of it. Slice the sirloin into 1 ½ x 2 inch (3.5 cm x 5 cm) strips across the grain of the meat. The “grain” refers to the direction that the muscle fibers – which look like white streaks – are aligned. Once you figure out the direction, slice across the grain, not parallel with it.
 Use sea salt and freshly ground black pepper to season both sides of the beef. Heat the oil and the butter in a 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add about half of the sirloin strips to the skillet and brown them quickly on both sides.









Remove the browned meat and add the remaining batch to the skillet.
Brown the final batch and remove the slices from the skillet.
 Chop up two medium onions and finely chop the garlic. Slice the mushrooms. Add them all to the same skillet you were browning the meat in. Stir occasionally until the onions are tender and look slightly translucent.
 Once the onions are tender, stir one cup of the beef broth in with the vegetables. Reserve the remaining ½ cup of broth. Add the salt and Worcestershire sauce to the skillet. Bring this to a boil, then cover and reduce the heat to a simmer.









Allow the dish to simmer for about 15 minutes while you prepare the rest of the ingredients.
 Once they are well-mixed, add them to the skillet and bring the mixture to a boil, then reduce to a simmer. Add the browned sirloin strips back to the skillet, then stir in the sour cream.









Continue to simmer the mixture, stirring it frequently, while you prepare the egg noodles.
Do not allow it to boil., Bring a pot of water to a rapid boil and then add the egg noodles. Directions differ from brand to brand, so check the packaging to see how long you need to boil the pasta.


Cook the noodles until they are ready.
Remove them from the heat and drain well.
 Divide the drained noodles up into 6 even portions and put them on serving plates. Pour a large spoonful of the beef mixture over each portion of egg noodles.


Garnish with parsley (optional).
 Once you’ve prepared each plate, serve them immediately. You can serve the dish alone or along with some crusty French bread. Put any leftovers in a container with an airtight lid.









Store in the refrigerator and consume within 2 days.

