 If you have severely bad credit, you might not be able to get a loan from a bank or credit union. Some peer-to-peer lenders, though, will grant loans to borrowers with a credit score as low as 600. On websites like Prosper, LendingClub, and Peerform, you can post a request for a loan and individual lenders will review it.


Peer-to-peer lending sites will often have different (sometimes less stringent) requirements for granting a loan than traditional banks. But many of them also require very high interest rates (between 15-20%). In order to list on a P2P site, you will generally need to fill out the application required by the site. This application will still require personal and financial information like your credit score, annual income and contact information.
After completing the application, the website will then determine your level of risk as an investment to potential lenders, your credit score, and the level of interest for your loan.
If you are deemed a good investment by the website, you can receive offers for funding in as soon as a few minutes.;
, If the cost of the repair is relatively small (less than $1,500), it might be easier to ask for a loan from a friend or family member if you have very bad credit and are unlikely to be approved by a formal institution.


In cases like this, the loan should still be legally documented to protect yourself and the lender. Your loan should be a written agreement that includes the repayment terms, any collateral you are putting up for the loan, as well as the interest rates. It should also stipulate what will happen if you can't pay back the loan.
You should have this agreement legally notarized in a promissory note.Be prepared that you risk damaging a personal relationship if you cannot repay the loan according to your agreement.
 If you have horrendous credit, you probably won't be approved for this, but if you have middling credit (600-700), you might succeed here. You should particularly consider applying for an FHA (Federal Housing Administration) Title I Loan. FHA Title I loans are distributed by banks and other approved lenders, but they are backed by the FHA, so the risk of loss is diminished for the individual lender.


You will need to find an approved Title I lender in your area in order to apply; you can find a list via the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) at http://www.hud.gov/ll/code/llslcrit.cfm. You can also call (800) 767-7468 and request item number 2651, "Fixing Up your Home and How to Finance It," in order to receive more information on finding a lender.
You will submit your application for the loan to the HUD-approved lender in your state; you will access this application according to their specific guidelines on their website. You will probably need to provide information such as your annual income, bank statements, your Tax ID number, social security number, and other contact information.
The largest amount granted for a single-family property improvement loan is $25,000 with a maximum term of 20 years. Your bank (who will most likely be the lender for the loan) may still require a minimum credit score and/or down payment for the loan.
FHA Title I loans can cover a range of necessary repairs as well as improvements for indoor appliances like ovens and dishwashers; they will not cover luxury items such as swimming pools and outdoor fireplaces., If your income is 50% lower than the median income for your area, and if you have poor credit, then you may qualify for a loan or grant from this program.In this program, loans totaling $20,000 and grants for $7,500 are available for approved applicants.
For these loans, you will still need to provide a range of financial documents to prove that you qualify, such as your bank statements, credit score, mortgage statements, pay stubs, Tax ID, etc.
 The organization NeighborWorks was created by the government to help support community development projects. It is a nationwide network of local nonprofits that aid homeowners in their financial needs.You can see if there is a nonprofit close to you that funds home repairs in the Network Directory section of their website, www.nw.org.Loans or grants for nonprofits may not put as much weight on your credit score, but you will still probably need to provide this information, along with financial information such as bank statements, paystubs, your annual income, Tax ID, social security number and another official ID number such as a driver's license or passport number.
 Sometimes, local credit unions will fund projects that will improve the quality or value of a particular neighborhood in their area. Credit unions also generally have different approval criteria than larger banks, so you might have a better chance for approval with them.
 You are far more likely to secure a governmental loan or a non-profit grant if you can show how your repair is an urgent, necessary project. This would include things such as fixing a broken heater, repairing faulty wiring, sealing a major leak in a roof, etc. More cosmetic projects are less likely to be approved for funding.
 If you are not making the repairs yourself, you should ask a few contractors to inspect your house and give you an estimate for the repair work. Once you find the estimate that is best for you (beware of contractors who promise miracles for no cost), then gather this information in clear documentation to include in your application. You should give yourself a little wiggle room in your budget because unexpected costs can sometimes arise in home repair projects.
 No matter which route you choose to pursue for a loan, you will most likely need to provide financial information such as paystubs, your bank statements, your annual income, your Tax ID, drivers license number, passport number, your social security number, mortgage statement, your credit score and credit history. If you are a co-owner on the home, your co-owner will also need to provide this information.


For most home improvement loans, you will also need to provide proof that you either own the home, are leasing the home, or are planning to purchase the home and resell it. For this, you will need to provide items such as a mortgage, a lease or a bid that you have placed on a home.
You will also need to provide all contact information such as your address, your phone number, a current email address, etc.
 If you have a pressing emergency (such as a broken heater in the middle of winter), you might be tempted to simply accept the first loan offer that you come across. But check to make sure that the interest rate is not too exorbitant or at a price that will prevent your from paying your mortgage; even in federally-backed loans, the interest rate is often still set by the lender himself.
 As a homeowner, it is likely that you will not just have one major repair project over the course of your time in your home. You should prepare to improve your credit score so you can more easily qualify for a home equity loan in the future.
 A credit score below 620 is generally considered poor, although some lenders will grant loans to consumers with credit scores in the high 500s.
 Your credit score might seem like it is set in stone, but you can advocate for the removal of things that are driving down your score, like late payments on credit cards. By having information removed from your credit report, your score may go up.


For example, if you ceased paying a credit card last year, but have since begun repayments, you should contact your lender and see if you can negotiate removing the lapse in payment from your credit score. If you can offer to pay off the balance in full, then the lender might consider removing the blemish from your credit score., Even if you fully pay off your balance each month, your credit score will go down if you are hitting your limit every month. Try to use no more than 30% of your available credit each month and this will not negatively impact your credit score.There are many things you can do to improve your credit score.
 If you are using a monthly budget, you should increase the amount of money dedicated to decreasing your debt on credit cards, student loans, medical bills, car loans etc.


Try to eliminate daily, incidental expenses and then redistribute the money toward paying down debt. These would include eliminating things like meals out, a daily stop by the coffee shop, expensive forms of entertainment like concerts or movies, etc.
You should also look into using coupons for items on offer at your local grocery store; try to also buy produce that is in season because it tends to be more affordable than out-of-season items.

