 Daily probiotics have been shown to fight many digestive tract and genital tract infections. They can help to maintain a healthy level of good bacteria in your vagina and this may prevent infections.For patients with vulvodynia, a diet rich in probiotics may help fight inflammation and infections.


Foods rich in probiotics include yogurt, kefir and sour cream. Look for yogurt that contains live and active cultures. You can also take probiotic supplements.
In addition, you can also consume foods rich with pectin. Foods high in pectin enhance the work of probiotics by making digestion work more smoothly. Apples and citrus fruits are the best sources but berries, peaches, apricots, cherries and grapes are also high in pectin.
 Wash your vulva with gentle, unscented soaps and rinse well.If urinating seems to increase your symptoms, rinse your vulva with cool water after you go to the bathroom.Avoid irritants. Replace any scented soaps, sprays and lotions with unscented, chemical-free products. Similarly, replace nylon underwear (which traps moisture and can irritate your skin) with 100% cotton.
 Some activities, such as bicycling and horseback riding, can trigger vulvar pain.Pay attention to physical activities that seem connected to your symptoms. Once you know which activities are contributing to the problem, try to avoid them as much as possible.
 Applying a cold compress can also help with vulvar pain.Cold slows down blood flow and circulation. This can reduce pain and inflammation. Make a cold compress by wrapping ice in a towel or cloth and applying it to the affected area.


Never apply ice directly to your skin.
 Lubricants can help with vulvar pain during sex.If you are able to have sexual intercourse, look for a water-soluble lubricant rather than an oil-based lubricant. Oil-based lubricant may contain chemicals that can aggravate your symptoms. Avoid any lubricants with added sugars or glycerin because these can also irritate your skin.
 the water covers only your hips and buttocks) with oatmeal or baking soda. Oatmeal contains anti-inflammatory substances called avenanthramides. These substances can reduce pain, irritation and itchiness. Also try baking soda--it is alkaline and can help regulate vaginal pH levels. This may correct excess acidity that can contribute to itching and burning.


For an oatmeal bath, dissolve one sachet of powdered oatmeal into your bathwater and bathe for 20 minutes.
For a baking soda bath, mix 4 to 5 tablespoons (59.1 to 73.9 ml) of baking soda into your bathwater and bathe for 15 to 20 minutes.
 Oxalates are compounds found in plant foods that bind to minerals and reduce their absorption.Some doctors recommend a low oxalate diet for vulvodynia because foods high in oxalates can produce urine that is irritating, and this may contribute to vulvar pain.Talk to your doctor about your urine oxalate levels, and consider modifying your diet accordingly.


Foods high in oxalates include chocolate, berries, spinach and nuts.
You can also take a calcium citrate supplement. Calcium citrate may inhibit the growth of oxalate crystals, relieving pain and itching. Consider taking 200-250 milligrams of calcium citrate 3 times daily.

