 These chips are healthier if you bake them in an oven, but if you want corn chips with a store-bought taste and appearance, you'll need to deep-fry them in oil.


When baking the chips, preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius).
When frying the chips, pour 1/2 inch (2.5 cm) of oil into a heavy skillet with high sides and heat it on medium high over the stove. Continue heating the oil until it reaches a temperature of 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius).;
, Bring 3/4 cup (185 ml) water to a boil in a kettle or small saucepan. Set it on the stove over high heat until a notable boil develops.


For thinner corn chips, you could increase the amount of water to 7/8 cup (210 ml).
You could also boil the water in a microwave, but do so slowly and carefully to prevent the water from super-heating.
 Pour the boiling water into a medium mixing bowl. Add the cornmeal, 1 Tbsp (15 ml) corn or other vegetable oil, and salt to the water and mix together with clean hands or a wooden mixing spoon until well combined.


If you want to add other seasonings, as well, you should do so at this time.

For something mild, try 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) ground black pepper.
For something with more of a kick, try 1 Tbsp (15 ml) chili powder, 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) garlic powder or onion powder, or 1 tsp (5 ml) of a steak or hamburger spice rub.
Think about your favorite corn chip flavors. Experiment with different seasonings based on these flavors.
 Take a 1-tsp (5-ml) measuring spoon and scoop out a heaping dollop of the chip mix. Place the spoonful on a well-greased baking sheet. Scoop out the remainder of the chips and do the same.


Use plenty of oil or cooking spray on the baking sheet when you grease it. The sheet needs to be very stick-resistant.
You could also line the baking sheet with nonstick aluminum foil.
Do not allow the corn chip dollops to touch.
 Moisten your fingers with a little water or cooking oil. Press on the corn chip dollops and flatten them out into thin rectangles or ovals.


If your fingers start to stick to the batter as you work, re-moisten them before continuing.
Again, the corn chips must not touch each other.
 As noted earlier, you can either bake or fry these chips.


Bake the corn chips. If you have decided to bake the chips in your preheated oven, place the baking sheet in the oven and cook the chips for roughly 10 minutes. The chips are done when they are hard and look golden-brown. Allow them to cool on the baking sheet.
Fry the corn chips. If you would rather fry the corn chips, carefully dip a few flattened strips of batter into your hot oil. Only fry a few at a time to prevent overcrowding. Fry them for 1 to 3 minutes on one side, flip, then fry for another 1 to 2 minutes on the other side. When done, the chips should look crispy, golden, and curled around the edges. Pull the chips out of the oil with a slotted spoon and drain on layers of clean paper towels.
 Wait until the chips cool to the touch and enjoy.

