 Knowing the strength of the hydrogen peroxide solution will help you decide the best course of treatment, whether the burn affects the skin, eye, or digestive system. The container’s label will note its contents’ concentration.Most household hydrogen peroxide solutions are about 3% hydrogen peroxide and 97% water. These can cause minor irritation to the skin, eyes, or digestive system, stinging, and/or whitening of the skin, but can almost always be treated by simply flushing the area with cool water.
Products that bleach hair can contain between 6 and 10% hydrogen peroxide, and can be more harmful than standard household solutions.
Industrial solutions contain between 35 and 90% hydrogen peroxide. These can cause chemical burns that require immediate emergency care. You may notice blistering on the skin. Call emergency services immediately to treat exposures to industrial hydrogen peroxide.;
, Free the burned or irritated area from contaminated clothing as soon as possible, especially when exposed to higher concentrations. Take off any clothes, jewelry, or other accessories that might have been splashed or soaked. Place the clothing in plastic bags if the concentration of hydrogen peroxide is 10% or higher., Hold the affected area under cool running water to rinse away the solution and ease pain. Flushing under a faucet will effectively treat small patches of skin exposed to household concentrations. Take a cool shower to flush larger patches of contaminated skin or areas exposed to a higher concentration., Chemical burns that result from hydrogen peroxide exposure can be treated like thermal burns.Continue to flush with cool water until pain starts to subside, use a mild soap to gently wash the area, and apply an antibacterial ointment.Avoid scrubbing or breaking any small blisters that develop.
Consider applying an aloe vera gel to ease discomfort.
 Within a day of exposure, look for signs including worsening redness, irritation, and pus or discharge from the burn. Seek a follow-up examination if you experience any of these symptoms.Schedule an appointment with your primary care doctor, contact the medical professional who treated your wound, or visit a local clinic for a follow-up examination.

