 Well, that's the main den to have a restaurant. Enough space, cash register, exactly.;
, At the Dinner Party you can click on the shop sign, and buy some booths. If you don't have any, you can use sturdy tables and any chair.
 After you've bought them, go to your den to place them in your den in an orderly way.
 At Epic Wonders, you can buy a feast table and place it in your den. You can get a round feast table, too. If you're having a buffet, you should probably place them outside of your kitchen so they're is access between the tables and the customers (Jammers).
 If it's a cafe, you should make the leftover space in the den fancy. For example, buy teapots, a throne for you (the boss), and roses from the den shop. Also change the carpet and wallpaper to pink which is for sale at the den shop. If it's a bar, buy diner stools from the Dinner Party and tables from the den shop. Move the tables next to one another and one diner stool in front of each table. And put disco balls and speakers (bought at the Play Wild party) in the space left. Hire a DJ for the DJ booth bought at the Play Wild party, too.
 If it's a cafe, no music would be best. If it's a bar, Jam On music would be best or Jam Session music.
 Go to Jamaa Township and say, " If you wanna be a waiter, jam a gram me!" After you've repeated that a few times, say, "Last chance to!!!!!" Then make the peace emote and leave. Check your jam a grams and reply to all saying, "Let's see your skills, my den."


Once someone has arrived, lock your den and write down her user. Say, "Are you willing to work at 'name of restaurant'?" If they say no, say "See ya!" If they say yes, pretend you are a customer and test them to wait on you. If they fail say, "Sorry, I cannot hire you. It was a pleasure meeting you though. Bye." If they don't fail, send them a gift and say, " Congrats, you're hired!" Then explain to them you will send them gifts every week if they do good.
Ask if she/he has any questions. Then do the same thing to the next jammers. If there's very few, 1, or none, get more. If there's enough, say in Jamaa Township, "If you wanna be a cashier say I!" Whoever says I, jam a gram them and say "my den." If no one says I, go to different places and keep trying.
Keep your den locked and write down his/her user. Tell them they have to sit in front of the cash register and customers will be coming up to him/her to "pay" them and then leave. Explain the gifting thing and ask if there's any questions. Then tell everyone you'll get jammers and you're counting on them.
 Unlock your den. Go to Jamaa Township and say, "'Name of restaurant' MY DEN! GOOD FOOD! AWESOME "place bar or cafe" HURRY BEFORE FULL!"

,