 Actively look for deals while you shop. If something is discounted or cheaper than usual, you can save money. Register for discount cards at stores that you frequently shop at, and follow your favorite store's social media accounts so you'll see announcements for promotions and sales. Learn supermarket sale cycles, as sales change month to month. Purchase items when they are at their lowest possible price.


For example, in January, foods like celery, avocado, and broccoli are typically on sale.Take advantage of clothes sales cycles as well. You can get great deals on winter or summer clothing at the end of each season., Find coupons in newspapers, magazines, catalog inserts, and online. Figure out what stores and brands offer coupon discounts. Find stores that allow you to combine different coupons for more savings. Some stores will allow you to "stack" store and brand coupons together. Some stores will honor competitors' coupons; others will simply match prices.


Stores that allow you to use competitors' coupons include Bed Bath & Beyond, Dick’s Sporting Goods, and Office Depot.Price matching means that a store will meet a competitor's price on a product. Stores that do this include Walmart, Amazon, and Staples. Combining coupons with sales can allow you to pay even less. Doing all of these things together could result in hundreds of dollars in savings when you go grocery shopping.
 Don't withdraw money from non-bank-sponsored ATMs, because they could charge a fee on top of what your bank typically charges. This could add up to a lot of money over time. When you can, use your debit card, or withdraw money from your bank's ATM if there is no fee associated. If there is a fee, just make the withdrawal through a teller.


Withdrawing money from a non-bank-sponsored ATM averages more than $4 in bank fees. , You can face penalty fees on most of your monthly bills if you fail to pay them on time. Watch for the arrival of bills, including credit cards, utilities, rent, insurance, and loans. Paying all of your bills on time will save you a lot of money over time.

