 Most dogs will get over the coronavirus on their own without any medical treatment. If your dog gets the coronavirus, watch him closely. Make sure to keep him hydrated with plenty of fluids since dehydration from diarrhea or vomiting is one of the common side effects of the condition. Especially keep an eye on this condition if your dog is a puppy.If the symptoms are severe, or your dog gets dehydrated, you should take him to the vet. The vet can prescribe medication for secondary conditions that may accompany the coronavirus.
 In a dog that is in otherwise good health, coronavirus is more of an inconvenience than a life-threatening condition. Most dogs get symptoms, like being feverish and having diarrhea, for a few days, and then recover.As with most infections, if the patient has an underlying health condition which weakens her immune system, then coronavirus could be more dangerous because the dog is less able to fight off infection and complications are more likely.Younger and older dogs are more vulnerable to infection and complications because their immune systems are weaker. Speak to your vet about whether there have been coronavirus outbreaks in the area and whether a vaccination is advisable or not.
 The virus is highly infectious and easily passed between dogs. Most commonly, it is contracted through contact with infected feces from diarrhea or respiratory secretions, such as sneezing or coughing.Most dogs contract the coronavirus in places where they interact with other dogs or come into contact with dog feces, like in a kennel, groomers, dog park, breeders, or dog shows.
 There are two types of coronavirus. Type 1 causes gastrointestinal signs, and Type 2 causes respiratory signs. The incubation period is one to four days. Typically, the dog will feel bad for several days and then start to recover.


To help make sure your dog doesn’t get the virus, you should know what symptoms to look for. Symptoms of the coronavirus infection include a fever, reduced appetite, lack of energy, sickness, diarrhea, or a dry hacking cough.These are quite general signs so your vet will have you monitor the dog closely for signs of deterioration, in case the infection is actually something more serious such as parvovirus or distemper.

