 There are many different herbs that are known to be effective for treating headaches when brewed in teas. Peppermint, chamomile, skullcap, and feverfew are all examples of herbs that can be used in teas to help soothe and relieve headaches. Feverfew is particularly known for keeping headaches at bay, more so than treating them once they’ve already begun. You can try taking feverfew in a capsule each morning if headaches are a regular issue for you.Ginger root tea is also a great option for helping relieve headache pain.
Some health stores may carry pre-made herbal blends that contain various combinations of these herbs, made specifically for soothing headaches. Talk to an associate at your local health food store if you need help picking out a pre-made tea blend.
 A simple drop or two of rosemary or thyme essential oils can help soothe a headache. Put a drop of one of these oils onto your fingertips, and gently rub the oil into your temples. Let the oil sit on your skin for a few minutes after you’ve finished massaging your temples. Try this remedy in a quiet, relaxed space.If you find your skin becomes irritated from the oils, try mixing them with a carrier oil such as jojoba, olive, or coconut oil before applying the blend to your temples.
 Adding a magnesium supplement to your daily routine may help you stave off future headaches. Studies have shown that those suffering from migraines actually have lowered magnesium levels in their brains as they endure a migraine, so keeping your magnesium levels up might help prevent headaches from coming on in the first place.You can also try eating foods that are high in magnesium, like pumpkin seeds, bananas, broccoli, almonds, and cashews., Simple foot baths have been widely used in naturopathic and holistic medicine to treat headaches. Find a bowl or container large enough for both of your feet to fit in and be fully submerged in water. Fill the bowl with hot water. While holding a cold compress or ice pack against the back of your neck, place your feet in the bowl of hot water. This draws your blood down towards your feet, which can help relax the blood vessels in your head that are causing the pain.