 One of the quickest ways to attract the attention of other Instagram users is to begin following them first. Some may return the favor, while others will not. In general, though, following more users will often get more users following you back.


Look for popular users, as well as users who follow many more people than they have followers. These people may want to bulk up their number of followers, and will follow you back. Just dont expect many interactions to come from these accounts.
 Followers are lost because of one of two mistakes: posting too much, or not posting enough. People regularly cycle through their list and unfollow boring accounts or inactive accounts, so a good rule of thumb is to make sure that you update your account with entertaining content at least once a day.


It's also common for people to unfollow users who post too much. If you're following thousands of people, your feed might refresh constantly, but people who only follow a few hundred people get a flood of your pictures, which quickly gets annoying.
 Micro-communities are accounts on Instagram that involve a wide range of users by sponsoring daily challenges and offering forums. By becoming actively involved in a micro community, you can quickly introduce yourself to other Instagram users. Best of all, these users are eager to be active on Instagram, so they can be more likely to follow new users.


For instance, the @joshjohnson #JJ community offers daily challenges and forums. If you tag your photos with the #JJ hashtag and follow the 1-2-3 rule of the community, you can easily gain new followers. The basic rule is:

For every photo you post, comment on two others and like three more.
 You're not the only one on Instagram who wants more followers. There are lots of users who'll advertise their desire for gaining followers by putting "like for like" or "follow for follow" in their bio or in their pictures. There are a variety of hashtags associated with follower-gathering accounts, and they're often changing, so keep an eye out for new ones. To find users who are actively seeking followers, browse hashtags like:


likeforlike
like4like
l4l
followforfollow
follow4follow
f4f
ifollowback
teamfollowback

, This is an app geared towards getting you more likes and followers. It generates hashtags that you can copy and paste into the caption bar, then all you have to do is wait for people that are searching for those hashtags to follow you. "Tag for Likes is an increasingly popular way for people to gain lots of followers quickly.


New follower-gaining apps and techniques are always coming out. Keep an eye out for new ways to connect and for updates to the older, established apps.
 People often look for followers on the follower lists of big celebrities, just following a few hundred of the most recent followers on a given account. One little trick commonly used is in following and unfollowing very popular celebrities repeatedly, thereby keeping your name at the top of the "Recent Followers" list. You can gain lots of followers fairly quickly using this ploy.


Kim Kardashian, One Direction, Justin Bieber, and Instagram itself have some of the most popular accounts.
Technically, doing this is against policy and can result in your account being suspended, so use the technique judiciously.
 These programs, though they violate Instagram user agreements, are fantastic ways to find followers. They let you search for similar users, and the bot likes their pictures. As a result, a certain percentage of viewers will click on your page and follow you as a result. Search for "Instagram Follower Macros" to get started.


The website "Blackhat" has a collection of frequently-updated macro scripts.

