 Your business card should be dynamic and visual. Get into the visual state of mind by using a computer design program or a blank sheet of paper to create a rough sketch of the card.If you use a design program like Photoshop or InDesign, you can select a business card template in the program and work off of the template. You can also download free design templates for business cards online using a simple search for business card templates.
If you have a word processing program, like Microsoft Word, you can use a business card template in the program to create your own design.
If you use a sheet of paper, make sure you draw the sketch large enough to see the details of the card. You can then use this sketch as a draft and recreate it in a computer design program.;
, Your business card should feature your business logo prominently, as your logo is representative of your business as a whole. Your logo should be the largest element on your business card, showcased in the center of the card or on the card in a bold and graphic way.Depending on the style of your logo, the logo may look better in the center of the card if it has rounded edges or a compact design. If the logo has square edges or a more fluid and open design, it may look better off center or printed in a smaller size as a pattern all over the card.
 No matter the style or design of your business card, it should include your basic information, including your company name, your name, your title at the company and contact information like your email, your social media, and your phone number. Do not cram too much information into the card and only include the essentials, as you do not want to overwhelm the customer.Your company name may already be integrated into your business logo. If so, do not repeat it again. You may also decide to make your name and title larger on the card so it is clear and easy to spot. You many want to make your email or phone number prominent on the card as well.
Try to customize the basic information on your business card with the needs and expectations of your clients and customers. If you are more of an online based business, you may only provide your email and your social media, as this is how your clients will likely contact you. If you are more of a brick and mortar business, with a physical location, you should include the address of the physical location on your business card so your customers know where you are located.
 Most business cards are a standard 2 x 3.5 inches or 55 x 85 mm, which is not a lot of space for design. Get creative by using a non-traditional shape for the card that fits your business or company. For example, you could use a teddy bear shape for a daycare business card or a camera shape for a photography business card. These non-traditional shapes can grab your customer’s attention and make your business card memorable and interesting.Try to use shapes that are easy to hold and that are free of sharp corners. You do not want your client to cut themselves on your business cards or find the cards awkward to hold or grab. Look for shapes with rounded edges and smooth lines so your card is memorable in all the right ways.
 Business cards are often most effective when they are bold but simple. Limit yourself to one to two colors on the card, perhaps one neutral color like white, gray, or black, and one bold color like blue, red, or green. Stick to one to two colors to avoid overwhelming the customer and creating a card that is too busy or hard to read.If you already use color in your business logo, integrate these colors into the rest of the card’s design. You could start with a simple color design of two bands of color on the top and bottom of the card, and then add small details or tweaks to the design from there. You may decide that having a neutral background and your business logo in color may be enough to keep the card interesting but not overwhelming.
Avoid using color combinations that are associated with holidays or seasons, such as green and red for Christmas or black and orange for Halloween, unless the seasons relate to your business in some way. A Christmas tree business, for example, may use red and green to associate the business with the season. But a photography business should avoid red and green on their business cards, unless they specialize in Christmas photography.
 Though fun and interesting design is important, the information on the business card is the most important element on the card. Make sure your basic information is in an easy to read typeface that is not too small or too faint on the card. Use a dark font color on the card to ensure the type is easy to see and does not blend into the background.You may want to experiment with different typefaces in the design template before you select one. Try to keep all of the text on the card in the same typeface, with variations like bolding or sizing. If you are setting the typeface against a color on the card, make sure you can still read the text clearly and the font does not clash with the color.
 Images are a good way to add a simple visual element to the business card. Because the business card is small, you may want to use one large image on the front or back of the card, especially if your business is tied to images or visuals.You may decide to have an image on one side of the card and then your business logo and contact information on the other side of the card. This will give the card balance and ensure it is not too busy or overwhelming.
A photography business, for example, would be well showcased with a strong, interesting photograph on one side of the card, or a portrait photograph that illustrates the high quality work done by the photography business.
 Think about how the card’s design will appear on the cardstock and consider options like embossing and thermography. You can emboss your business logo or your contact information to give your cards more visual appeal.You can also apply thermography to the card’s design, which is a process that creates raised typeface or images on the card. You could have your business logo appear raised on the card so it is prominent and catches the customer’s eye.
 Once you have sketched out a basic design for the card, you should sit back and view the card as a whole. Ask yourself if there are any other design elements you can add to give the card more impact, or any design elements you can remove to make the card more elegant and clean.


You may want to consider a bolder color combination for the card or more interesting font for the typeface. You may also replace a blank side of the card with an image or photograph that well represents your business.
 The paper quality of your business card can be very telling to customers, as they will notice the texture and weight of the cards when they take them from you. The weight and texture of the card stock can be a design element in itself and add an extra element of interest to your business card.Consider using textured paper in a lighter shade that compliments the card design. Look for textured paper that feels appealing and is easy to hold.
 Once you have finalized your card design and your paper type, you can send your card mock up to a card printing service. A card printing service can then print off your business cards for you in larger numbers.


Most card printing services offer online ordering where you enter in your card design and your paper type as part of your order. You often ask for samples of the company’s previous work before you put in your order to ensure the company can produce the cards based on your specifications.
Many large scale businesses will use professional printers, as they require large batches of cards and may update their cards every year. It may be more cost effective for a large business to use a professional printing service, especially if the business plans to update the cards at some point. Developing a good working relationship with a printer may also lead to discounted printing.
Most professional printers will offer specific high quality details like embossing and thermography. You will likely be able to customize your cards using unique design details that you may not be able to do at home.
 If you have a high quality printer at home and are prepared to cut a lot of cards, you can print off the business cards yourself.


Make sure your printer can produce the cards so they are printed properly and appear high quality. You can load your printer with textured cardstock and print the cards off in batches. You will then need to cut up the cards so they are standard card size using a large cutter to ensure they are evenly cut and symmetrical.
Home printing is a good option for small businesses who do not require large batches of business cards, at least not right away. Most home printers are also not equip to do speciality printing options like embossing and thermography. If you are looking to include these design elements in your business cards, you may want to go with a professional printing service.

