 Since boredom can be one of the causes of chewing, try spending a little more time playing with your cat. With some additional stimulation, the cat might forget about the chewing altogether.Try distracting your cat with dangling toys, a laser pointer, or other favorite toys., Thin pieces of rawhide, toy mice, or food puzzle toys will help occupy your cat’s time. An old bath towel or large stuffed toy can be a fun chew toy for certain cats. An uncooked chicken wing tip (the rubbery portion) may be appropriate for some cats as well.If you give the cat a chicken wing, ensure that it’s uncooked since the cooked bones can splinter and cause complications if ingested.Always supervise your cat when allowing it to eat chicken wings or rawhide., Feed small, frequent meals in various places. Use food puzzles that provide enrichment and stimulation for a cat that chews out of boredom or stress.
 Most cat owners know that cats can spend hours staring outside the window if the surroundings are exciting enough. Place a bird feeder (or even a squirrel feeder) outside an available window. The cat will be too enthralled with what’s going on outside to chew.Providing perches, cat towers, or similar items in strategic places will help your cat get a better view out the windows, and the cat furniture itself is another form of enrichment, especially if you buy one with dangling catnip toys., Don’t simply open the door and let an indoor cat roam free, but supervised time on an enclosed patio or in a fenced backyard is also enriching for your cat. Even just a few minutes outside chewing on some regular grass can prevent your cat from chewing once back indoors.If you don’t have access to an enclosed outdoor space, you can also use a harness and a leash for your cat when playing outdoors., You can’t always be around to play with your cat or supervise it outdoors. The more solo activities you leave for the cat to occupy itself with, the more confident you can be that your cat isn’t chewing when you aren’t around. Consider providing:A scratching post or cardboard scratch pads. You can also sprinkle the post or pads with catnip to make them even more irresistible to your cat.
Dry treats hidden around your home. By hiding treats in a few different rooms that are accessible to the cat, you can ensure that your pet stalks around these rooms searching for the treats rather than spending time getting bored and chewing on something it shouldn’t.

