 Avoid bringing several large, heavy bags with you when you’re traveling solo. Hauling them around can be exhausting and may slow you down. You want to remain as mobile as possible and be able to move quickly whenever necessary. Bring a moderately sized carry-on bag that is easy for you to move with.


Bringing lots of luggage could also make you a possible target for theft.
If your train journey is for a full day or longer, bringing a carry-on allows you to access your things quickly and keep everything in one place.Since the single occupancy rooms on trains are usually very small, so you won’t have room for tons of luggage or possessions anyway.;
, Keep this information on you at all times. Being able to reference your itinerary quickly and easily can be very helpful when traveling alone. Include the phone numbers of any hotels you might stay in, the name and contact information for anyone you plan to meet and an emergency contact for yourself.


If applicable, include the phone number to the nearest U.S. Embassy (or your native country's embassy).Give someone you trust a copy of your itinerary before you leave, just in case.
 Try to keep some cash and a credit card on your person at all times. Put the rest in your carry-on, backpack or purse. If anything happens to one or the other in the middle of your journey, you won’t be left penniless. Consider using empty vitamin bottles to store rolled up cash in, as well.


Throw a few old, loose pills into the bottles with the cash, so that they rattle when shaken.
Stash these in your backpack or carry-on. No one will be interested in stealing bottles of your vitamins.
 This is especially true if you plan to be carrying valuables on your journey. Most railways offer relatively affordable travel insurance to their passengers – check with the railway you plan to use for insurance options. If you are planning to bring valuables with you, you might want to put them in a small bag that you keep on your person at all times.This way you can avoid stress by always knowing where the valuables are.

