 If there is an Open Day on offer celebrating IDD, you will be treated to additional information about the IDD. Even where that is not the case, take the opportunity to tour your local parliament or legislature and to learn more about what happens there during working hours.;
, Each year carries a particular theme concerning democracy. For example, in 2010, the theme is "political accountability: strengthening links between parliaments and citizens". Activities are organized around the theme, and many parliaments pick up on these so that citizens can participate.


Explore the theme in detail. The information will be provided for you online and in your local parliament, so it is definitely worth making the most of these resources., It can be found at: http://www.ipu.org/cnl-e/161-dem.htm.
 Write down some ideas of what democracy means to you. You might like to write an essay, a poem, or a short story even. Perhaps seek to have it published online or in print. Think about taking your understanding further by asking yourself (or your friends and family) some questions:


What elements are most important about democracy from your point of view?
Do your political or other beliefs impact your view of democracy? In what ways? Is this a good thing or not?
Do you think that other people have different views of what constitutes democracy from yours? In what ways?
In what ways do you think political tolerance could be advanced in your country?
Do you think that your country's take on democracy is the same as how other countries view it?

, Find out what they understand democracy to mean and perhaps spend some time helping them to create pictures, stories, or even short videos to record their thoughts. If you have their parents' permission, why not upload their video thoughts onto YouTube? It could be a great way to open discussion and serve as a historical viewpoint in time to come, and it is always eye-opening for "grown-ups" to see how kids view democracy!


A great question for kids to answer is: "What would you do if you were Prime Minister/the President?".
Have kids write letters to their local member of parliament asking anything they'd like to know.
 Can you find out how long they have been in parliament, how long their elected term is, what their policies are, and what committees, etc. they belong to? Check online first.


Find out how you can contact this person if needed.
Do you have any questions you might like to send to this person? Contact him or her and share your concerns and views. Your representative needs to know how you are thinking about relevant issues.
 Perhaps hold a quiz night and party based on the serious topic of democracy! Award prizes for the best answers, and others will be getting an education along the way! (Make sure you know all the answers!) Things to ask people include:


Do you know the difference between the executive and legislative branches of government? Do you know where the judiciary fits in?
Do you know how proportional representation works?
Do you know how to contact your local member of parliament or local representative?
What would you do if a political matter that impacted you personally arose in your electorate?

, This can be a good exercise in finding out information first hand, rather than relying on a journalist to filter it for you according to his or her understandings and beliefs.


Many parliaments broadcast their proceedings on TV, over the radio, and online. Check online first for details, or call your local parliamentary information office.
Use the PARLINE database to easily find the websites of 261 parliamentary chambers of 186 countries around the world: http://www.ipu.org/parline-e/parlinesearch.asp.
 One of the most important parts of being in a democracy is the ability to vote. Exercise your right to vote whenever it is relevant.


Help other people to learn about the value of voting and help them to get to polling booths if they cannot get there themselves.

