 A flagpole is a perfect choice for a selfie stick because the pole's length is often adjustable. The flagpole should be intended for handheld use. A smaller sized pole will allow you to handle it properly, all the while giving you a healthy range of space to take your pictures from.


As a rule of thumb, it is good to place the camera at roughly your arms' length. This will keep your face in proximity without unnecessarily crowding the image.If you cannot find a flagpole at a department store, they are also available to order online.;
, If you are looking for a more permanent brand of selfie stick, you can drill a hole through both ends of the top inch of the flagpole. Screw in a nut on either side to secure it in. Some tripods will also have a fastening function to secure them to a stick or other device. The bottom end of a tripod should be able to fit inside a hollow flagpole. If this is the case, drilling through the flagpole and tripod and pushing a screw through should help secure it.

Afterwards, scotch taping the tripod's legs to the pole should help increase stability.
 Take a roll of scotch tape and loop around a miniature tripod and an extending flagpole. Tape in loops on both the bottom and the top of the tripod to ensure the best stability. Although your tripod will only need to carry the weight of the phone, the potential distance it will be swung from means it could risk coming loose without the appropriate amount of tape.


Loop the tape around like a coil. This will allow you to create a few layers to further secure the tripod. The legs of the tripod should be placed to wrap around the flagpole and should be taped around each individual leg.
Although this is more expensive than other DIY selfie stick methods, it's easily the most reliable version you can make from home.
 A tripod will already be designed specifically to hold a phone in place. With this in mind, secure the phone to it and fasten it as necessary. When you aim to take your shot, you can manually adjust the tripod angle to suit your selfie taking.


Although certain tripods may work differently based on the specific type and phone you're using, so long as the phone is secured to the tripod, your selfie stick should be relatively safe to use.
 A flagpole is considered the standard option because it's adjustable and meant to hold something on the other side. However, you can tape a tripod to a number of objects, provided they have the length needed to make a selfie with. For instances, you can remove the parasol from an umbrella and replace it with the tripod.Plexiglass poles are good, as you can drill directly into the top and secure a screw to the opening at the bottom of the tripod.