 If a trial has been completed and a decision has been reached in your favor, the other party to the lawsuit might choose to file a motion for a new trial. When the other party files this motion, he or she is asking the court to grant a new trial (i.e., a do over) based on certain grounds that are laid out in statutes and case law.The motion will offer one interpretation of the standard for granting a new trial, the arguments in favor of granting a new trial, and the facts of the case that support the other party's motion.


When the other party files a motion for a new trial, you must be served with a copy. When you receive a copy of the motion, read it carefully and understand what the other party is asking of the court. Your ability to understand what the other party is asking for will dictate your ability to effectively oppose the motion.;
, The other party's motion will contain citations to the applicable law for motions for new trials in your particular jurisdiction. As soon as you are able, research the cited law and interpret its meaning for yourself. Generally speaking, a motion for a new trial can be granted if one party was prevented from having a fair trial.


In federal court, the rules dictate that a new trial can be granted for any reason the common law (i.e., case law) allows. Examples of reasons include verdicts that go against the weight of the evidence, newly discovered evidence, conduct of lawyers that taint the case, jury misconduct, substantial errors in admitting or rejecting evidence, or poor jury instructions.
In most state courts, the reasons for granting a new trial are specifically provided for in a statute.For example, in Ohio, a new criminal trial can be granted if the defendant files a motion successfully alleging that his substantial rights were materially affected by irregularities in proceedings, misconduct of people involved in the trial, verdicts that go against the weight of the evidence, legal errors, or when new evidence is discovered., In addition to researching the law included in the other party's motion, you should also look for court cases that have denied motions for new trials. In those decisions, read about the court's reasoning for denying a new trial. For example, if the other party is asking for a new trial because there was an error in the jury instructions, you should look for cases that have denied motions for new trials based on a claim of erroneous jury instructions.


In California, an error in jury instructions can be a ground for a new trial if the error is prejudicial to the moving party. In making this determination, the court will evaluate the evidence that was presented, the effect of the instructions, the effect of any counsel's arguments, and any indication by the jury that they were misled., Legal research can be complicated and successful research can be the difference between winning and losing the opposition. Therefore, if you are unable to complete the legal research, you should ask for professional help. You might be able to hire a paralegal, research expert, or attorney to help you through this process. Check with your state bar association for places to look.
 Your legal arguments opposing a motion for a new trial should be based on the law of your jurisdiction and the arguments the other party made. Create counterarguments that you believe effectively diminish the effects of the other party's arguments. When you develop arguments, each one should contain an accurate description of the law and persuasive analysis that ties in important facts of the case.


For example, assume the other party is arguing a new trial should be granted because of improper and prejudicial jury instructions. You might argue that the same jury instructions have been read in other similar cases and, in those cases, no prejudice was found. In addition, you might argue that the jury never made any indication that they were confused or misled by the jury instructions as they were read. You would then back up these assertions with facts of your case. For example, if the jury foreperson nodded after the instructions were read and even stated that he or she clearly understood them, this would be helpful to state.
 Before you start writing your memorandum in opposition, you need to know how the court wants you to format your documents. Each court will have different rules and documents can be rejected if you do not follow those rules. Most courts will have their local rules posted online. If you cannot find the rules online, visit the courthouse and ask the clerk for a copy. Local rules will dictate how long your memorandum can be, what type of paper you must use (i.e., pleading paper), what type of font you must have, how the memorandum needs to be spaced, and what the content of your memorandum should be.


For example, in the Central District of California, your memorandum has to be 25 pages or less, written on pleading paper, written in 14-point font, double-spaced, and must contain a caption., The main document you submit to the court will be a memorandum of points and authorities in opposition to the motion for a new trial. This memorandum will include your legal arguments for opposing the motion as well as the legal authorities you used to base your arguments on. This memorandum will begin with a caption page, which must contain the name of the court, the names of the parties, the case number, and a title. Other information may be required by the court's local rules. The caption page must be formatted in a particular manner so make sure you follow those rules when drafting your caption page.


The title of your memorandum should accurately describe the document you are submitting. In this case, it might read something like this: "Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Opposition to the Motion for a New Trial.", The table of authorities will usually follow the caption page (or a table of contents if you have one). This table will identify all of the legal authorities you used within the memorandum. It will provide the judge with an accurate legal citation as well as the pages of the memorandum where the authorities are cited to. This table is incredibly important as it gives the judge an idea of what sources you cited to and what your legal arguments are. In addition, it gives the judge an easy way to look up the cited information should he or she have any questions.
 The introduction to your memorandum needs to lay the foundation for the whole document. It should provide the judge with the legal, factual, and procedural background that has led to you writing the memorandum. While it doesn't have to be long, make sure you include all of the important facts, laws, and background necessary to allow the judge to rule in your favor. Your legal arguments will be made after the introduction so be sure you are not making your arguments here in the introduction.


For example, your introduction might state that you have won at trial based on substantial evidence that clearly and accurately portrayed the case. You should state that the other party filed a motion for a new trial and that you are opposing that motion. You should include important facts that you will use in your arguments to prove that a new trial is not warranted. While the facts can be presented in the introduction in whatever manner you choose, try to present them in the most digestible manner possible.
 This section is the meat of your memorandum. It will provide the judge with all of your arguments opposing the motion for a new trial. Each argument you make should start with a conclusory header, which will tell the judge in one sentence what your argument is. You will then provide a legal basis for your argument that is backed up by solid reasoning and facts. Be sure you cite to any laws you use to make your arguments.


Make as many valid arguments as you can, even if some of them contradict each other. The judge will look at each of your arguments independently.
When you are formatting this section, put your strongest arguments up front. In the middle, put weaker arguments. At the end, add one or two more strong arguments to finish the memorandum well.
Whenever possible, acknowledge the other party's arguments and counter them with arguments of your own. For example, if you disagree with how the other party has interpreted the law, provide your own analysis for the judge. Also, if the other party failed to include important facts, point this out and include those facts yourself.Always acknowledge legal authority that hurts your case. While you can work to diminish its value, you will get in trouble if you leave out binding authorities that hurt you. Remember, you must portray the law in an accurate manner. If there is authority out there that hurts your case, acknowledge it and diminish its value by showing other parts of the law that are on your side.
 After your arguments section you will need a short conclusion followed by a signature block. The conclusion can be short and simply state that, based on the information you provided, the motion for a new trial should be denied. The signature block should leave space for your signature and the signature of those who helped you draft the memorandum. Be sure you provide everyone's title and the date the document was signed.
 Most courts will require you to attach a declarations page to your memorandum. The declaration is a sworn statement to the court about the facts you used to support your opposition. The declarations page will include a caption that contains the same information as your memorandum's caption, except you will change the title. The title should be something like: "Declaration in Support of Opposition to Motion for New Trial."


The body of the declaration needs to identify you and include a declaration that promises that the facts included in the declaration are true.
The declaration will end with a list of facts you used in support of your memorandum., Every document you submit to the court needs to be served on the other party. When a server serves the other party, he or she must swear to the court that a copy of the memorandum was served correctly. The proof of service sheet is the document the server must sign. Like every other document, it will start with a caption that includes all of the usual information. The title can be something like: "Proof of Service."


The body of the document simply needs to state that the documents were served on the other party in accordance with the law. make sure you leave space for the server to sign., Once your responsive memorandum and supporting documents have been drafted, each one of them needs to be signed by the appropriate parties.Any person that worked on memorandum must sign it. The signatures indicate to the court that each party is promising that the information is accurate and true. The declarations page must be signed by you. The proof of service sheet must be signed by the server once service has been completed.
 A copy of your responsive memorandum and attached documents must be served on the other party as soon as they are complete. Do not serve the originals as they will be filed with the court. At this stage of the litigation, it is usually sufficient to have someone over the age of 18 who is unrelated to the case mail copies of the documents to the other party or their attorney.Once service is complete, make sure the server signs the proof of service sheet and returns it to you.
 Once the server returns the proof of service sheet to you, you can take your original memorandum, declarations page, and proof of service sheet to the clerk of courts in the court where your trial was held. Your opposition must be filed within a certain time frame in order to be accepted. In general, you will be required to file your documents at least 21 days before the hearing date for the motion. The hearing date will be provided to you when you are served with the motion for a new trial.


In addition to filing your opposition on time, you might also have to file additional copies of your documents if the court requires it. Check with the local rules or call the court to check copy requirements. In the Central District of California, for example, you are required to file your originals plus two additional copies of all documents., Depending on the court rules, the other party may have an opportunity to reply to your opposition. If this is allowed, any reply will have to be filed with the court and served on you before the hearing date. While deadlines will vary, replies will usually need to be filed around 14 days before the hearing date. You will not have an opportunity to officially reply to a reply unless the court allows it.However, while you might not be able to submit a written reply to the other party's reply, you will most likely have an opportunity to reply during oral arguments. Therefore, it is important to read and understand the other party's reply so you can discuss it during oral arguments.
 The party who made the original motion for a new trial is required to schedule a hearing date. However, once a judge receives the original motion and your opposition, he or she may choose to cancel the hearing if they believe they can make a decision on the written arguments alone.If a hearing is scheduled, make sure you appear. If you do not attend the hearing, the judge may be inclined to grant the other party's motion for a new trial.On the date of the hearing, show up at the courthouse early to give yourself time to park and get through security. Make sure you bring copies of any important documents. Once you are through security, you should check with the information desk to make sure you know what courtroom you will be in. If you cannot find help, each courtroom should have a schedule right outside. Check each courtroom's schedule until you find your case number., When your case is called, walk to the front of the courtroom and address the judge. The judge will ask you questions about your opposition and will ask you to clarify and explain certain points. Be prepared for the judge to push back on your arguments and poke holes in them. Explain your arguments as best as possible and do not get discouraged. When the judge asks you a question, answer it accurately and concisely. Do not argue with or interrupt the judge.


Be prepared for the judge to ask you questions about the other party's motion and their arguments. Have counterarguments ready and explain why the other party should not be granted a new trial., The judge will also ask questions of the other party. The other party will try to poke holes in your arguments and explain why a new trial should be granted. Do not interrupt the other party while they are speaking with the judge. However, if you disagree with something the other party has said, make sure you speak up when you have the opportunity.
 After the judge has spoken with both parties, he or she will make a decision about the motion for a new trial. The judge might make a decision immediately while you and the other party are still in the courtroom. In some cases, however, the judge will want to take some time to consider all the information. If this happens, you will leave the courtroom and await the judge's decision. When the judge decides, you will be notified by mail.If you win, the motion for a new trial will be denied and the original decision will still be in place. However, if you lose, the original decision might be vacated or changed and you will have a new trial on certain issues.

