 Look for symptoms of CMV at birth. Babies who are infected by CMV in the womb do not always have symptoms – in fact, they usually do not. However, If your baby is born premature, born with low birth weight, or born below average size, CMV is a possible cause.


CMV is part of the TORCH infections that affect women when they are pregnant.These infections can cause birth defects and are congenitally acquired. There is significant risk for morbidity and mortality from these infections.
Congenital cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection is the leading cause of sensorineural hearing loss. Further, there are long-term neurodevelopmental disabilities associated with congenital CMV including the following: cerebral palsy, intellectual disability, vision impairment, and seizures.;
, Small head size, or microcephaly, can occur if your baby is exposed to toxins, certain viruses – including CMV – or suffers from malnutrition in the womb.It occurs due to abnormal brain development, and can be diagnosed by your OBGYN when your baby is born., Seizures are another potential side effect of congenital CMV. Seizures can begin very early, almost right after the baby is born, or they might not start until months or even years after birth., Jaundice, yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (also known as scleral icterus), indicates a problem with liver function. The liver is commonly affected by CMV and may also be enlarged.


Hepatosplenomegaly, or enlargement of the spleen and liver, is another concern that may result due to congenital CMV infection., There are many causes of pneumonia, but if it occurs in a baby that was just born it may be a symptom of CMV infection. Pneumonia requires treatment with antibiotics no matter what, but you should ask your doctor about the possibility of CMV infection., Like pneumonia, rashes can occur for many reasons. If your baby is born with a rash or with dark patches of discoloration on their skin, speak with your doctor and ask about CMV., This is also known as sensorineural hearing loss. Some babies who appear healthy at birth end up developing symptoms of congenital CMV later in infancy, even months or years after they are born. Hearing loss is the most common symptom that has a late onset.


Vision loss can also occur.
 Another late-onset problem can be the development of muscle weakness. Due to problems with brain development, poor coordination can occur late. If your child begins to stumble often, drop objects more often, or becomes unable to lift things they used to be able to, see a doctor right away.
 CMV infection can, in infancy or after several years, cause intellectual delay or disabilities. It’s important to take your child to the pediatrician regularly to ensure they are reaching appropriate stages of growth and development.

