 Explain the That's My Mom game to the audience. The slides referenced in the Sources and Citations section below may be of help to you doing this.;
, Select four mother-daughter teams from the audience to be on stage contestants and invite them to come on stage (or to the front of the room if there is no stage).
 Photograph each mom-daughter team as well as the group of all four mom-daughter teams.
 Hand each mom a foil lined bandana (see tips below) and have her blindfold her daughter.
 Photograph the moms and blindfolded daughters.
 Have the moms move their daughters to one side of the stage to stand next to each other to form the daughters panel. Position the daughters in random order so that they do not know their position on the panel. (Two or three spins while walking across the stage will facilitate this.)

, Have the moms stand side by side on the other side of the stage to form the moms panel. Have the moms position themselves in a random order, so that their daughters do not know the which mom is first, second, third or fourth.
 Replace one of the moms with another adult in the audience. (Tell the daughters if you do this. Thus, one daughter will need to respond My mom is the one not on the panel if she is to correctly identify her mom.
, Issue one of the Yes / No signs to each mom.
, Proper names are not allowed. For example, you might ask Mom #1 do you read at work?

Once you ask your question, the appropriate mom will display her Yes / No sign. I will read the sign to you if your question was work related. If the question was not work related I will not read the answer.
I will tap the next daughter on the shoulder.
You must always be ready to ask your questions as I will not call on you in the same order every time.
You may only use a question one time.
Whenever you are ready you may say which mom you think is yours.
I will then escort you to your new mom.

The first daughter to correctly select her mom comes in first place.The second one comes in second, etc.
The mom who ends up with the most new daughters wins. Extra credit if her own daughter does not correctly identify her.
,,, For the second photos time have the mom's hold up the Yes or No sign as appropriate.
 Discuss.
 Try to capture the facial expressions with photographs as the daughters first look at their new moms.
,,, Ask each mom to spend a few minutes describing her career to the audience.
, With appropriate approvals you may also wish to include selected photos in a newsletter, yearbook, bulletin board, etc.

