 Pocky are sweet Japanese cookies that come in many flavors. In order to play the Pocky game you’ll need to purchase a box from your local Asian market or find them in the international aisle at the grocery store. If you can’t find Pocky, any long, thin biscuit, such as a breadstick, will do.
 The Pocky game often results in a kiss, as the two players hold a thin, small cookie between them. Because of this, it makes sense to pick a partner you wouldn’t mind kissing to begin with. You can use this as an opportunity to break the ice with your crush or bring you closer to a good friend.


If you’re playing the game with a group of people, the rules of the game are the same. You can have two couples play at once. Then, the winners of both games can face off in their own Pocky game.
 The Pocky game is meant to be a fun (and sexy!) party game. Bring Pocky to a party, and then simply propose play. You might say, “Has anyone played the Pocky game before?” You’ll either be met with enthusiasm or curiosity. Either way, you’ll have a captive audience to teach the rules., Because you’ll be getting close to the other players, it’s considerate to brush your teeth so that you have good breath for the Pocky game. If you don’t have access to a toothbrush at the party, chewing a stick of mint gum for a little bit would do. Don’t keep the gum in your mouth for play though; you don’t want bits of Pocky getting stuck in your gum., Face the person you’ve selected as your partner for the Pocky game. You’ll both need to have the same posture, so both sitting or both standing. Get close so your faces are within about one foot of each other., Each take opposite ends of the Pocky stick between your teeth, so the Pocky is creating a line between your two mouths. Try not to snap the Pocky yet. One player then does a countdown backwards from three to begin play., Both players bite their end of the Pocky stick, moving towards the middle. Try not to drop the Pocky as you chew in this process. The goal is to reach the middle., Both players’ mouths will meet in the middle of the Pocky stick, but the first to pull away is the loser. It can be kind of funny to be so close to someone, so try not to giggle and lose your bit of the Pocky stick. Often, neither party will turn away, resulting in the kiss. In that case, everyone wins!

