 If you spend time around people who smoke, there's a good chance that they'll offer you a cigarette at some point. If you don't want to smoke, just say so, and most people will respect you for sticking to your principles. If anyone tries to pressure you into smoking, don't give them any consideration--just keep saying no, and they'll eventually stop bothering you.


If people don't respect your decision to avoid smoking, chances are that on some level they're jealous of your discipline. They may try to convince you to try it: "One little cigarette won't kill you..." If you're really interested in trying a cigarette, it's okay to experiment and figure out what you do and don't enjoy--but don't light one up just because you think people will judge you otherwise.
Some people are able to smoke the occasional cigarette without letting the habit spiral into a full-blown, pack-a-day addiction, but it's hard to tell which type of smoker you'll be without actually dancing with addiction. If you have an addictive personality--if you have trouble controlling your consumption of things like soda, coffee, alcohol, or sweets--there's a good chance that this will extend to smoking., Sidestream smoke--the smoke that wafts from the burning tip of a cigarette, pipe, or cigar--has higher concentrations of toxic, cancer-causing agents (carcinogens) than the "mainstream smoke" that smokers inhale. Secondhand smoke can be nearly, if not equally, as bad for your health as smoking. What's more, if you're trying to quit, the sight of other people smoking might sorely tempt you. If you have friends or family who smoke, and you don't want to cut them out of your life, politely ask them to go outside or step away from you when they smoke.
 Constantly remind yourself how harmful a smoking habit can be, and you may find that the research reinforces your resolve to avoid smoking. Quitting smoking can add years to your life, and it greatly reduces your risk for various smoking-related diseases.Consider passing the information along to friends and loved ones who habitually smoke--but don't preach, merely aim to inform.


Cigarettes contain carcinogenic (cancer-causing) chemicals, and when you smoke, you inhale those chemicals directly into your body. Most cases of lung cancer stem from habitual smoking.
Smoking causes strokes and coronary heart disease, which are the leading causes of death in the United States. Even people who smoke fewer than five cigarettes a day can show early signs of cardiovascular disease.Smoking causes most cases of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis. If you have asthma, tobacco can trigger an attack and make your symptoms worse.

