 Chronic constipation affects between 15% and 20% of Americans. Even people who eat healthily, exercise, and drink lots of water can still suffer from chronic constipation.Lifestyle issues - Constipation has been related to a number of factors related to lifestyle and diet, including inadequate water intake, inadequate fiber intake, over-consumption of dairy, and a lack of exercise, among others.Existing or new medical conditions - Some medical conditions can cause changes in the bowels and chronic constipation, including colon cancer, hypothyroidism, irritable bowel syndrome, Parkinson's disease, and diabetes.Medications - Medications that often have constipation as a side effect include pain medications, antacids like calcium and aluminum, calcium channel blockers, iron supplements, and diuretics among others.Aging - As people get older, they become more sedentary (and get less physical activity), eat less fiber and drink less water, all of which contributes to chronic constipation. In addition, many over-the-counter and prescription medications taken to treat conditions more common in older people, such as arthritis, back pain, and hypertension, can cause chronic constipation.Psychological issues - For some people, chronic constipation is related to specific psychological issues, including depression, sexual or physical abuse, or loss of a family member or friend, among other emotional triggers.Nerve and muscle function in the bowels - In some cases, lack of proper nerve and muscle function can cause constipation. In particular, in cases of pelvic floor dysfunction (dyssynergic defecation), the muscles of the lower pelvis surrounding the rectum do not function properly and can cause constipation., Some physicians believe that chronic constipation cannot solely be determined by the frequency of bowel movements, but that a host of other symptoms need to be assessed, or what has been termed a "symptom complex". These include:Hard stools.
Excessive straining when having a bowel movement.
A lack of feeling of relief after a bowel movement or a sense that the bowel movement was incomplete.
A sensation that you are unable to have a bowel movement.
A decrease in frequency of bowel movements (fewer than 3 per week over a period of several months)

, If the dietary and lifestyle changes discussed above do not relieve constipation, consult your primary care physician. It's important to seek medical attention if you suffer from chronic constipation or if constipation is new to you, as it can be a symptom of a more serious medical condition.Be prepared to provide your doctor with information on your constipation, including the number of times per week you pass a stool, how long you have experienced difficulty defecating, and a list of any medications you may be taking. Be sure as well to tell your doctor of any treatments you have undertaken, including laxatives and lifestyle or dietary changes.
Your doctor will perform a rectal examination to check for tears, hemorrhoids, and any other abnormalities, and then do laboratory testing to screen you for different diseases and conditions. If after these tests and a comprehensive medical history interview the cause of your constipation is still uncertain, your doctor may order an imaging study of the colon and rectum to check for more serious problems, such as an obstruction.
In severe cases, your doctor may order more tests or refer you to a gastroenterologist for further evaluation.

