 You can ask the butcher at your grocery to grind it for you, or you can grind it yourself in a food processor. If you wish to grind it yourself, be sure to trim away any excess fat and cartilage, and to cut the meat into 1-inch (2.54 centimeters) cubes first.Use only boneless, skinless chicken breasts.
You can use turkey breasts instead. Make sure that they are boneless and skinless as well., Pull the crust away from some French bread, tear it into chunks, and toss it into a food processor. Pulse the food processor until the bread is ground into fine crumbs. Keep doing this until you have enough to fill 2 cups (100 grams).If you absolutely cannot make fresh breadcrumbs or don't have the time or energy to do so, you can use store-bought breadcrumbs. Keep in mind that the recipe may not turn out as well, however.
If you plan on making chicken burgers again in the near future, make a larger batch of fresh breadcrumbs, and freeze the leftovers in a bag.
 Add as much or as little cracked black pepper as you'd like. Save the remaining 1½ cup (75 grams) of breadcrumbs for later. If you'd like, you can experiment with other herbs and spices as well. Here are two more ideas for you:


Savory Chicken Patties:1 tablespoon fresh dill, finely chopped
3 chives, chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced
½ teaspoon paprika
⅛ teaspoon salt


Herbed Chicken Patties:2 tablespoons fresh dill, finely chopped
1 tablespoon fresh basil or mint, chopped
Squeeze of fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 pinch cayenne pepper
Salt, to taste



, The mixture will be very wet, which is fine. Be careful not to over-mix your burger meat, or it will be too dry once grilled., Divide the mixture into little piles first, then use your hands to form them into large balls. Use the palm of your hands to flatten the balls slightly. If things get too sticky, you can work on top of a sheet of wax paper.Make a slight indentation in the center of each patty. This will help them hold their shape better., Place the breadcrumbs into a shallow dish. Then, working one at a time, press the patties (both sides) into the breadcrumbs. Set them aside as you finish them before moving onto the next one.
 If you do not have any olive oil handy, you can use another type of cooking oil, such as canola or vegetable. Olive oil will give the chicken burgers more flavor, however.
 They are ready when they turn golden and are completely cooked through.You can grill the chicken burgers in a grill pan. Be sure to lightly coat it with cooking spray first, however., Burger buns will taste much better grilled than straight from the bag. You will need to grill them about 1 minute per side.You can also bake burger buns in the oven for about 5 minutes at 350°F (177°C).
 Place a chicken burger onto the bottom half of a hamburger bun. Add your desired toppings, then finish off with some mayo, ketchup, or both. Cover with the top half of the bun. Here are some ideas for popular burger toppings:

Lettuce
Sliced tomato
Sliced onion, separated into rings
Slicked pickle
Sliced cheese

