 When you have a small space, everything in it counts. By arranging your furniture to open up your floor space, you can make your room look bigger. If you don’t have a lot of room, place your larger pieces of furniture near the edges of your room, not in the middle.Sometimes, if you have a few smaller pieces of furniture, you can place these pieces away from the walls. Placing a piece at a diagonal angle toward the middle of your room can give the illusion of space.
Place your bed in a corner of your bedroom to open up the floorspace.
Push your couch up against a wall in your living room to provide an open floor and pathway.
One element of a larger looking room is the ability to move freely about it. Don’t place any furniture in areas that would block a view or ability to easily move about the space.;
, The more furniture you have in any room, the more cramped and smaller it will look. Keep a small room tidy and organized. Start with what you need in a room, these are usually the bigger pieces of furniture like a bed or couch.


If you have a smaller room, consider only having a couple pieces of furniture in it. Use this piece of furniture to create a focal point. This is one area that draws the eye to it. In your living room, this could be your couch and table. Don’t add unnecessary chairs and knick-knacks, these will only clutter your space.
Don’t hang too many paintings or pictures on your wall. Having a lot of items on your walls creates a cluttered look that makes the space feel more cramped.
 Place your bureau next to the bed and use it as a nightstand. Look for furniture that serves more than one purpose. Get a bed frame that has pull out drawers or is elevated enough to place storage boxes under.


Use a chest as a living room table. It provides a surface to place things on, but also opens up allowing you to store blankets and pillows inside.
Grab a storage ottoman. If you need an ottoman, get one with a lid to keep things out of sight when you don’t need them.
Use an extra kitchen chair as a small bedside table., Get furniture that has open legs, or tables that are glass. Furniture that is elevated with legs makes a room look bigger because it creates more air.Furniture with legs or glass tables allow light to travel around, through, and under the piece, opening up the space.
Attach a folding shelf beneath a window to use as a desk or ironing board. You can fold the desk up when you don’t need it
Ditch the drapes and rugs when you can. Keep a space uncluttered and allow more light in by removing your drapes and rugs. Keeping your windows open allows for more light and depth to your room. A rug with the right pattern can make your room look bigger, but it can also separate parts of the room, making it seem more cramped.

