 There are several free classifieds websites available, while you will have to pay a small fee to list your car on other websites. You can also list your car an auction website, though you may get less than you expected if you go this route.


You will need to be registered on a suitable advertising site, such OLX, Quikr and so forth.
Auction or trading websites with car sections are a good choice, especially if you have a solid feedback history to reassure potential buyers with.;
, Be exact when you are asked to enter the year, make, and model of your car, as well as any features it has. Make sure that you also accurately select the car's condition, be it excellent, good, fair or poor; otherwise, Kelley will provide you with an inaccurate resale value.
 Doing so helps ensure that the price you ask is comparable to the current market value.
 Buyers are more inclined to click on advertisements that include pictures. Take a picture of your car's odometer to let buyers see how much mileage your car has

, Be honest when you are writing your advertisement. Make sure you list the correct year, make, and model of your car and describe its condition correctly. If your car has ever been in an accident or recently had work done, include that information in the advertisement.
 Most websites allow you to pay for this feature directly through them. If not, you can obtain a report from Carfax. Including a vehicle history report allows potential buyers to check out your car's background.
 Buyers want to be able to communicate with sellers and receive a timely response.
 You don't want to waste time with a potential buyer if the person is unable to meet you at a time when you are available.
 Accept cash, a cashier's check, money order or bank check as a form of payment. Do not accept a personal check, as you do not know if sufficient funds are available.
 The bill of sale should include the car's year, make, model, VIN number, purchase price and current odometer reading. If no warranty is included, the bill of sale should state that the car is being sold "as-is."

, Both the buyer and yourself must sign the back of the title. Check with the appropriate agency in your state, usually the department of motor vehicles, to determine if the title must be notarized.

