 You can better inform your child’s doctor and therapist by collecting information. Even after you book the appointment, continue to monitor your child and document your findings. This information can help steer their healthcare team in the right direction., In addition to behavioral, social, and emotional issues, your child may have an underlying medical problem that needs to be addressed. Genetics, chemical imbalances, and damage to the central nervous system can all be part of the problem.Even something as minor as snoring may be linked with behavioral problems in children., For your child to get the help they need, they will need to be properly assessed first of all. You will need to play an active role in the process to ensure that your child gets a proper diagnosis and effective treatment recommendations. You can help facilitate the process by providing your doctor with accurate, well-documented information. This will help your doctor to make the appropriate diagnosis and treatment recommendations.


Make sure to ask questions about your child’s health and express your concerns when you have them.Keep in mind that there are a variety of treatment options available for kids with behavioral problems but getting the correct diagnosis is the key to successful treatment.
You may require a referral from your child’s pediatrician to see a specialist if treatment is required. The referral may be to a psychotherapist, psychiatrist, or other professional based on the initial assessment that was done by your child’s pediatrician.
 Even if you are being connected to a therapist through a referral, you still have a say in who your child sees. It may help to do some cursory research about different kinds of therapy and the types of therapists in your area.Look for a therapist who has special training working with children and adolescents. You may want to make sure their experience acknowledges any unique concerns regarding your child, like disabilities, culture, religion, or language barriers.
Keep in mind that not every therapist will suit your child. Give it time for them to build rapport, but be open to seeing someone else if your child doesn’t seem to connect with the new therapist.
 Once it’s been determined that your child will be seeing a therapist, you will need to break the news to them in a way they can understand. It’s helpful to acknowledge that you’ve noticed your child struggling and letting them know you want to help. Then, explain that a therapist can help address their needs.You might say, “Your dad and I have noticed that your grades have dropped a lot. You’re also skipping band and not hanging with your friends. We think it may help for you to see someone who works with kids who are struggling.”

