 There are two canning techniques. One uses a pressure canner, a device that subjects canned food to high pressures to create high temperatures. The other method is to use a boiling-water canner, a device in which canned food is submerged in boiling water.When canning meat, seafood, poultry, and vegetables, pressure canning is the only canning method recognized as safe by the USDA., In addition to a canning device, canning at home requires a glass jar (a Mason jar, typically) and, of course, the food that you wish to can. If you grow your own produce, you could save even more money on your canning materials.You can often assemble canning materials – including a canning machine – for free on digital marketplaces like Craigslist.
Try to get a set of canning jars for free or at a discount rate (but be sure to sterilize them by boiling them in water before use).
If you have a community garden in your area, you might be able to lease a small plot for yourself to grow the veggies you want to can.
 There are two standard canning methods. One is known as “hot packing.” This involves blanching your food (usually vegetables), then loading it tightly into canning jars along with some of the water they were blanched in. The other is known as “raw packing.” This involves placing raw food into a canning jar and pouring very hot water over it.


If you have a boiling-water canner, you should raw-pack your canned food. If you have a pressure canner, you should hot-pack your canned food.
After hot packing, seal the jar with a metal lid, and follow the directions that came with your canning device to determine your next steps. The amount of time your canned food will need to spend in the canning device depends on how much you have and what sort of food it is.
The only additional cost when canning is your time. Pressure canners work faster than boiling-water canners.
 Once you’ve canned your own foods, you’ll need to assign each can an expiration date so that it can be incorporated into your pantry system. Generally, home-canned food is best eaten within one year.