 A wide-angle seated forward bend is an easy pose to start off with that will give both you and your partner a good full body stretch. Allow the least flexible partner to come into position first.From a sitting position facing your partner, spread your legs out as far as you comfortably can. Scoot forward if necessary so that you and your partner's feet are touching. Press the soles of your feet together.
Reach forward and grasp your partner's hands. Take a few deep breaths, and then allow yourself to fold forward as your partner leans back. Hold the stretch for 5 to 10 deep breaths.
Return to center, then lean back yourself, pulling your partner towards you.;
, Child's pose enables each partner to relax, as well as providing a great massage and release of tension for your lower back. For this pose, one of you will be in child's pose while the other is active.To get into child's pose, kneel on the floor with your big toes touching and your knees spread apart. The wider your knees, the easier it will be to lower all the way to the floor. Hinge forward from the hips and fold over your legs, reaching your arms overhead.
Your partner then stands between your hands. Reach out and grab your partner's ankles. Your partner will lean forward and walk their hands down your back until they are resting on your lower back. Then your partner will slowly shift their weight forward, allowing a gentle release for your lower back.
Stay in the pose for 5 to 10 breaths. When your partner stands, swap roles and do the pose again so you both get the lower-back release.
 Partnered downward facing dog can be dangerous if either you or your partner are not strong and somewhat experienced yoga practitioners. If you're ready, the pose provides a deep full body stretch and can be very relaxing.Start in downward facing dog. You can keep your feet together or spread them apart, whichever is more comfortable for you and makes you feel more stable.
Your partner stands with their feet above your head and then folds forward to the mat, pressing their palms firmly against the mat. If your partner cannot do a full forward fold, they should not attempt this pose.
Your partner slowly walks their feet up your back until they get to your low back, and then they press their feet into your low back so that they are also in a downward facing dog position.
Breathe together, holding the pose for 5 to 10 breaths, then carefully come out of the pose and switch positions.
 An assisted backbend is a fun way to get a good stretch in your chest and back. However, you may not want to try this pose if either you or your partner has back problems or is recovering from a recent back injury.Stand back to back with your partner. Hook your partner's elbows on either side. Take a few deep breaths together.
If you're serving as the base, bend your knees and lean forward slowly, engaging your core. Continue bending forward, hinging at the hips, until your partner's feet are lifted off the ground. Hold the pose for three to five deep breaths, then slowly raise up until your partner is standing.
If you're the partner on top, lean back and focus on opening up your chest and shoulders. Allow your legs and feet to drop to get a deeper spinal stretch. Once you return to stand, make sure you switch and take a turn as the base so your partner gets the stretch as well.
 Doing boat pose with a partner changes the focus of the posture. When you do boat pose with your partner, it helps stretch and lengthen your hamstrings.Start by sitting facing your partner. You should be about three feet away from each other with your knees bent and your feet flat on the floor in front of you.
Simultaneously, you and your partner should reach forward and grasp hands on either side of your legs. Your arms should be fully extended.
Lift your legs so that they are straight, and press the soles of your feet against the soles of your partner's feet. You may have to move around a little to adjust so this is comfortable for both of you.
Hold the pose for 5 to 10 deep breaths, pulling gently on your partner's hands while simultaneously pressing against the soles of their feet.
 Even if you find tree pose too difficult a balance to do on your own, you can probably do a partner tree. The partner tree makes balancing easier because you and your partner support each other.Stand next to your partner and move into tree pose. Each of you will lift your outer leg, bending it at the knee, and place the sole of your foot on the inner thigh of your other leg. Press against each other's sides if you need to until you find your balance.
Wrap your arms around each other's waists to find the support you need to balance in tree pose. Reach your outer arms up and overhead. Leaning slightly toward your partner, curve your arm and see if you can connect palms. Hold the pose for 5 to 10 deep breaths, then release and swap sides so you can do the other leg.

