 Take out time to be online, and work around your schedules to have an uninterrupted hour together everyday. If this is not possible, try to get in touch through short email messages or SMS.;
, When you're talking to your significant other, talk to them exclusively, even if it's just for a little bit. It's like the online equivalent of a date or talking on the phone, and if you can give them your undivided attention then, why not online as well?

, MSN and Emails are good, but nothing beats talking to someone.
 If you both like, you could sing favorite songs together over VC, and take turns to play music for each other.
 There's nothing more pleasant than coming home after a long day and finding an unexpected sweet email waiting for you.
, MSN offers some good online games, and several PC games can be played with a partner, such as Audi or games at Facebook like Tetris. This once again gives a feeling of closeness despite not being physically together.
 Make it something to do with you both, such as your names or birthdays or even favorite songs/bands, and send emails from your account to that account for them to read.
 or Use Facebook chat box.
, For MSN users, let your display pictures be pictures of the two of you, and sync your MSN nicks (such as both use a line from a song you both like, or have your personal message as a countdown for when you see them next).
 Sometimes having an online relationship can really work for you in the sense that you have things written down (in emails or conversations) and they make good reference to go over in case you're bad with names or can't keep incidents straight in you head, or simply want to double check something they said. Ask them specific questions which show that you're involved in their life.
 Also it's hard to tell the tone from a bunch of words written on a page. Always, always, always take a step back, calm down before hastily replying and back off if you need to. Sometimes you may not mean something harsh, but the other person won't realize that and get hurt.
 Sometimes people get mixed messages from being unable to tell the tone, and don't understand if it was said in a jocular manner or if the other person meant it.
 Usually, when you run out of ideas, or if you do the other should come up with other chat ideas, remember that running out of things to say will sooner or later go to a breakup!

