 Whether you are new to exercise or a veteran you will need to find a method of working out that appeals to you the most. Finding an exercise that you feel is challenging and engaging will help you to feel the high that can come from intense exercise.The exercise you choose must be one that you can maintain a high level of exertion over time.
Finding an exercise you love can make it easier to stick with it long enough to feel the high.
You might consider running, swimming, rowing or other repetitive cardiovascular exercises.
Do not engage in heavy exercise sessions if you have a medical condition that prevents you from doing so such as a heart condition or injury.
Ask your doctor if strenuous exercise is safe for you.
 Before you begin any exercise it is important that you properly warm your body up. Starting a strenuous physical activity without a warm up can result in an increased risk of injury. By warming up you will also allow your body to be ready for more work, resulting in a stronger workout.Warming up can prevent injury.
Warming up will let you get the most from your workout.
 The key to feeling high from physical exertion is to push your body during your workout. Although the exact biological mechanism for feeling this high is unknown, difficult and prolonged physical exertion has been shown to produce the feelings associated with exercise highs.It is thought that the increased production of endorphins by the body during exertion may be responsible for the high feelings.
Some studies suggest it may be that the high from exercise is psychological, resulting from achieving a difficult goal.
Stop if you feel any pain, unusually fatigued, dizziness, tightness in the chest, or blurred vision.
 During your intense and prolonged session of exercise you should begin to feel the high that is associated with such activities. This high is experienced and described as being different by individuals who experience it. Evaluate your own feelings during exercise to see if you are feeling any highs that might result.Some people report the feeling of exercise high as being euphoric.
Others report feeling invincible or elevated from exercise highs.
Most people will feel the high that comes from intense exercise. However, not everyone does.
 Beyond the immediate sensation of feeling high, engaging in regular and intense exercise can help fight depression and stress while relieving tension. By keeping up your strenuous workout sessions you can increase you level of fitness, health and continuously enjoy the high that difficult exercise can bring.Exercise can alleviate symptoms of depression and anxiety.
You can feel the highs brought on by exercise any time by getting in a difficult workout.
Beyond feeling high, exercise can make your body strong and healthy.

