 There is a common stereotype that disheveled looking people are unfriendly When you look untidy, people will think unfavorably about you -you are not even bothered about yourself, why would you bother about friendships?


However, avoid wearing clothes that look like you stitched them from pieces of different bedsheets, and earrings like dinner gongs. Something tasteful and elegant would suffice.
Brush your hair and bathe frequently. Polish your shoes and look neat. Smell good, but don't put on perfume in such a way that people gag around you.
 It shows them that you are helpful. Be cheerful and accept their thanks. It puts you in a more positive light.


But never feel that you have to help them. Don't be afraid to ask for help, and don't let anyone use you.
Lend your notes willingly to someone who missed class, or go and help that person who is having a problem with his computer program. Make sure that you wrote good notes, and you are aware of the coding, for if you get it wrong, they will be even more angry than before.
 It always gets back to them and they will desert you more than ever.


If possible, don't tell them about what others gossiped about your new friends. Even though they might be happy about you telling them, you lose their respect, and they get suspicious about what you are telling about them. For if you gossip about A to B, you might gossip about B to A!
Behave in a way that people will think that you are trustworthy and believable. keep their secrets safely. Don't talk about them to anyone else, and they will respect you. Remember, liking comes from respect!

, No one likes a whiner. Even if people offer you sympathy, tell them that everything is fine. The moment someone starts talking to you, don't start telling them everything about your life starting from the hospital in which you were born, and also don't complain about your little sister. No one wants to hear your grumbles, everyone has got heaps of their own!


If you really want to unburden yourself, talk about the people who mistreated you, but keep the complaint to a bare minimum, and don't put them down horribly.
 Don't keep shooting them daggers when they wish to be alone.


Don't be jealous and clingy when you find them talking to other people. It just irritates them and makes them wish that they were rid of you! If you are not clingy, and behave nicely, they will automatically prefer you!
Don't follow them around They will see you as a nuisance. talk with them, but don't disallow them from talking with others.
 Be nice, don't just tell them that even your great-grandmother looks more stylish than them.


Instead, compliment them, and start off with 'I saw an item which would look great on you' and take it from there.
However, don't flatter them. There is a difference between a crisp 'this watch looks great and a gushing 'wow! This watch looks simply awesome, and it compliments your hand perfectly. You have such great taste!'.
 When they talk about a teacher and say some bad things about him/her, don't run to that teacher with tales. It isn't very nice.


Always avoid talking about other people before you are sure that your new friend won't give you away. Err on the safe side.
In fact, avoid complaining in general. Not only does it make you a whiner, it also tells them that you are not in control of your words and emotions.
 Have a tissue box ready to comfort them.


Gently ease them out of suicidal thoughts and plans to do something dangerous. Just because you are their friend, doesn't mean that you have to go and help them in wrong things. Even if they are angry with you, they will be thankful later!
If they tell you to get lost rudely, keep your emotions in control and head away. never sit there, and never answer rudely. Don't let anyone insult you. Just because they were rude, you don't have to be as impolite as them. So don't let yourself be dragged down to their own level!

, For a more descriptive guide on avoiding swear words, click here.


Swearing is a disgusting habit and makes people want to distance themselves from you. If you want to tell how bad someone behaved, tell them in a formal way, not letting your emotions show in your words.
Instead of saying something bad like 'that ******* is behaving like a ***** ***! Man, I hate him!', say 'he is behaving a bit badly. I don't know if he is conscious of this, for I don't think he wants to behave like that'.
 Having a dreadful, victimized expression on your face is not very encouraging for people who want to be friends with you.


Look trustworthy, but not like you want to help each and everyone. Going about with a 'mama's kid' expression on your face is sloppy and unprofessional.
Don't apologize for everything and everyone. You should have some self-respect, and over-apologizing damages it.

