 Student travel agencies are online services that can help you connect to special deals and rates available only to students. These can offer rates that are not available anywhere else. They also sometimes offer special tours and group rates for students. You might try looking at:


STA Travel
Student Universe
CheapOair
Travelation;
, Travel websites and blogs can sometimes alert you when a special deal is available. When it comes to airfare and hotels, student discounts may be seasonal, so these websites can help you figure out when the best time to buy a ticket is. They can also offer tips for the student traveler on saving money.


Travel newsletters, such as the ones offered by Travel Ticker or Travel Zoo, can sometimes inform you of special sales or temporary price reductions.

The Student Travel Planning Guide offers advice and discounts to students traveling in groups.

Go Abroad provides news, guides, and funding opportunities to students looking to study, volunteer, or teach abroad.
Many news publications, such as US News and World Report or The Guardian, have travel sections that may post deals and discounts from time to time.
 Universities, foundations, charities, and even travel agencies sometimes offer special scholarships for students traveling abroad. While the scholarship may have special requirements that you must fulfill on the trip, these are a great way to find money to travel with.Some options include:


Student Youth Travel Scholarships

Rotary International Youth Exchange (for ages 15 to 19)
uVolunteer Scholarship

, You may find that there are special discounts available to people traveling to your particular destination. You should also factor in when you are traveling, as you may find that there are more discounts during certain periods of the year.


For example, if you are traveling to England in the spring, you can type into the search bar “student travel discounts England spring 2016.”
Try to determine when the tourism season is for your destination. During this time of year, rates are often higher and student discounts are not as common. Try to go during the off-season instead.

