 Aside from countless other health benefits associated with meditation, you can give yourself an oxytocin boost by focusing on positive thoughts about someone. To do so, sit down somewhere quiet and free of distraction. Close your eyes and simply think complimentary or hopeful things about one person in particular.You may even want to focus on one mantra, such as “Sebastian is wonderful.” Simply repeat this thought to yourself over and over, while pushing away any other thoughts that arise.
 The oxytocin boosts associated with physical contact are not limited to contact with other humans. In fact, another sure fire way to increase your oxytocin levels is by petting a dog.Always ask before petting a stranger's dog, of course. Note that you may find yourself talking to the person as well - you are more likely to have positive social interactions with the people around you when a dog is around.
 You can get massive oxytocin spikes by participating in moderately stressful activities. This is especially true when you share such an experience with other people. Classic examples include activities like riding a roller coaster or sky diving.By experiencing something exhilarating together, you are quickly bonded to those around you. This occurs in part because of a flood of oxytocin released by your brain after an activity that feels dangerous.
In fact, any sort of “adventure” with someone else can boost both of your oxytocin levels. Even a walk around the block with someone will have positive effects on your brain chemistry, as well as your feelings towards one another.
 If you’re on your own and looking for an oxytocin boost, audio can help. Whether you choose relaxing music or something that will get you laughing, both will positively affect your brain chemistry. Furthermore, you’ll be more willing to interact with others after listening to something funny or relaxing., Giving time or money to another person or organization can boost your oxytocin too. In short, being more generous will wind up making you feel more appreciated. Positive feedback loops form when people work together for a common interest and are grateful for one another's contributions., Unfortunately, these claims are often not supported by scientific research.While supplements that make these sorts of claims may be worth taking for other reasons, it's important to note that they are unlikely to increase your oxytocin levels.

