 If you can't accomplish more than one pull-up or chin-up, you may want to start with eccentric pull-ups or chin-ups and work your way up to the regular ones. To do an eccentric pull-up or chin-up, jump up and grab the bar – or climb and reach over. You want to be holding the bar with your head or chin above the bar. Hold that position for a second, then slowly lower yourself to the ground.


Make sure you control the descent. This is the negative movement in a pull-up or chin-up, but is easier to do and will help build your muscles.
 Monkey bars are perhaps the most obvious playground apparatus that you can use for working out. Pull-ups and chin-ups are powerful strength-building exercises for your upper body that use your entire body weight as resistance.Whether you're doing a pull-up or a chin-up depends on your grip. For a pull-up, you're going to grab the bar over-handed, with your palms facing away from you. When you do chin-ups, your palms are facing toward you.
 You may have enjoyed scrambling over monkey bars as a kid, but crossing them as an adult is a different matter with your entire body weight as resistance. Climbing and swinging across monkey bars builds core and grip strength.Start slow if you don't have the core and grip strength to travel across them at a pace. Once you're stronger, practice going forward and backward.
You also can incorporate sprints, in which you go forward and backward as fast as you can, as many times as you can, for 30 seconds. Use the sway in your body to build momentum.
Stretch your reach by only using every other rung, or keep your legs curled close to your body for a little added resistance and core stability.
 Going up a playground ladder just once won’t do much because they are not very tall. However, climbing up and down a playground ladder several times in quick succession will give your glutes and core a killer workout. You'll also increase your agility and strengthen your arms and shoulders as you move up and down.You can set a timer for 30 seconds to a minute and aim to sprint up and down the slide as many times as possible during that interval.
Make sure you're keeping focused on what you're doing and not going so fast that you miss a rung. If you aren't confident in your abilities or if the stairs don't seem stable, you may not want to do this at an all-out sprint.
 Many playgrounds have a set of rings, and these can be good for doing dead hangs, or for progressing to more difficult pull-ups. The fact that the rings aren't stationary makes the exercise more difficult.You also can use the rings to increase your body control while doing pull-ups or chin-ups. Swing counterclockwise, then try to reverse the rotation so you're swinging clockwise.
The rings are also good for improving your grip strength and building the muscles in your forearms with dead hangs or wrist curls.
 If the playground has parallel bars or a single high bar, you can do dips to build the strength in your chest and shoulder muscles, as well as your triceps. Monkey bars also might work if the rungs are far enough apart.When you do these exercises, lean forward slightly on the way down and brace your torso, engaging your core to keep yourself stable.
Grip the straight bar overhanded and extend your arms so that you're positioned with your torso over the bar. Leaning forward, brace your torso against the bar and lower until your elbows are bent behind you. Then raise back up and repeat. Do 10 repetitions of this exercise in a set.
Parallel bar dips require a little less strength than straight bar dips, so if you have access to both, you may want to start on the parallel bars and use the straight bar as a progression once you've built more upper-body strength.
Don’t lower yourself too far when doing dips. This may increase your risk of injury.
 If you enjoyed doing rows on a swing, you also can do inverted rows if you can find a low enough bar at the playground (about one meter from the ground) with room underneath it for you to lay down. One of the lower rungs of a slide ladder also might work, depending on how the ladder is built and where it's situated.You start inverted rows by grasping the bar with an overhand grip and extending your arms until you are hanging from the bar. Push your legs out until they are straight and you are resting on the ground on your heels. You will look like you are getting ready to do an upside down pushup.
Pull your body up to the bar or step the same way you did for swing rows. Pause with your elbows bent along your ribs, then lower yourself.
Do three to five sets of 10 repetitions of this exercise. You also can incorporate it as a high-intensity interval by doing as many repetitions as you can in 30 seconds.

