 If you really want to handle your teen’s mood disorder in a positive and efficient way, you'll need to send them to a therapist. That is definitely not to say that your teen is “crazy”, it just means that mood disorders can become complicated if they are left to resolve themselves.


A professional psychotherapist will have the experience and expertise required to really understand your teen and to get to the roots of his or her mood disorder. Your therapist will be able to help you understand the situation better and therefore handle it better.
A therapist is not someone who will tell you or your child what to do, but rather will help you see a different perspective and will teach you how to deal with anxiety, stress and negativity in a way that binds you together and makes you stronger as individuals at the same time.
 Choosing the right kind of therapy is very specific to your teen’s type of mood disorder, as well as age, previous history, values, opinions, etc.


Therefore, the best course of action is to talk things over with your general practitioner – he or she will be able to give you comprehensive information about your specific situation and will have a list of mental healthcare professional in your area.
Your general practitioner may recommend that your teen goes for psychoanalytic therapy (or "talk therapy"), cognitive-behavioral therapy, group therapy., or a combination of the three.
 Medications are an essential part of treatment for many mood-disorders, especially things like bipolar or depression. Therefore it's important that your teen sticks to their medication schedule.


Taking medication on a regular, long-term basis is a lot of responsibility for a teenager, so you should try to monitor their medication schedule. However, you should avoid making your teenager feel like you're constantly nagging or that you don't trust them - give them the opportunity to prove that they can be responsible.
Keep an eye out for any negative symptoms caused by prescription medications and encourage your teen to speak to their doctor if they are feeling unwell. The doctor may be able to reduce or increase the dosage, making the side effects more manageable.

