  Being clean 24/7 will make you look and feel so much more presentable.  Take a shower everyday using a body wash.  Use your hands or a loofah to put it on your body.  Then rinse it out completely.  Make sure to wash your hair clean, or else it'll smell.  Brush your teeth twice a day and floss once at night.  Use a nice deodorant from a quality brand.  Make sure you're wearing clean clothes.  Apply a light spritz of perfume or rub on some sweet smelling body lotion.;
,  Wash your face everyday once.  If you have acne, wash it twice a day.  Use an exfoliating face wash and rub it in circular motions around your face, then splash your face with cold water.  It feels really refreshing.  Then pat dry with a washcloth or towel.  Put on a creamy moisturizer.  Remember to never pick at your pimples/blackheads; it only makes it worse.
  Try out some fun exercises.  Hit the park, walk the dog(s), do some yoga, run, etc.  Also try lifting some dumbbells.  Work out on a regular daily basis, because it will keep you healthy and fit and happy.  Also have a great diet.  Eat lots of nutrients, take daily vitamins, eat lots of protein, eat lots of fruits and vegetables, etc.  Don't starve yourself.  Try to avoid drinking too much pop/soda and avoid drinking too much coffee and don't smoke.  Have good posture too.
  If you have naturally perfect straight teeth, lucky!  If your teeth are crooked, consider getting braces.  Get ones that have a neutral colour and don't get bright neon colours such as yellow, neon green, neon pink, neon blue,etc.  You could also try invisible braces/Invisalign.  Also remember to brush twice a day, floss, use mouthwash if necessary, and chew on minty gum/mints regularly.
  Down a cup of cold water the first moment you wake up, because this is really good for your body and it helps wake you up.  Drink at least 5 cups of water a day.  Drink lots of it, but don't overdose.  Try to get at least 8 hours of sleep every night, because it helps dark circles disappear and makes you look and be healthier.

