 Of those, who has been a source of support for you throughout the divorce? Continue seeing them and nurturing your friendships with them. Once you feel stronger, be sure to reciprocate their support and recognize all that they have meant to you.;
, There might be some friends it is worth reconnecting with, even after a long time. People can be very understanding, especially when they've been through similar experiences themselves, and it will help to grow your circle of friends.
 Divorce is often a time of life when you reassess your personal direction and the things that you have done. It is an ideal time to start hobbies, sports, activities, jobs/job changes, volunteering, etc. Think about the things that you like doing and would like to do. Explore the ways in which you might fulfill these desires such as joining a club, a gym, a charity, a sports team, etc. When doing something that you really enjoy, you will meet others of a similar mind and inevitably, some of these people will become your friends. Meeting people this way tends to be far more reliable and solid than meeting people in entertainment contexts.
 It will amaze you how similar the experiences of other people can be and how you can derive an incredible sense of solidarity and support from hearing others express their emotions and experiences. All of a sudden you're no longer alone but you are with people who know what you've been through. Discussing these issues in a safe, pressure-free environment can help you to rebuild your social life through an increased sense of self-worth, commonality and shared strength.
 This doesn't need to be any formalized volunteering, although it can be if you wish. Offer to drop an elderly neighbor off at the mall, offer to collect a friend's daughter from dance class, offer to help bake cookies for the upcoming bake sale. Don't stop doing the helpful things that you did pre-divorce and consider increasing this helpfulness. It will get you out and about, meeting people, interacting with the community. And it will help create networks for you, connecting you with opportunities that you're not aware of. In turn, people will help you.
 You have suffered a great loss and you have been grieving. It's likely you're thinking about "what could have been". While these emotions and feelings are important to go through and to acknowledge, there must be an end to the grieving. Sitting at home feeling down all the time will not improve your life and won't result in creating a social life for yourself. Talk back to your negative feelings and remember that you are a very worthwhile and valuable individual no matter what has happened. Divorce happens to two people and it is soul-destroying to live on blame and recriminations. Be confident that you can rebuild your life in small steps and that the most effective rebuilding occurs when you reach out to others.

