 Figure out the earliest time you want for your alarm. Go to the screen or app on your device where you input settings for the alarm. If you are using a Smartphone or a device that can set multiple alarms, you will need to add an alarm. If you already have a set alarm stored in your device and don't mind changing it, click on the set alarm. Clicking on it will allow you to change the time of the alarm.


To figure out the earliest time, think about what a logical time would be for the first alarm to go off. Keep in mind that you want to get at least 7 hours of sleep at night, or 8 for teenagers aged 14-17.
Also keep in mind that after your first alarm goes off, you are not getting sleep that is as rest full as deep sleep. Try not to make the first alarm go off too early. For instance, it's better for your restfulness if your first alarm goes off twenty minutes before your last alarm as opposed to an hour before your last alarm.
There is no exact science as how early your first alarm should be. However, there is agreement that deep sleep is more valuable than sleep interrupted by alarms. Therefore, you should make sure that your first alarm is set for a time when you could actually imagine getting up at, as opposed to two hours before you usually get up. , Figure out the latest time you want for your alarm. Your last alarm should leave you enough time to get ready for work or school. If it takes you at minimum forty minutes to get ready for work and you have to leave for work at 8, then you should set your final alarm for 7:20.


Don't cut it too close. Don't set an alarm that gives you an unrealistic amount of time to get ready in. It might seem like you're doing yourself a favor to let yourself sleep in, but skipping breakfast, looking sloppy at work or being late is not fun., Ideally, your alarms should be in 10-15 minute increments. Either using one device or your multiple devices, input alarm times that are 10-15 minutes apart. If you have several alarms, you may want to space the first two 10 or 15 minutes apart, and then closer together as you get to your final alarm. For example, if you are using your phone to set multiple alarms and you have to wake up at 7:15, you may choose to make the first alarm at 6:45, one at 7:00, one at 7:10 and one at 7:15.
If you are using multiple devices, you can set one device at 6:45, one at 7:00, etc.

