 A well-researched paper is bound to have more content. Don’t be afraid to use outside sources to bolster your argument. Go to your school library or local library to search the stacks and online databases for sources relating to your topic.Jstor and Project Gutenberg are two good resources for academic writing. Oftentimes your school will allow you free access to these sites. Ask your teacher for help on finding sources.;
, Writing an outline lets your organize your arguments and ideas in a coherent way. Divide your outline into the sections your plan to use in your paper. For example, you might have one section entitled “Introduction,” followed by “First body paragraph, Second Body Paragraph, Third Body Paragraph,” and “Conclusion.”Put in the supporting evidence and quotes that you plan to use in your outline. Make sure to have lots of different possible examples to choose from.
Writing an outline helps you to see what sections are strong enough to be expanded on further for extra length.
 If you’re looking to fill more space in a constructive way, try adding a counterargument. Not only does expanding on a counterargument lengthen your paper, but it actually makes your paper stronger by showing that you are able to account for different perspectives.You can either weave counterargument into your pre-existing body paragraphs or add separate paragraphs to account for them. A good way to introduce a counterargument is with a sentence such as: “While some believe that eating a plant based diet is the key to health, others point to the French diet that is rich in cheese and dairy as an example of a different approach to a healthy lifestyle.”

, Don’t feel like you have to be locked into the typical five paragraph essay. After making your outline, see if you can add another short paragraph or two to elaborate on an existing point or add a completely new one.


If you’re stuck on coming up with an idea for a new paragraph, re-read some of your source materials for quotes that strike you as interesting. Once you’ve found a few, see if you can craft another argument around some of those examples.
 It never hurts to add in a few more quotes to back up your argument. This is why it is important when making an outline to add lots of different possible quotations to use in your paper. If you’re struggling to make a paper long enough, try adding one of those extra quotations is as extra support and then adding a few sentences of your own analysis after., Research librarians are great resources when it comes to writing papers. Schedule a meeting with a school librarian and you will leave the meeting with more sources than you’ll know what to do with.Your teacher will be more than happy to help if you’re having trouble with a paper. Don’t be shy! It’s their job to give you guidance.
You can also ask a friend to peer edit. Having a fresh set of eyes on your paper will let you see things in a new way.

