 This may not be called "Prime Rib" at your local grocery store or butcher's as "prime" is a grade used by the USDA and, in this context, it refers to a kind of cooking. But, rest assured, Beef Bone-In Rib Roast is what you want.


If you are really thinking ahead, you can special order a prime-quality Beef Bone-In Rib Roast. Ask your butcher when he can have you one ready by. Odds are one won't be readily available because the cost incurred is much higher than other grades.
You're looking for ribs 6 through 12. If your butcher knows his meat, he'll get you one from the small end toward the back of the rib section. It's generally leaner and gives you more bang for your buck. This is usually called the first cut on the loin, or small, end, because the ribs get larger as they get closer to the shoulder.If you prefer more fat, you may want to go a different route. To help you decide, the small end is where the Ribeye steaks are produced and the large end is used for Delmonico steaks. Does that help?

;
, Figure about 2 people per rib. So, for six people, you'll need 3 ribs. For fourteen people, you'll need 7. If you have less than six people, you're better off going with individual steaks -- too small a slab of meat won't cook like you want it to.


Always check the date your beef was packaged. If it's been sitting around in the store for a tic, it's not good. It should have a bright red color and absolutely no dry or brown edges. If there's any damage to the wrapping, set it down and choose another option., You'll need the prime rib tied before roasting, so you might as well get it done right when you buy it. If it's left untied, the outer layer will overcook, pulling away from the muscle. This is totally protocol for it to be done for you, so don't be shy. However, if you forget to ask or if for some odd reason he cannot or does not, here's how:


Trim your roast of any excess fat -- but leave on a thin layer to protect it while it cooks. If it's more than 1" (2.5 cm) thick, it's gotta go. But leave that much on to give your meal more flavor.
Run the twine parallel to the bone and tie at both ends. This literally ties the meat to the bones, keeping it together. Tie around the meat in between the bones and don't forget about the chine bones on the end., This should take about 2-4 hours and is absolutely essential. If you don't let the roast come to room temperature, you'll regret it: It will take longer to cook your roast, your roast won't cook evenly, and you'll end up with well-done slices on the end and raw meat in the center.


The amount of time it takes greatly depends on the size of your cut. Use your best judgment on room temperature times.

