 Relationships are not merely between two partners or lovers, but is the connection between everything. So it is important to start there and reflect that our relationships can be very subtle, it is our partnership or interaction with all things in the universe. Our relationship is essentially the culmination of our interactions, so that we may measure and abstract opinions and positions. The mind is a reflection that all our feelings, thoughts, memories and opinions are based on our relationships.;
, The scope here is very large but important to explore as our relationships are never two dimensional. We interact with everything as big as our circle of friends, family, work or school and so on - everything that essentially we have accumulated and called "me" or the identity. We also rely on our relationships to get things done, so that we would rely on friends, family, neighbors etc to watch our home while we are away for a prolonged period, but if we had no relationship, trust or what could be called a sense of obligation with them, then we simply would not ask them - we never ask a complete stranger to look after our home. Relationships can happen over a long period of development, or within a few seconds when surrounded by people on the bus, so that we can accommodate and tolerate each other.
 All of our relationships with ourselves, other people, our projects and goals give our life meaning. It is from our relationship with them that we experience this meaningfulness, which can be demonstrated as to how much unhappiness and frustration it can cause us when the relationship changes as we grow bored with it, frustrated with it, or changing circumstances makes us change our view of them.
 When our relationship with a person turns sour, or we change our opinions and feelings towards something, we become unhappy. So too do we feel threatened when the object that we have a relationship with is threatened. Relationships have the potential to give us much joy and happiness as well as can control us and make us happy whenever we depend on them for our own well-being.
 Often, our relationships are down to several groups such as:


Mutual obligation, which includes immediate family as well as neighbors and those whom we share space with.
Desirable relationships such as our friends, who we enjoy to spend time with, as well as desirable relationships with those who help us in some way, be it help with a project, career advancement or other attainments. ##Non relationships, which is our relationship to people we do not know (such as people who live on the other side of the city or world), or people we do not connect with.
Presumed relationships. These are relationships which are perhaps the most common when we are not fully aware. We presume to have a position or relationship with people we do not know, or people we imagine, such as characters from a movie and other fantasies.

People can often fit into more than one relationship group. For example family is typically in the mutual obligation side, but can also be in the desirable when we want them to help us, or when we reflect on how they have helped us and we have felt they are good people. Likewise family can be in a non relationship when we are in a very bad mood with them or unhappy with other things in life; or we may presume we have a great relationship with them, yet barely see them or talk to them.
Desirable relationships can be both ways, so the people and things that we like as well as those we don't like fall into the same field when it is an object of our ill-will. For example you and your friends may mutually like a band, a movie, or a political party, religious viewpoint or other topics, but when you mutually dislike another group as a way to have things in common. It extends further for cases such as being devout members of the "ABC" camp and therefore see the "XYZ" camp as the enemy, then that group is still in the desire group when you want to dislike them.
 Some basic ones to start with are:


The relationship with yourself. How do you relate to yourself? It is surprising to realize that we seldom have a fantastic relationship with ourselves, we tend to be angry with ourselves, feel depressed at our shortcomings, or ashamed at our actions. In most peoples' lives there is little compassion and respect for themselves, but the compassion should always be tied with wisdom so that we set ourselves boundaries and goals and see them through. Often we treat our minds and bodies as mere vehicles to express our desires, and this inevitably makes us unhappy.
Consider your relationship to your experiences. This one is a central area to explore as it is not just our relationship with people, but the experience of life. For example we may have a fight with someone we know, but we might not be upset with them as people, but upset at the experience of getting angry, or having to sort out problems. This is certainly the most subtle and complex.
The relationship with other people. Start with your immediate family or friends, those that you know the most, or spend the most time around. consider your current feelings about the state of your relationship with them. Has there been harsh words or feelings? Explore why by considering whether it because they have done or not done something you have wanted, which is a reflection of how powerful desire is in the relationship. For example, we may depend on them because we have personal insecurities and so depend on others to keep us happy, or we depend on someone to pick up some groceries on their way home, yet feel unhappy when they put a desire ahead of a more sensible need.
Consider your relationships with your acquaintances. This may be a friend that you don't count as a personal friend, such as your local shopkeepers, neighbors, your physician or health and fitness specialists, your teachers down to everyone in your life that you have ever come across. This is certainly the biggest field, but take some time to consider the status of your relationship with them and the contribution they make to your life.
Consider your relationship with other living things. For example, there may be mosquitoes or spiders that bother you, or the sounds of something that penetrate your space, or animals that you love such as the family pet, or a symbolic animal that you admire, such as you might like farm animals, or wild animals such as tigers and elephants and so on.
Consider your relationship with non living things. This is a big area, as you may have a personal dislike for the carpet in your house, or a door that sticks or something else, you may also love aspects such as a beautiful park, or the sunset etc.
Consider finally your relationship with the rest of the world and the environment. Often we may ignore parts of the world that do not directly affect us, or we may be troubled by destruction of something that affects us emotionally (such as the destruction of the rainforests, or people falling into poverty etc).
 What is important is that our relationships need respect and boundaries. When our interactions with anything from our dearest friend down to the kitchen cutlery become something that we don't like, it is often as we have disregarded the relationship by becoming more self orientated, so we have stopped looking at the interaction and environment as the things they are and this is how our problems arise.


It is important to reflect on how desire is playing a role in the relationship as this often is what causes relationships to fall into disrepair. For example we may want life to be easy and therefore dislike ourselves and others for our failings, or we may push outwardly and expect others to follow us yet feel unhappy when they do not. Then we may find people who we simply are uncomfortable with, and wish they would simply cease to exist.
The ultimate goal is to be happy with what you have, as that way life has far more meaning as well as better quality.

