 Use these questions as a guide to help you focus on the important and relevant material. As you are skimming the chapter, ask yourself if the material you are reading is answering these questions. If it is not, then skip it., Look for key words like “effects,” “results,” “causes,” “versus,” and “pros and cons,” for example. These key words will clue you into the chapter’s thesis or main idea. Knowing the main ideas beforehand will help you identify sections of the chapter that need careful reading.Highlight and refer back to the main idea or thesis so you can stay on topic.
 Rephrase section headings and subheadings into questions to help you focus on the important ideas being presented. If the section heading says, “Kramer’s Three Social Laws,” then rephrase it into a question by saying, “What are Kramer’s three social laws?” Then read the information that answers this question.Remember that bolded or italicized headings and subheadings contain clues to the most important information.
 If you understand these two sentences, then just skim or skip the paragraph. If you do not understand the first and last sentences, then read the entire paragraph.Make sure to slow down when you encounter complex paragraphs and sentences. This way, you will be able to fully understand what the author is trying to articulate in the paragraph.
 Skim the book for important concepts, people, places, and events. These are usually bolded or italicized. If you understand a concept, then you can skip the contextual information that explains it.Read the supporting text and contextual information only if you do not fully understand a concept.
 Ask some of your classmates if they are willing to do this. If they are, assign sections of the chapter amongst one to three other classmates. Each classmate should be responsible for their section. Make sure that you all can come to an agreement about each person's responsibilities.For example, devise a plan where each student in the group reads and writes a detailed outline for their respective section. Then, have everyone complete their outline by a certain date like the end of the week.

