 Remind yourself of the positive aspects of having an HSP personality (see the “Valuing HSP Characteristics” section). Tell yourself that your reaction to the given situation is a normal part of your highly sensitive personality, and that there is nothing to be afraid of. Notice the things around you that are most familiar to you and try to focus on those.
 A mantra is a word or phrase that calms you. It can be an inspirational quote, a phrase that is meaningful to you, or a prayer. Focusing on a mantra provides you with a mini-meditation that can reduce your body’s stress response and help you focus on the present moment.Examples of mantras are, “I am great the way I am,” “I can manage my sensitivity” or “this, too, shall pass.”

, People who are highly sensitive often feel very connected to music. They tend to respond emotionally to music, so listening to calming music in times of overstimulation can help calm them. While listening to music, try to focus on your inward state and on the sounds of the music, blocking out other external stressors.
 As silly as it sounds, you may need to close your eyes if you feel overwhelmed. Closing your eyes can help you block out overwhelming visual stimuli, which can help separate you from external stress. Taking deep breaths while your eyes are closed can help you feel calmer.
 If you are an HSP, you may need to build breaks into your schedule, particularly if you have many tasks to complete or you are going to be in a crowded environment.


You can even set an alarm at a given interval to give yourself a break. This can help prevent your feeling overwhelmed or over-stimulated.
 Walking has the double-benefit of being a form of physical exercise, which can reduce muscle tension and get out nervous energy, and allowing you to remove yourself from stressful stimulation. If possible, walk outdoors. Being outdoors is often less overwhelming than crowded indoor spaces, and scenic views of nature can be of solace to highly sensitive individuals.
 If you find yourself beginning to breathe rapidly (hyperventilating), control your breathing by inhaling deeply for 5 seconds, holding for 5 seconds, and exhaling for 5 seconds. Then take 2 normal breaths and repeat the 5-second breath cycle.


This helps signal to your body that you do not need to be in “fight or flight” mode.

