 Stop by a salon or a local beauty supply store and invest in a hydrating hair mask. Work the mask into your hair from root to tip on a weekly basis. Leave the mask in for the required time period and then rinse it out. This will keep your hair strong and hydrated, encouraging growth., Heat can cause serious damage to hair if you don't take proper precautions. A quality heat protectant should be applied all over your hair prior to blow drying or straightening. You should also limit heat treatments in general as this helps hair grow faster.Heat treat your hair for special occasions only. For example, skip the heat treatment until a date night or night out with friends.
 Always check the ingredient label before buying a shampoo. Shampoos that minimize use of chemicals and are stocked with natural products are the best option for your hair.Avoid shampoos with the ingredients sodium lauryl sulfate and sodium laureth sulfate, as they're generally bad for your hair. You should also look out for ingredients like parabens, fragrances, benzoyl alcohol, and sodium benzoate.In general, opt for a shampoo with a small amount of ingredients. Look for natural ingredients, such as oils and foods, over chemical additives.
 Leave-in conditioners lock in moisture and keep your hair protected all day. Even when you use a regular conditioner, apply a leave-in conditioner afterwards to protect your hair from breakage., You can book a protein conditioning treatment at a local salon or buy a kit yourself. Deep protein treatments involve deep conditioning your hair with a mask with added protein. This strengthens your hair and promote growth., To apply essential oils, gently massage them into your scalp. Essential oils that are good for hair include lavender, rosemary, thyme, grapeseed, palm oil, Moroccan oil, and argan oil.It is dangerous to apply essential oils directly to the scalp. Use a carrier oil, such as olive oil, to dilute essential oils. Only use a few drops of any essential oil in a tablespoon or two of a carrier oil.

