 It takes a while before getting to a million, especially more than just one million. Make sure to focus on that goal more when you play Castle Clash. As you continue to upgrade your vaults, it will start to take more than 1 day to finish. To level it up to level 25, it will take up to 22 days.;
, To get more mana and gold, you will need more mana and gold. Make sure your current mana and gold vaults are completely filled since it might take over a million to upgrade the vaults themselves. Upgrading a mana or gold vault will start to take a million to level it up starting when you level it up to 16. The maximum level to upgrade a mana or gold vault is 25.
 To get more vaults, you need to upgrade your town hall to have access to more buildings. The maximum mana and gold vaults you can have is 6; in the new update, you are now able to upgrade your town hall to 25 to get one more extra gold and mana vault.


Level your town hall to level 17 to get a 4th mana/gold vault. When you get one or more of your mana/gold vaults to level 21, it will start storing 1 million of these resources.
Level 25 is the maximum level of all buildings now, thanks to the update, including resource buildings. Update Castle Clash to get higher level buildings and more resources.
 Save gems and buy a third builder for 500 gems. Save 1000 more and buy a 4th. Continue buying builders until you have 5. You need as many as possible if you want to level all your vaults to maximum level.
 Tap a mana vault and do the same. Repeat this process until you run out of builders. If you level the vaults up in a pattern, it will save your mana and gold leveling them up at the same time. In a matter of days, you will find that your capacity of gold and mana has been upgraded.


Quickly fill your vaults again. Do dungeons, raids, or collect from the Mana Mills and Gold Mines. Consider leveling up your collectors as well so that you can restore most of the spent resources and easily fill it again. You will need as much resources as possible to level them up, as they will later cost a million to level them up themselves.
 If you have enough money in your credit card, but the maximum number of gems you can get. This is optional however. If you want to hurry it up, you can use gems. Have a lot of gems to speed them up, as they will cost thousands, since they take days to finish upgrading. Use gems only when needed. Don't waste all your money on one game.
 When you get to a million gold and mana, your collectors don't fill up your vaults all at once. Raid other players, use gold/mana packs, buy gold/mana with gems if you want, or just collect from the collectors every day until it's full.

