 Make it a priority to shower often in order to smell clean and avoid foul odors. Try to brush your teeth, comb your hair, and upkeep any other part of the body before leaving for school. Feeling fresh not only looks good, but you’ll feel rejuvenated and confident.Most boys begin to have a more distinct body odor in middle school. Combat this by wearing deodorant. Avoid using strong colognes such as Axe unless it is in small proportions. If the smell is overbearing, ladies won’t want to hang out too close.
If you feel the need to use cologne, use it sparingly.
Try choosing a deodorant that smells refreshing with a hint of musk.;
, Image is important for first impressions. Don’t give her the impression that you have a shabby personality because of your clothing. Upgrade some of your t-shirts, jeans, and button down shirts for nicer versions.


Swap out your jeans for corduroy, slacks, or khakis. Grab some polos instead of a band t-shirt. Try out a flannel instead of hoodie.Even if your middle school requires uniforms, you can still pull off a sharp look by caring for your clothes.
Do not let your clothes get shabby or smelly. As a general rule, don’t wear a top more than one day. Pants should only be worn two to three times before a wash.
 While looks are not the only thing that matters, it’s often the first thing that a girl will notice about you. Confidence is something that girls can easily pick up on. Try setting small goals for yourself like learning the piano (middle school is the perfect age to begin an instrument). Exercise is another way to feel comfortable in your body and boost your self-esteem.


You can reach a confident state of mind by dressing in a way that comforts you.
Once you’re out the door, don’t look back on what you’re wearing. Live in the moment and don’t worry about your clothes out of the house., Having a confident posture can impact your chance of success by positively affecting your brain. Your posture impacts the way others see you.While standing be sure to hold your head and chin up straight while looking ahead, put your shoulders back, and take a deep breath to relax your shoulders.


When you're sitting down put your back against the backrest of the chair, put your knees at a right angle, and keep your feet flat on the floor.
Avoid slumping forward while standing or sitting. Try to look ahead of you while walking instead of looking down at the ground.