 You can use almost any blogging service there is on the web. Whether this is livejournal, Blogger, WordPress or something similar, they can all be used to get your ideas out to the public.;
,


Set up a background that shows the nature of the blog. This can display any Christmas-related images, from snow to Christmas trees.
Use the two colors that are most noted to be Christmas colors to write your blog postings(if the page allows this). These "Christmas colors" include red and green.
 You can write about stocking stuffer ideas, recipes, Christmas songs/poems, and some Christmas shows you enjoy watching. Review Christmas-inspired movies you've watched either in-theater or outside of the theater. Especially for recipes, take some pictures of the item and post the final item on the blog posting (if the blog allows such items to be posted).
 Talk about times when you've had to try to keep Christ in yourself during Christmastime, or you can describe some experiences with cheap Christmas gifts, or mention putting up decorations either at your home or at a relative's house. You can also talk about your favorite version of the Santa tracker and why you pick one over the other (include any experiences you've had that you wouldn't think anyone else has had and what brought you to begin using that page), along with adding some information about Christmas crafts for the kids who visit your blog too.
, Because Christmas traditions roll themselves from one year into the next, there's no reason to stop after the Christmas spirit runs out for most people that year. Roll yourself over right back into the next year's postings and continue posting more items of the Christmas spirit.
 This can be especially interesting if you have or have had a less conventional Christmas, perhaps in a hot climate.
 Explain some of the best and worst gifts you've received. Mention other gifts you wished you wouldn't have ever wanted to receive but received them anyway and why you feel those choices were made for you. Explain the basis behind these ideas.
 Use the Share button on the YouTube page with the video, to post the video directly to the service.
 Even if the page is something about the history of Christmas (approving or disapproving of classical literature), it's bound to be on some bloggers blogs. Give the blog reader your vantage point after you've read the page in it's entirety.
 Some countries celebrate Christmas differently than Americans do. Whether it's opening gifts solely on Christmas Eve or opening smaller gifts on each day of the month of December, give the reader some worldwide attention to the Christmas spirit too.
 Research each song's lyrics and see if these tunes have something good that the world can learn from.

