 It is better to keep things out of harm's way and avoid potential embarrassment and even injury to guests who might accidentally break something, as well as avoiding you the disappointment of a broken heirloom or expensive item!;
, If possible, ask people about dietary preferences and allergies prior to the event. If this is not possible, ask on their arrival.


Always have some basic back-ups tucked away somewhere for those who are with faith-based food restrictions, vegetarians, vegans, gluten-intolerant, dairy-free, egg-free, and for dieters. It sounds worse than it really is; for example, you can easily deal with all of these people with a single dish such as quinoa salad, roasted or steamed veggies, rice pasta main course, and a fruit salad for dessert is always an easy option!

, Aim for about 1 drink per person per hour. Offer self-serve wine and beer and only leave enough glasses for the amount of guests; more can be washed if asked. Leave plenty of non-alcoholic choices around as well, such as water, juice,and mocktails and sodas. Leave nibbles to distract drinkers from constant drinking. If you wish to have cocktails, serve one with pomp and ceremony at the beginning. You can also consider a single serve of liqueur at the end of the evening.
 from the service area at the end of the main meal. Call a taxi for anyone who looks unfit to drive and reassure them that there car will be safe parked at your home until the following day; offer to collect them even if this is not too difficult for you.
 This is a sign that any more drinking is at an end and it is a means by which to give your guests a chance to revive themselves and prepare to leave.
 If you have any concerns, have guests leave handbags etc. in an open area obvious to all.
 A responsible host fuels the conversation all night and steers like guests to like guests so that they feel comfortable with one another and find someone to converse with. Do notice the wallflower and try to draw them into the discussions. Ask questions and listen actively. Be ready to help others when you can. Finally, smile as much as you can!

