 When you are nearly finished boiling your pasta, add your child’s favorite vegetable to the boiling pot. Drain the vegetable with the rest of the pasta and then add it to the pasta sauce.You might choose to add some broccoli to the pasta sauce. Broccoli is a great source of nutrients and vitamins like thiamin, fibre, vitamin K, and folate.You could add spinach to your pasta sauce. Spinach has loads of iron and contains great phytonutrients that have disease prevention properties.You could add zucchini to pasta sauce. Zucchini is high in fibre and is a great source of vitamin C.;
, When you are making pasta sauce, simply puree all of the carrots, broccoli, zucchini and other vegetables at the end. Since the vegetables are pureed, children will not notice that they are eating them.First, you will need to cook the vegetables in the sauce. Second, you will need to puree them using a handheld immersion blender. Using your immersion blender, slowly puree the pasta sauce in your pot.


Hot sauces tend to splatter, so you will want to make sure your pasta pot is not too full. You may also want to wear a kitchen apron.
You can also use a food processor to puree your pasta sauce. Transfer the sauce from your pot to the food processor and puree one batch at a time. After you finish a batch, you can put it in another pot or container.
 Squash blends very well with casserole ingredients and can be easily added. You will have a nice layer of squash and your kids won’t notice the difference but will get more nutrients.Try butternut squash. Adding butternut squash to your casserole will add tremendous nutritional value. One cup of butternut squash contains 437% of your vitamin A needs for a day, as well as 52% of your vitamin C needs. It is also an excellent source of potassium. Health benefits of butternut squash are similar to many vegetables in terms of decreasing your risk of obesity, diabetes and heart disease.Try acorn squash. Acorn squash looks like a very large acorn. They have significant amounts of vitamin C, A, thiamin, and other B family vitamins. They have numerous health benefits such as boosting the immune system, improving vision, protecting the skin and bones. They can also prevent some cancers and improve digestion., Add ground flaxseed and almonds into your children's favorite baking recipes. These ingredients can be added to your bread or to your muffins.


Add slivered or ground almonds to your children's breakfast cereal. A small handful (1 ounce) of almonds has 3.5 grams of fibre, 6 grams of protein, 14 grams of fat, 37% of your recommended daily intake of Vitamin E, and 32% of your recommended intake of manganese. It also has 161 calories and 2.5 grams of carbohydrates. They are also loaded with antioxidants.
Add pumpkin seeds to your muffins. A cup of pumpkin seeds has 11.87 grams of protein, which is a lot. They also have plenty of magnesium and potassium, which are great for the muscles and nerves., By stuffing your chicken with spinach, you can hide the greens from your children. They will enjoy the surprise of opening up their chicken to find a flavorful stuffing.Heat the oven to 350°F (176°C). Sauté one or two chopped onions until soft (about eight minutes) in 2 tablespoons of olive oil. Then, add 2 cups of spinach and sauté the mixture for two more minutes. Add your seasoning, salt and pepper. Then, allow it to cool. In the meantime, cut four chicken breasts in half horizontally. Pound the chicken pieces to an even thickness. Stir in the cooled spinach mixture. If your kids like cheese, you can add 1/2 cup of sharp cheddar. Fold the chicken breasts around the filling and roll them into little cylinders. Use toothpicks to hold them together then bake until the chicken's internal temperature is 165°F (73.9°C).