 ***Below 65°F (the temperature of a cool kitchen) honey will form a stable solid phase similar to granulated sugar (like the way ice forms from water below 32°F ). Frequent temperature excursions below 65°F can lead to the nucleation of a dispersed, abundant solid phase and make your honey bear annoying and in extreme cases useless.***;
,, This causes cooling rate issues that will be discussed later. This is also important because it will prevent you from proceeding.
 Pick it up, close the top and shake vigorously until you think the crystals should have dissolved. Imagine you're stirring 10 packets of sugar into a glass of iced tea. If your crystals haven't dissolved, go back to step 1 as your honey is not hot enough.


Remember: be careful. You may need an oven mitt.
 If in doubt, now is the time go back to step 1.
 Done right? Wrong. Here's the hard part ... waiting for your honey to cool. "That's weird", you say, "The crystals dissolved so what's the problem?"


The problem is: if the honey cools too quickly air bubbles from shaking the honey will be trapped in the viscous (thick and not always, but in this case delicious) liquid. The air bubbles seem to be good locations for nucleating the crystals which means all that shaking will have been in vain.
 Run the hottest tap water you can. If your tap water is really hot, maybe you should consider turning down the temperature of your water heater later. The large volume of water is really important here because it is what dictates cooling rate. Large volumes tend to have less surface area per volume and can thus not transfer heat as effectively, given the same material. The result? Slower cooling rates. This is a good thing for us.
 Place the bear in the bowl. Fill the bowl as full as you can without spilling it everywhere. Basically we want hot (at least as hot as the honey) water touching as much of the bear walls where honey is as possible. For fuller bears, place the bear at an angle (lean it against the side of the bowl) so that the distance that the air bubbles will have to travel is minimized. If your setup is working you should start to see air bubbles accumulating on the top surface of the honey. For this reason, it helps to put the honey label down if you have tipped it over.


Note: If you do not see air bubbles accumulating at the top you either did not shake hard enough on step 3 or your bear was not heated enough. Maybe you just had a nightmare that you had bad honey.
,, Simply run the jar (well-closed) through a dishwasher cycle. Allow it to return to room temperature in the dishwasher. This method works on jams, jelly, honey and caramel with excellent results. The water spray provides slow even heating and gentle agitation.