 Often, when we're emotional, we've become ungrounded. We've lost a sense of reality and we're entirely consumed by the moment. Challenge this absorption by asking yourself, "Where will my anger be tomorrow? In a week? In a month?" This can help you remember that emotions are temporary sensations that rise and fall, similar to a wave. Recognizing that feelings are temporary can help you manage them.You may also find that in the moment you feel overwhelmed by a storm of emotions. Try to slow down and separate out what you are feeling and experiencing. Find names for each emotion. This can help you feel more in control, because now you know what you’re feeling and can take the appropriate steps.Everyone does things they later regret (that can have grave implications) simply because, for a time, we humans let ourselves be dictated by our own emotion. If you find yourself getting angry, think about how you'll feel tomorrow if you handle it poorly today. If anxiety is the problem, think about the future. How small will this event seem 6 months down the road? Look past "right now" and you may be able to respond more effectively., One way of thinking about your emotions that can lead to struggle is feeling that you have to control them. Instead, consider the idea that emotions simply exist.Emotions are not inherently good or bad; anger, fear, and even happiness can be helpful or harmful, depending on how we interact with them. Try to accept your emotions “just for now,” realizing that you may not have them later.Don’t feel as though you have to erase or ignore negative emotions. This can actually make you obsess over those emotions. Acknowledge whatever you are feeling without judging it.
Use compassion and kindness with yourself. It can become easy to get so worried over our emotions that they take over. You may even find yourself judging your emotions; for example, feeling guilty or ashamed of being angry or sad.If you’re having a hard time giving yourself permission to accept your feelings, consider how you would treat a friend. Be as kind and non-judgmental to yourself as you would to a loved one.
 Emotions, like reality, are not “fixed.” How you interpret a situation has a huge effect on how you respond to it. By changing how you interpret and respond to a situation, you can actually change your emotions.For example, imagine that you are getting into a heated exchange of words with an acquaintance of yours at a bar. There's a bit of alcohol involved and no one seems to be making commendable decisions. This acquaintance decides to make a mean joke about your mother. Your body instantly reacts: your heart rate skyrockets, your face flushes, your breathing gets shallow, and you feel an overwhelming inclination to punch him right in the face.
You now face a choice: go along with your physiological stimulation, or think about the situation and choose your own reaction. You choose to think about the situation. You realize that your acquaintance is drunk, and he doesn’t even know your mother. His judgment is impaired, and he will probably regret his decisions tomorrow. Instead of letting your body take over, you decide to give him the website of a local improv group instead and then walk away.
Once you have overcome that initial impulse to retaliate, getting over the incident will be easier. You don’t have actions of your own to regret. You’re also able to see that, while it was upsetting, the mom joke wasn’t personal, it was an act of alcohol-impaired judgment.
 Some incidents might be more upsetting some days than others because your context or situation is different. Stop and ask yourself whether you’re upset because of the incident or situation, or because of something else.For example, a teasing joke that might usually strike you as funny could just end up feeling hurtful if you’ve already had a hard day. Instead of lashing out in anger or frustration, think about whether the person who told you that joke meant to hurt you. If you’re good friends, the answer is probably “no,” and you may be reacting to other things -- such as feeling tired or having a headache -- rather than your friend.
 We’ve already talked a bit about rumination, that “broken record” of negative thoughts. Instead of rumination, try “adaptive self-reflection.” This process helps you get distance from your emotions. It will let you focus on what you can do to address your situation.For example, if you find yourself obsessing over feeling upset by an interaction with a colleague, examine whether you’re thinking productively. Are you just thinking to yourself, “I’m so mad at Janet! She hurt my feelings” over and over again? That’s rumination.
Try to find a way to think about the situation productively instead. “Why did what Janet said upset me so much? What can I do to address my feelings with her?” Thinking of concrete solutions to your difficulties can help you feel in control of your life, rather than overwhelmed by what’s upset you.
Imagine that you are a fly on the wall. Examine your experience through that perspective, rather than "reliving" it as your own. For example, you could try to refer to yourself in the third person, using a third-person pronoun such as "she/her" or "he/him" instead of "I/me": "Janet said that her friend was always late. That really hurt his feelings. It probably hurt because he really is late to appointments frequently. It may also have hurt because she said 'always' when that isn't true."Studies have shown that rumination puts you at a higher risk of clinical depression, alcoholism, eating disorders, and heart disease.It’s important to recognize when you’ve started to ruminate and take action to break that loop.

