 Once your Instagram becomes famous, people will refer to it by your account's username; for this reason, your username should be memorable, distinctive, and easy to say out loud.

Your username's style should reflect your content theme; if you're an artist, for example, you'll probably want to stick to some derivative of your real name (or your artist alias).;
, There are a variety of things you might have readily available for users here:

A rich but concise description of your content, motives, and/or intent.
A link to your website if you have one.
Your work email address. It's worth setting up a dedicated email address for your Instagram account.
Usernames for any pertinent social media accounts (e.g., Twitter and Facebook).
Usernames for any IM services you'd like to share.
Your PayPal or Venmo ID for donations.
A resume. Posting this on a static blog page and then linking the blog page in your bio is the best way to display your resume.
 Unlike your personal Instagram or Facebook page, anything you post here needs to fit a singular theme (e.g., fitness or food).

In a pinch, find something you believe society doesn't have (or something it would benefit from having more of) that correlates with your talents.
Make sure your content adheres to the Instagram Terms of Use.
 This process includes making the photos aesthetically pleasing through use of filters and other editing options as well as placing pertinent information in the photo's description.

If you're advertising, for example, a short sentence describing the product or service you're promoting in relation to how it betters your life followed by appropriate links should go in the photo's description.
Posts tend to be best-received at around 2:00 AM and at 5:00 PM. Make sure you're around these times for your target demographic's specific timezone., While it is important not to inundate your followers with content, providing quality posts a few times per day will keep them satisfied.Try to vary your content within its thematic scope; you don't want to deviate too much from the kind of stuff you normally post, but you shouldn't be posting the same thing every day.
 Users will generally give you feedback--whether explicitly or implicitly--that can help you tailor your future posts to the majority of your followers.

You won't be able to incorporate every user's suggestions; instead, focus on common themes from the bulk of your Instagram followers.
 This will both promote your account name and increase your overall likability:Respond to comments often. Once you reach a certain follower amount, you'll no longer be able to respond to all comments; still, try to respond to a couple of users per post.
Favorite posts from brands, users, or accounts with which you'd like to work. This is a way to practice Instagram altruism while simultaneously promoting your account name.
 Links to your pertinent social media accounts should already be in your bio, but it's important to keep these pages updated with relevant content:

Facebook - Create and maintain a dedicated Facebook page for your Instagram content. You can then promote this page on Facebook.
Twitter - Create a specific Twitter account for your Instagram content. You can cross-post Instagram content to Twitter, though you should endeavor to post unique content here too.
Other sites that will depend on your intended demographic include Tumblr, YouTube, and Pinterest.
 This should be contingent on your content's theme; if you plan on applying to collaborate with brands for advertising campaigns, for example, most brands will require you to have around 5000 followers before you can advertise for them., If you are attempting to reach a specific demographic--which you should be--use hashtags for which that demographic might search. For example, if you have several photos of landscapes from the Pacific Northwest, you might tag your photos as "#pnw" and #"pacific northwest".Only use hashtags relevant to your post, since using clickbait or wayward keywords will both frustrate potential followers and get your account flagged as spam.
 This exposes your account name, making it easier for anyone who sees your likes and comments to check out your profile. Ideally, you'll do this for users whom you would like to have following you.

You can do this on many random accounts to attract followers. While this process may be time-consuming, it's a good way to earn a few followers here and there.
 Your other social media accounts should already be fairly present on Instagram thanks to your bio; make sure your Instagram account is equally present on these social media accounts.

Even just posting a link to your Instagram account on your Facebook or Twitter page is a good way to promote your content.
 Requesting feedback or action from your followers will get them involved; if your requests are interesting enough, they will draw in more followers as well. You can facilitate engagement in a few ways:

Hosting give-aways for products or services. Make sure you require your users to "Like" and/or share your post to qualify.
Asking questions. Doing this will encourage users to respond, which curates interest in your content.
Taking requests. Especially if you're using Instagram to showcase photos, taking requests from users will get them personally invested in your future content.
 Try hosting a giveaway on your page to generate customer interest. Ask giveaway entrants to follow your Instagram profile to enter, or ask them to tag friends to create a viral effect. Make sure to follow Instagram's promotion guidelines if you host a giveaway or contest., If you notice a common complaint or request, don't ignore it; instead, find a way to implement follower feedback in order to satisfy the bulk of your followers. Remember, your followers are your greatest support group!, You should have an interest in promoting brand names, at least 500 followers, and the ability to update/post content regularly.

A lot of affiliate marketing will involve you taking photos of yourself or others displaying or using products or services.
 If you want brands to notice your account, you'll need to be active on their pages. This is also a good way to educate yourself on their aspects of marketing such as their preferred tone, style of content, and products/services., If you do this often enough, you will capture your brands' attention; this can show them that your account is a potentially valuable asset.

Don't just spam brands with empty comments or questions; instead, post insights, feedback, or rich questions that have the potential to further the brands' marketing.
 There are several sites that will help you partner with businesses; keep in mind that you'll need to capture the attention of the brand you wish to promote first.

Shareasale - Create an account, then sign up to work for a specific merchant. Any users you direct to these merchants via link on your Instagram profile will earn you a commission.
Stylinity - Intended for fashion use; if users shop via your link to their site, you get paid via commission.
 This shows that your Instagram account has depth. You can also contact brands' marketing departments directly via email.

This is another reason to have your work email in your bio; when brands are ready to contact you, they can do so right from your Instagram page.
 If your account is active and constantly growing, a brand will want to work with you at some point, if only for minor marketing in exchange for free products. You're starting from the bottom and working your way up, so any marketing experience you can get--even for free--will help build your portfolio and contribute to greater opportunities later., While this option won't apply to every Instagram account, anyone with an HD photo-capable smartphone can try their hand at taking, editing, and uploading Instagram photos; sooner or later, you'll probably upload something that someone will be interested in., As users of your chosen app view and purchase your photos, they will also become interested in your account; you can use this interest to further your account's business.

Foap is a great app for iPhone and Android platforms. You start by creating an account with Foap, then you upload photos to their database. Users can browse and purchase your photos, and you take 50 percent of the photo price., Stock content--lower-quality photos that business and websites can use for advertising--should go directly to your chosen photo-selling app, but you should sell your premium photos--e.g., incredibly high-quality pieces that command a higher price--individually from your Instagram page. This is where having a large follower base becomes crucial.

Note that stock content shouldn't actually be low-quality; rather, it should be generic or otherwise applicable to a wide variety of situations. Premium content should be more geared toward individual consumption.
 You can do this by uploading a lower-resolution version of the photo, or you can place a graphic (e.g., your signature or an obtrusive piece of text) over the top of it. Be sure to retain original copies of the photo for distribution.

When a follower wants to purchase your photo, you can send them an invoice and the unwatermarked version of your photo.
 You'll want to place the following information in the post:

Desired price
Desired payment client (e.g., PayPal or Venmo)
Photo size
Photo resolution
Brief photo description

, As long as you have an active follower base and you've generated interest in your photography up to this point, you should have no problem selling some of your photos from Instagram!

You can also take photo content requests from individual followers; you'll be able to charge a premium price for these.

