 Each local real estate market is different, and the book value cannot account for whether your local market is hot or not. Make sure to look at how much comparable mobile homes have sold in your area.You can find the sale price at your county recorder’s office or by looking at websites such as Zillow.The mobile homes need to be comparable in terms of size, age, general condition, and the amount of land.
You are unlikely to find an exact match, but you don’t need an exact match. Find mobile homes around the same age as yours and about the same size.
Sales also need to be recent. The market was different four years ago than it is today.
 The overall condition of the mobile home will impact its value. Visit the mobile home and try to inspect the inside. The more repairs you need to make, the less value the home has. Pay attention to the following factors:Roof. Look for signs of a leaky roof inside the mobile home. In particular, water damage should show on the ceiling or walls.
Walls. Check the stability of the walls and whether there is any mold.
Flooring. Look for holes or soft spots on floors. Also check whether the floor is uneven.
Plumbing. Some water leaks may be caused by leaks in the plumbing. Also check the water pressure.
Electricity. Check outlets and turn on light switches to see if the electricity works.
 Repairs often have to be made to the outside of the mobile home. Walk around and assess the following:Roof. Don't rely solely on the absence of water marks inside. Instead, check the exterior of the roof by walking on it and looking for soft spots, holes, or missing shingles.
Siding. Check whether siding is damaged, rotting, or dented. Also assess the overall aesthetic quality. Ugly siding can reduce the value of the home.
Underside. Definitely check the underside to see how stable it is. If necessary, remove some pieces of skirting and use a flashlight. Check for insulation hanging down or junk and debris strewn all over the place. Also check whether animals are living under the home.
 Some features might increase the value of your mobile home. You should identify anything that would make your home desirable, including the following:


Quality of the neighborhood. For example, you might be in a well-maintained neighborhood that isn’t overcrowded. If so, your home’s value should increase.
Proximity to services. Your home’s value will also increase if you are near hospitals, schools, or a transportation hub.Granite countertops or new appliances. Buyers might value these features and pay more for them.
 A real estate agent might be willing to provide you with a comparative market analysis (CMA) for free.Find agents in your phone book or ask someone you know for a referral.
 You are assessed property taxes based on the value of your home. Find your property tax statement and find out how much the appraiser has valued the mobile home.Property tax records are also public, so you can find out this information about another home in your area. Visit the tax assessor’s office.

