 If you’re independent and you aren’t used to someone else controlling the relationship, make sure that he feels like he’s in control. You can do this by reaffirming things that you agree with, so he feels like he is the one making the final decisions even if he’s not.


Don’t change who you are as a person. If you really don’t want to do something and your guy is forcing you, have a conversation with him or leave the relationship.
Many Taurus men will want to have control over the finances in a serious relationship., Your guy’s incredible loyalty only exists if it’s reciprocated. Don’t date outside of the relationship, and restrict yourself from making accounts on dating websites.


Jealousy may come into play when dating a Taurus, so be sure to consistently let him know how awesome he is.
Infidelity could ruin your relationship with your guy for good.
 This will affirm how much you need him in your life and will draw him closer to you. Taurus men like to be relied on, and the more you communicate with him over text, the more you are showing him how important he is in your life.


Like all people, things are best done in moderation. He might like texting more than the average guy, but everyone has a limit.
 Even though Taurus men don’t talk about their emotions, they think about them constantly. He will internalize a lot of the stuff you say to him, so if you tell him how important he is, it will make it clear that he has an impact and is a major part of your life.


He will like giving gifts but not receiving them. Instead of a material gesture, do something sentimental and from the heart like taking him on a date to where you first met.
You don't want your Taurus guy to make any assumptions. Make sure to make your emotions clear to him.
 Taurus men are usually more conservative, and they must have stability. If you always start arguments or like to go out and party constantly, you won’t be compatible with him.


Taurus men are practical and rational. If you find yourself in an argument, don’t get overly emotional. Take a step back and look at the situation with a rational mind.

