 Laura wanted the white-colored ones. For maximum work and storage space a it is recommend to purchase a unit that is 36 inches (91.4 cm) by 36 inches (91.4 cm) Stackable 9-Cube Organizer. There are other great bands of organizers other than the one that is in the link. In order to match the door width, dimensions should be: 36 inches (91.4 cm) high, 36 inches (91.4 cm) wide and 11-1/2 inches deep. Cost is about $45 per unit.;
, Basically, look for a flat door that has no designs or holes in it for where the knobs go. As stated before, ensure the widths of the door and the shelving units match up. Cost is about $27.
 A pound of these will cost about $7.
 Since the top of the table soaks in the paint like a sponge, approximately three cans of paint were used to get to the color white that was desired. One can per coat was used. Since the wood grain still shows through on the second coat, the constructor can also use less spray paint to get that “distressed” look that is so hip in pop culture nowadays. Cost is about $4 per can.


As stated before, these items could fit all in a Volkswagen Jetta. Creative arranging of the seats to fit the items will be required. The driver may get jammed right up against the steering wheel, but keep in mind that this trip is only across town, not across the country.
 After these items have been maneuvered in the car and home, it is suggested that the first coat of paint goes on the door immediately. Lay the door in a well-ventilated area that your neighbors or landlord/landlady won’t mind you using. (A Tip: Put safety glasses on. You are going to be working with spray paint as well as drilling into wood. Your eyes will thank you.
, Give the door a nice even coat. You can always add more.
 Once the door has its first layer of paint, a hand washing is recommended before assembling the base. Start assembling the storage units for the table bottom. Follow the directions that come with them.
 Place them about 57 inches (144.8 cm) apart so when you measure the entire span of the two units, they cover 80 inches (203.2 cm) of space.(While the picture is of the completed table, it is pictured to give a reference of how the bases should be aligned)

,, Once the door is dry, a hand washing is needed. Filthy hands leave smudges on light-colored objects. If the door is not painted door, disregard this step)

, Gently lay it on top of the two bases. If the dimensions are correct, the tabletop and the bases should be flush.
, It is important to be patient during this step. Keep the drill bit square to the screw. This is so the drill bit does not “jump” around in the screw’s top and strip the screw.
 Doing so, will add increased stability of the unit.
 Despite the paint being dry to the touch, sometimes newly painted surfaces can still be tacky if continuous pressure is applied. (I put books on my newly painted bookshelf too early so now I have outlines of books on my shelf where the paint was ripped off when I pulled the books off the shelf.)

,