 If you are serious about Olympic-level figure skating, you should start training as a child.Some Olympic-level skaters (such as Johnny Weir) started as late as their early teenage years, but this is rare.


Many figure skaters start around 5 years old. However, there are successful figure skaters who began in the 7-12 age range. If you're willing to work to catch up to your peers if you need to, then don't be discouraged by your age.;
, Find an ice skating rink in your area where you can practice figure skating regularly.


You will want to find a rink nearby. Elite skaters spend 3-5 hours on the ice, and about 2-3 hours off the ice, nearly every day.
If you are serious about becoming an Olympic - bound athlete you also need to consider the resources that each rink offers. Does the rink host any competitions or shows that could give you exposure? Do other higher-level skaters already train there? Sometimes a close by rink might not be able to let you reach your full potential.
 Firstly, find a coach and take lessons. Plan for 1-2 private lessons per day. It’s okay to start with group lessons, but find a coach who is available to teach you multiple times per day, such as before and after school.




Most Olympic skaters also have more than one coach. One for expression and the performance aspect and another for skills and jumping, depending on the level.


Find a choreographer. You will need someone who is familiar with all the rules of skating and what elements would be allowed, as well as what elements you are good at. A good program can win almost by itself and a good choreographer can insure this.
Find an off ice athletics pro/teacher as well. This person will be skilled in yoga and personal training and will be able to lead you in activities/drills to improve your on ice skating.
Find a manager. This person will help organize all the paperwork and other things needed to compete. This person will keep track of your schedule and when the next competitions are as well as deadlines for entry forms. They can also help organize press and other media if you become famous.
 There are singles competitions, pair skating, and ice dancing.


Ice dancing is based on precise steps and interpreting rhythm. If you have good edges, turns, and musical ability, this may be for you!
Ice dancing is now opening up as a solo competition as well but only pairs ice dancing is allowed in the Olympics.If you want to enter pair competitions, notify your head coach and set up tryouts for a partner.
If you know you want to skate pairs or ice dance find a partner as soon as you can. Unfortunately guys are rare in this sport which makes them very valuable but also puts a lot of pressure on a girl to find a partner. , Typically competitive figure skaters practice six days a week.To make it to the Olympics, you will have to practice a lot!


Plan with your coach for rest days, which are equally important., Once you're ready to compete beyond the level of basic skills, you should become a member of an official figure skating club.Find the official figure skating organization with qualifying competitions in your region and join!
Consider entering a relevant program. Camps and other programs are designed to assist developing and existing figure skaters with honing their craft., To be a skater in the Olympic Games, you must qualify for the Olympic team. You must place first, second or third in your country’s national championships to qualify.

There have been exceptions when the National Figure Skating Board of a country has decided to send a skater that did not make the podium, as the United States did when they sent Ashley Wagner(fourth place overall)over Mirai Nagasu (third place overall) to the 2015 Winter Olympic Games.


Start at a local level first and work your way up as you build upon your experience.

The order normally goes; district, regional, sectional, national.
 Warming up prevents injury, decreases muscle tension, and improves your range of motion.Warm up for 5-10 minutes, or until you break a sweat., Once you've committed yourself to a skating career, you'll need to make skating a huge part of your lifestyle.Figure skaters need to know how to jump, glide, spin, stop, and skip.
Work on balance, coordination, agility, flexibility, and speed.
Focus on daily athletic training both on and off the ice., Athletes burn many calories and need to supply their bodies with healthy fuel to burn lean muscles.Always stay hydrated and never skip breakfast.Make sure you're getting enough calcium, iron, and Vitamin D.Avoid excess salt or sugar.Try juicing fruits and vegetables, grilling meat and fish, steaming vegetables, and adding seeds to cereal. Regularly consume lean proteins, whole-grain carbs, and other foods that will boost your immunity., Understanding rhythm and choreography is part of figure skating professionally.Choose music that reflects your personality but also conforms to the musical selection rules of the event you're preparing for., Young skaters should get at least 10 hours of sleep at night.


Your body needs time to recover and refresh both physically and mentally., Besides classes on the ice, figure skaters are often active in other areas which improve choreography and conditioning, such as ballet or jazz lessons.


Yoga and core work can help you improve your balance.Pilates utilizes core work and balance techniques, as well as stretching., Ice skaters fall down frequently - it comes with the territory.A good coach can instruct you on how to manage falls.


Hard falls can cause injuries.Even minor injuries should be treated to lessen the chances of developing into more severe chronic problems., Not everyone can be an Olympic-level athlete, so be realistic. Have you shown particular talent in skating classes?


For example, stroking - gliding forward from one skate to the other.</ref>

, Does your family have the finances to support a career that could cost many thousands of dollars? It’s difficult to put a dollar amount on just how expensive becoming an Olympic figure skater can be.Here are some basic costs to consider.Private lessons
Skates and costumes
Rink cost for practice
Travel expenses for competitions and recitals

, A successful figure skater doesn’t try to process every movement and technique mentally, but instead relies on muscle memory and instinct., Professional figure skating requires intense training and competition.Even for a young child the training is a full time job., Are you okay with sacrificing your free time in order to pursue this dream?For example, your peers may be playing video games, going to the movies, or attending other social gatherings. Would you prefer to be socializing, or on the ice?

, Most skaters reach a plateau at some point, and there's nothing wrong with that.Have fun learning and realize that mastering a skill takes time.
Don't give up. Approach your coach about the issue, or try breaking from the rut by attending an ice skating seminar, for example., Have discussions with your family and ask how supportive they will be if you choose this path.
 Whether you make it to the Olympics or not - and whether you earn a medal or not - you will benefit from learning great life lessons such as strength.If you enjoy skating and fall short of that ultimate goal, congratulate yourself on the benchmarks you did achieve!

, Figure skating at the highest levels requires a huge amount of dedication at a very young age. You will need support from family, friends, coaches, and possibly a professional counselor.


Pay attention to your mental health and let your family know if you need more resources.
Everyone has periods when they aren't sure they want to continue - when that happens, go to your supporters and be honest with yourself. If you do wish to continue, push through the low period with training and exercise, but also make time for things you need to avoid burnout, such as time listening to your favorite music or a professional massage.

