 Lip gloss has three main functions, namely: To add luster (shine) to lips, to add moisture to lips and, in some cases, to add just a touch of color. Lip gloss can be used instead of lipstick or over lipstick.


Some lip gloss contains flavor as well. For some people, this is the reason for wearing it.;
, Pharmacies, drugstores, department stores, beauty stores, local marts, etc. all carry lip gloss lines. You can also buy lip gloss online, but it's best to know what you like first, and just buy top ups of that brand when you're sure it's the right one for you., Do you want it to just add shine? Or, would you like one with color? Perhaps flavor is your preferred reason for using the lip gloss. In some cases, you may wish to combine the reasons. By knowing what you expect the lip gloss to achieve for you, you're all set to start choosing.
 This can add a touch of color to your lips, as well as adding shine. Colored lip gloss comes in either full color or sheer; the sheer gives a "hint" of color, while full color will recolor the lips temporarily. Colored lip gloss is best if the color is slightly darker than the natural color of your lips, as well as accounting for your skin complexion.


If you use a lot of bright colored eyeshadow, it is recommended that you do not wear a colored lip gloss, as this can provide too much color. Pick which feature you want to dominate, and stick with that.
Decide whether you want glitter in the lip gloss. If you lick your lips often though, the glitter can get stuck in your teeth.
 This will help to ensure that you don't buy a color that isn't well matched to your complexion.
 Some of the more commonly used flavors for lip gloss include: Grape, cherry, strawberry, peppermint, and spearmint. In some cases, the suggested flavor may not be what you expected, so don't spend too much on flavored lip glosses.
 Prices will vary depending on the brand and the type of lip gloss on offer. Don't be afraid to try cheaper versions though; there isn't much to a lip gloss, so a lot of the cheaper lip glosses are just as good as the more expensive ones.
 Lip gloss comes in various forms, including a tube with a brush, a glass container with a roll on feature, a rub-on hard stick, a small pot, or a squeeze tube. It's personal preference as to which way you prefer to apply the lip gloss, although since you're new to it, it might pay to experiment with each type before deciding on which one works best for you.


The brush version may feel lighter and in need of less rubbing pressure than the roll-on version.
Finger applied gloss requires absolutely clean fingers. This might not be as useful if you're not near a bathroom during reapplication time.
 Think about where are you will be wearing it, as this can impact the type of lip gloss you need. For example:


For school: Choose clear lip gloss, especially if there are rules about not wearing makeup. This might also apply in certain workplaces, if makeup is not permitted.
For dates or events: Choose colored lip gloss (especially for evenings), or a fun lip gloss with glitter in it.
If you're going to be outdoors a lot, consider using a lip gloss that contains SPF 15 or above in it. Also choose one that is long lasting.
 Take note of the ingredients before purchasing. Some things to consider include:


There is a risk of allergies: Some ingredients may cause allergies if you're susceptible, such as beeswax, colors (dyes), flavorings or preservatives.
The ingredients are unacceptable: If you don't like certain ingredients, such as parabens (suspected carcinogens), or non-vegetarian/vegan ingredients, then you'll need to avoid lip gloss containing such ingredients.
The gloss is uncomfortable: Heavy gloss doesn't work for everyone. If you choose a heavier gloss and find it is unpleasant, try a lighter one instead. Equally, if the glitter lip gloss feels like sandpaper, choose a different one.
The gloss doesn't last: If you are using lip gloss to add color, it won't last as long as lipstick. Either reapply frequently, or change to a lipstick and only use lip gloss for added shine.

