 Do this first because you can use it to officially change your name on other forms of identification. Only your name will change, not your social security number.You will need to include proof of your age, identity, and U.S. citizenship or immigration status.Download the Application for a New Social Security Card from the Social Security Administration.
Provide proof of your age, such as your birth certificate, a U.S. hospital record of your birth (created at the time of birth), a religious record established before age five showing your age or date of birth, your passport, or a final adoption decree (the adoption decree must show that the birth information was taken from the original.
Include proof of identity, such as a U.S. driver's license, a U.S. State-issued non-driver identity card or a U.S. passport.
Include evidence of U.S. citizenship, such as a U.S. birth certificate, a U.S. Passport, a consular report of birth, a certificate of citizenship or a certificate of naturalization.
If you are not a U.S. citizen, include an unexpired document issued to you by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) showing your immigration status, such as Form I-551, I-94, or I-766. International students or exchange visitors must also submit Form I-20, DS-2019 or a letter from their school or employer authorizing their employment (F-1) or sponsorship (J-1).
 Once you have your new Social Security card, you can use it to change your name on your driver’s license. Visit the website of your states Department of Motor Vehicles to learn the process for changing your name on your driver’s license. You will likely need to bring your social security card, your old driver’s license, your birth certificate, and legal verification of your name change, such as a marriage license, official divorce papers or other court order., Your employer’s human resources department will assist you with changing your name on your work documents. You need to do this so that your paychecks and pay stubs reflect your new name. Other work documents, such as your life insurance and retirement plan documents, should also be updated with your new name., Notify all of your banks and creditors of your new name. When you notify your creditors of your new name, they will automatically notify the credit bureaus. Your credit history under your old name will not be erased or changed. Rather, your credit will just continue to build under your new name.To update your name on your bank accounts, you may need to visit your bank in person. Bring your social security number, driver’s license or passport, and legal verification of your name change, such as a marriage license, divorce decree or court order. Change you name on your credit cards, debit cards and checks. If your name has changed because you got married or divorced, you may need to add or remove a spouse from ownership on your accounts.
Notify other creditors of your name change, including issuers of a car loan, line of credit, mortgage, credit cards and other credit accounts.

