 As a teen, you most likely have limited knowledge about the world and about yourself as a person. It is as important to develop your inner world as much as your outer world. One good way to develop your character is through self-inquiry and by challenging yourself beyond your comfort zone. These will provide you with genuine information about the current state of your character.

Try using things like mediation and yoga to explore your inner world.
Keep in mind that there will most likely be things you will need to improve upon. You may wish to write them down in a list.
It may also help to seek out self-improvement material related to the things that you want to develop in yourself and then ACT on the information.
 Any employment position can help you be more independent because you’ll be earning your own money. This can be any job that doesn’t interfere with other parts of your daily life. You could work at the super market, gas station, fast food restaurant, or a department store. The key is to do your best work everyday and be an employee that can be relied on by your coworkers and employer.


If you dedicate yourself to doing good work, you’re much more likely to be promoted or receive a raise.
Remember your employers can provide references for you when applying for college or for other jobs., The most successful people give back to those in need, and this is a great way to learn more about your community and how to be a good leader. You don’t need to be part of a big humanitarian effort either. Start small. Call a local assisted living facility or care home to inquire about visiting, volunteer to play piano for a church choir, or start cleaning up your local cemetery on the weekends. If you want to join a larger effort, there are likely numerous organizations in your school and community that would welcome you.


Sign up to participate in a charitable fundraiser like 5 or 10 k run or marathon.
Ask your guidance counselor to recommend service organizations you can join.
Talk to your family and friends about their community involvement, and ask if you can join them., This is a great way to get a better understanding of what it’s like to be a police officer, college professor, or veterinarian. If you think you want to go into a specific field, look for someone close by who actually does your future job, and ask them if you can talk to them about what they do or observe them for a day. Most people will be happy to work with you., Many young people find success at an early stage in life by developing new and different technologies, creating beautiful art, or starting a musical career. If you have a special talent for a creative art, put in the time to hone these skills. Even if you never become a famous artist or develop the coolest new app, creative thinking is an important skill you can use in every aspect of your life. People who can think creatively find innovative ways to handle business problems, make great parents, and are the best decision makers., Taking all the advanced classes, getting a promotion at work, and giving back to your community won't matter if you’re miserable, so make sure to make time for fun. Take time for yourself and do things that you enjoy. Get a hobby, read a book, binge watch your favorite TV show. Whatever you do, remember to take a break and recharge.