 Make sure you have enough building room, and enough room for redstone. By marking out the perimeter, you can make additions and cuts to certain rooms, and ensure that your space is reserved so others don't end up using it. If it is far from your house, mark out a pathway or minecart system to allow you to travel between these areas.
 The two types of walls are interior and exterior. Interior walls are the walls of each individual room. Make these walls out of whatever you think would be best for each purpose. For example, the milk room could be a wool room that looks like the pattern on a cow's hair. The exterior walls should revolve around a specific plan. One neat idea is to make the sides look like a cake, then choose a spot in the middle of the roof to make a crafting grid. Use the remaining roof space to make it look like cake. This makes your building really define its purpose to those who see it.
 This step is where you decide what the purpose of each room will be and decorate the rooms based on their functions. For instance, the sugar cane room might have rows alternating between sand and water, with a viewing platform (find out why in redstone). Then, ensure each room has enough space for the redstone mechanics, and enough room for players. You don't want a room that can't fit redstone or players.
 Add holes for redstone lighting, decorate fences with flower pots and flowers, line hallways with carpets, etc. Now is also a good time to build the pathway and place flowers around the outside of the factory too, since you are about to move on to the final phase with redstone.
 Fix any mistakes now, and make tweaks that make the factory look nicer. For instance, if the wheat farm has hay walls, maybe you can change it to look like minecraft plains and beautiful sky. Also, smooth out any bugs, like the sugar cane farm has a leak, or cows can escape the milk farm. You don't want to be dealing with these things once the redstone is set up, so do it now to ensure smooth sailing.

