 You will need either a Wi-Fi or cellular data connection to use the Uber app. As long as Uber is available at your travel destination, the Uber app will work the same as it does at home.;
, If you are using a different number during your travels, add it to your Uber account. Otherwise, you will not be able to receive a text or call from your driver if he cannot find you., Move the slider at the bottom of the map to your desired Uber vehicle type. The types of vehicles available in each city will vary.


To get a fare estimate for a specific type of vehicle, tap the slider when it is directly beneath the service name (e.g., “UberX”).In some cities, you can select an UberX vehicle based on the language spoken by the driver. In Chicago and Los Angeles, for example, you will find an option to select “UberESPANOL” as your Uber vehicle type., Now that you have chosen a vehicle, drag the pin to the location where you will be waiting for your Uber. Alternatively, you can type the address of your location into the search bar at the top of the screen. When you’re done, tap “Set Pickup Location.”

, If you are travelling in a country where you are likely to encounter a language barrier between you and your driver, it is especially important to enter a destination rather than rely on your ability to communicate it verbally in person.


If surge pricing is in effect, you will be prompted to accept the premium rate before your ride is confirmed.
If you are travelling without phone and/or Internet service, be extra mindful of being prompt and visible at your pickup location. Remember, your driver will be unable to contact you if he cannot find you.
The app will notify you when the driver is about one minute from the pickup location you specified. Make sure you are at that location, highly visible, and actively looking for the vehicle described the Uber app.
 If you need to make any changes to your current trip, swipe upward on the app screen to view the available options.Split fare: If you are with another traveler and want to share the fare, choose this option and follow the prompts to add another passenger to the trip.
Send ETA: Choose this option to update a friend or colleague on your estimated time of arrival.
Change trip destination: Enter a new location here and it will appear on the driver’s screen.
Cancel trip: If you need to end the trip immediately, notify your driver and/or choose this option. Make sure you’re in a safe location before getting out of the car.
Change payment method: You will be able to enter a new payment method or choose any other payment method you have on file.
 When you arrive at your destination, follow the prompt on your screen to rate your driver.


While tipping is not required, Uber drivers are permitted to accept cash tips if they are offered.

