 If necessary, close the door. Remove any makeup or jewelry that may be covering your scar. Try to spend more time at home with your scar(s) uncovered. This will make you more accepting of and comfortable with your scar.
 To begin feeling more comfortable with your scars, try wearing a short-sleeved shirt one day each week. If you have success wearing the short-sleeved shirt once a week, move forward and try wearing short sleeves twice the next week. Continue in this way until you have become more comfortable with showing your scar in public.


Perhaps you could show your scar to a friend before revealing it to the whole world. Your friend should offer you a supportive reaction. This will build your confidence and prepare you better for revealing your scar to the general public., Don’t make extreme attempts to conceal your scar when working out. For instance, it would be unusual to wear long sleeves to the gym, or when riding your bike on a hot day. Dressing in this way would draw more attention to you than riding about openly with your scar revealed.
 When you have a significant and noticeable scar, people who are curious about it might approach you with questions. For instance, you might be asked, “How did you get that scar?”, “Did it hurt?”, or “When did you get it?”, If you have decided to reveal your scar after covering it for a long time, you will probably consider doing so as an important personal milestone. You may have prepared for the hard questions people might confront you with about your scar. However, for every person who chooses to stare and ask you about your scar, chances are there are far more who will not notice or care that you have a scar.


While generally it’s good that people don’t pester you about your scar, you may feel upset or have mixed emotions about this experience. You might feel that your pain doesn’t matter to others, or feel disappointment that there was not more excitement surrounding your decision to unveil the scar.
 If you choose to expose your scars, but for whatever reason begin to feel uncomfortable while doing so, ensure you can cover them up again quickly if necessary.For instance, if you go out one day with your scar exposed and start to feel awkward due to people staring at you, put on a sweater to cover the scar. This way, you won’t continue to attract unwanted attention.


Don’t back out of exposing your scar too quickly. Even if it feels awkward or difficult a first, sticking it out is a good way to build confidence.

