 An alternative to protecting a file is to use Microsoft’s Encrypting File System (EFS) which embeds a key on the file that restricts access unless that key can be decrypted by your computer. Right click on the file you want to encrypt to bring up a menu. Click on “Properties” to bring up the Properties window.
 Under the “General” tab, click on “Advanced” to bring up the Advanced Attributes window. Click on “Encrypt contents to secure data” to check the box then click on “OK.”

, You can choose to encrypt only the file or to encrypt the file and the parent directory.After this, the only way the file can be opened is by decrypting the file with a certificate on your computer. You will only need to open the file to decrypt it. If you are logged in as a different user or you are on a different computer, you will need to export the certificate.


If the encryption level is set to encrypt the parent folder as well, you will restrict access to the folder as well.
 In order to manage the decryption certificate, you will need to access the certificate manager which is necessary if you want to remove your certificate, create a backup or share it with others. You are not required to create a backup of the certificate, but if the certificate gets lost or damaged you will not have access to your encrypted file.Click on the “Start” button. In the search box type in "certmgr.msc" in the search box then press ↵ Enter to bring up a new window.
 In the left pane of the "Certificate Manager," double click “Personal,” click on “Certificates.” On the right hand side, click on the certificate that lists the Encrypting File Systems under “Intended Purposes.” On the menu bar, click on Action>All Tasks>Export to bring up the “Certificate Export Wizard.”

, Follow the instructions given by the wizard. Place a mark on “Yes, export the private key.” Click “Personal Information Exchange.” Type in the password you want to use and confirm the password. Your certificate will be exported and you will be prompted to name it. Type in a name for the file and the location (with the whole path) or you can click “Browse” then navigate to a location, type in a name for the file then click “Save.”


If you want to open the file on a different computer, make sure you have the certificate and the file sent together in order to be able to open the file.
You can save the certificate onto removable storage such as a USB drive or other storage media.
 When you are opening a file that is embedded with the EFS key as a different user or on a different computer, you can use the “Certificate Manager” to import the certificate. To be able to open the file, navigate to the “Certificate Manager,” click on the “Personal” folder then on the menu bar click on Action>All Tasks>Import to bring up the “Certificate Import Wizard.” Follow the instructions on the wizard then locate the certificate on the computer. You will be prompted for the password, select “Mark this key as Exportable.” Click “Place all certificates in the following store” and choose “Personal.”.

