 One thing that's distinctive about you is your particular combination of principles and convictions that you hold dear. Those things are at the core of who you are, so it's important to stay true to yourself even in moments of conflict or uncertainty.


Conflict is a part of any relationship. You don't have to change who you are to resolve a disagreement. Simply ask that your beliefs be treated with respect and offer that same respect to others.
Sticking to your beliefs takes courage. It's not easy to be the one who stands up to a bully or refuses to go along with a harmful or dangerous prank. Being true to yourself might make you unpopular with some people but could also attract those with whom you share common values.
Make a list of truths about yourself or create a list of all the people/things that shaped you (your upbringing, your likes/dislikes, your temperament, etc.) and let them remind you of who you are. Use them, too, as jumping off points for conversation or connecting with others.;
, It's easier for someone to approach you and, in turn, come to like you, if you're welcoming and genuine. Sending out a friendly, open vibe will help to draw people to you.









A "what you see is what you get" approach to making friends can cut through any artificialities and help you connect with people who are drawn to you for who you are. But be careful of appearing inflexible; people are less inclined to try to connect to someone who seems too rigid.
Part of being genuine means showing emotion. You may put on a brave face when you're feeling down or try to hide a stressful day from others, but having emotions is something we all share. Let others see you as a real human being.
If you're shy and find it difficult to talk to other people, be upfront about that. The good news is that you don't necessarily have to say a lot to have someone enjoy your company. Being a great listener and asking questions that convey a real interest in the other person is one of the best ways to connect.

Don't be hard on yourself if you feel you have weak social skills. You may have been busy developing other areas of your life. Remember, a skill is something that can be developed, so you can absolutely improve in this area.
 Having healthy self-respect means you like yourself no matter what. Successes and failures can't change it, and it doesn't depend on how you measure up to others--in fact, you never even compare yourself to others. That's particularly helpful in forming friendships that aren't based on competition or one-up-manship.









Self-respect is key to earning respect from others. It's difficult for people to treat you with real regard if you don't treat yourself well or don't think much of yourself.
 When you look good, you feel better, and when you're feeling good you're more likely to put your best self forward.









Shower or bathe regularly. Keeping yourself clean conveys that you care about your health and respect your body. If your hair tends to be oily, consider washing it every day (this will also cut down on the chances of acne developing on your forehead); otherwise, every-other day is fine.
Use deodorant. While it may be perfectly natural, strong body odor can be a turn-off to others. Using a deodorant or antiperspirant, especially in hot weather or before and after exercising, shows that you care not only about yourself but about the comfort-level of others.
Change clothes. Even if it's your favorite t-shirt or pair of jeans, it's important to change out it with some regularity. Clothes absorb and can hold on to body odor, so even if you're taking pains to take care of your hygiene, wearing the same clothes several days in a row will work against you.
Maintain good oral hygiene. Brushing and flossing are important for two big reasons: they help prevent cavities and gum disease and they reduce bad breath. It's difficult for people to get close if your breath is less-than-fresh. Mints and gum can all help but brushing and flossing are the best way to combat smelly mouth germs.
 One thing that brings people together are shared interests. Put yourself in situations where you can pursue things you enjoy and meet others who enjoy them, too.









Join a club or attend an event. If you like to read, search online or look for signs in coffee shops for a book club in your area. Big fan of cars? Attend local car shows or be part of online discussion groups that focus on automobiles. Shared interests help you to immediately establish common ground with someone.
Check Meetup and Craigslist for groups and activities. You might be surprised at the volume and variety of groups out there that focus on a wide range of interests.
When you talk to someone, ask open-ended questions to uncover common ground. Instead of saying,"Do you like music?" ask "What are your three favorite bands?" Instead of, "How was your day?" ask "What was the best part of your day today?" Open-ended questions open the door for discovering more about your conversation partner.
Volunteer. Find a cause you care about and spend some time supporting it. You'll meet others who share your interest in the same organization and perhaps more.
 Whether it means speaking up in a class, sketching wildlife, refinishing a piece of thrift store furniture, expressing yourself by sharing your ideas or your creativity can draw other to you.









When you express yourself, you're sharing a part of who you are with others. It provides a great opportunity for others to get to know you through your actions, and they might approach you because of something you've said or done.
Not expressing yourself--verbally or non-verbally--can lead to isolation. If you build walls around yourself and refuse to let anything out, people will assume you want to be left alone, and that's what they'll do.

