 Make sure to gain access to every enclosed area of your car, as this is where dirt and dust are likely to have accumulated.


Pop the hood.
Pop the glove box.
Get the trunk open.;
, Creating noise will scare away most animals that have taken residence in your car while it was in storage.


Give them a few minutes to move out on their own.
Noise might not scare them off, at least not on the first try.
Sometimes mice, snakes, squirrels, birds, bats, hornets, and wasps will double down or hide.
Use your own judgment regarding how much risk you are willing to sustain, but keep in mind that biting animals can get into even the most secure storage facilities.
Try not to surprise any animals, because that can cause them to lash out and bite you.
 Take a walk around your car, and get a sense for its condition.


If you have stored your car outside, look for weeds or other plants that may have grown onto the car.
Clear away any plant matter with a weed-whacker and shears.
 If your car has been sitting on its tires while in storage, check your tires for signs of wear such as bulging, sagging, or deflation.


If your machine has been up on blocks or jackstands, use your pressure gauge to determine the pressure.
If your tires have lost air, use your compressor to top off any low tires, while the car is still supported on blocks.
Remember to check the tires again later, before you start rolling.
 While you are under the car checking or adding air to your tires, look for spills, puddles, wet spots, or just blotches of darkness that might indicate a leak.


If you find something, crawl under and see if you can determine what is leaking and from where.
The only things you'll really have to worry about at this stage are brake fluid and coolant.
A coolant leak can kill your car's engine, and a brake fluid leak can kill the driver.
If you find either of those two things leaking, or evidence that they have leaked, you should get them repaired before you even start your car.
Everything else can safely wait until you are out of storage and can make a trip to your garage, the local auto parts place, or your mechanic.
If your classic is a little low on oil or transmission fluid, you can top it off until the source of the leak is found and repairs are made.
A gas tank leak might not leave a puddle, but could at least leave you a stain to show that it was there.
 Before you put your hands or face near the engine area, just take a look around from a distance.


If there are animals nesting in the engine area, they might leave pieces of eaten filter, nutshells, and other debris scattered around.
Look for cobwebs and scat, and listen for the buzzing of bumblebees.
Give the engine a smell, and see if you smell the turpentine odor of bad gas.
Use a broom or shop vac to clear out any leavings and debris.
Avoid breathing in any rotting material or animal scat, as these materials can contain harmful molds and diseases.
 Now is a good time to see if any replaceable parts have worn or are decaying.


Expose the air filter to check its condition, clean it out, and replace it if necessary.
Reach into the engine bay and test the hoses and belts by tugging them.
Touch the wires to see if they disintegrate at your touch.
Look out for cracked, worn, aged, or dry rubber.
If anything does fall apart, make note of it so you can visit the parts store for a replacement.
If you have exposed the carburetor, leave it exposed for now.
If your filter is housed in an intake box, seal it back up once you know there is a new filter in place or that the old one is in acceptable condition.

