 If your chronic illness does not interfere with your job, you don't need to tell your boss about it, even during the hiring interview. But if it has developed while working, or a debilitating flareup has occurred that you were not aware would happen, there are a few people you should talk to.Start with your doctor. Your doctor can inform you best of what accommodations you need and how much you should reveal at work.
Find out if your company has a health representative. People in this position are experienced at helping employees with chronic conditions, and they can tell you who you need to inform about your illness.
Tell Human Resources (HR). You only need to approach HR if your chronic illness requires special treatment like extra breaks, a different work schedule, and so on.
After you disclose special needs with HR, tell employees who work closely with you, including your supervisor. Your HR representative will tell you how to approach these co-workers, whether it is best done in person or through email.;
, Remember that you only need to give your employer information about how your condition may impact you on the job, whether during the hiring interview or after hiring if a new condition has developed. It is not necessary for you to reveal any specifics about your treatments or medications unless you want to.


Anything you reveal to your employer about your chronic disease is protected under federal laws, so that may help you in determining how much or little you want to reveal.
Allow your employer to ask questions as they wish, but remember they only need to know the information that will make a difference on the job.
 It’s important to your health to only do as much as you can do. Tell your employer if you need to be out for a length of time due to your illness.


Your health is a priority and, by law, your place of employment is required to work with you on appropriate accommodations for your illness, especially if it does not interfere with the quality of work for which you were hired.
Discuss the option of a long-term medical leave (FMLA) with your employer if that would be better for your health.
Look into filing for FMLA if you start to miss too many days at work. Your company may have a policy about excessive absences that prevents them from helping you if you miss too many days of work without an explanation. FMLA stands for Family and Medical Leave Act.