 Internet connection options can be found in the “Wii Connection Settings” menu.


The ”Connection Settings” menu can be found by clicking on the “Wii” button at the bottom left hand corner of the main menu, then selecting “Wii Settings.”
The “Internet” button is on the second page of the “Wii Settings” menu.
To select an option, just point at it and press the ”A” button.;
, This is located in the “Wii Shop Channel.”


Select the “Wii Shop Channel” icon from near the top right of the Wii Menu screen, and press “A”.
Agree to the Wii Shop Channel User Agreement if its your first time accessing the service.
Select the “Wii Channels” icon from the main menu of the Wii Shop Channel and press “A”.
Once loaded, select “start”, then select “start shopping” from the bottom of the screen.



Search for the Netflix application by scrolling through the apps, then select the icon and press “A” to see details.
Click on the “Free: 0 Wii Points” or the “Download: 0 Wii Points” button on the details screen to start the download.
Select “Wii System Memory” when prompted on the Download Location Screen.
On the Selection Confirmation screen, select “OK”, then select “Yes” on the Download Confirmation screen.
 This should only take a few minutes.


Once complete, you will see a “Download Successful!” screen. Select “OK.”
You should now be able to access Netflix from the Wii Menu.
 You will need to use your computer to set up your account. Find out how to sign up for netflix here.
 Open the Netflix app from the main Wii menu and sign in.


Select “start” to enter the channel.
Select “Member Sign In”
Enter the email associated with your Netflix account, your Netflix password, then select “continue.”

, You may want to log out of Netflix at some point, but unfortunately, there is no logout button on the Wii interface. For instructions on how to log out, see this guide.


Logging out of Netflix may be useful in order to monitor kids' viewing habits or if you want to erase your Netflix account when selling or trading in your Wii.
Netflix also limits the number of devices that a user can have streaming from one account at a given time, so you may want to log out of your Wii to view Netflix on another device.
If you would like to know how to switch Netflix user accounts or profiles on your Wii, view this guide.

