 First of all, this will make your room smell bad. Secondly, it’ll attract flies, ants, and other bugs, which will gross your roommate out. She will now be forced to clean up your mess or will leave it there, and it will annoy her.


Avoid leaving anything you might also find gross. Try small things like candy wrappers, pop cans, or receipts.;
, Roommates who don’t get along have clear sides of the room. Use this to your advantage by subtly crossing it with your possessions. Leave your textbooks, clothing, or other possessions in their side of the room.


Leave your dirty clothes all over the room. The clutter of the clothes will get on her nerves.
 If you live in a place that gets cold, you’ll know how important it is to keep your house warm. One way to really get on somebody’s nerves is by abusing the heating of your room. Before you leave the house, open a window or two, then your roommate will be greeted by a draft and frustration., Certain people are very particular about the keeping the door locked. If you live with someone who is very protective of her stuff, leave the door or even just the back door unlocked.Some people cannot do this because their doors lock when shut.


You also risk having your stuff stolen when you leave the door unlocked.
It also may not be worth it if something belonging to your roommate actually gets stolen.
 Nobody likes to live with someone who doesn’t do their share of chores.Even a messy person can become annoyed by a build up in trash. Eventually your place will start to smell.


Again this may end up frustrating yourself more than your roommate. It might not be worth it to live uncomfortably.
 This is another simple chore that everyone can get lazy about doing. A build up in dirty dishes is sure to annoy the most peaceful of roommates.This could potentially backfire if your roommate decides to wash her silverware as she uses it. Then you’re left with all your dirty silverware in the sink, waiting to collect mold.


Add an extra supply of plates and silverware for a higher build up in dirty dishes.

