 Succinctly state who you are and what your nonprofit is looking to accomplish. To do this, start by stating the purpose of the business, then summarize how the business will work in terms of finances, management, and operations.;
,


This section will answer the questions of how to business will be formed and by whom, who will provide the startup funding, and what the funds will be spent on.
Next, move on to the day-to-day operations of the nonprofit. Will the nonprofit own property? Will it provide services to the community? How will those services be delivered, and by whom?
Often the desire to accomplish a goal will make it difficult to focus on the details of how exactly that goal will be achieved. This section of the business plan will help you determine how to accomplish your goals.



Identify whom your nonprofit will be helping. Are you targeting impoverished youth? Teen parents? The homeless? Make sure there is an identifiable population of individuals who will benefit from your efforts. If there are rising trends in the segment of the population you are targeting, include those statistics. Additionally, identify the individuals that will work with your organization, either as employees or volunteers. If you require a significant number of volunteers to operate, identify where you will find those individuals.
Analyze who your “competition” is and why your organization is unique so that you are not essentially providing the same services as the other nonprofit. Include information about the market for your product or service, and include any applicable data as an attachment if the firm would like more information.
 This is the section in which you might outline a 3-phase approach to achieving your goal, or detail the exact activities your nonprofit will engage in. Include your plans for marketing your organization to potential funders, volunteers, and any other individuals your organization wishes to reach out to.
 Include a detailed forecast of the funding sources and amounts that your nonprofit will require from start up through year 3. Detail your strategies for raising funds, including any plans to hire fundraisers, any specific grants you believe your nonprofit can receive, etc.
 This section will detail all of the people involved with running the nonprofit and explain their roles in the organization.


Anticipate all employee or volunteer needs, from running programs, to administrative work, grant writing, and even janitorial services if applicable.
If the nonprofit will hire employees, include a prospective salary for each position.
 Charts, graphs, spreadsheets, databases, and mock-ups of promotional materials all provide a snapshot of what the nonprofit will look like when it is formed. Include any relevant documents that help show exactly how the nonprofit will operate.

