 As with most bad habits, a person has to admit that there is a problem and want to change it. Once this mindset has been established it will be easier to follow a plan of action that gets you healthy.;
, If you make a schedule, you will be less likely to eat too much and more likely to get a workout in.
 You may have to change the places where you eat if your current stops offer only unhealthy options. If you are not prepared to eat in new locations, then review the menu that is offered and learn which items are healthier. Additionally, you need to be more aware of your portions and learn how much food is healthy for you.
 Snacking is actually a good thing. Just make sure you are snacking on a schedule and not randomly, you are eating healthy snacks like fruit, nuts, or protein bars, and you cut down on your portions for lunch and dinner. Purchase your snacks from a grocery store and farm stand for fresh product.
 Staying hydrated is very important, and water is the best way to hydrate and clean out your body.
 Obviously smoking is not a healthy habit, and as a truck driver, it is easy to pick up smoking as a type of past time, or even a way of keeping busy while sitting stagnant all day long. Many truckers lose track of how many cigarettes they actually smoke. This will be the most difficult part of your goal to get healthier, but you will have to stop smoking if you are serious about this endeavor.
 When you schedule your route for the day, fit in time for a 45 minute walk. Walking is a great way to exercise your body, get fresh air, relax your mind, get your heart rate up, and your blood pumping.Also,keeping a pair of dumbbells or a resistance band offers a easy and convenient workout. Exercise is a necessary addition in a goal to become a healthier trucker.
 Your immune system is not that strong if you lack a good diet, don't exercise, and don't sleep. So wash up as you change your ways, and continue to stay clean to avoid getting sick germs from fellow truckers who are not interested in getting healthy like you are.
 Rest is also important in building a healthy immune system, so schedule yourself enough rest so you are refreshed and raring to go by morning.
 Vitamins will fill in the nutrient gaps and ensure that you are getting what you are missing in your current diet.

