 Acknowledge the ways your actions, words, and decisions have shaped your life. Don’t try to blame other people or outside circumstances for the way your life looks right now, even if you’re not happy with your current situation.Taking responsibility doesn’t mean blaming yourself for mistakes you made in the past. Rather, this mindset empowers you to do something about them now.;
, Spend some time introspecting when you won’t be disturbed or distracted. Ask yourself what your personality is like when you’re not being influenced by anybody else. Think about your unique strengths, weaknesses, and values.Self-knowledge is an essential foundation for an independent life. You can better get to know yourself by starting a journaling habit and trying out new activities to learn your likes and dislikes.
 Learn to rely on your own decision-making skills instead of other people’s advice. If you frequently second-guess yourself, remind yourself that it’s better to make a choice and stick with it than to remain in a perpetual state of indecision.If you have a hard time with decisions, build your confidence in yourself by becoming more decisive about little things. When you’re picking out clothes in the morning, for instance, go with your first instinct and don’t give yourself time to waver.
 Know which principles are most important to you, and use them to guide your decisions. Seek out jobs, friends, and opportunities that align with your values instead of clashing with them.Money has a big impact on our daily lives. If you’re having trouble discerning your values, consider what you would be doing if money were not a factor in your life. Try to live by those core principals.

Identify your values by ranking which of your personality traits mean the most in your life. For instance, you might value honesty, charity, and friendship most of all.
 Practice regulating your own feelings instead of depending on a friend, cigarette, or candy bar to calm down. Be kind and encouraging to yourself. Find some healthy ways to deal with negative emotions, such as taking a walk or writing in a journal.It’s fine to seek external emotional support when you need it. However, it’s not healthy to rely on other people or substances as a crutch for dealing with your feelings.
Practice noticing negative feelings that come up without being swept away by them. Acknowledge the feeling, but don’t become the feeling.

