 Be sure your audience knows what you are blogging about and won’t have to guess. Elude to the topic in your post’s title and the first sentence to reel in your audience.


Select a trending topic. Choose something viral or trending to captivate a larger audience. Also, select a trending topic that interests you--consider writing about something you can’t get enough of and can add a new spin or approach.
Blog about something you know. The best way to express yourself is to talk about something you have experience doing. If you are an exasperated mom, talk about potty training to an audience of other young moms or if you are a trained dog expert, discuss ways to get your puppy to stop chewing on furniture.
Stay on point. Although blogging is conversational, stick to traditional rules and structure in order to remain focused. For example, if your blog is about how to train a puppy, avoid going off on a tangent about what to do when the puppy becomes a dog. Stay in puppy mode, at least for that post.;
, Nothing compels readers to come back for more than humor and laughter. Find ways to poke fun at yourself and the subject matter to make it appear more human and approachable, not to mention more interesting.


Give your posts a human slant. Find ways to add stories or anecdotes that will get everyone nodding their heads in agreement. For instance, if you are writing about ways to organize your family, consider adding the story about the time your husband ripped the house apart looking for his glasses only to find them sitting on his head underneath his baseball cap.
Keep the tone conversational. You want the reader to feel as if you are speaking directly to them and only them. Ask questions that will incite giggles from your reader, such as “When was the last time your husband walked out of the house in black knee socks, dress shoes, basketball shorts and a ripped Dinosaur Jr. t-shirt?” The visual alone may make the reader laugh and give the blog a feeling as if it’s you and the reader swapping stories.
 Many people read blogs for a reason, either how to do something or to gain information about a certain topic. Before you start typing, know what you want to write about and why you are writing the blog.


Include a conversational call to action. One of the most important blog components is to get people talking. You want a compelling statement or question that motivates readers to add comments and respond to what you’ve written and/or discuss the topic further with other readers.
 Although blogs are conversational and relatively casual in nature, back up your findings with actual facts and ideas. Cite any resources and refer to them throughout the blog. This will not only provide the reader with additional resources, but lend credibility to your writing.


Provide educational information. Another purpose of blogging is to educate the reader. Combine your expertise and any other resources to deliver a comprehensive, useful post that provides the reader with value.

