 If you have a spare pad or tampon, give her that if she suddenly gets her period and finds she has no supplies, or she has a heavy period and runs out of sanitary ware.

If you don't have any supplies, consider offering to go out and get some, such as by going to the nurse's station if at school or college, or popping to the store if at home or work.;
, Help her to feel better by commenting on positive things and even complimenting her work, outfit or something else appropriate at the time. This will take her mind off feeling less down in the dumps. Most of all, be understanding.

Don't make jokes about "that time of the month", "rags" or "PMT", etc. Joking about such things is just way off and won't help her to feel reassured.
Do commiserate if you actually know how it feels to have a period. If you don't, then don't make it up as you just don't know what it's like; be sympathetic but not invasive.
If you happen to have light periods and she has heavy ones, don't gloat about your "luck". This really doesn't help!

, You might offer to accompany her to the sick room or to see a doctor, or to give her a back rub. Be careful about offering medications; in some cases it isn't legal to do so, not even a painkiller and in other cases, it's just better that she makes that decision for herself.

Ask her if she has had some water recently. If not, fetch her some quickly. Staying hydrated may help to ease her queasiness and some cramps.
Offer to buy her some groceries or a a ready-made meal. Or, make her a meal.
Run errands for her for the day she feels bad. She'll be happy to do the same for you when you need it.
Bring her a hot water bottle for those dreadful cramps. Or, if appropriate, offer to massage her lower back.
 The curse of the period is that at least once in a female's lifetime, the period is going to create a stain. If you see a stain, gently pull her aside and let her know what you've seen and offer to help. If you have a cleaning cloth, a spare pair of jeans or skirt, etc., you can offer those as well. After she's tidied up, you can give her the "all clear" if she asks you, otherwise just let it be.

If you have any portable stain remover in your bag or desk drawer, give it to her to use.
Don't make fun of stains and don't broadcast the fact that you've seen stains. It's impolite to make a big deal out of it and pointless too. Everyone has messy problems now and then.
 The hormones and sometimes pain can take a toll on the emotions and energy levels during a period. This can cause some women and girls to feel blue or irritable or sad or even extremely anxious. Most of the time it is short lived and blows over with a good rest, nutritious food and some tender loving care. Everyone has down days, so roll with it and be a nice and helpful person. Avoid criticizing her for how she is, as this will only make things worse for her., This isn't about special treatment. It's about treating someone kindly in acknowledging and caring about the state you find them in. Most people will return the favor whenever a favor has been done for them. It's about creating caring connections and knowing that most of your help will be reciprocated when you're in need.