 If you want to show a guy affection, hugging him is a great way to know you care. Just lean close to him, put your arms around him, and don't linger too long unless you want to show him that you really like him. You should have a good reason for hugging the guy, like congratulating him on an accomplishment, or greeting him when he walks into a room, if you know him pretty well already.


Move your head to the side so you don't awkwardly bring your face too close to his.;
, Squeezing a guy's shoulder is another way to show him that you care about him. Just reach over and give either his right or left shoulder a quick, gentle squeeze when you're sitting next to or facing the guy. You can do this to calm him down about something, to let him know that everything's okay, or just to show him that you're happy to see him.


Squeeze his shoulder for a quick second -- there's no need to linger.
 When you stand facing the guy, reach out to put your hand on his elbow with an open palm. Just gently touch his elbow to show him affection and to break the touch barrier. If your hand lingers, it'll look more intimate, but a quick pat on the elbow will just show him that you care -- and can lead to something more.
 If you and the guy are sitting down with your hands on a table, or if you're sitting and the guy's hand is on his knees, you can reach over and gently pat the top of his hand for a second. This is a great way to reassure the guy and to make him feel special without getting too intimate. Don't try to hold his hand or linger your hand over the top of his -- that can come later, if you like.
 Patting the guy on the back is another great way to show affection. Just pat the top of his back, just below his shoulder, to show him that you can care. Patting the guy on the back once or twice is a good way to make an exit, or to say hello in that half-hug way without making things too awkward.
 Putting your arm around a guy is another great way to show affection. You can just put your arm around him while you're walking, letting your arm rest just below his shoulders. This is a great way to show affection that can be interpreted as "buddy-buddy" -- or as something more. Just don't make him feel uncomfortable.

