 Dealing with unsolicited advice is easier if you have a go-to response that gently ends the conversation. Choose a response that’s direct, but kind. It’s always safe to cite your pediatrician’s advice. If the person advising you has children, you can also steer the conversation away from you by asking about their kids. Depending on the situation, you might try saying something like the following:“Thanks! We’ll ask his pediatrician about that.”
“Interesting. Is that what you did with your children?”
“I appreciate that you’re trying to help, but I’m not looking for advice on that topic.”

, Humor is a good way to defuse a potentially tense situation. A humorous reply is a low-key way of shutting down unwanted or inappropriate advice without seeming unfriendly or rude. Avoid being too sarcastic, though – sarcasm can come off as hostile, so keep it pleasant.Try something like “Gee, I’ll have to keep that in mind the next time I’m covered in poop!”

, You can graciously accept unsolicited advice without taking on the responsibility of actually following it. Even if you don’t want the advice, try to accept it graciously, without acting insulted. Recognize that the advisor was probably trying to be helpful, and validate their efforts. For example, try saying one of the following:

“Wow, those are some really great ideas! I’ll have to keep that in mind.”
“Thanks, that’s really helpful advice. We may try that along with some other things. We’re still figuring out what works best for us.”
“Thanks, that’s some really great information. You seem to really know your stuff, and we definitely appreciate you trying to help. We’ll take it into consideration.”

, People may argue with others’ opinions, but they will rarely argue with a doctor’s advice. If someone won’t stop nagging you about your parenting methods, or if someone gives you advice you know is outdated or flat-out wrong, end the discussion by citing your doctor’s instructions or by saying you’ll have to consult your child’s pediatrician first.For instance, you might say “Hmm…our doctor advised us against doing that,” and quickly change the subject.

