 Camouflaging your chest and wearing padded bras is a temporary fix. If the difference in your breasts size is large enough that temporary fixes won’t work or if you’re suffering emotional distress because of your uneven breasts, then cosmetic surgery may be the option for you.Undergoing surgery to make your breasts appear the same is a serious step. It’s an invasive procedure that can be painful and risky. If you feel surgery may be the best option for you, talk with a professional.
 There are many ways to surgically correct uneven breasts. Breast implant surgery, also known as breast augmentation, is one of those ways. The implant is created when a silicone bag filled with saline, or liquid or gel silicone is inserted behind the breast. Deciding between a liquid or gel implant will depend on preference. A liquid implant will make your breast feel natural, while a gel implant will make it feel firmer.
 If your breasts are large and disproportionate, then a breast reduction may help them look the same. A breast reduction is an operation in which fat is removed from one or both of your breasts. The surgeon will likely reshape your skin and move your nipples to accommodate the new size of your breasts.


If you decide to go through with this type of surgery, you’ll likely have small plastic tubes sticking out of each breast for up to 48 hours to allow blood and fluid to drain from your incisions.
You’ll also be unable to work for a short period of time while you heal. And you must not smoke cigarettes for at least one month before the surgery.
 Fat transfer augmentation is similar to a breast implant surgery. But instead of a silicone bag being inserted into your breast to make it appear larger, doctors will use your own fat.


A surgeon would perform liposuction to remove fat from other parts of your body, such as your legs, belly and rear-end, and then inject that fat into the smaller breast.
More women are choosing fat transfer augmentation to increase breast size because it creates a more natural looking breast. Also, some doctors consider it to be a better alternative where an implant is not necessarily needed.
But it has its drawbacks. The results of the procedure are temporary. Your body will eventually reabsorb the fat, causing your breast to return to its original size.
Also, re-injected fat can cause calcified lumps, which can turn into cysts. You’ll need to have a lot of extra fat on your body for the doctors to draw from, so if you’re fairly thin, you may not be a good candidate for this procedure.

