 FIRST UNDERSTAND that bathing to get clean does three things - soap removes dirt and oil from the surface of your skin, hot water leading to your sweating opens pores and removes oil from them, and scrubbing removes dead skin. Without doing all three you're not as clean as you could be. Taking a really hot bath, scrubbing with a washcloth and using soap in the process is the best combination. Getting into the water fast, soaping up with your hands or even a washcloth, rinsing, jumping out again and then using a towel to scrub dry is essentially loosening the dead skin cells and oil so they can be scrubbed off and accumulated in the towel that begins to stink within a week.;
, If you do it effectively, when you're done with cleaning, everything is scrubbed off, and you're soaking wet with drops of water all over. You probably have two pieces of cloth. A wet washcloth and a big bulky towel. All you need is to get the water off your skin. Why do you need the bulk of the towel?

, use it to dry off your hair. Wring it out again and you'll have a whole lot of new water dropping off. Do this again, and it will repeat. The key is that even a damp wrung out washcloth will soak up additional moisture off your skin or hair.
 Section your body into these parts, Hair, head and neck, shoulders, left arm, right arm, back, front of body, left leg, right leg, left foot, right foot, groin and buttocks. After each section wring out the washcloth as strongly as possible. You'll be amazed at how much water this removes from your body.
 When you're done with this, all you need is another dry washcloth to get the last faint moisture off that hasn't air dried yet.


What you end up with is one damp washcloth, one slightly damp washcloth and a dry skin.
 One extra benefit is that, while at home or traveling, the thorough cleaning process described above plus the judicious use of the first washcloth will almost eliminate the collection of dead skin cells and oil that normally accumulate on a towel (or second washcloth). The result of this is that the normal decaying skin cells don't begin to stink within a week like they used to. Since you're using a clean towel to dry final dampness only off very clean skin, you can easily go weeks between laundry sessions. Since you're always using soap on the first washcloth it remains clean throughout the long ordeal between laundries.

