 If an adult or teen collapses but remains conscious, CPR is not typically needed. If they lose consciousness and are no longer responsive, however, you should perform some form of CPR even if you are untrained or rusty in your abilities.Shake the victim's shoulders and loudly ask "Are you okay?" If you receive no response, check for a pulse or breathing while someone calls emergency services.
Hands-only CPR is ideal for those without formal CPR training or for people unsure in their CPR abilities. It does not involve the rescue breathing measures associated with conventional CPR but instead focuses on chest compressions.;
, If you find a person unresponsive and decide to do some form of CPR, you should still immediately call your local emergency number before you do anything else.CPR can revive people on occasion, but it should be viewed as buying time until emergency personnel arrive with appropriate equipment.


If two or more people are available, one person should dial for help while the begins CPR.If a person is unresponsive because of suffocation (from drowning, for example), then it's recommended to immediately begin CPR for one minute and then call your local emergency number.If the victim is a child between the ages of one to eight years, perform five cycles of chest compressions and rescue breathing before calling Emergency Services if you are the only person available. This should take roughly two minutes.

Calling Emergency Services will bring paramedics to the location. Typically, the dispatcher will also be able to instruct you on how to perform CPR.
 In order to perform hands-only CPR, the victim should be positioned on his back (supine), preferably on a firm surface, with the head facing up.If the person is on his sides or stomach (prone), then gently roll him onto his back while trying to support his head and neck. Try to make note if the person experienced significant trauma while falling and becoming unconscious.


Once on his back, kneel next to the person's neck and shoulders so you have better access to his chest and mouth.
Keep in mind that you should not move the person if you suspect he may have suffered a significant head, neck or spinal injury. In this case, moving him is life-threatening and should be avoided, unless emergency help won't be available for a long time (a few hours or more).
 Place one hand directly over the center of the person's chest (between the person's nipples, generally) and your other hand on top of the first for reinforcement. Press down on the victim's chest firmly and quickly — aim for about 100 chest compressions a minute until paramedics arrive.If you're not sure what 100 compressions a minute really means, try doing your compressions to the beat of the Bee Gee's song "Stain' Alive."Use your upper body weight and strength, not just your arm strength, to push straight down on the chest.
Your chest compressions should cause the person's chest to depress at least 2 inches (5 cm). Push hard and understand that it is likely you will break the person's ribs. This is extremely common, and you shouldn't stop compressions even if you think this has happened.
Chest compressions are hard work and you may have to switch off with other bystanders before emergency personnel arrive.
Continue doing this action as until the person becomes responsive or until the emergency medical team arrive and take over.

