 Chances are you've picked up some information while sitting in class, even if you feel unprepared for the exam.


Which elements might connect to information you do understand?
How might you compare what little you do know about a given essay topic to a topic you better understand?
What openings do you see for demonstrating your understanding of the wider subject, even if you're unclear on something specific your teacher seems to be asking?

, Without ignoring what the teacher is requesting, acknowledge the essay elements and then transition to material with which you're more comfortable.


Develop an analogy. Perhaps, for example, you recall studying the life cycle of the frog, but your essay question asks you about the life cycle of the salamander. You know they're both amphibians; perhaps your coverage of salamander larvae is a bit fuzzy, but if you can say they're similar to tadpoles and describe tadpole development, you can demonstrate you do have some knowledge of the broader subject.
Tailor your examples. Your history teacher might be asking about the effect of the Cold War on 1950s popular culture; maybe you only remember how the Cold War impacted government, but you can make a case for how government itself impacts popular culture. State your case with confidence.
Make use of transition words and phrases. Terms such as therefore, for this reason, it follows that, as a result, because, however, and consequently are tools you can use to direct your reader. These elements serve to highlight what information you are able to provide and may keep your teacher from becoming hung up on deficiencies elsewhere in the essay., Clearly acknowledge all elements of the essay question prompt in your introduction and conclusion. If you're forced to do a little wandering in the middle, at least you'll show your instructor that you understand what he or she was looking for -- even if you can't always provide it. Doing so may also strengthen the perceived connection between what you have written and the content of the question itself.

