 Many newspapers still feature a classifieds section, but is even easier to search classified websites. There are also websites dedicated solely to advertising free items. If you have ever moved, you know the convenience of someone coming to get that old couch out of your home. Many people don't expect anything in return except for you taking it quickly. Classified ads are better for finding some items than others.


Large furniture, tube TVs, obscure collections like bottle caps, pets, boxes, and firewood are regular features of ads for free items
Be suspicious of smaller electronics - why is the person getting rid of it? Especially fragile electronics like computer memory are best bought new, since they can be difficult to test before you get home.
You should never send a picture of yourself as part of a free classified ad exchange.;
, It is easy to either annoy someone or be ignored by emailing when you should have called, and vice versa. A good rule of thumb is if they give a phone number, use it. Otherwise they would have left that line blank. If they don't, send an email. Some people even specify they prefer receiving texts.
 Around the beginning of each academic semester, there is a flood of used items in local classified ads - and many items are free. College towns are a great place to look because there is regular turnover in rental properties.
 There are many legitimate websites for free stuff, and many scams. Search internet forums for discussions of each website to determine if it is legitimate. Many online news and entertainment outlets feature regular articles discussing new freebie websites.This is the best way to get free household cleaners, hygienic supplies, and other cleaners that can easily be put in sample-sized packaging
Be advised that some websites may be exclusively designed to give you a computer virus, and may not even try to get your information. Be careful about which sites you click on.
If you find a freebie offer on social media that wants you to take a survey, they are most likely trying to lure you to their non-secure site and aren't actually giving anything away., If you are in need, there are many nonprofits that give away donated items. Do a web search for charities in your area. As always, check into the legitimacy of an organization before you give it any information.


Disaster relief organizations like the American Red Cross respond to families affected by natural disasters.
Charity organizations like the Salvation Army focus on the needy as well as those affected by disaster.
 Large corporations are often happy to send freebies or coupons. See this guide for a detailed process. There are a general strategies to get freebies.


Pay them compliments. Tell them you love their product and want to keep using it.
Complain about their product. Tell them you were upset by the quality of the product last time you used it. Sometimes they will respond by sending you coupons or freebies to try to win back your loyalty.
Tell them you are throwing a party and want to feature their product. This could be something as simple as napkins or cups. Companies sometimes see this as an opportunity for some free advertising.
Whatever your tactic, make sure you bowl them over with kindness when they send you freebies.

