 If your rabbit is having difficulty walking or is completely incapable of walking, it is probably suffering from a leg injury. If your rabbit is dangling or dragging one leg, it is most likely broken. If the rabbit limps but seems to be capable of carrying some weight on the injured leg, it may be sprained, dislocated, or fractured. Your vet will need to evaluate the injury to determine how serious it is and how to remedy it.Pick your bunny up while supporting its rear with your other hand.
While still holding your rabbit (do not let go or drop the rabbit at any time), gently try to get the rabbit to stand with good footing.
Whichever leg the rabbit tries to avoid standing on is most likely the injured leg.
If your rabbit drags both hind legs, it may have suffered a spinal injury and will need immediate veterinary assistance. Your vet will need to administer steroids and other medications, and may put a body cast on as well., If your rabbit will let you, the best way to treat a leg before taking your rabbit to the vet is to splint the leg with something firm. This will help reduce painful movements of the limb until your vet can examine the injury and treat it accordingly.Wrap clean gauze around the leg above and below the site where you think the leg is broken.
Gently place a pencil, popsicle stick, or similarly firm object lengthwise against the outside of the leg, covering the suspected site of the break and extending above and below it.
Use tape or a self-adhesive bandage to wrap the leg, including the splint, up and down the leg. Make sure you don't wrap too tightly, or you may risk cutting off circulation to the rabbit's paw.
If your rabbit's paw turns red or swollen, you've wrapped it too tightly and will need to rewrap it accordingly.
 If your rabbit won't let you splint the injury, or if your rabbit is being difficult about handling after splinting the injury, you may need to wrap it in a towel. This will allow you to easily handle and carry your rabbit without further injuring the broken leg. However, you'll need to take great caution while wrapping the rabbit in a towel, as it may be frightened or in pain at this point.Use a clean, dry towel.
Wrap the towel around your rabbit snugly, leaving the head uncovered.
Make sure the rabbit's back and hind end are in a natural position, and that the spine is not bent or twisted.
 You'll need to put your rabbit inside a carrier, even if you had to wrap the rabbit in a towel first. Carefully place the rabbit inside the carrier (towel and all) and take the rabbit to your veterinarian right away. It's important that you don't delay, as an untreated broken limb could be a very serious injury.