 For most kids the idea of getting a dog will be very exciting. Bring the issue up with your kids when they have time to get excited, ask questions, and generally freak out. You could say "We are thinking about getting a dog. What do think about that idea?"


During that initial conversation you should bring up what your kids will have to do to care for the dog if they agree to get one. They may not remember exactly what you said, due to excitement, but you will have laid the groundwork for additional discussions.
Before you bring up the possibility of getting a dog, make sure that you can logistically do it. This means that you are allowed to have a dog where you live, that you can afford it financially, and you have the time to devote to caring for a dog.;
, Many kids will have a perfect dog in mind when you bring up the idea of getting one. Ask them "What kind of dog would you like to get?" Listen to what they have to say and discuss their desires. You may not be able to give them everything they want, but it's good to know their desires so that you can keep them in mind.


If your kid is creative, have them draw their perfect dog. This can be a fun project that will make them feel involved in the process.
 Once you hear what your kids want in a dog, tell them what you want and what you think the family needs. This conversation will be about you considering the kid's desires but also keeping the family's best interests in mind.


This conversation is a good time to practice compromising and to teach your kids how to compromise in a way that feels good for everyone. For example, you could say "I understand that you want a golden retriever but we have a small home, so a dog that big won't work. Maybe we could find a smaller-sized dog that will be friendly and well behaved like a golden retriever."
You may have several kids and they may have different ideas about what kind of dog they want. If this is the case, you will need to find a way to get them to compromise. This may require reminding them that if there is no compromise there will be no dog.
Try having everyone make a list of the traits they want in a dog, from most important to least important. Once you have clear lists you can more easily figure out a dog breed that will fit your needs.
 After you have decided as a family to get a dog, the fun part comes! Look at listings of dogs on the websites of local animal shelters or rescue organizations. You can also review the websites of local dog breeders and pet stores.


Look at lists of dog breeds that are generally good with children. Have your kids pick out a few breeds from these that they like. Some particularly good dog breeds for kids include the bulldog, beagle, golden retriever, Labrador retriever, Weimaraner, bull terrier, and Newfoundland.Make sure that the websites of pet stores and breeders you are looking at are of organizations that breed ethically. In order to assess whether they are ethical, look at dog organizations, such as the American Kennel Club, for lists of ethical breeders in your area.
 Include your kids in every step of the process, especially the part where you go and meet potential dogs. This is a good time for your kids but it also allows you to see how a potential dog will interact with your children.


Only allow the kids to interact with potential dogs when you or another adult are in the room.
How a dog interacts with children can be a big factor when adopting a rescue dog. Even if you are looking at breeds that are generally good with children, every dog has the potential to bite.Discuss your needs with the staff at any rescue organizations you visit and they can help steer you towards dogs that will be appropriate for you and your kids.
 Ask if there were any dogs they particularly liked or disliked. Also ask the kids why they decided on particular dogs in order to figure out what is very important to them.


If the kids didn't like any of the dogs you have seen, then you will probably need to go meet more dogs.
 Once you have visited with a variety of dogs, you will need to make a decision. Listen to which dogs your kids loved and why. However, this is a point at which you may need to make a decision that goes against your children's wishes. Think about their desires but ultimately make a decision for the good of the family and for the good of the animal you are going to adopt.


It may be that you agree with your kids and you all get the dog that you really, really want. However, it may be that you need to overrule them if they want a dog that is not logistically reasonable or could be a danger to them.
Be clear and honest about why you are making the final decision, whatever it is.
 Involving the kids in buying the things the new dog will need can be a fun part of the process of selecting a dog. Allow the kids to pick out special dog toys and pick the bedding together with them.


Make sure that your dog's basic needs will be met while allowing the kids to be involved. For instance, you will probably need to explain to the kids why a certain food is good or bad and you may need to just pick the food yourself.
 Feeding your dog daily is a great job for kids, as it easy and the dog will respond well to their work.Just make sure that they actually do it and that they do it at the same time every day, as you don't want to deny the dog its regular meals.


Even if your kids are young, they can help you feed the dog. Getting them involved in caring for the dog early will make them more engaged with the dog and better pet owners throughout their lives.
 Walking the dog is a great job for a kid that is at an age where they can go on a walk by themselves.This will not only give your kid a job and a small responsibility, it will also force them to get a little bit of exercise as well.


Taking the dog for a walk is an important part of dog care, so letting your kids off the hook and allowing your dog to go without a walk is not alright. Every dog deserves a daily walk, even if in the end you have to do it.
Keep limiting factors, such as the age of the dog and the size of the dog, in mind. If the dog is a puppy or doesn't want to go to the bathroom without specific encouragement, then you may need to go on the walk and supervise. If the dog is large and strong, you may need to walk the dog just because it could knock your child down.
 Depending on the type of dog you get, there may be a variety of thing that you can have your children do to care for it. One easy thing for your kids to do is grooming, such as brushing and washing the dog.For example, have your kids brush the dog once a week. This is a good job for them because the physical contact can help them to bond with the dog.
While it may be annoying to continually remind your kids to care for the dog, remember that it is important that they learn about responsibility from an early age. , Teach your kids dog commands and how you get your dog to do them while you are teaching them to the dog. This will be a good project that the whole family can do together and it will help assure that the dog follows the directions of everyone in the family.


Caring for a dog can give the kids important lessons about responsibility. Overall, think of it as training the kids, in addition to the dog.

