 Many children learn more efficiently with visual aides. Pictures can help your child make important connections between the word and what it represents; in addition, colorful images help the brain with pattern recognition.Make or purchase sight cards with pictures and the corresponding word, or have your child draw their own pictures for each word.
 Music has been shown to stimulate the brain, so it is a great enhancement to the learning process overall.Try putting together songs with your child to help them remember sight words, and practice them frequently.In addition, try playing instrumental music in the background to stimulate your child’s concentration and energy levels while they practice sight word exercises., Games are a fun way to provide the repetition necessary for your child to learn sight words. Play inspires curiosity, problem-solving, and skill mastery while leaving room for failure and re-attempts.There are many game options to try, such as Sight Word Bingo.


Select the sight words you want your child to practice. Use two squares of paper or cardstock as the Bingo cards, and write nine sight words on each card.
Have your child draw the top card from a stack of sight word cards, then read the sight word.
Players who have the sight word on their Bingo card will place a marker on top of that word.
The first player to have three words covered with markers, horizontally, vertically, or diagonally wins the game.
 Another fun game to promote your child's comprehension of sight words is the match game. Playing the match game will strengthen your child's memory of sight words.Select the sight words you want your child to practice. Matching cards are needed for each word.
Read the cards with your child and then shuffle them; place all cards face down on a flat surface.
Have your child turn over a card and read the sight word, then turn over a second card and read the sight word. If the sight words match, your child keeps them. If they don't match, your child places them face down. Then take your turn.
Continue alternating turns until all the cards are gone.
Players count their cards and the player with the most cards wins!

, Print the name of household items onto cue cards and attach them to the objects themselves. This will allow your child to make clear associations between words and objects.This will also reinforce the lesson for your child outside of your designated teaching times.

