 Unhulled sesame seeds have a dull, hard coat that ranges in color from off-white to black. Hulled seeds have had this removed, and are always very white, almost translucent, and shiny.You can toast either type of seed, but the unhulled seeds are crunchier and have a slightly different flavor. Seeds with hulls contain more calcium but may be more difficult to digest, unless you plan to grind them, so the nutritional value is comparable.While you can soak unhulled seeds overnight, then remove the hulls by hand, the process is labor-intensive and rarely done at home. Both varieties should be available in Asian grocery stores, and often in Western stores as well.
 Rinse the seeds in a fine mesh strainer under running water, until the water runs through clear. If the seeds are straight from the farm or the water gets quite dirty, you may want to stir them in a bowl of water for a couple minutes, then let it sit. Discard dust that rises to the top, and pebbles that sink to the bottom.Rinsing will not negatively affect the nutrition of the seeds. Some people even prefer to soak seeds overnight to germinate them, which may improve the digestion of certain nutrients.These germinated seeds are typically eaten raw rather than toasted, however.
 Transfer the rinsed seeds to a dry skillet or frying pan over high heat. Stir occasionally with a wooden spoon, but watch the seeds constantly, as they burn quickly if the heat gets too high. This step typically takes ten minutes. Once dry, the seeds will feel and sound different as you stir them, and no moisture will be left behind on the pan., Continue to stir occasionally for the next seven or eight minutes. When the seeds are fully toasted, they will turn a light brown color, glisten, and a few will start popping or jumping in the pan.Pick up a few seeds with the spoon and pinch them between your fingers. Toasted seeds can be crushed into a powder, and have a nuttier taste than raw seeds.
 Spread the toasted seeds on a metal baking sheet and let cool to room temperature. Store any seeds you don't use immediately in an airtight container in the refrigerator or freezer.


The seeds should stay good in the fridge or freezer for over a year, but they will become less flavorful over time.Toast the seeds dry for a couple minutes to restore some flavor.

