 Your senses of smell and taste are closely related. Any common illness (cold, flu, seasonal allergy) which causes your nose to clog with mucus may also cause a temporary impairment of your senses of smell and taste. This may cause you to suspect that you have a taste disorder, when in fact you do not. Full functioning of smell and taste should return once you have recovered from the illness.Mucus creates a barrier that lowers or even blocks the functioning of the olfactory receptors, which detect odors.;
, You may have noticed that tastes are not as intense or vibrant as you remember them being before. This "dulling" of taste sensations is a disorder called hypogeusia. You can get an idea of how dulled your sense of taste has become by sampling strongly flavored foods, and attempting to differentiate between sensations of sweet, sour, bitter, salty and savory (umami).Complete loss of taste (a condition called ageusia) is much more rare, and should be treated very seriously, especially if its onset is sudden.
If you only enjoy foods which are extremely pungent or flavorful, or if all foods seem to taste the same to you, you may have developed, or been born with, one of these taste disorders.
 Some taste disorders cause false taste sensations, rather than dulling normal taste sensations. Such conditions are different from those causing taste loss, and identifying the difference will help your doctor diagnose your condition. Phantom taste perceptions, the most common taste disorder, are unpleasant taste sensations which persist even when nothing is in your mouth.Dysgeusia, a condition similar to phantom taste perceptions, involves a lingering, rancid, metallic taste.
 Many factors can contribute to the loss or distortion of your sense of taste. Read through the following list of potential causes, and identify the ones which apply to you. You may wish to write down the causes you identify so that you can talk to your doctor about them later.Recent infections in your upper respiratory system or ears
Exposure to industrial chemicals, such as pesticides
Taking oral medications, including common antihistamines and antibiotics
Any history of concussion or other head injury
Any surgery to the ear, nose, throat or mouth, including dental surgery
Dental conditions (including oral thrush) or poor dental hygiene
Several types of food poisoning, especially if they are viral
Mouth ulcers or tongue burns that cause intense pain

, Start by making an appointment with your primary care provider. Give them the details of your taste issues, including whether you are suffering from loss of taste or distorted taste. Your doctor may examine your ears, nose and throat for signs of illness. If a taste disorder is suspected, your doctor may refer you to an ear/nose/throat specialist. Your ENT specialist can administer taste tests designed to diagnose taste disorders, and suggest methods of treatment.
 Once your taste disorder has been diagnosed, you and your doctor will work to discover the underlying cause of your disorder. Be sure to bring along the list of potential causes you identified earlier., While there are no direct treatments for taste disorders, relief can often be achieved by fixing whatever health problem is causing the disorder. For instance, if your disorder is linked to a medication you are taking, switching medications may reverse the problem., Sometimes, though very rarely, the cause of a taste disorder will not be treatable, such as in the case of taste loss due to head injury. Don't give up hope. Counseling is available to provide you with tools to cope with your condition. Over time, your condition may even improve on its own., Daily brushing and flossing helps clear bacteria and food particles from your mouth. This debris can interfere with your ability to taste, resulting in a worsening of the symptoms of your taste disorder.Brush twice daily with a soft-bristled brush, and floss at least once a day.
 Adding extra spices or herbs to your food than you normally would can help you compensate for a dulled sense of taste. Avoid adding extra salt and sugar, however, as increasing your consumption of salt and sugar can, over time, lead to health issues.Instead try paprika, pepper, cloves, ginger, or any other spices that pique your interest.

