 Setting up a new Uber account is easy, as long as you have reliable Internet access, a mobile phone number, and a valid method of payment.


Once created, you’ll be able to use your new Uber account in any location that has Uber services.
 You will be prompted to enter your name, email address, mobile phone number, and password. When you’re done, tap “Save.”


You must provide a mobile phone number that can receive text messages in the country you are in. Uber will text you a confirmation code, and you will need access to that text to complete the sign-up.
If you only have data service in your current location, you may buy a cheap prepaid phone. In some cities, you may even be able to rent a mobile phone for the duration of your stay.
You could also try logging into your regular mobile carrier’s website and check to see if you can view your text messages online. If so, provide your regular mobile phone number and retrieve the confirmation code online when prompted.
 The available payment methods vary depending on your current location.When your trip is complete, the total cost will be deducted from the payment method you specify.


Credit card: Be sure to use a card that allows international purchases. If Uber does not accept your card, contact your bank and request that payments to Uber are authorized.PayPal: While not available in all countries, PayPal is a great option for those who do not have access to a credit card. You’ll need to already have a PayPal account with a linked card or bank account to use this option.
Android Pay or Apple Pay: If you have the Android Pay app installed on your Android, you’ll see it listed as a payment option.
Apple Pay: iPhone users who use Apple Pay will see the service listed as an available payment method.
Cash: In some cities, you’ll see an option to pay in cash.Select this option only if you have enough cash to cover your Uber rides!

, At this point, the app will ask you to provide the confirmation number it sent you via text message. If you didn’t receive the message, tap “Resend,” and then check again.
 Move the slider (a round icon of a car) at the bottom of the map to your desired Uber vehicle type. The types of vehicles available in each city will vary.


For up-to-date descriptions of Uber’s ride options, see their website.
To get a fare estimate for a specific type of vehicle, tap the slider when it’s directly beneath the service name (e.g., “UberX”).In some cities, you’ll find the ability to select an UberX vehicle based on the language spoken by the driver. In Chicago and Los Angeles, for example, you’ll find an option to select “UberESPANOL” as your Uber vehicle type., Now that you’ve selected a vehicle, drag the pushpin icon your current location. Alternatively, you can type the address of your location into the search bar at the top of the screen. When you’re done, tap “Set Pickup Location.”


If you are travelling without phone and/or Internet service, be extra mindful of being prompt and visible at your pickup location. Remember, your driver will be unable to contact you if he cannot find you.
 Drop the pin or enter the address of the place you would like to go. If you are travelling in a country where you are likely to encounter a language barrier between you and your driver, it is of particular importance to enter a destination rather than rely on your ability to communicate it verbally in person.
 When a driver accepts your request, the map will show the driver’s current location. You will also see the driver’s name, type of vehicle, and license plate number. This ensures that you get into the right vehicle.


If surge pricing (an inflated fare price based on current demand) is in effect, you will be prompted to agree with the premium rate before your ride is confirmed.
The app will notify you when the driver is about one minute from the pickup location you specified. Make sure you are at that location, highly visible, and actively looking for the vehicle described the Uber app.
 When you are en route to your destination, you have access to make changes to your trip.Swipe upward on the app screen to select an option, if desired:


Split fare: If you are with another traveler and want to share the fare, choose this option and follow the prompts to add another passenger to the trip.
Send ETA: Choose this option to send a text message with a link to the estimated time of your arrival. You will have the option to select a contact or enter a mobile phone number.
Change trip destination: Enter a new address or location here and it will appear on the driver’s screen.
Cancel trip: If you need to end the trip immediately, notify your driver and/or choose this option. Make sure you’re in a safe location before getting out of the car.
Change payment method: You will be able to enter a new payment method or choose any other payment method you have on file.
 Check the floor, seat, and your pocket., When you arrive at your destination, follow the prompt on your screen to rate your driver.

