 A warm body will sweat in order to cool itself. Staying hydrated is important because it allows your body to regulate its temperature. More than that, though, cold drinks, rather than room-temperature or warm drinks, can prevent excess sweating, as the intake of cold fluids keeps your core body temperature down.Water is best, but you can drink chilled teas or other non-calorie drinks that taste good--the better they taste, the more likely you are to drink them.You can drink sports drinks as well, but such fluids are designed for use by athletes engaging in vigorous activity. These drinks contain carbohydrates and electrolytes you may not need if you aren't exercising.
 Sugar-laden foods can boost blood sugar, which can lead to dizziness, sleepiness, and sweating. If you are sensitive to sugar, eating more than you need may lead to increased sweating. Additionally, conditions such as reactive hypoglycemia may lead to sweating, jitteriness, and headaches after ingesting sugar.Other foods composed of simple sugars, such as white bread or potatoes, may aggravate such reactions even if they don't contain added sugar. Cut these out of your diet, or replace them with alternatives, such as wheat bread or yams, that contain more complex carbohydrates.
 These should be especially avoided on warm days. Spice and caffeine activate specific neurotransmitters that tell your body to produce sweat.Choose milder foods and reduced-caffeine drinks and treats.


Remember that even decaf coffee contains trace amounts of caffeine, which may be a problem for sensitive individuals.
 These are a good source of fiber, vitamins, and minerals that help regulate bodily functions. Whole foods promote stable blood sugar levels, which can prevent sweatiness of the palms. Fresh fruit and vegetables contain water, which can help regular body temperature, especially if chilled.


You may consider including a multivitamin in your diet if you cannot eat many different kinds of plant foods.
Contrary to popular conception, fruit and vegetables diets do not "detox" your body.It is better to include such foods as part of a daily diet rather than as a crash diet.
 These foods include turkey, onions, cranberries, dairy products, potatoes, broccoli, beef, and asparagus. Though these foods are healthful, consuming too much iodine may contribute to hyperthyroidism, a metabolic dysfunction. One symptom of hyperthyroidism is excessive sweating.Only a doctor can diagnose hyperthyroidism. If you are concerned about developing metabolic syndromes, consult your primary care provider.
 Excessive sweating can be more common in those who are overweight, obese, or otherwise unfit.Though exercise, especially strenuous exercise, causes one to sweat, you will sweat less in your everyday life if you are at a healthy weight and commit to a healthy activity level.

