 Look for the game app on your device. Its name is Spider-Man with the classic Spider-Man on the logo. Tap on it to launch it.;
, There are two paths that lead to the Customer Care screen.



Accessing Customer Care from the Help menu. Tap on the “Menu” button on the header then tap “Options” from the submenu. On the Options screen, tap the Help menu then tap “Customer Care.”

Accessing Customer Care from Gameloft Connect. Tap the Gameloft logo on the upper left corner on the header. On the Gameloft Connect screen, tap the Customer Care menu.
 A list of known issues will be displayed on your screen. Scroll through it to see if your bug has already been reported or if it’s a known issue. If it’s already there, you will not need to report it anymore.
 Scroll through the bottom of the page until you see the button with the text “My problem is not listed as a known issue.” Tap on it, and you will be brought to the form for reporting issues to Gameloft. Populate each field properly. Provide as much detail as possible to aid Gameloft in their investigation and resolution.


Your name, email address, and country will be required. Type them in.
Tap on the drop-down list to select your issue. Choose “Technical Issues” since your bug has something to do with playing the game.
It is also important that you provide the manufacturer, model, and firmware of the mobile device you’re using for playing. Gameloft needs to know if there are compatibility issues with your hardware.
The last field in the form is titled “Description.” Type in all the relevant details of your bug here. Be thorough and clear.
 Your report won’t be sent just yet. A next screen will display some known issues that may be related to yours. Review these. If your report is still valid, proceed to the next step.
 My problem was not listed.”’ Your report will now be sent. You will receive an email with the ticket ID for your issue to acknowledge receipt of your report.


Gameloft’s customer care may get in touch with you. If they do, work with them to resolve your issue.

