 If the person you’re calling has a feminine-sounding name, and you reach a person with a feminine voice, try to avoid assuming that you’ve reached the person you’re looking for. The same goes for an apparent masculine name and voice.


Making an assumption would sound something like, “Oh, hello, Mrs. Thompson?” If you’re correct, you risk sounding suspiciously familiar. If not correct, you could cause offense if you mistake someone’s gender.
 In order to give the impression that you’re speaking to the potential customer and not at them, try to adapt your tone of voice to the mood they present. If they sound upbeat, put some extra enthusiasm into your delivery. If they sound tired or angry, speak in a neutral but friendly tone to avoid sounding oblivious to them.Don’t use a familiar form of address unless they address you with familiarity. Resist addressing them as “Mate,” “Guy,” “Sister,” “Brother,” “Man,” “Dude,” “Partner,” or “Pal” unless they address you in this way first., An experienced telemarketer will know the signs of a person who is hesitant and one who is adamantly not interested. If the potential customer turns you down, but doesn’t hang up on you after your pitch, it’s possible they could be hesitating. Even if they’re just being polite by not hanging up, polite people are much more likely to stay on the phone if you can convince them to.


To try to keep them on the line, try responding with "I think you might change your mind if you knew a little more about this product / service."

, Whether you’ve just made a sale, or are dealing with someone who has insistently refused the offer, be sure to express your respect for the customer’s time. Even if they don’t seem interested now, they could always become a customer in the future. At the very least, you want to leave them with a positive impression of the company, so show courtesy by being thankful when ending the call.If they’re not interested, thank them by saying something like, “I appreciate your time,” or “Thank you for your interest.” If they make a purchase, or ask to be called back, add intensifiers: “I really appreciate your time,” or “Thank you very much for your interest.”

