 If you are interested in inspiring others, you must first check your motives. People won’t see your intentions as good if you have a hidden agenda. Helping others to make you look good won’t work. They will be able to sniff out your agenda and be less likely to trust you.For example, some people are only interested in helping others to make themselves look good or to win approval. Your motive for positive change shouldn't be focused on you, however; it should focus on the other person. In other words, you need to be selfless. If you have trouble with this behavior, then try volunteering to get more perspective on other people’s struggles.
Tell the truth about why you are trying to help someone. Be upfront about your motives and make sure your reasons relate to actually helping them improve, rather than to advance yourself in some way.;
, The most basic step in encouraging others to improve is to set a positive example. It’s hard to motivate others’ behaviors when you have trouble bettering your own habits. This isn’t to say that you must be perfect, but you should be willing to lead by example.


For example, if you are suggesting to your child to stop telling lies, then you, too, should demonstrate honesty. It is important that you follow your own advice if you expect other people to do so.
The best way to encourage others is by engaging in the desired behaviors yourself. Plus, you are more likely to earn their trust and respect this way., Support positive change in others by setting up an environment that promotes the desirable behavior. People have greater chances of succeeding when as many variables are working in their favor.


If you are a teacher, for instance, your students are more likely to transition to new activities when there is a visible schedule on display. Also, prompting them a few minutes before a new activity is due to begin can also help them transition more easily.Think of ways you can support a person’s positive change with visual cues or reinforcements.
 It takes a village to inspire change. No one person is fully responsible for inciting change in another. Therefore, you should model a collaborative approach and recommend others who can help the person with the desired behavior.For example, if you have a friend who is trying to adopt healthier eating habits, it might be a great idea to share a healthy eating blog post with them. Or, set up an appointment for them to meet with a dietitian. This helps you further encourage positive change, and offers them additional resources for success.
You can also try to find someone who has made a similar positive change in themselves. Even a video of someone who has made a similar change can serve as a good example.

