 Many libraries separate the computers used for Internet access and typing from the computers used to access an online catalog. Someone searching for library materials will likely need the computer for a shorter amount of time, and more people can access they do not need to wait for someone writing a report or surfing the Internet. The catalog computers are usually located around the library at small stations without chairs.;
, If you are using a university library, you might need to input a student ID and password before you are allowed access to the network. At a public library, however, there is a higher probability that no card or log in information will be necessary.
 On a computer set up to serve as a library catalog, the catalog is usually already open. In fact, the computer may even be set up so that the catalog is the only thing accessible without a special password. If the catalog is not open, though, it will usually be located as an icon on the desktop. Double-click the icon to open to catalog.
 Every catalog is set up differently, but for most, a search bar will be in the middle or at the top of the computer.


Click in the bar and type a keyword, title, or author.
There may also be a drop-down box next to search bar. Click on this box and specify whether you are searching by title, author, or keyword.
Click on "Search," "Go," or the equivalent search button.
 Browse through the list of search results until you find the right book or a title you want to look at.
 Click on the title to go to the book's information page. This page will contain further information about the subject of the book, as well as the call number.
 If you have a good memory, you do not need to actually copy it down. Otherwise, jot the number down on your cell phone or using a pencil and paper. Many libraries keep pencils and paper next to the catalog computer for this purpose.


Some libraries might also allow you to print catalog results. Catalog printouts are often free, but you should check the library’s policy before proceeding.
 If you already found what you know you want, more searching is not necessary.
 It is a bit rude to leave the catalog open to your page, so click on "Back" or "Home" until you return to the catalog home page.

