 Once your toddler can dress themselves, provide seasonally appropriate clothes in low drawers and shelves, or in the closet. This will encourage your child to develop a sense of autonomy and independence., In addition to making clothes accessible, place bath towels and robes on low shelves. Teach your toddler what materials they need during bath time and encourage them to gather these items before heading into the bathroom., Low-lying plastic bins are perfect for stashing your toddler’s toys and games.If you’re unusually orderly, you could get bins and baskets of different colors and insist that your child uses different colored bins for different purposes. For instance, you might ask your toddler to put all the blocks in the red bin, all the trains in the blue bin, and so on., Toddlers love to draw. Desks are the perfect space for kids who want to draw or doodle. The ideal desk will have a small drawer or drawers where your toddler can store paper, crayons, and/or markers., Instead of leaving clothes and toys in freestanding dressers, bins, and boxes, consider having the closet of your child’s room expanded. If possible, a closet expansion – or even a simple reorganization – can significantly increase the amount of storage space in the toddler room.If you have any of your own clothes or items in the toddler room’s closet, remove them to another location to allow your toddler to take full advantage of their closet space.
 Once your child is a toddler, they should be more-or-less potty trained. Therefore, you will have no more use for diapers. Use the many drawers and shelves in the changing table for your child’s toys, books, clothes, and games.If your changing table is too large or bulky and wouldn’t be accessible for your child, remove it and add a more appropriately-sized chest or table to the room.
Alternately, you could swap the changing table entirely and add, for instance, a plastic table and chair set to your child’s room. This will give your toddler somewhere to play.
Ensure all furniture is safely attached to the wall using the wall hooks provided to you by the manufacturer. This will prevent your toddler from pulling the furniture over onto its tiny body.
 Furniture that doesn’t seem out-of-place in contexts other than the toddler room is the best option. That way, you aren’t investing in things that only look appropriate in your toddler room. For instance, obtain a chair that is soft enough to please a toddler, but also comfortable and stylish enough to move into the living room or study.Another way to get more mileage out of your toddler room furniture is to pass it down to younger children.

