 On desktop PCs, this port is typically on the back of the CPU box, while iMacs have a 3.5 millimeter headphone jack on the back of the monitor. Some common audio-out methods include the following:



Optical - A pentagonal port. Optical cables will usually work with high-end, modern speakers.

RCA - A red port coupled with a white port. These ports receive 3.5 millimeter cables of the same colors.

Headphone jack - The 3.5 millimeter headphone jack can reliably be found on most computers.

HDMI - HDMI slots work the same way on your computer as they do on your TV, which includes audio transmission.
On laptops, the audio-out port is typically the headphone jack.;
, The microphone jack is the same size as the headphone jack (3.5 millimeters), and it usually has an image of a microphone next to it. If you're connecting a device that needs separate microphone input (e.g., some gaming headsets), you'll need to know where the microphone port is.


USB ports can also double as audio-in connections.
 If you have a new set of speakers and an old computer, for example, you might need an optical-to-RCA adapter, since your computer likely only supports RCA or headphone input.


You can find audio converters, also known as "audio extractors", in most tech departments in retail stores or online.
If you have to use an audio extractor, you'll also need to purchase a separate set of cables in order to attach the extractor to your computer.
 Things like speakers and condenser microphones will likely need a power source (e.g., a wall socket or your computer's USB port) to function.


You may also need to press an "On" switch on the back of the main speaker unit.
 The device's main unit (e.g., the headset or main speaker) should have an audio cable that plugs into your computer's audio output port.


If needed, first plug your device into an audio extractor.
 You can play a video or some music to determine whether or not the audio output is working, or try recording a voice memo with your new microphone (if applicable).


You may need to restart your computer or update your computer's software if your device doesn't work.

