 This is usually the main symptom for women suffering from PID. The cramping and tenderness might start out as mild and build up over time or go directly into severe pains. You may feel as if you cannot move your midsection or flex it enough to stand up straight., Along with cramps, your stomach may be upset constantly or during odd periods. This may result in you vomiting up any food that is consumed. Or, you might find yourself facing nausea at the very sight of food or immediately after eating., Coinciding with nausea, PID can trigger a high fever (over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit) or off-an-on bouts of chills. Your fever may hold over time or come and go at random., Keep an eye on your undergarments to see if you notice any increased vaginal discharge. It might also be unusual in texture or have an unpleasant odor. Seeing heavy spotting or bleeding in between periods is another possible symptom of PID., If you begin to experience a sharp pain during sex or a continual dull ache afterwards, this could be a sign of PID. The pain could come on suddenly or it could slowly develop and increase in severity over time., It may be a good idea to head to an emergency clinic if your temperature spikes to 104 degrees Fahrenheit or over. Or, if you can’t keep any food down for days. If the pain in your abdomen turns severe, then seek out emergency treatment, too. If nothing else, they may be able to provide you with fluids and pain meds until you can be seen by your regular doctor., It is very possible to have PID and show no physical symptoms at all, also called being asymptomatic. Or, your symptoms may be so subtle or the pain so mild that you really don’t pay attention to them until they turn severe. Pay close attention to your body and go to regular yearly checkups with your OBGYN as a preventative measure.If PID continues to develop unchecked, you can face some really serious medical consequences. The scarring can result in permanent infertility. It can also cause an egg to stay in the fallopian tubes (not heading over to the uterus as usual), creating a potentially dangerous ectopic pregnancy. You might also suffer from lifelong severe pelvic pain.