 If you are starting a small business and you are the only employee, a Sole Proprietorship might be more appropriate and less expensive than incorporating. If you are starting your business with a partner, a Partnership agreement might be all you need to run the business. A Limited Liability Company (LLC) offers the same protection from liability as a corporation, and you do not have to file a separate tax return for the company.;
, A Sole Proprietorship, Partnership or Limited Liability Company (LLC) all have advantages and disadvantages in regard to protecting you from liability, saving money on taxes and sharing profits and losses. Study the details of each and select the one most appropriate for your business:


Sole proprietorship – A sole proprietorship is owned and run by one person, and there is no legal separation between the individual and the business. As a result, all profits, losses, and debts would be your responsibility. A sole proprietorship is easy to form and you have complete control over your business.Partnership – This is a sharing of ownership between two or more people. Partnerships are formed through an agreement between the partners and each individual partner is liable for his or her share of profits, losses, or liabilities. However each partner is generally liable for the full debts of the partnership if one does not pay his or her share. A partnership can work well if you need another person who has skills you might not have.Limited liability company (LLC) – LLC owners pay taxes on their proportion of profits through their individual income tax returns and have to pay self employment tax. They are protected from personal liability for the decisions and actions of the company., Whatever legal structure you choose, it is always a good idea to meet with an attorney or CPA who specializes in starting new businesses. This is especially important if you are forming a partnership in order to avoid conflicts in the future.
 A DBA (Doing Business As) is needed whenever you are doing business under a name other than your own. If your business has a name other than yours, you will need to register that name as a DBA. Check the availability of your business's proposed name using the online Corporate/LLC Database at the Illinois Secretary of State website at http://www.ilsos.gov/corporatellc/ to see if another business already has that name.This is just a preliminary search, as the Illinois Secretary of State ultimately determines whether the proposed name is distinguishable from other registered companies.
 This will reserve the business name for a 90-day period until it is officially approved. The form can be completed online and printed., The name must include one of the following words: Corporation, Company, Incorporated, Corp., Inc., Limited, Co., or Ltd. Then write a check to the Secretary of State for $25 for each business name being reserved.
 This should be sent to Secretary of State Department of Business Services, 501 S. Second St., Rm. 350, Springfield, IL 62756. You can also file form BCA-4.10 electronically at https://www.ilsos.gov/ContactFormsWeb/corpform.html. Wait until your business name is officially approved before ordering stationery, signs or a website address.
 Corporations file taxes separately from their owners at a corporate tax rate. Your personal income will also be taxed when the company pays a dividend or makes a distribution to you. Speak with your lawyer or accountant to find out how to file your corporate and personal taxes appropriately.


You can register online to obtain a tax ID number at https://federal-ein-online.com/apply?gclid=CKSRmqj4nsgCFYQRHwodfecDuw.
 This person must have a business street address in Illinois (a P.O. Box will not be accepted) and be at least 18 years old. He or she also must be a naturalized citizen., You can also file online at http://www.ilsos.gov/corparticles/ unless you are a non-profit organization. The following information is required:The corporation name.
The name and street address of the registered agent.
The purpose of the corporation.
The number of shares the corporation is authorized to issue.
The names and addresses of the incorporators, and their signatures.
 The State of Illinois charges a franchise tax at the time of incorporation. The tax is $1.50 per $1,000 of paid-in capital, but not less than $25. Paid-in capital is the funds raised by the business from investors or owners, and not from ongoing operations.For example, if you are investing $26,000 in starting your business, your franchise tax would be $26,000/1,000 = 26 * $1.50 = $39.
 The filing fee is $150 plus the franchise tax to the Secretary of State Department of Business Services, 501 S. Second St., Rm. 350, Springfield, IL 62756. A cashier's check, certified check, money order or an Illinois attorney's or Certified Public Accountant's check are acceptable forms of payment. You will be notified via email or regular mail if your Articles of Incorporation have been accepted.

