 You can use any web browser, such as Chrome or Safari, to access Facebook. If you’re not already signed in, sign in now.

You must already be a member of a group to post to it on your computer. See Join Groups on Facebook to learn how to join a group.;
, Type its name into the search box at the top of the screen, then click the magnifying glass icon (in the search box). A list of results will appear.

Depending on your settings, you may also see the group’s name under “Shortcuts” on the left side of the screen.
 Whether you searched for it or found a link elsewhere on Facebook, clicking the group’s name will take you to the group’s main page., It’s the white box just beneath the group’s cover image in the middle panel., Anything you type here will appear in your post.

To add emoji, click the smiley face icon at the bottom-right corner of the box you’re typing in.
If your post is on the shorter side, you’ll see various color and pattern options beneath the “Write Something” box. Try clicking of the options to make your post stand out from the crowd.
 You can skip this step if you don’t want to add photos or videos. Otherwise, this brings up two options:

Choose Upload Photos/Videos to add a single photo or video to your post. When your file browser appears, double-click the image or video you want to post and it will attach to your message.
To upload multiple photos and/or videos, click Create Photo/Video Album, hold Ctrl (Windows) or ⌘ Command (macOS) as you click each file you want to add, then click Open.
 This is also optional, but can be a fun way to share what you’re feeling. You’ll have the option to choose an action (e.g. Feeling, Celebrating, Watching) and then a subject., Also optional, but this will add a blank for you to type the names of a few Facebook friends who are relevant to whatever you are posting.

These friends will be notified that they’ve been tagged (as long as they have permission to access the group).
 This is another optional feature that adds a link and map of your current location to your post., The post will now appear in the group’s feed.

If you selected a larger photo or video to attach to your post, it may take a moment to upload.
Some groups require all new posts to be approved by a moderator. If you don’t see your post, it’s probably waiting to be approved.

