 Planning always works and does wonders when you are shopping. Look through your closet. Takes note of what you have, what you would like to replace, and what you need. Before going to the mall, prepare a list of what kind of clothes you need. Try to buy only what is on the list and nothing else., Before going shopping, set an amount that you want to spend. Do not go beyond that amount. Having a fixed price in mind will make you think carefully about what you are buying, so you will choose only what you really want or need. If you look for the best deals, you may end up with more clothing than expected for the price., When you buy pre-season, you are paying maximum retail price. Buying at the end of the season may seem frustrating because you may not be able to wear the clothes for a while, but it will save you money in the end. The prices will be at the lowest at the end of season, but there will often be sales during mid-season as well.For example, shop for winter coats at the end of winter, and shop for swimsuits at the end of summer.
 Don’t buy too much of one type of clothing. Instead, plan to buy one, two, or three pieces of every type of clothing. Think about your style, and base your wardrobe off of that. If you build a solid wardrobe, you won’t need to buy clothes as often because you can mix-and-match what you already have.Some staples of a wardrobe are black shirts, jeans, crewneck sweaters, white T-shirts, a button-down, black pants, a blazer, and a denim jacket. For women, a black dress, printed dress, and skirt for every season is good to add to your wardrobe., It may seem tempting to buy cheap, low-quality clothing, but it is not worth it in the long run. You can buy a larger quantity of cheap clothing, but it is doubtful that it will last as long as quality clothing. If you find a piece that costs a little more, but you know you will wear forever, invest in that item.Quality clothing may be more expensive, but you can still find good deals on them during sales.
 It is tempting to buy clothes that correspond with current trends, but it’s possible that the clothing won’t be worn again once the trends are over. Choose some basic, quality clothing that will outlast seasonal trends. You can still look great without wearing what everyone else is wearing.Instead of dressing trendy, work on developing a unique, personal style.
 Perhaps you find an amazing shirt, but it’s a little expensive. Before buying it, think about the style of your current wardrobe. If you have nothing to wear the item with, don’t purchase it. Chances are, the item would sit in your closet and rarely be worn.You should also consider how often you will wear an item. If the answer is rarely, then don’t buy it.

