 Sudden changes in behavior can be a sign of drug use. Think about how your loved one used to act and how they act now. Subtle changes could indicate they are using drugs.Isolation can be a major sign of drug use. If they are normally outgoing but are suddenly spending a great deal of time alone, this may be to hide a drug problem or due to embarrassment based on the addiction.
Mood swings can be another sign of trouble. Mood swings can occur when they need to maintain a certain level of drug or alcohol in the body to not go into withdrawal. When the level drops below the needed supply, they may sweat, become irritable, feel sick, have anxiety or even become depressed. These can all indicate withdrawal from drugs.Missing important events or just simply disappearing from home or work for random amounts of time can also be a sign that something else is going on.
 Often lies are rehearsed so they sound believable, asking unexpected questions pushes for real answers. Beware of answers that are too vague or go to the other extreme with too many details.For example when you ask your husband why he was late getting home from work, if he tells you he had a “stop to make” without providing any more information, that is a red flag. The same is true if he says he stopped at the grocery store and launches into a ten minute description of each item he bought, who he saw or other details that don’t really matter. This can indicate that he is overcompensating with details to mask a lie.
Also, listen carefully to the answers to see if they really make sense. Are you being told the stop was made on the way home from work but you know there was no work today? Was the stop was at a grocery store but there are no groceries?

, When people are lying, they tend to say only the bare minimum. If the person gives you a short answer to your question, then they may be lying to you.For example, you might expect a detailed explanation if you ask something like, "Where were you all day yesterday?" However, if the person is lying then, they might respond with a short explanation such as, "At the mall."
If you challenge the person's story, then someone who is lying may still provide few details. However, someone who is telling the truth may provide lots of details to help confirm their story.
 When people are lying, they may also repeat questions to give themselves more time to think of an answer. If you notice that the person repeats every question that you ask them, then this could also be a sign that the person is lying about using drugs.For example, if you ask, "Have you been using cocaine again?" then the person might echo this question back to you.
 People who are telling a lie may start out talking really slow to give themselves a chance to think. However, people are also aware that talking slowly is considered suspicious, so after a slow start, the person might start speaking rapidly. Pay attention to these changes in the speed of the person's speech for extra clues about whether or not they are lying.