 Tell your partner what treatment you are undergoing for your drug addiction. Letting your partner become part of your recovery process is very important. This not only lets your partner know that you are taking positive steps to heal, but lets them feel like they are part of your recovery. It helps them be able to support you when you need them to.Your therapy may involve rehab or medication. You probably also have a combination of therapy, lifestyle changes, and support groups that you use to help you recover and manage your addiction.
Say, "I have made a commitment to myself to recover from my drug addiction. These are the steps I am taking to recover."

, Your partner may not be supportive or comfortable with the idea at first. Even if your partner is supportive, you both may still need some support, therapy, and mediation. You may want to suggest that you go to couples therapy to work on your relationship. This can help you face and resolve any issues you may still have.Couples therapy may be needed if you’ve tried to fix things on your own but haven’t had much luck. You may benefit from a professional.
Suggesting that you go to couples therapy can help demonstrate that you are dedicated to your relationship and your partner.
Make sure that you and your partner both seek individual therapy as well. It is important for you both to have a safe space to discuss your thoughts and feelings about your recovery process.
 Your partner may need support just like you. They may need to learn how to support a recovering drug addict or ways to deal with things if there is a relapse. Your partner can also connect with others who have partners with a drug addiction and learn how they cope and support their partner. Many support groups are specifically geared towards families of those with a drug addiction.Support groups can also help your partner learn more about drug addiction and how they can help you cope.
Support groups can also help them learn how to take care of themselves and their needs.
At some point in your recovery, you may even want to expand your involvement in the support group to become an advocate. Advocating for the needs of people dealing with drug addiction can help you to feel empowered and continue in your recovery.

