 If family or friends were to come and visit, where would you take them to show off your town? Learn about your town’s history, and visit museums and nearby botanical gardens and parks. Some towns may even offer a fun ghost tour or a walking history tour.


Visit the places that you have always promised yourself you would get around to seeing “one day”. Now’s the time!
Locals can often get discounts on attraction tickets, entrance fees, and day spa passes. Just ask!

, Wherever you decide to go, don’t forget to take your camera or cell phone. You don’t want to miss out on capturing those special memories!


Although it is wonderful to take plenty of photographs, make sure that you stay in the moment too.
Take pictures like a tourist, not just selfies! Aim to get pictures in front of local landmarks or your town sign. This will put you in the tourist mindset., Even if you’re just driving around town, renting a car makes your vacation feel more special and exciting. Consider renting a convertible or a sports car to make cruising around a novel and fun experience.


Another option is to enjoy not having to drive at all. Leave the car at home and take a nice walk to dinner out, or leave the driving to someone else and hire an Uber car.
 Many towns host free community events, such as free movie showings, concerts, and arts, music and cultural festivals. Check out your town’s calendar, and attend as many free events as you would like.Bring along a picnic with delicious finger foods, fruit, cheese, and wine. Spread it all out on a soft picnic blanket and enjoy!

, If you have kids, make sure that you remember to set aside some time to reconnect with your partner too. You and your significant other can enjoy dinner out, go on a wine tasting tour, attend a concert, or go see a play at a local theatre.


Plan ahead and schedule a baby-sitter for your date night, or ask a friend or relative to watch your little ones while you enjoy your night out.
 Whether you're interested in learning to cook or drawing a still life, take advantage of any classes your community may offer. Most community centers offer discounted classes for residents. You just may make some new friends with similar interests as well!

