 Make a list of your favorite foods, comfort foods, or anything that sounds appetizing. Eat these whenever you feel hungry. If you typically have a better appetite in the morning than at night, for example, have pizza or a sandwich for breakfast.You don’t have to follow typical food rules when dealing with appetite issues on chemo.;
, To help stimulate your appetite, try going for food that is colorful and vibrant looking. You may arrange a plate of various fruits and vegetables to create an appealing rainbow of color. Or you may try making a fun colorful pattern or design out of your food to help you get into eating the meal.You may find that food that is fresh and has a certain texture, such as crunchy or juicy, may be more appealing to your tastebuds.
You may try varying the food combinations you have from meal to meal so your food appears interesting and different every time. For example, you may try having a meal of yellow or red colored foods, followed by a meal of purple and green foods.
 To make your food seem more appealing, try adding a dash of seasoning. You may add salt and pepper to a meal to give it more of a taste or other seasonings like lemon pepper, garlic powder, and cayenne pepper. If you have never had a certain seasoning before, add it to a meal to see if it makes your food more appealing.You may also try seasoning your food with fresh herbs like dill, thyme, basil, or mint. Adding fresh herbs can help to stimulate your tastebuds and make your food more appealing.
Try adding condiments to your food to bump up the flavor, such as hot sauce, ketchup, mustard, or relish.
 Having snacks high in protein and calories can help you stay full between meals and keep your eating habits regular. Add in snacks like sliced cheese, fresh fruit, peanut butter, nuts, and crackers. You can also have beverages as a snack, such as a milk shake, a smoothie, or fruit juice.You should avoid snacks that are low in calories and protein, as they can end up filling you up without providing enough nutrients. For example, you may cut out foods like broth and lettuce in your diet.
 Try not to have too many fried foods or foods that are processed or prepackaged. You should also skip foods that can cause gas, such as beans, cauliflower, broccoli, and cabbage. Go for fresh food that is prepared at home whenever possible.If you are really struggling to eat anything at all while you are undergoing chemotherapy, you may try eating what you want or crave. Even if the food you crave is unhealthy, heavy, or greasy, eating food may be more important than what you eat., You may experience bouts of nausea while undergoing chemotherapy, making it more difficult for you to eat. Try having foods that can fight off nausea and settle your stomach before meals to maintain your appetite. Prepare ginger, lemon, or peppermint tea. Sip ginger ale or ginger tea in the morning or before a meal. These beverages can all help to prevent your nausea from getting the better of you.You can also try eating your food at room temperature or chilled, rather than piping hot. Having food at room temperature or cold can help reduce your nausea and make your food more appealing., Constipation is another common chemo issue, and it may impact your appetite. Aim to eat foods high in fiber such as whole grains, fruits, and vegetables, to help alleviate constipation, and drink ample amounts of water.