 Accessories are important to creating a slimmer appearance. These pieces can reduce the appearance of extra weight or give you a longer appearance which will make you look proportionally thinner. Remember that a higher quality item will generally do a better job at this than a lower quality one.


Use shape wear. Shape wear, a popular brand being Spanx, will help distribute bulges while holding you in. This will make you look significantly slimmer. When purchasing, remember that they are meant to be tight fitting. These go best under dresses and skirts but they also can be worn under pants. They also come in a variety of shapes, in order to provide support where you need it for your particular body type.
Wear a well-fit bra. Many women wear bras that are incorrectly sized. If too small, this can create bulges which make you appear fuller figured. If wearing a bra that is too large, this will create a drooping chest which can lead your waist to appear wider. An appropriately fit bra will make you look slimmer and also be more comfortable. Stores such as Macy’s or Victoria’s Secret will do fittings for free, over your clothes or in the privacy of a fitting room.
Wear heels. Heeled shoes will make your legs, and your body as a whole, appear longer. This longer appearance will make your body appear proportionally thinner. Heels also lead many women to have better posture, as well as tucking in the hips to create a rounder bottom. Brightly colored shoes can also draw attention to slim legs and away from a fuller belly.
Wear appropriate jewelry. Long-chained necklaces can create the appearance of length, which will make you appear slimmer in much the same way as wearing heels. Avoid big or wide earrings if you have a wide or full face, as this will lead your face to look fuller.
Wear a belt. If you have a waist which is smaller than the other areas of your body, it is a good idea to emphasize it as this will lead you to appear slimmer overall. Belts are a great way to emphasize your waist. They can be wide or thin, depending on what is best for your outfit.
 The colors and patterns on our clothes play a big part in how others perceive our bodies. You can use how the human eye works to create a slimmer appearance by choosing colors and patterns that are right for your body type.


Wear black. When you wear black, you reduce the ability for others to see shadows on your clothing. Seeing shadows is how our eyes perceive depth, so in doing this you will reduce the appearance of bulges and create a slimmer silhouette. Be careful not to overuse black, however as this can create a depressing appearance.
Wear bright colors. You can use bright colors to emphasize the thinner sections of your body while drawing attention away from fuller sections. A brightly colored belt can emphasize a small waist or a brightly colored top can draw attention away from full hips.
Choose stripes wisely. Stripes can create a thinner or fuller appearance, depending on their direction. Vertical stripes create the appearance of length, whereas horizontal stripes create the appearance of width. Avoid horizontal stripes in areas you want to appear slimmer. Instead, use them strategically to create balance, such as to make narrow hips appear wider (in turn narrowing the appearance of your waist). Use vertical stripes on items like pants, leggings or tights to make your legs look long and lean.
Choose polka dots and other patterns wisely. Patterns can be fun and flirty but they must be chosen carefully. Busy patterns such as polka dots draw attention, so use them only in areas you want to emphasize. Larger patterns also create a fuller appearance, so use smaller prints in areas you want to appear thinner.
 As discussed in the section on body shapes, attention should be drawn to your best features. You can use a variety of methods to direct the eye where you want it to go, including the use of color and pattern, makeup, hairstyle and shoes.


Use bright colors and bold patterns. As discussed above, colors and patterns can draw the attention of those around you. Use this to emphasize your best features, such as a small waist, great legs or a full bust. A bright belt can draw attention to a small waist. A close-fitting, patterned top can draw attention to a well-portioned upper body. Brightly colored high heels can show off great legs. Make sure to carefully choose colors and patterns that are right for your body. Colors should be chosen to compliment the natural colors of your skin, eyes and hair, as well as express personal style.
Carefully choose your hairstyle. Your hair will significantly change how your face appears, so be sure to choose a style which emphasizes your best features. Avoid blunt bangs, as the horizontal line makes your face wider. Also, avoid chin-length styles as this will draw attention to a double chin. Do use side sweeping bangs and long layers, as these both create a slimmer appearance by drawing the eye away from the width of your face.

