 These can be extremely helpful for learning what types of projects are typically successful on the site. The most important aspect of starting a project is making sure there are “definable expectations”. Donors should be able to clearly understand the goals and expectations of your project.


Kickstarter does not allow funding of charities, causes, or general business projects. The site is strictly for creative projects for artists, designers, writers, filmmakers, illustrators, and musicians. You can learn more about How to Start a Project on Kickstarter here.;
, Many donors will be encouraged to donate to your project if you are offering interesting, once-in-a-lifetime rewards. For example, most rewards will be something associated with project such as copy of the CD, painting, or illustration etc., you are creating. The more creative you are with offering rewards, the more donors you will be able to attract.
 Most people that donate to projects on Kickstarter are compelled to do so because of the story behind the project and project creator. People want to have a good idea of whom they are donating to. Providing potential donors with info on who you are, what your ideals are, and what exactly your goals for your project are will greatly increase the chances of encouraging donations.
 If your project has distinct stages of development, you may be able to split funding into multiple projects. This can make it easier to reach funding goals for each stage of your project. #*This is can essentially allow you to extend the amount of time your project is able to receive funding and also allow you to start creating the first stage of your project to use as incentive for potential donors during the next stage.
 All projects on Kickstarter have a dollar amount funding goal and a time limit from 1 to 90 days. Don’t just expect to receive your funding in 1 or 10 days. If you are realistically able to wait the full 90 days before starting your project, that will be your best chance of receiving 100% of your funding goals. Remember, no money will change hands if you do not meet your funding goals.
 Setting your dollar amount too low may scare off donors who are unsure whether the funding is enough to actually complete the project. Setting it too high may result in not being able to fulfill your funding goals.
 If you are not successful with one idea, you may be successful with another. While you can only submit one project at a time, you can have multiple projects on the site at once.
 Some potential donors may be unsure of who you are and not full confident in you as a project creator.


This is why it can be extremely helpful to create personal, first-person videos introducing yourself. It’s also important to answer any questions that potential donors may ask you. If donors ask you questions and you do not respond, the chances are they will decide not to donate.

