 If you want your rabbit to be able to roam freely in your garden, the entire perimeter needs to be completely fenced in and free from holes. This will prevent your rabbit from escaping and predators from getting in. Alternatively, you can create a rabbit run or pen that keeps your rabbit safely in a specific area of your garden.Pick sturdy, durable materials for fencing, such as vinyl, wood, iron, concrete, brick, or masonry. Chicken wire will not keep predators out.
If there are any gaps between your fencing planks, they should be completely lined from top to ground with a heavy-gauge metal wire with a diameter that is no more than 2.5mm so that your rabbit and potential predators cannot wiggle or chew through it.
Consider privacy fencing so that predators can’t see in. They’re less likely to attack what they can’t see.
If you opt for a run or pen, the wire mesh should be of a heavy-gauge with gaps no bigger than 2.5mm. The edges should be secured, either by digging at least 8 inches of the bottom into the ground or by placing heavy flagstones all around it.;
, The easiest way to protect your rabbit when they are outdoors by themselves is to get them a hutch. Hutches should provide spacious, secure enclosures with shade, insulation, and ventilation. Most come with a wooden home for your rabbit to rest in and an airy rove for them to play in.The hutch should be elevated on legs or have a heavy-gauge wire mesh flooring to keep other animals out.
A hutch is an absolute essential if your rabbit sleeps outside.
 Foxes and badgers are experts at unlatching hutches. If you want to keep your rabbit outdoors at night, be sure to put a padlock on the door of their hutch., Keep toxic chemicals, like antifreeze or pesticides, and dangerous tools, like a saw or lawn mower, safely locked away in a shed. Be sure that there are no holes or gaps in the structure that will allow your rabbit to squeeze into the shed., Pick up any debris or litter that could be harmful to your pet. Ensure the area is clear of litter, such as cigarette butts or food packaging, as well as toys and tools that may attract your rabbit., Keep your rabbit’s water dish constantly replenished. Hydration is important to their health and essential during summer months to help prevent heat stroke. Providing them with a constant supply of clean water will also help ensure that they won't go anywhere else looking for a drink.

