 As a depressed person, you are probably in the habit of giving yourself frequent negative mental feedback. You may not be aware that you are doing this. While in a relaxed hypnotic state, your therapist will help you identify negative self-talk and guide you towards forming healthier thought patterns., Depression often involves expecting the worst and seeing the negative side of things. Under normal circumstances, it can be very difficult for a depressed person to change these thoughts, even if you know they are irrational. Hypnosis can put you into a more receptive state, which makes it easier to alter your habitual thoughts. Your therapist will help you replace your negative expectations of yourself and others with positive ones instead.For instance, your therapist might suggest that every time you catch yourself thinking “I can’t do this,” you should replace that thought with “I’m going to figure out how to do this.”

, Reframing an event means finding a way to think about it differently. The way we interpret our experiences determines the way we feel about them. When you are under hypnosis, you are in an ideal state to think about past negative experiences and re-interpret them in a more positive way.Reframing a memory can help you feel more at peace with it afterwards.
 Depression and low self-esteem frequently go hand-in-hand. When you are in a state of hypnosis, your therapist will use the power of suggestion to help you feel better about yourself and your abilities. This can help ease depression in the long run by giving you a sense of control over yourself, your symptoms and your life.For instance, your therapist, may have you think of accomplishments you are proud of. The therapist will suggest that when you start thinking negatively about yourself, you should counter these thoughts by thinking about your accomplishments instead.
 Affirmations are a powerful way to alter thought patterns, and they are especially effective when you are in the suggestible state of hypnosis. Choose affirmations tailored to your therapeutic goals and the issues you struggle with.Affirmations should be in the present tense and phrased in a positive way. For instance, the affirmation “I don’t let negative people bring me down” would be better rephrased as “I overcome any negativity that people bring into my life.”

