 The "right time" means something different for every kid and every parent. As a general rule of thumb, consider that your child should probably know how to practice safe, consensual sex by the time that he or she winds up in a sexual situation. If your child is approaching his or her teen years, then hormones are coming, and the time is nigh.


Consider that in this digital age, more and more children are learning about sex from the Internet. If your child gets curious, then he or she may do a lot of exploratory searching. This is not to say that you should try to stifle this curiosity – but you can certainly use your knowledge to act as a guiding figure. Your child may know more than you think.
Many schools incorporate some form of sexual education into their curriculum. Try using this as a reason to engage with your kids about the realities of sex. Set yourself up as a resource, and offer to answer any questions that your children might have.
 Sex can be an embarrassing topic for adults to discuss – let alone children or teenagers! If the topic comes up naturally, then take the opportunity to discuss it. Otherwise: plan out what you are going to say, and try to build upon what your child already knows. Keep an open mind.Be respectful of boundaries. If your son or daughter doesn't want to talk about the "birds and the bees," then don't force the conversation.
 There are various books, websites, and other resources available that make it easier for kids and teenagers to learn about healthy sex. If your child is younger than 10-12, consider going through these resources one-on-one. If you are dealing with a teenager, then you can likely just pass along the information and let your teen explore on his/her own time.What Makes A Baby by Cory Silverberg is a children's book for parents looking to explain to young children how babies are conceived and born. If you're unsure how to word the discussion in a kid-friendly manner, this can be an excellent resource.
The website BishUK provides a range of topics for parents and teens. The site covers not only the physical aspects of sex, but its emotional impact.
MTV, as an offshoot of their Teen Mom series, runs the website . The information on the site helps teenagers understand sex and sexuality, and it can help teach young adults how to make safe decisions regarding their bodies.
Speakeasy, a Family Planning Association, features online guides to help parents talk to kids about sex and reproduction. There are guides available for a variety of ages.

