 Around the age of 5, you can start teaching observational drawing. This involves teaching children how to draw from the appearance of things, rather than their knowledge or imagination of them. To begin training them in observation, teach them to think of their drawings as practice. Say you are learning a new kind of drawing that takes lots of practice, and that they can practice as much as they want.Provide pencils and multiple pieces of paper, and gently discourage eraser use. Say they can start a drawing as many times as they want, and erase false lines when they are done.
Do not force observational drawing on a child. Pushing a child to a new stage of drawing might discourage or stunt their learning.
Affirm other kinds of drawings as well: storytelling and imagination based drawings, abstract or emotional drawings., Around age 5 or 6, children develop schema, or ways of drawing things. Instead of teaching them to observe things they have "already learned" how to draw, like houses, a pet, or trees, let them pick something they have never drawn before. This will prevent them from reverting to learned habits, but will not frustrate them by requiring them to "unlearn" something they feel they have mastered., Explain that the child will be drawing an object from one side. Have the child sit where they will be when they draw, and trace your finger around the edges of the object as they are visible to the child. Then, have the child trace the edges. Next, ask the child to trace the shape in the air. They can do this with their finger and with their pencil., Encourage children to draw with their eyes on the object they are drawing. Try putting a square of paper on their pencil, above the spot they grip, so that they cannot see the line they make. Have them draw practice lines first. Have them practice drawing each part of the shape separately.


After they have practiced the lines, let them draw the whole shape. Keep the page of practice lines nearby for further practice or reference.Have children practice drawing without ever looking down.
Have children draw and only look down when they have finished drawing a line. Let them check on their progress, but encourage them to look down as little as possible.
 As you would for a younger child, ask open-ended questions, but ask them about what they see rather than what they imagine. Ask "which part of the object is lighter? Which is darker?" "where does the line bend?" Compliment lines and angles they depicted correctly, and encourage them to find more details.Say "I see you drew a strong curving stem for the flower, and you shaded a texture into the dirt. Now, do you see any smaller parts at the end of the stem? Where do they start and stop?"
Avoid showing your own drawings of an object, or drawing on a child's paper. Children are hardwired to learn by imitation, but this is not helpful for learning drawing.
 Offer children the chance to practice with different media. Children between 5-8 may be open to drawing with pencils, which will allow them to focus on shading and contour. Show children different materials and allow them to experiment. Suggest phases: first we will draw with a pencil, then with watercolors.
 Children between 5 and 8 enjoy making up stories to go with their drawings. They may be interested in drawing sequences to tell a longer story. Encourage children to draw and write short books. Help them bind the books together with staples or needle and thread. Once the book has been "published," put it on the bookshelf with the rest of their books.

