 Your dog may not follow you because the two of you don’t share an attachment. To help bond with your dog, you should actively spend more time with them. This helps your dog learn that you love and care for it.You can play games with your dog, like chase, fetch, or tug-of-war. You may also want to place your dog’s bed near you in your bedroom.
Feeding time is a great way to bond with your dog. It helps your dog understand that you are the one taking care of them and meeting their basic needs.
 Another way to get your dog to follow you is to give them some type of positive reinforcement. This helps them to associate you with positive things, like verbal praise, pets, treats, or some other special treatment.This type of treatment will help your dog think that following you will result in some type of reward, which can lead to them following you more.
Remember to give your dog plenty of praise for following your instructions.
 Another way to get your dog to follow you is to engage in physical activity with them. Take your dog for a walk, take them on a hike, or go for a run. This will help you and your dog bond, which will increase your dog’s need to be near you and follow you.You may even let your dog run or walk behind you on a leash to practice following you.
For older dogs, you can go on short, slow walks. You may also play with a toy in the yard, like tossing the ball a little bit in front of you.
 If you have a puppy, you can use hide-and-seek to help them develop a stronger desire to be near you. Puppies want to be near their owners, so if your puppy wanders off instead of following you, hide. Your puppy will start to search for you. Praise the dog when they find you with a treat, verbal praise, or pets., If you are unable to teach your dog to follow you on your own, you may want to take them to see a trainer. In a class, you and your dog can work on basic commands, including follow.Training also strengthens the bond between you and your dog. The stronger the bond between the two of you, the more likely they will follow you.

