 When you're moving on from your divorce and starting to feel like your old self again, you should take the time to appreciate your friends and see how much their help and support has meant to you. Take the time to have a heart to heart with your friends, to have a fun night out, or to take a yoga class or go on a hike with your close friends. Your friendships will grow as you feel like you're becoming a more stable person.


Use this time to reconnect with long-lost friends and to see if you can build a friendship again.
You can also turn acquaintances into friendships. Don't be afraid to invite your friend crush out for a cup of tea or a movie.
 Take your divorce as an opportunity to reconnect with your family and to spend more time with your parents, siblings, and your children, if you have any. They'll know that you're struggling and they'll be there in your time of need, and you can rely on your family no matter what. If your loved ones are across the country, plan a trip to see them, or just spend more time talking on the phone with them, emailing, and connecting with your family members when you can.


If you have kids, spend more time than ever bonding with them. They'll need you during this difficult time, too, and you can help each other.
 After a while, you'll be able to enjoy the benefits of being single. You don't have to be accountable for anyone, you don't have to tell anyone (except your children) what you'll be up to that night, and you can make decisions for yourself instead of factoring another person into where you'd like to eat, what movie you'd like to see, and who you'll hang out with that weekend.


Have fun going out, dancing, and flirting. There's no harm in that.
If you're single, you can dance with anyone you'd like to dance with, go on a weekend vacation with your girlfriend, or do anything your heart desires.
Don't look at being single as a sad state -- instead, enjoy being independent, meeting new people, and just doing you.
 Once you've put a few months, or even a year or more, behind you and feel like you've accepted your divorce and are ready to move on, then it's time to start dating again. This can mean starting an online dating profile, asking your friends to set you up with any cute single friends they may have, or just to make yourself open to meeting someone new when you're out and about.You don't have to jump into a serious relationship right away. Just going on a few dates with the same person can get you into the swing of things.
Take things slow. Take the time to get to know a new person instead of opening up about your divorce right away.
 Take the time after your divorce as the opportunity to do the things you'd always wanted to do but couldn't do before. Maybe your ex hated hiking though you've always wanted to try it -- take this as a chance to become a hiking enthusiast. Maybe your ex hated classic movies -- now, you can watch every Cary Grant movie ever made. Maybe your ex hated traveling -- now, you can take your own vacation.


Make a list of all of the things you'd wanted to do when you were married. See how many of them are feasible and have fun checking them off your list.

