 It's an easy switch that makes a big difference. Using toxic chemicals like bleach and ammonia to clean your home is not only bad for the water supply, it's not necessary. Natural cleaners are just as effective at getting the house clean, and you don't have to worry that you're contributing to water pollution when you use them.


The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) provides a list of cleaning products (as well as a variety of other products) that are considered "green," meaning they won't pollute the water supply. See epa.gov/greenerproducts.Common household supplies like white vinegar and baking soda can be used for everything from washing windows to scrubbing bathroom tiles, and they're completely nontoxic.;
, Never pour something that isn't biodegradable down the drain. When it is necessary to use something that's toxic to the water supply, such as paint or ammonia, take care to dispose of it properly. If you're not sure how to get rid of something, check your local government's website or contact your sanitation department to find out how toxic waste should be disposed of in your community. The following materials should never be poured down the drain:


Paint
Motor oil
Cleaning solvents
Ammonia
Pool chemicals

, Medication is made with a variety of substances that can be detrimental to the water supply. If you have leftover medication, look into local "take back" programs that allow you to turn in medication so it can be disposed of properly.That way it won't end up back in the drinking water, where it can harm people and animals.
 Flushing items that don't break down, like diapers, wet wipes, and plastic tampon applicators can cause problems in the sewer system. These items will eventually end up in local streams, rivers and other bodies of water, where they can harm fish and other wildlife. Instead of flushing them down the toilet, throw them away.


You can also help by using cloth diapers, recycled toilet paper and biodegradable tampons, which reduces the number of items that end up in the landfill.
 Conservation is an important way to help preserve water as a global resource. Treating water so it's clean enough to drink and use around the house requires a lot of energy, so it's important to conserve as much as possible, especially in areas where droughts are occurring. Adopt the following habits to conserve more water around your house:


Take showers instead of baths, since baths require more water.
Turn off your faucets when you aren't using water, such as when you're brushing your teeth.
Don't overwater your lawn. Make sure lawn sprinklers are turned off when it rains.
Water your garden before the sun comes up or after it sets to reduce evaporation, which leads to water waste., Since it isn't biodegradable, plastic often ends up collecting in rivers, lakes, and oceans when it has nowhere else to go. The Great Pacific Garbage Patch, for example, is a huge vortex of trash, mainly plastic, that has collected in the ocean since it has nowhere else to go.This trash endangers marine life and affects humans as well. Whenever possible, use glass or cloth containers instead of plastic.

