 Take whatever meat that you were cooking out of the roasting pan, and set it aside to rest. Tilt the pan to one side, so you can pour all of the meat drippings into a measuring cup.Make sure that the measuring cup that you’re using is heat-resistant and can hold at least 2 cups (473 ml).;
, While the drippings from the meat have plenty of concentrated flavor, it will also have a lot of fat. Let the drippings sit for a moment so the fat rises to the surface. Use a spoon to carefully skim the fat from the top and discard.You can purchase a measuring cup specifically designed to separate the fat out of a liquid. When you pour the drippings through it, the fat stays behind so you don’t need to skim it.
You can also reserve 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the fat to use in place of the butter when you make the roux for the gravy if you prefer.
 When you’ve removed all of the fat from the drippings, pour the chicken stock into the measuring cup with them. You want the total amount of liquid to equal 2 cups (473 ml), so add enough stock to reach that level and set the mixture aside.If you prefer, you can substitute beef stock or vegetable stock for the chicken stock.
 Take the roasting pan and place it on your stovetop across two burners. Add 2 tablespoons (28 g) of butter to the pan, and heat it on medium-high heat until it melts, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes.The butter will melt more quickly if you cut it into pieces before adding it to the pan.
Stir the butter as it’s melting to ensure that it heats evenly and doesn’t scorch.
 When the butter is fully melted, mix 2 tablespoons (18 g) of all-purpose flour into the pan with a whisk. Lower the heat to medium-low, and allow the mixture to cook until it turns a pale brown, which should take approximately 1 to 2 minutes.By combining the butter and flour in this way, you’re creating a roux, which helps thicken up gravies and sauces.
Make sure to whisk the butter and flour the entire time that you’re cooking the roux to ensure that the mixture is smooth and doesn’t scorch.
 When the roux has become a light brown, slowly start to pour the drippings and stock mixture into pan. Add a small amount to start, and stir it into the roux with a wooden spoon. After that liquid is worked into the roux, continue to add more until all 2 cups (473 ml) are added.When you’re stirring the drippings mixture into the pan, make sure to scrape the wooden spoon along the bottom to work loose any brown bits of meat that might be stuck there. This technique is know as deglazing the pan, and helps add extra flavor to the gravy.
 After you’ve mixed in all of the drippings mixture, allow the gravy to come to a full boil, which should take 3 to 5 minutes. Next, lower the heat to medium and let the mixture simmer until the gravy starts to thicken, which typically takes 2 to 3 minutes.You’ll know the gravy is thick enough when it coats the back of the wooden spoon without dripping off.
 Once the gravy has thickened, stir in 3 sprigs of fresh rosemary that have been chopped and 3 sprigs of fresh thyme that have been chopped into the gravy. Mix until the herbs are well incorporated.You can mix in whatever combination of fresh herbs that you prefer. Parsley and sage are other options that work well in a gravy.
 After you’ve mixed the herbs into the gravy, stir in some salt and pepper. It’s important to taste the gravy, though, so you know how much of each seasoning you want to add., Take the roasting pan off the heat, and place a wire strainer over a large measuring cup. Pour the gravy through the strainer, using a wooden spoon to push it through and remove any clumps of flour, meat, or herbs. Next, transfer the gravy to a gravy boat or other serving bowl to serve with your meal.If you’re not ready to serve your meal right away, make sure to warm the gravy again before you bring it to the table.

