 If your computer contained any sensitive documents, photos or information which could be used to steal your identity, you will want to use a more secure method of removing your data. Active@KillDisk is the program recommended by Microsoft to securely remove your data.Download the program from a reputable website and use the included utility to create a bootdisk. You can get a perfectly functional free version but the pay version is much more thorough and secure. If your computer cannot create disks, use the utility to create a USB boot disk (this will need to be accounted for in your BIOS settings).
Boot the computer from the disk, similar to the process described above in the previous section. If the computer will not boot from the disk, use the instructions in that section for entering the BIOS settings.
Once it starts, you will see a blue screen with options on the left including “Active@Killdisk” and then either free or pro, depending on what you chose. Press the down key until this option is selected and press enter.
Select your hard drive from the list which then appears on the left. It will bring up another window which will have the option to “Confirm and Erase”. Select this with the down arrow and hit enter. Type “erase-all-data” as requested by the window. Hit enter.
It will now wipe your system and then present a report. When this is done you can turn off your computer and reinstall Windows (if you want to use the computer again) or Linux (a free operating system which will make the computer usable if you intend to sell it) or simply discard the machine.
 This is another common program (completely free) which also works very well. It will be loaded onto a disk or USB drive similarly to the Active program.


Once the computer boots from the disk, the fastest method will be to type in either “dodshort” for a sufficient wipe or “dod” for something a little stronger (leave off the quotation marks). You can open the interactive mode if you want more options.
Once you’ve typed in your preferred method, hit enter and you’re done. It will start wiping., This is new program (completely free). It works from CD/DVD or from usb stick


Download ErAce ISO image from sourceforge

Burn image to CD/DVD or make it bootable from USB stick
Make computer boot from CD/DVD or from USB stick
Boot computer
Choose how many overwrite cycles are made
Click hard drives you want to overwrite

