 Toddlers are very mobile. While it's always important to keep your home safe for a toddler, be extra certain to keep things safe when you're also caring for an infant. It's more difficult to grab or stop a toddler when a newborn also needs care.The most important thing is visibility. Create an area where your toddler can play under supervision while you deal with an infant. Go for a big, open living room and block it off using gates and doors.
Cover electrical outlets, as these can be dangerous if a toddler sticks their finger in one.
Use gates and doors to block staircases. Keep baby locks on cupboards and cabinets.;
, You will have to change both your toddler and infant regularly. While changing your infant, it's important to be able to keep your eyes on your toddler. Keep the changing table in a space where you can observe your toddler while changing your infant.For example, keep a changing table in the living room, facing towards the room. If you need to change your toddler, you can keep an eye on your newborn from there.
 Make sure anything breakable is well out of a toddler's reach. When caring for an infant, it's difficult to jump to action quickly to stop a toddler from injuring themselves with a fragile item. Put away things like glass decorations, vases, and breakable lamps., A sling can be used to carry your infant from place to place. This can increase your mobility, allowing you to keep up with your toddler while carrying your infant. You can buy this online, at a department store, or at a store that sells baby supplies.Make sure to talk to your child's doctor before buying a sling to make sure it's safe for you and your baby.
Buy a sling designed for your infant's age. With very young infants, you may have to wait a few months before you can use the sling.
 A toddler will want to interact with the baby. Allow them to talk to the baby, touch the baby, and do things like watch feeding or help with diaper changes. Many toddlers like to feel like they're helping a younger sibling.Make sure your toddler knows how to be gentle. Correct your toddler if they get too rough and observe interactions at all times.

