 If your friendship is important to you, you may just have to let bygones be bygones. Understand that although you may not agree on the best way to parent, there’s a reason why you are friends in the first place. Focus your relationship on the things you two have in common and love about each other. Let these be the topic of your discussions, and be intentional about avoiding the area of parenting.


Just remember that you do things the way you do, and your friend does things the way they do. As long as no one gets hurt, allow the situation to stay the way it is., If there was a guidebook that answered every question parents have and offered all the right advice, parenting would be a breeze. Unfortunately, there isn’t, and parents have to do what they think is best at the time. Everyone makes mistakes and people do what they can according to their situations. Keeping this in mind may help you if you butt heads with your friends about parenting.


When you’re feeling frustrated with your friend, say to yourself, “They are doing what they think is right and the best they can, just like me.” Remembering that you’re not perfect either is a good way to keep yourself and your opinions in check.It may help to have this conversation with your children, too. Tell your children that different adults may have different rules, and that they should respect these rules when in their home or under their care. Tell your child that if they have any major objections to what the other adult did or how something was handled, they should come talk to you.
 Your friend shouldn’t criticize your parenting style, but if they do, the way you respond can send a strong message. Don’t become defensive and criticize right back. Instead, show respect, but also let them know you don’t want to hear their judgments.


For example, if your friend says something snarky about the food you feed your child, say politely, “I appreciate your concern and I’ll take what you suggested into consideration.” This lets them know you heard what they’re saying and gives you the opportunity to move on.If they make the comment in front of your children, then you need to directly address the criticism, as it undermines your authority to your children. Say something like, "I know you do things differently, but this is how we do meals. You need to respect that."

