 Jump a lot! Jump around corners, jump over obstacles - just jump whenever you can. You are a lot harder to kill while you are jumping and enemies will have to have the foresight to shoot where you will land, by which time you should have aimed him up as well. It makes you more obvious to other players, but in the end it the rewards will pay off.;
, It is easier to kill a player from above than it is from below. It is easy to rack up quite a few kills from a high spot before the enemy deems you a big enough threat to remove you.
 Any grav-lifts or man-cannons are simply gold in rocket matches - you are very hard to kill whilst moving on a man cannon or grav-lift but you can still kill other enemies if your aim is steady. Corners are also excellent to use to your advantage - you can jump out and surprise your opponent before ducking back into cover.
 It will be very unlikely you will hit them directly on the body, so learn to aim for the enemy's feet which should kill them or at least take their shields off for your second shot.
 A random, long range grenade can also work wonders once in a while, but don't expect to win with grenades alone.
 If you see an enemy hiding in a corner, anticipate when he will exit or if your enemy is jumping around a lot, learn to dodge his rockets and shoot while he is closer and reloading. Never scope in when the enemy is in close to medium range, but if you are far away, and there are several opponents around (or if they frequent that area often) scope in and fire a few well placed shots.
 Always stay at least three body lengths away from walls when you can.
 All it takes is one long-range rocket to ruin your streak. Find the best places and rotate between them, never staying in one place for too long.
 Shoot straight away before someone else does. Aiming up your shot for too long will probably result in someone else getting your kills and/or killing you while you aim.
 If you can get your hands on a Grav Lift, you can hide in a tube in the High Ground area. There is also one on the Snowbound area; hide in one of the corridors, and when somebody walks down the aisle, fire the rocket, throw a grenade, and run. Be careful not to kill a teammate, though!

