 Dead plant matter, debris, and other obstructions block sunlight and air from the dirt beneath it. As a result, the soil does not have access to the natural drying process and will stay soggier for longer periods of time.


Additionally, you may accidentally work these unwanted obstructions into the soil as you add your desired soil amendments. Doing so can cause the soil to become more waterlogged than before.
Rake away soggy leaves, old mulch, and other highly absorbent organic and inorganic material. You should also cut back the branches of shady trees and shrubs, as well as any dead flower stalks hanging over the area.
 If possible, allow sunlight and air circulation to dry the cleared soil slightly before you amend it. You don't need to dirt to dry completely on its own, but try to wait until most of the major puddles recede.


Wet dirt is heavy and dry dirt is lighter, so it will be much easier to mix amendments into the soil when it is less damp.
If you don't have time to spare or if the puddles refuse to clear without additional work, you can amend the soil while it is still at its soggiest. Just be aware of the fact that you will need to use more muscle power.
 Apply 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) of pea gravel over the surface of the soggy soil.Working gravel into the soil will add non-absorbent space in between the particles of soil. As more of the soil particles are kept apart, less water will be retained.
You can use sand instead of pea gravel, but only if you are working with non-clay soils. Adding sand to clay can cause the dirt to set like concrete.
 Lay out 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) of compost or similar organic material directly over the gravel.Use roughly the same amount of organic material as gravel.
When you add gravel to dirt, you increase the amount of space occupied by non-nutritional components. The organic material boosts the nutritional value of the soil to offset this effect. If you don't plan on growing anything in the dirt, though, you can usually skip this step.
Adding organic material to the soil also makes the soil lighter, thereby further improving its ability to drain.
When working with clay soils, you should generally use roughly 1 cubic yard (0.8 cubic meters) of total soil amendments for every 100 square feet (9.3 square meters) of dirt. The ratio of amendment to dirt will be similar for non-clay soils, but may vary slightly depending on the type of soil.
 Use a rake, hoe, or shovel to turn the soil and work the amendments into the top 6 inches (15.25 cm).


Once the soil amendments have been worked into the dirt, the process is complete. The remaining water currently in the soil should drain away faster than usual. You should also have fewer problems with soggy dirt from this point on.

