 A great way to have fun is to take a nice long trip in your car. Whether it be down a long country road, or down a city street, car rides can provide relaxation, and excitement.


Get in your car and just drive to random places. Explore roads you have never been down before. Type into your GPS a new location you want to visit. Enjoy the scenery, whether trees, or skyscrapers.
Blast music as you are driving down the road. Sing to the songs, or just listen and enjoy the notes. This can be a great time to explore different stations on the radio. Simply turn the dial, and find something new/interesting.
Turn your windows down, and let your hair, blow with the wind. Or keep your air conditioning on and keep cool on a hot summer day.
 While shopping is technically "around other people," you do not have to go with someone you know to do it. This can be a great way to try on clothes you would not normally try on in front of someone you know.


Find that store you have always wanted to go into. Look around, try some of the clothes on. Be creative, and try new outfit combinations. It is just you by yourself so let loose and have fun.
You can go shopping for other things as well. Go look for a nice bottle of wine at a nearby liquor store. Pick up a new/used book, or maybe go look for a new piece of furniture you need for your living room. The possibilities are endless. Just make sure to bring plenty of money, and time., While sitting at home to watch a movie can be fine, watching one on the big screen is even better. You get to capture all of the sounds, emotion, and drama of the movie on a larger screen.


Make sure that the movie is not sold out. Check online ticket retailers to find a movie theater near you. See whether your movie is playing, and check the times they are playing.
When you get there, buy some popcorn, and a nice big soda. Really live it up, as you sit back in the dark theater, enjoying your movie of choice.
 If you have always wanted to learn something new, or teach yourself a new skill, college/tech school classes can be a great option. Not only can they be fun and exhilarating, but you will have new skills/knowledge to use in the future.First check whether there is a community college near where you live. Also look for trade skills if you are interested in something like carpentry, welding, or roofing. Large public or private institutions are most likely too expensive to simply take one class at. Yet, sometimes public colleges have cheaper online options available.
Look at the college's online website; check for "Online Classes" on a tab on the website. However, you can also check out specific programs like "Nursing" or "Firefighting" which the college might have.
Often times, college websites have lists of the classes that they offer. Look for a phone number at the bottom of the website page to call up and ask if you can take one, or a few classes at a time.
 While eating in the house can be relaxing, having a nice dinner made for you on the spot can be great and fun as well. Find a new place to eat that you have never been before, or go to that one place where they serve the best food.


First, call the restaurant up to make a reservation. Some restaurants do not require reservations, but a quick call can prevent an uncomfortable situation.
Drive to the restaurant, and take a seat. Pick out your typical favorite, or try something you have never tried before. Get a nice bottle of wine, and relax.
Sitting at a bar can also be a more relaxing, enjoyable experience if you are there alone. You can get a drink, eat some good food, and maybe meet someone new.

