 If your child is old enough to express an opinion, ask them who they would like as their guardian. Giving your child input on the decision may help you narrow down the list of candidates and make them feel like they are part of the process. They may also be able to identify a candidate that is suitable to be their guardian and be a good match for them.For example, you may ask your child, “Who do you think would make a good guardian for you?” or “Who would you prefer to have as your guardian if something happened to me?”

, Reach out to those you trust for guidance on choosing a guardian. You may speak to your parents, for example, and ask them how they choose a guardian for you. Or you may talk to a close friend and ask them for their opinion. Getting some perspective from those you trust could help you decide who the ideal guardian might be.You may make a shortlist of three to four potential guardians and ask friends or family for their opinion. They may be able to help you narrow down your choice to one person.
Keep in mind that though it may be helpful to get advice and guidance from others, ultimately, this is your decision. Try to go with your instincts and make an informed decision for yourself on who the guardian for your child should be.
 It may also help to speak to people you are considering for the role of guardian for your child. Make sure the potential guardians are willing to take on such a big responsibility and feel they will be able to be good role models for your child.For example, you may say to potential guardians, “Would you be willing to be a guardian for my child in the event something happens to me?” or “Would you be comfortable being a guardian for my child?”
One or two of your potential guardians may not be comfortable with the responsibility, effectively taking them off the shortlist. This is within their right. Checking with potential candidates before you make a decision will ensure you chose someone who is willing and able to be a good guardian for your child.

