 This over-the-counter medication may relieve itching. It is, however, a topical steroid, so you should not use it on your face, or on skin folds such as your groin, axilla, or pendulous breasts. To use it, apply it in a thin film over the affected area up to 4 times a day for 5-7 days.
 To help control itching, you can try taking an oral OTC antihistamine, like Benadryl, Claritin, or Zyrtec. Consult your pharmacist if you have any questions about how much you should take.


Don't take a topical antihistamine, such as Caladryl. This may worsen your skin reaction.
 Buy an oatmeal bath, like the one sold by Aveeno. Put the oatmeal treatment into your bathtub to help soothe your skin and relieve itching. However, this is only a temporary soothing solution.You can also add 2 cups of oatmeal to warm bath water and soak to calm large areas of red, irritated skin. When the water cools, rinse off the oatmeal and gently pat your skin dry.This is especially good for chicken pox, poison ivy, and eczema.
 After you soak your skin, you can use calamine lotion to prevent itching and soothe your skin. Make sure that calamine lotion does not interact with any other medication you're taking., Over-the-counter itch relievers, such as Dermoplast, are designed to spray in hard-to-reach places and relieve itch. Many products like this also have moisturizer in them., Bentonite, or green clay, helps relieve itching from bug bites or stings by removing toxins from skin. It is also great for treating acne.Mix clay with enough filtered water to make a paste and apply directly to skin. Let it dry and wash or peel it off.You can also apply a layer of paste to a cloth or clean cotton bandage, lay over skin and secure, and wear for 4 hours.
Look for clay that is untreated.
 Dip a cotton ball into the vinegar and dab onto the itchy area. Apple cider vinegar is an anti-septic and has anti-fungal and anti-bacterial properties.Raw, unfiltered vinegar is the best and most gentle type. Buy organic if possible.
Apple cider vinegar can help pets with itchy skin too. Just add a couple cups to their bath water.
 These leaves can be crushed and applied directly to skin to reduce itching. All are great remedies for bug bites.Peppermint also has a cooling sensation that soothes skin. Freeze crushed peppermint in ice cube trays for double cooling.
Chew plantain leaves and apply to directly to bites, stings, or poison ivy. Steep leaves in hot water to make a spray for relieving pain and itching from sunburn. Just make sure to let it cool first.Rubbing leaves onto your skin also helps satisfies the urge to scratch, and is much better for your skin.
 You can easily grow your own aloe vera plants and use them instead of buying gels from the store that may have added ingredients. Just break a leaf and squeeze out the gel.


You can get more gel from the leaf by filleting the leaf and scooping out gel with a spoon.