 Start with a simple exercise like the lateral step-up, for which you will need two 5 pound weights and a step bench (available at sports stores, department stores, and online). Stand with your right side to the bench, a weight in each hand, held in front of your thighs. Step up sideways onto the bench with your right foot and squeeze your glutes. Hold for a count of three, then step back down. Do this 15 times on each side, working up to three full sets., Position your legs so that they are a little wider than shoulder width, making sure your feet are angled slightly outwards. Lower your body downward as if you’re about to sit on a chair, shifting your weight towards your heels. Hold yourself in this position for 5 to 10 seconds, then lift yourself back up. Do two to three sets of 15 reps.To modify your squat workout, vary the duration of the exercise — for example, try lowering yourself into a squat more slowly over different intervals (e.g. lower your body into a squat within 2 seconds five times, then lower yourself for a full 5 seconds five times, and so on).
 Position your feet directly under your hips and lower your body into a squat. With your right foot, step out to the right as far as you can without your knee turning inward. Then step to the right with your left leg so that you are in the starting squat position with your feet under your hips. Keep your pelvis and body straight. Complete 10 steps, then do 10 steps to the left. Do three sets.
 Place an exercise mat on the ground; lie on your back, with your knees bent at shoulder-width. Thrust your hips upwards, lifting your butt until your torso is straight. Hold several seconds, then lower back down. Do three to five sets of 10 – 15 reps.Add weights to intensify this exercise. Hold weights at your groin to increase resistance.
Experiment with the height of your hip lift. You may find you access your glutes better with a low lift of only an inch or two above the mat.
 Also known as kick outs, these are fantastic for working your gluteal muscles. Start on your hands and knees on an exercise mat. Keep your hands under your shoulders and your knees under your hips. Kick back and up with your right leg, keeping your knee bent at a 90 degree angle. This should put your thigh, butt, and hip in a straight line with your torso. Keeping your leg bent, lower your knee, but do not touch the matt. Do 15 reps, then switch sides., Start standing with your feet together. With the right leg, take a big step backwards, lowering yourself slightly onto that leg. Return to your standing position. Repeat with the left leg, and do three sets of 10 – 15 reps., This exercise can give your butt a nice lift. Start out with your feet together. Step your right foot back and behind the left while simultaneously bending your right knee down so that you drop into a lunge position. It should look like you are doing a curtsy. Then push back up and step your foot back into the starting position. Do the same move using the left foot. Try doing three sets of 10 – 15 lunges with each foot.
 Try a lateral jump; stand turned with your right side 2 to 4 feet away from a step bench. Squat down slightly and hop onto the step sideways, landing on your right foot; bend your knees and hop back down, landing on your left foot. Continue back and forth 15 times, then switch sides and repeat. Do three sets of each.Jumping exercises are great for your glutes. Try double leg side to side jumps, standing broad jumps, jumping jacks, and box jumps.

