 Situational awareness is key to winning the fight. Your mind needs to not only be aware that you need to prepare to fight, but also to quickly take in your surroundings and calculate how to turn the environment to your advantage. If you are taken by surprise, you may be beaten before you had a chance to draw your sword.

Trust your "uh-oh" gut feelings. Having a feeling that something is just not right? That you are being watched? It is just too quiet, or something is out of place, or you hear something but not sure what? Honor your intuition; it may well save your life.
Be aware of threats. If you are not aware of attackers, you are already at a disadvantage. This includes being observant of odd or suspicious behavior, awareness of your surroundings, and often just your "gut feeling".
Be aware of your fighting situation. A fight by two thugs in a darkened alley is different from a tournament fight. A tournament fight is controlled and done with a code of honor. If you are attacked "on the street" (for some reason) you are likely fighting for your life, and should not hold back on "dishonorable" tactics such as kicking, throwing sand in an opponent's eyes, or trickery.;
, Every sword fight takes place somewhere. Awareness of where you are can help access possible disadvantages, and be able to turn the physical environment to your advantage. If you can maneuver yourself so that you can attack and/or protect yourself more effectively--prepare an ambush, force your opponent against a dead end, hide behind a boulder--you are more likely to win. Some sample environmental elements to consider:


Bright sunlight can blind, if it is at the right angle and the right blindness. Forcing your opponent to have the sun in his or her eyes may make it much harder to see you.
Dark environments can conceal, either you or your opponent.
Forests have a host of opportunities for concealment. Trees makes it difficult or impossible to execute massed defenses such as "shield walls" or offenses like typical battlefield formations.
Natural barriers such as cliffs, ocean, or walls cut off mobility and escape routes.
Swordfighters (especially in armor) do not typically do well in mud, marshy areas, ice, or deep, soft snow.
Battlefields require acting as part of a team, even more than an as individual. You will depend on the people around your for survival, and to act rashly alone means likely death for you and your comrades.
Urban environments typically encompass enclosed spaces, such as rooms or streets.
 A trained sword swing takes a fraction of a second, so drawing your sword can take precious time. Also, your sword is of minimal value hanging in its sheath.


On the other hand, if your sword and scabbard are suitable for a quick draw, and you practice, this can be a great surprise attack. It can also intimidate by showing you are a highly trained fighter.
This is especially applicable to the Japanese sword which has styles for attacking people while drawing the blade called Iaido and Batto-jutsu.
 The natural reaction to sword combat is panic. However, if you are tight, in a frazzled state of mind you cannot act with speed, control, or mental clarity. This can be fatal. With practice, you will learn to achieve a state of calm concentration in the midst of danger. Your mind will learn to focus on what is., Always have your feet shoulder wide and when you move, move so your legs spread apart. Never have your feet close to each other. Hold your sword so you can handle it with ease. Watch your opponent's movements and learn when he moves in to attack and launch a preemptive strike (counter).Be quick. When you parry you keep the blade close to you so you don't stretch out to block and always try to counter your opponents attack. Your footing and proper foot placement is key for balance. The more of the sole of your foot touches the ground the more grounded you are giving you greater strength in your attacks. To keep your balance try to slide your feet rather then lift them up and stepping. Leaning forward lifting up your heel also reduces your grounding so be cautious with how your feet are placed and used during each strike because you give great opportunity for your opponent to knock you over. Keep your posture straight and your chest and torso forward which will keep you from losing your balance during your swings and allows you to avoid with a simple twist any blows with ease rather then having your torso turned sideways locking yourself to only be able to evade an attack in only one direction.
 If you charge in recklessly, especially against a trained fighter, he may just wait and let you impale yourself on his sword. By engaging carefully, you are able to maintain control and focus at all times. This also will allow your best defense which most of the time is just sidestepping (or side sliding) your opponents attack potentially saving your life and allowing the opening for your winning blow. Dodging works extremely well in an open space or if you are quick, an indoor room.
 Missing just one block or parry can be fatal, so protect yourself well. Maintain your sword in a position that runs from the bottom of your torso to the top of your head. This is a middle position, suitable for any skill level, that will enable you to respond to an attack with reasonable speed, and also gives you many angles for your own strikes.
 Generally, your sword should be extended a comfortable distance away from your body, and toward your opponent's throat, or perhaps his eye. This is referred to as putting him "on point". It serves as a ward against an opponent (who must, after all, get through your sword first), and can be quite intimidating, especially to an inexperienced fighter.
 An inexperienced fighter tends to stretch out his arms in order to keep his opponent further off, but this will hurt your ability to thrust and parry quickly. Extend your sword towards your opponent, not your arms.
 Although a skilled fighter can keep up combat for extended periods, a real sword fight is quite often determined by the first blow--often decided in less than 30 seconds. Be sure of your attack, for it is likely that if you miss with your first strike, your opponent will take advantage, and end the fight himself with a fatal blow.
 One's "reach" is the weapon plus the length of the sword swing. A long arm with a short sword could equal the reach of a shorter arm and a long sword. What is comfortable will be based on a number of factors: your height, sword length, sword style, and fighting style all affect your proper distance.


If you have a shorter "reach", generally get in close and stay within his or her guard. Do not let him or her push you away. An opponent with longer reach will not be as easily able to get a good swing in, and you can usually swing faster than a person with a longer "reach".
If you are using a longer sword, keep your distance. A longer sword makes it possible to keep the opponent farther away and thus less likely to make contact.
If about the same, generally stay about where it would only take one large step forward to attack.
 Poise can decide a fight as surely as the sword, and is an effective stratagem. If you are nervous or frightened, your opponent may try to take advantage of your lack of confidence and attempt to goad you into making a fatal mistake. Cool warriors tend to make others wary, unsettled, and ideally fearful.


You can still stay calm, but prefer to show aggressiveness and intimidate your opponent instead, or even pretend to be scared, or even make him or her laugh in the hope of lulling your enemy into making a fatal error.
Each strength has a weakness. For example, a tall fighter may have longer reach--but it may take longer to throw a shot, and height is a disadvantage in an area with a low ceiling height.
Each weakness may have a strength. An inexperienced fighter is also one that is difficult to predict.
 This is just a fancy way of summing everything else in this article up in one sentence but its very important in it's own right too. If you succeed in finding the flow and controlling it you have a very good chance of almost directly influencing the entire fight directly through you actions. It is a difficult concept to grasp but try the next time you spar during practice.


Find the patterns and flow from one move to the next and try to control your opponent. Generally fighters fall into strikes, defenses, and tactics that are most familiar and comfortable to them. It takes many years and lots of practice to accomplish this but if you do this then the battle is already half yours.
 Most sword fights are won with simple, well timed and well placed blows and parries. Flashy elaborate moves are generally best left to martial arts movies. There are practical purposes to certain showy maneuvers in the right situation in the right opportunity. However, unless you are an expert you are more likely to leave yourself open for an embarrassing defeat. For instance, do not spin in a circle. It may look cinema-ready but leaves your hard-to-defend back open to blows.


One possible useful purpose: intimidation. Showing a less experienced fighter that you are able to easily pull off fancy maneuvers can crack the other person's confidence. Making the opponent question his or her abilities against you is a huge psychological win.
Another good tactic: distraction. If your opponent is busy watching you dance around, that might be the time you need to find an opening in the defense.

