 Stripes are a simple, baby-friendly design that are easy to create yourself with some paint and paint strips. Lay the paint strips over the wall to paint on your first shade. Let this shade dry completely and then fill in the bare spots with your second color. This is a quick, easy, low-cost design that works great for a nursery., The busier you make your decorations, the more expensive they'll be. Focusing in on a single focal point can save you money. Instead of having many decorations spread across the room, pick something like a large area rug for the center of the room. This will draw attention to a single spot in the room, making it look decorative while saving you money on excess decorations.Look for cheaper items for your focal point as well to save even more money. Check secondhand stores and discount websites to find the centerpiece you want.
 If you don't have a lot of money to spend on professional supplies, decorate on your own. Even if you're not artistically inclined, things like stencils are easy enough to use.If you want a decorative dresser, for example, buy one secondhand. Paint it yourself and then stencil on the designs you want.
Use chalkboard paint. You can use colorful chalk to draw any designs you want. As your baby gets older, they'll be able to experiment with painting and drawing on the wall.
 When you're having a baby, you may receive a lot of toys your baby is not old enough to use. While you're waiting for the toys to be safe for your baby, use them as decorations. This will save you money buying knick-knacks for shelves and drawers.Fill in bare spots in your bookshelf with stuffed animals. For example, a stuffed owl could be placed on the bookshelf.
Place things like figurines, plastic dolls, and action figures on mantels and dressers.
 You can save on buying decorative items by doubling up and making your storage devices decorations. Go for things like decorative baskets, shelves, and floor storage. This can spruce up the room and add a splash of color without making you go over-budget on expensive decorations.You can also paint duller items in your nursery. For example, a yellow dresser can brighten up a room. Try painting a neutral-color piece of furniture in a bright, kid-friendly shade.
 Your decorations do not have to come from a store. You can fill the nursery with personal decorations. Hang up family photographs. If you have other children, have them make artwork for the new baby.Feel free to get creative. Make a collage, for example, of family photos.
Arrange family photos and mementos in a frame, using decorative paper for the background.

