 There are many factors involved with adoption that may make pre-adoption counseling useful. This counseling may help prepare you for any issues a prospective adoptee may face in addition to those you may face yourself. Ultimately, pre-adoption counseling may be useful to prospective adoptive parents, and some adoption authorities may ask what—if any—counseling you have gotten., Counseling during the adoption process can also be useful for prospective adoptive parents. The process can be difficult, and you may want some support along the way. Consider finding counseling services that can help you during the process., Post-adoption counseling can be very helpful with transitioning your family after the adoption has been completed. There are many areas for which counseling therapy can be useful post-adoption. Seek the help of a counselor post-adoption to help with the relationship you will be building with your adopted child., The national requirements for intercountry adoption are that you must be a US citizen and you must be at least 25 years old if you are unmarried. Married couples must adopt jointly and both be US citizens (or one spouse must at least have legal status in the US if the other is a citizen). Additionally, you need to go through the home study, criminal background check, and get fingerprinted., Your state may have additional requirements for intercountry adoption. You must meet these requirements as well. You can find out what your state requirements are by visiting the Child Welfare Information Gateway website., There are additional requirements from within India of which prospective adoptive parents should be aware. For instance, though there is no residency requirement, some Recognized Indian Placement Agencies (RIPAs) may want you to spend seven days in India with the child before you may bring him or her back to the US. Other requirements include:


Age: Those wishing to adopt an Indian child under three years of age must be between 25 and 50 years of age themselves, and the combined age of a married couple may not exceed 90. Indian children over three years of age may be adopted by married parents between 25 and 50 years of age with a combined age of less than 105. Single adoptive parents must be between 30 and 50 years of age, and Indian children less than three years of age cannot be adopted by parents over 45.
Marriage: You do not need to be married to adopt, but married couples need to have been married for at least five years. Also, India does not allow same-sex couples to adopt.
Income: You will need to show that you have adequate financial resources and income enough to support your adopted Indian child.
Other requirements:

Single males may not adopt female children.
Additional adoptions can only take place after the previous adoption is legally finalized except in the case of adopting siblings.
Prospective parents cannot have any contagious or terminal illnesses nor mental or physical problems that may interfere with their ability to care for the child.
 The provider will ensure your home study is performed in accordance with the law surrounding intercountry adoption. The agent of the provider will have the authority to complete the home study by way of state authorization or certification. They will be supervised by another agent with experience in intercountry adoption.


The provider will charge a fee for the home study, which will be presented to you in writing.
The home study will include a determination of your suitability to adopt.
You will have to provide a copy of the home study report to the adoption authority in India.
You will have to file the home study report at the same time as the Application for Determination of Suitability to Adopt a Child from a Convention Country.
 The interview and home visit will take place at the same time. All adult members of the household must be present at the time of the visit so they can be interviewed. The living conditions will be evaluated in addition to the mental, physical, and emotional states of the prospective adoptive parents (and any other adult members of the household).Your ability to care for a child with special needs will be evaluated if applicable.
The home study may also assess how many children you may adopt or place restrictions on what children you may adopt (if you cannot accommodate a child with special needs, for instance).
The provider will also want to know what counseling (if any) you have gotten regarding your adoption and/or what counseling you will get post-placement.
 You may be asked to give information about debt, income, and expenses—including those related to caring for other members of your family. Be sure to be as thorough as possible in giving information to the provider in order to facilitate the process of the adoption as easily as possible., The provider will complete a criminal background check in order to ensure your have not been cited for child abuse, etc. You may also be evaluated for drug abuse, sexual abuse, or domestic violence, particularly within the relationships of the adults in your household.You must disclose any criminal history or you may have your application denied.
 If you have ever had an application rejected for any reason, you will need to explain this to the provider. This is especially the case if you were rejected because of an unfavorable evaluation of an adult member of your household., You must file the application with United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). The application must be submitted at the same time as the home study and there will be an application fee of $720 plus an $85 fee for fingerprinting of each adult member of your household. Since India is a party to the Hague Adoption Convention, you will need to file the form for a Convention country, which is Form I-800A.Supporting documentation may include proof of citizenship as well as a copy of your marriage certificate.
India does not allow same-sex couples to adopt Indian children.
File your application first, and do not contact parents, guardians, or anyone else who may be responsible for a child who is up for adoption.
 Once your application has been approved in the United States, you will be connected with the Indian adoption authority—the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA). Once you are connected with CARA, they will determine your eligibility to adopt an Indian child under Indian law., If you are deemed eligible to adopt an Indian child by CARA, you may be referred to a child available for adoption. This may be based on information about you, the needs of the child, or both.CARA will generally try to find a home for a child in India first, then they will look for Indian families abroad, after which they may place the child with a non-Indian family.
 You must get provisional approval from USCIS to allow the child to immigrate to the US. This approval will be considered as part of Form I-800. Once approval is received, you will receive an email to submit form DS-260, the immigrant visa form. You will also need to send a photo of the child. Upon approval, you will receive an Article 5 letter, which will allow you to bring the child into the US so the adoption can move forward.Do not try to adopt any child before the Article 5 letter has been issued.
 Your adoption service provider will work with CARA and the court to complete the adoption in India. From the time the I-800 form is accepted, the process may take up to eight months including procuring a passport for the child in India. You will have to complete an adoption application with the Indian authority and pay any adoption fees.Be sure to include the required documents with your application, a list of which can be found on the Intercountry Adoption page of the US Department of State Bureau of Consular Affairs page.
 Once you adoption has been completed in India or you have gotten legal custody to complete the adoption in the US, you will need to get a visa for the child to enter the US. In order to get the visa, you will need a birth certificate and passport for the child in India. With these, you can get the visa for the child., If the adoption is completed in India, he or she will gain American citizenship upon entry into the country. If not, you will need to complete the adoption in your home state to earn the child's citizenship.The child may be forced to renounce his or her Indian citizenship upon gaining American citizenship, which may also require the surrender of the passport.

