 Each social media site allows you to decide what information is shared with the web and what is private or shared with contacts. Take advantage of this feature and easily protect yourself from a stalker. Set your settings to only share information and interact with friends or contacts.Be vigilant on all of your social media platforms and adjust your privacy settings.


If you have accounts on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Tumblr, Instagram, and Youtube, for instance, make sure check your privacy settings on each and maximize them across the board.;
, Geotagging automatically shows your location from your smartphone. This can be dangerous because a stalker can know where you are and, more importantly, if you’re at your home or away. Go to the application’s settings on your phone and disable geotagging or location features.Turn off all location and geotagging services for social media.
 If your username on Facebook is “puppiesandcookies", anyone can plug that into a search engine and find your other profiles under that username. If you have multiple social media accounts, use a different username for each one. This will help protect your privacy and make things more difficult for a stalker.Don't keep the same username and just add hyphens or change a few letters. A skilled cyberstalker will know how to find your account if the name has only had minimal changes.
Have a different email address, too.
 If you have a friends list on your social media account, hide it. A stalker may try to reach out to a friend of yours in order to get close to you. Your friends or contact list can be managed through your privacy settings.

Let your friends know about the stalker and not to respond to strange messages or contact requests.
 Keep your computer free from threats or breaches in security by installing safety software and a firewall.If you use an account from another computer, log out before you leave. If you fear the stalker may try to break into your account, create a secure password.

Make sure no one can use or find your information, from the outside or the inside.
 If you have old accounts that are currently inactive, delete them. This is especially important if the sites have personal information or photos of you. Think back to any accounts you opened when you were younger and have since abandoned. You might need to change the password if you’ve forgotten it. Log on, then delete the account entirely.For example, if you have an old Myspace account that you haven’t used in years, take it down. It might have photos or information that you don’t want to be shared with a stalker.
 Taking your private information off is a way to protect your identity on the internet beyond social media. While search engines will rarely remove content on your behalf, you can take some steps to minimize what shows up when your name if searched. Do a search on your own and deal with each result individually.


For example, if your search result comes up with Pinterest boards, unlist your pins and change your account privacy.
If you fear for your safety and want to take every measure possible to remain safe, remove your internet identity.

