 Each person has their own concept of what it means to be “rich.” For some it is attaining a certain level of personal worth, or having the financial freedom to acquire and enjoy the finer things in life. For others, being rich means attaining financial security--owning a home, having no debt, and having disposable income, for instance. Keeping in mind that money only increases happiness to a certain point, ask yourself what your definition of “rich” is: What income level do you think it would take to achieve your goals or dreams?
Do you want to build wealth through working, investments, or some other means?
What kinds of things and experiences would you hope to gain from being rich? A huge home? A yacht? The ability to travel the world?
What less tangible things would make you feel rich? Supporting a family? Becoming a leader in your career? Being able to make significant donations to charities?;
, If you are working to build wealth, then the job you choose to pursue will be an important decision to make. Top-earning positions in business, technology, and other high-demand areas can be your ticket to success, but also very hard to come by. If you have slightly more modest goals, you can start building wealth as long as you have at least some money left over after your bills are paid. But to be both rich and happy, you will need to find your job meaningful. People are often told that “doing what you love” is the key to success. You can’t always turn your passions into a way to make money, however. Concentrate on finding a job that allows you to earn the level of income you want, and that you value--even if it’s not your dream.
For example, painting landscapes might be what you really love to do, but hard to turn into a career that will lead to wealth. However, you might be able to pursue a well-paying job managing a museum or arts foundation, and paint in your spare time. While you might not become super-rich this way, you can attain financial security and still find work in an area you value.
On the other hand, don’t make the mistake of seeking a job you hate, just because it leads to lots of money. That’s a sure way to become burned out and unhappy.
 In most cases, to become rich, you’ll have to do more than just earn money: you’ll have to put your money to work, too. Look for ways to invest, seek out business ventures, and keep your eye on other opportunities to grow your nest egg. In the meantime, live below your means--avoid spending extravagantly, even if you feel like you have plenty to spare. Try doing things like:


Buying an economical car instead of a Rolls Royce
Downsizing your home to reduce your mortgage or rent payment
Regularly setting aside a specific portion of your income for saving and investments
Putting some money toward investments that are higher-risk but have the potential for higher returns, such as stocks, rather than just toward relatively safe but low-earning investments, like savings accounts.
Talking to a Certified Financial Planner (CFP) or other trusted advisor to plan your investments and wealth growth.
Living frugally, which can increase your happiness.Studies show that less clutter, fewer things, and fewer expenses can reduce stress, so keep it simple even if you are rich.

