 Research the realities of day-to-day life in your dream destinations, as well as any hurdles that you will have to overcome in order to get there. Then ask yourself how much hassle you are willing to endure in order to travel. Weigh this against the benefits of travelling there to make sure that your trip will still be a positive experience in the end. Consider things like:Whether you will need to get a passport, visa, and/or vaccinations beforehand (which will also have to be factored into your budget).
How developed their infrastructure is in terms of medical services, public transportation, roads, internet and cellphone service, and availability of ATMs and/or currency exchanges.
How comfortable you’ll feel when visiting a country or region where you don’t speak the local language.
What special needs you or fellow travelers may require based on age, disabilities, or medical conditions.
 In addition to deciding how long you will be travelling, decide when you’ll be going. For each destination, research what weather you should expect during this timeframe. Decide whether these conditions are tolerable to you. Then judge their impact on the activities you hope to pursue while there.For example, if you don’t mind the extra heat, humidity, and afternoon thunderstorms, there is little difference between visiting Puerto Rico in the summer and any other time of the year.
On the other hand, if you’re an outdoorsy type who hates the bitter cold, but who can only currently travel during the winter, you may want to postpone that trip to Maine for another time.
Also consider the weather's impact on your health or those who will be joining you, based on age, medical history, and current health.
 Of course, a special event (like spending New Year’s Eve in Times Square) may be part of a destination’s draw for you.But if not, research each destination’s cultural calendar to see if they will be hosting any big activities during your stay there. If so, gauge whether this will add or detract from your own experience.


Research how large of a crowd will attend based on past numbers. Then find out how this number affects availability for things like accommodations, tickets, restaurant seating, and transportation.
Consider the nature of the event versus the people you will be travelling with. Planning a family vacation to, say, Daytona Beach during spring break may not be the best idea.
 Stay up-to-date about the current environment for each destination. Although it is impossible to foresee every eventuality, be on the lookout for any trends that indicate consistent danger. If traveling abroad, refer to government websites (such as https://travel.state.gov/content/passports/en/alertswarnings.html) for alerts and warnings about specific areas. Always consider:Health risks, such as outbreaks of diseases.
Civil unrest, like protests, riots, rebellions, and war.
Spikes and trends in crime.
Environmental concerns, like seasons of high-risk (such as hurricane or wildfire seasons).

