 This may be a few basic resolutions or an involved regime. Overall, try to eat a balanced diet rich in fresh fruits and vegetables and whole grains. Consume moderate amounts of proteins (like meat, fish, eggs, and beans) and milk products, and keep high-fat and sugary foods to a minimum.Don't obsess over caloric intake - just try to eat fresh foods instead of processed ones to feel light and energetic throughout the day.;
, It's important to create a routine so you don't skip out. Try to incorporate your exercise regime as a habit (i.e. every morning after you brush your teeth).


Many people find a bit of free time in the morning is best; you'll also be energized for the rest of the day.
 An environment in which you are comfortable and can move about freely should do the trick. Avoid places with a lot of distractions.


If your surroundings permit, consider expanding your workout space beyond the home. The yard, streets and/or parks in your neighborhood are all potential places to get fit. Plus, a little change in the environment can really help break the monotony of any workout.
 Think of what parts of the body you want to get stronger, and which ones you want to stretch.
 Have a notebook on hand and write down your workout. This will help you keep track of things and make sure you do the proper amount.
 While it's possible to get fit without any special equipment at all, having some basics will help things go smoothly.


Clothes: Wear soft, comfortable clothing. You don't need anything fancy, just what feels good and allows you a full range of movement. Don't forget supportive footwear for walks, jogs, and aerobic exercises.
Equipment: If you have the space and budget, you can opt for a treadmill, stationary bicycle, or elliptical machine. If not, look for a few basics like hand weights, a jump rope, and a yoga mat.
 Whether it's losing a certain amount of weight or training for a marathon, having a goal helps keep you motivated. Be realistic, however: any fitness plan needs to be gradual.


Remember: slow and steady wins the race. Don't push yourself too far, but stick to your plan. It's better to exercise a little bit each day than a lot once.
 Warming up increases the blood flow to your muscles, improving mobility and reducing the risk of injury.A light walk or cycle will do.
 As opposed to static stretching, where you hold a stretch for several seconds, dynamic stretching is done through slow, controlled movements. Studies suggest dynamic movement is best to do after your warm-up and before the main part of your workout. Aim for several repetitions of 30 seconds each.


Lift your knees high or kick them out straight in front as you walk. For a spine stretch, twist your upper body in the direction of the leg (i.e., right leg up, twist to the right).For neck motility, lift and lower your chin, then lower your left ear to your left shoulder and right ear to right shoulder.
Swing your arms up over your shoulders and then down and back, then swing them out to the side and crossing in front of your chest.
Do circles with your hips clockwise and counterclockwise.
Stretch to the side slowly in a standing position., This is also known as the aerobic part of your workout, during which your heart rate should increase. Beginners should try for 30 minutes of cardiovascular workout for a minimum of three times a week.You can increase the intensity of your warm-up activity: walk, cycle or jog faster.
Do a short aerobics video.
Jump rope., These exercises build strength. Aim to do resistance exercises 20 to 30 minutes three times a week; a good goal is to do three sets of 10-15 repetitions of each exercise. Try to include strengthening for all the muscle groups. There are hundreds of exercises out there, but here are a few to get you started.For upper body, try push-ups, overhead dumbbell press, and many other dumbbell exercises.
For abdominals and core, you can do planks or sit-ups. It's important to always keep your lower back rounded (not arched) while doing abdominal exercises, so you target the right muscles and avoid hurting your back.
Build lower-body strength with squats and lunges.Work your hip and back muscles with hip bridges. Lie on your back with your feet flat on the ground, hip-width apart. Squeeze your buttocks and lift your hips up so that there is a straight line between the knees and shoulders. Hold for 2 seconds, slowly lower, and repeat., Now's the moment for static stretching. Try to do at least three 15-minute sessions per week. Stretching is a great stress reliever. Remember, though: breathe, don't bounce, as you hold a stretch. Try to hold positions for 30 seconds. Stretching should never hurt! Go gently.


Hamstring stretch: Sit on the floor with your legs out in front of you, feet up. Reach forward toward your toes and hold.
Calf stretch: Stand and extend one leg behind you with the foot on the floor. Bend the front leg slowly, keeping the hips and shoulders square. Repeat with the other leg.Quadriceps stretch: Stand on one leg and grasp the ankle of the other. Pull your heel up and in towards your buttocks. Keep your knees close together.Hip flexor stretch: Kneel on your right knee and put your left leg out in front, knee bent. Put your right hand on your right hip and shift your weight onto your left leg, leaning forward but keeping your back straight.Shoulder stretch: Bring your left arm across your body and hold it with your right arm, above or below the elbow., Your cool-down segment should be similar to the warm-up - a short, easy walk, jog or cycle that lowers the heart rate.
 If you find yourself with very little time on your hands, try working out as you do your chores. Focus on calorie-burning activities like raking leaves, mopping, scrubbing the tub or vacuuming.


Listen to some upbeat music and do squats, push-ups or jumping jacks every time a new song starts.
 Two or three 10-minute walks around the neighborhood per day adds up!

, Gardening is good exercise, and if you grow some vegetables, you have healthy food for free!

, If you live in an apartment building, climb up and down a few flights every day - even if you live on the first floor. Stair climbing is a great strength-building aerobic exercise.
 Keep a small weight near your phone so you can pump your arms as you talk.