 Look for the Amazon app in your apps menu and tap on it to launch. The app icon is blue with a white shopping cart inside it.
 The first time you use the app, you will be asked to log into your Amazon account. Enter your login details into the fields provided, and tap “Sign in.”


If you don’t have an account, tap “Create an account” and provide your name, email address, and password to instantly get an account.
 After signing in, the home page will open, and on the extreme top left you will find the three lines vertically piled up. Tap the three lines and tap “Today’s Deal” from the options that appear. The page will then display the Deals of the Day as well as available Lightning Deals.
 The Deals of the Day will be displayed at the top of the page. You can check out how many items are included in the deal by the number beside the “Deals of the Day” heading.
 Swipe up on the screen to view the list of Lightning Deals. Lightning Deals are the best deals that are timed. If you purchase within the time specified below the item, you’ll be able to save on the purchase.


Tap the right arrow across the “Lightning Deals” heading to view more items under the Lightning Deals category. Swipe up the screen to check out more items.
To filter the items, tap the “Filter” button at the top of the page. A list of filter options will appear. Tap on an option to view Lightning Deal items under that filter category.
 The items in Savings & Sales are discounted, some even up to 70% off. Unlike Lightning Deals, which are available only for a certain number of hours, Savings & Sales items are available for a number of days, which you can find below each item.


To view items under Savings & Sales, scroll down the Today’s Deals page until you find the first item under the “Savings & Sales” heading. Tap the right arrow across from the heading to see all items under this category.
To filter the items, tap the “Filter” button at the top of the page. A list of filter options will appear. Tap on an option to view Lightning Deal items under that filter category.

