 What are your qualifications? Here is a list of some ideas to add to your bio, or strive for to add in the future:


Your name and where you are from.
Your story of your first psychic experience. Keep this short, sweet and interesting.
Your past professional speaking engagements.
Any notable clients who don't mind you sharing their name.
How you are engaged in your gift. Do you also write, blog, or publish your experiences?
How you can be reached: website, phone number, social media.;
, Make sure they are consistent. It is not professional when you suddenly clam up when someone asks you how much your services cost, or if you make up rates on the fly. You may be asking too much or not enough which will also affect your reputation.


Look up competitors rates. Since you are just starting out it is not typical for you to charge the same as a psychic who has been building a reputation for 10 or 20 years. Undercut these rates a little.
Clearly write what each service offers and provide the price.
 Start doing full readings for friends and family, and in exchange request a written referral that you can share by publishing on your website or in advertising materials.


Also, ask if the friend or family member you are providing a reading for would allow it to be video taped. This will help any prospective clients get a better idea for what to expect from a reading.
 It isn't necessary to pay for a website, since there are free ones available that have the domain carriers name in your website title. Although, if you pay for the site you come across as more professional. Be careful when choosing a website provider. There are companies that charge an intro rate and then charge a lot the following year and some force you to pay for 3 years up front. Shop around for the right website provider for you. These are some (but not all) of the info that you should have on your website;


A home page. Usually this will have some graphics
An about page with your bio (see step 1)
A services page and rates (see step 2)
A contact page
Link to your blog
A mailing list option
A picture of you, if you feel comfortable
Images that make people feel like you're a serious psychic
An FAQ page (frequently asked questions)
Referrals and written praise  (often on your home page)
Link to YouTube videos of your readings
Link to your social media pages

, You are now a professional psychic. Professionals share their craft with others in many ways. Before, it was the days of trade magazines; now serious entrepreneurs opt to reach out to others in their field, those who hope to be in their field and perspective clients with professional blogs.


Unlike a website, it isn't necessarily unprofessional to blog using a free provider; however, if you already pay for a website domain name, you can easily fit your blog on its own page. Additionally, if you focus on keywords in your blog your site will appear higher on Google results, which will help build your reputation.
 Social media will add to your opportunity to show up on web searches and create an opportunity to network and become well known. You may want this professional social media to be separate from your personal social media. Social media like Facebook and LinkedIn will help you build your reputation as a serious psychic and not someone who is toying with the idea.


Make sure your photos are professionally focused and cropped from mid-arm. Dress in a suit or a professional style dress with hair done in a kept manner.
Choose network connections or friends which are supportive of your business and take you seriously. Use your social media to give tips and offer specials. Also use this opportunity to thank your clients for a good reading; however, only tag or use names with their permission of course.
Don't forget to post your YouTube videos to be shared with friends of friends and so on!

, Experts are often guest speakers. There are some places that will let you participate. For example, offer an entertaining session of your experiences as a psychic at the library, or a question and answer segment at a mystic store. Although you hope to make a living with your craft all year round, Halloween is the time that people are more likely to go to see a psychic speak. This is a good time to offer your speaking services.
 It can focus on your experiences, act as a “how to," answer questions, or be a combination of the three. You can charge for it or make it free. You can also run a free special on it to participate in free ebook mailing lists or even give it out on your website in exchange for them joining your mailing list!

, If you do not feel comfortable providing your home phone number or primary cell phone, there are other options available to you.


Download a free app on your cell phone which gives you a local phone number to use for free. Sometimes the number of minutes you can talk is limited so it is important to compare the options.
You can also purchase an internet phone number with a low monthly or yearly fee.
You can use the phone number that you were forced to pay for in a cable television/internet bundle. If you are concerned for privacy, make sure you know what comes up on the caller ID or if the number is connected to your address in the white pages.
You can purchase a disposable cell phone and only purchase minutes as you use them or pay a low monthly fee by not purchasing data or texting.
You can use a free answering service like Google Voice. However, this does not come across as professional when the caller can hear that you are using a free service.
 This is essential for building your reputation as a serious psychic. Give these out during any opportunity to help build your name and associate it with this field.
 This will help to build your reputation and help you to be taken more seriously. Ask around you may know many bloggers and not even realize it!


Also, if you contact the local newspapers and magazine (don't forget the free ones) around the time when they are planning out their Halloween editions they may be more likely to ask you to aid in an article.
 If you go to their house you can leave whenever you are ready. If they come over, expect to entertain them with food or beverages afterwards.
 Brick and mortar options which are safer for strangers or referrals of people you have never met.


At least one of your local libraries may have a room you can request often for free which are private.
If your business is growing you can rent a store front.
You can rent a space just when needed by looking for offices which are available for traveling professionals.
Offer a small percentage to your local mystic store. They might even make a sale if you are bringing people who are normally not in that store in for the first time or the first time in a while.
 Collect payment online or through your website.
 Once you have offered free readings to friends and family, ask them if they know anyone who might be interested in getting a reading or getting a reading for someone else. People often just think about the people closest to them, but they may be missing someone who is merely an acquaintance but would truly benefit. Try asking whether anyone they know is:


Getting married? This is a unique wedding gift and they may want to connect with someone close to them before the big day!
Graduating from college? Also a unique gift for a very confusing time in life.
Having a baby?
Celebrating a birthday around Halloween?
Recovering from grief?
Going through a break-up?
Having a big birthday party and might want an interesting attraction at the party?
Getting a booth at a fair and might be willing to split the cost?

,


Parents at your children's school or parents of your friends
Co-workers
Your bosses (be careful about conflict of interest)
Door men and maintenance people you run into everyday
Your waiter, waitress, hostess or bartender at every restaurant you go to
The valet
Your retail cashier
Your neighbors
People you went to school with
People from your book club, writing club, genealogical club, etc.
People on your sports, debate, team
Your pet's vet, the technicians, desk associates, etc

, Groupon and LivingSocial for example allow you to set your own price for services. You can offer them local/ meet in-person services as well as Skype services. You can offer a variety of specials in one advertisement. For example, you can offer a discount on one reading, three reading packages and five at the same time. Be sure to offer the best deal on the largest so that you can create a habit of consistent readings.
 Here are some suggestions:


Florist
Cafe/ coffee shop community boards
Library community boards
At your speaking events
At your local college community board
At wedding dress stores
Tanning salons
Bars
Liquor store counter

, Running specials or introductory readings can get extended business You might consider offering:


Bachelor/ bachelorette party group specials
Birthday party- each guest gets a 5 minute reading.
Office Christmas party specials
Mother's Day, mother/ daughter two for one specials
First reading can be half the usual price.
A special where they pay full price for the first but get another free reading. Specials like this create the experience that a reading isn't just a one time thing.
 For example, you might:


Offer your services at a non-profit raffle.
Find an independent sales representative who does make-up parties and offer to come at the expense of the representative to help attract more people to his/ her parties.
Create a “customer appreciation day” with your local mystic/ psychic store to offer free 5 minute readings at the expense of the store owner.
 Don't feel shy to place an ad online like Craigslist asking someone to help find clients for you. Provide cards with his or her very own discount code.


Also you may know a person who isn't afraid to hear the word “no.” This kind of personality is perfect for getting your referrals. Make sure you hold up your end of the bargain so he or she will be motivated to continue you helping you get more clients. Something is better than nothing especially in a business which has very low overhead.
 If so it is very easy today. Consider looking into companies which allow you to take payment online or through your cell phone or tablet. Fees vary, so compare.
 Some people won't use this, but it's an easy link from your website to collect payments without you needing to be present. You decide if this method works for you.
 When you collect cash, it is necessary to provide a receipt for services. These can be as complicated as a computer generated invoice or a carbon-copy pad from a dollar-store.
 Checks are slowly becoming a thing of the past with online credit processing and the inability for the receiver to know if there will be deficient funds until the check-writer is long gone. It is up to you whether you accept this form of payment.
 If you take your business seriously so will the IRS. Keep track of every reading and how much was charged. To offset your income, keep track of every bit of expense. Look up or contact an accountant about how to pay taxes and opportunities for write-offs.


For example, look up laws about how if your office is in your house.. Additionally, don't forget any expense like your business cards, fee for using space for readings, festival booths, website, giving referral money, office/ store front rental, phone number, Groupon/ LivingSocial fees etc all count against your income.
 You are allowed to do business as a sole proprietor and you are even allowed to use a “DBA” (or Doing Business As) name that you can get at your town or city hall for a fee of around $10.


If you want more protection, you can set up a limited liability company. This is more complicated and you may need help for this. The fee is higher too, but if you get sued your belongings in your name will not be effected. Only the belongings in your businesses name.
 Nowadays with all of the legal commercials people seem to think they have a right to sue about everything.
 Even though your services are very real, it is legally advisable to proclaim that your services are for “entertainment purposes only.” This gives you the right to exchange your product for money but protects you from having to refund the customer if the customer decides that it wasn't real. Consult a lawyer to discover if you should have a signed waiver before performing your psychic services.

