 The leader in the dance should guide the follower by giving little tugs or pushes that let the follower know when to turn, hesitate, dip, or perform other moves.









The lead should be a gentle push with the man's hand on the woman's hand, shoulder or waist.
 This is named such because your initial movement is, believe it or not, on 1. You'll be moving on 1, 2, 3 and 5, 6, 7. 4 and 8 are held. If you're watching a tutorial, you may hear the instructor use only these 6 beats, or just call out 1 and 5. Here are the basic moves:









Start with both of your feet together
On the first beat, step forward with your left foot.
On the second beat, rock back on your right foot.
On the third beat, step back with your left foot, placing the weight on the ball of your foot.
On the fourth beat, place your weight toward the heel of your foot (you do not pick it up and move it). Apart from a slight shift in weight, the fourth beat is held.
On the fifth beat, step back with your right foot.
On the sixth beat, rock forward on your left foot.
On the seventh beat, step forward with your right foot, placing the weight on the ball of your foot.
On the eight beat, spread out your weight evenly on your right foot, but not lifting it up.

Think in terms of fast, fast, slow. 1 and 2 are fast, 3 is slow (because 4 is held). The same goes for 5 through 8. 1, 2, 3 is left, right, left and 5, 6, 7, is right, left, right. That's it!



, It's the same as "On 1," except for on 2. Ha. Use the following basic steps to dance the Salsa with your partner:








Start with both of your feet together
Hold the beat on the first beat and do not move.
On the second beat, step forward with your left foot.
On the third beat, rock back on your right foot.
On the fourth beat, step back with your left foot.
On the fifth beat, hold the beat and do not take any steps (but do even out your weight).
On the sixth beat, step back with your right foot.
On the seventh beat, rock forward on your left foot.
On the eighth beat, step forward with your right foot.

With this beat, you'll be moving (and hearing) 2, 3, 4 and 6, 7, 8. 1 and 5 are held (silent). Repeat these steps to the rhythm, since Salsa music uses 4/4 time and contains eight beats.



