 According to the teachings of the Church, Mormon youth should not date before the age of 16. If she isn’t 16 yet, she almost certainly won’t go out with you. Even after that, the Church discourages them from entering serious relationships before they are considering marriage. If all you are looking for is some non-serious dates to have a good time, you should be fine., Even though there aren’t strict rules about who should be doing the asking, it is always easier for her to say yes when presented with the opportunity. Be specific when you ask. This means first being clear that you want to go on a date. You don’t want any confusion between you two about what you are trying to do. This also means giving her something specific to do. Don’t ask vague questions like “Do you want to go out sometime?” Instead, give her the option of a specific event and time, maybe “Do you want to see a movie on Friday?” She may not be able to go at that time, but you’ve given a solid suggestion, and she may be willing to work with you to find a good time to go out.
 You should want to keep things new and interesting, as you would in any relationship, while still allowing your date to maintain the standards of her faith. If you need alcohol or coffee to have a good time, you just aren’t being creative enough. Consider a mix of activities that are inexpensive, and allow you to talk and learn about one another.Some good ideas include going on a walk or a hike, going to a museum, or having a picnic outside. You can always expand these into group dates by inviting other couples along, which may make her more comfortable in the early stages of your relationship.
Because service is important in the Mormon faith, she may be interested in doing something that will help others, like helping someone clean their yard. The important thing is doing it together.
It’s always a good idea to plan for the date in advance. This way, if you run into unforeseen problems, like the movie is sold out or you can’t get a seat at the restaurant, you have some backup plan. Make sure she knows the plan, so you both can dress appropriately. You don’t want her in jeans if you are going to a fancy restaurant., If you were the one who did the asking, it is simply chivalrous and gentlemanly for you to pay for dinner, the movie, or whatever else you do. Teenagers and college students don’t usually have the money for regular movies and dinners, so don’t be afraid to look for things to do that don’t cost any money. Going for a walk, playing a game, or watching TV at each other’s homes are good activities that don’t cost you anything. The important thing is that you are getting to know one another, not that you are always doing fancy things.
Later on, you shouldn’t always be paying. If your relationship is moving forward, or she suggests doing something more expensive, it is not inappropriate for her to help pay as well.

