 If you live in a colder climate but have Callas growing in the garden, consider removing your Calla rhizomes, or bulbs, over the winter to give them a better chance of survival. To do this:


Wait until just after the first frost. Cut the withered foliage back to three inches above ground level.;
, Carefully dig out your Calla rhizome. Be sure to dig a much wider hole than you think you need to. Doing this will help you avoid damaging the bulb with your spade., Gently dislodge as much soil as you can from the healthy bulbs without damaging the roots. Rinse the bulbs under cool running water (such as the water from a garden hose) to remove the rest of the soil.
 It isn’t worth keeping any rhizomes that are diseased or damaged. Throw these out with the trash.


Avoid composting diseased plant matter as doing so can spread infection the infection to other plants.
 They should be well spaced to allow air to circulate between them. A cool dark place such as a garden shed or garage is suitable. It may be better to avoid bringing them into a heated home as the heat may be a shock that could cause mold to form on your bulbs.


60 to 70 degrees F is an ideal temperature for rhizome storage. Try not to let them be exposed to sunlight.
 After they have dried out for a few days, put the rhizomes into paper bags with a small amount of dry peat moss or vermiculite. Putting the moss or vermiculite in the bag will help to prevent one bulb from infecting another if it develops mold.


You can also use a cardboard box if you make some ventilation holes to let air circulate. Avoid letting the bulbs touch each other and put moss or vermiculite between them.
 Damp and rot are the biggest threats to overwintering rhizomes, so try to keep them dry where possible and store them in a dark, dry place. They should not dry out completely however. If the bulbs appear dry or shrunken, a light mist with a water spray should prevent them from drying out too much.
 Callas need to rest for a few months before growing again. Try to plant them in mid or late spring once the threat of frost has passed and the ground is warmer.


Your Calla is more at risk of rotting because of the winter rain rather than the frost so avoid planting if the ground if waterlogged, even if the weather is mild.
 You can plant a Calla lily outside in a container and move it inside for the winter. When planting, use decent-quality compost and make sure the container has good drainage holes. Plant the rhizomes with the eyes upwards so that they are just visible in the soil.


Once flowering ends, give the pot a feed with a potassium-rich fertilizer (one suitable for tomatoes will do). After that, cease watering your container-grown Calla lily and move the pot to a cool dark area once the foliage withers away. A dark corner of a garden shed is suitable. Don’t water your plant again for three months and avoid cutting the foliage until it has withered away.

