 If you've already decided that they are going to hate you, chances are good that you will feel awkward, anti-social, and down during the date. Whether you know it or not, your date will pick up on this. Similarly, if you already decide you don't like someone, you'll spend the whole date looking for faults and issues with them. Dating is supposed to be fun and casual, so go into each date with your expectations cleared and your head held high.
 Bring them to somewhere they like or feel comfortable. Mildly crowded restaurants, outdoor events, or small get-togethers are often the best places to go because neither party feels awkward pressure to be romantic or perfect. You will have plenty of time to be romantic. For now, focus on being yourself and having fun.
 Both parties on a date are trying to find out if they would be compatible together. Finding out if you're a good match with someone is hard enough, but it is near impossible if you spend all your time trying to make someone like you. What's more, putting on a show gives a false impression of you to your date, which will come back to bite you when your act falls apart later in the relationship.


While it seems obvious, be yourself. You want someone to like you because of who you are, not who you pretend to be., Good face-to-face conversation is still the best way to get to know someone. Luckily, conversation is something almost anyone can excel at. You don't need a list of topics to have a good conversation, just a willingness to go with the flow and ask questions. Feel free to share things about yourself, but when in doubt about what to say you should ask questions about them. People love to talk about themselves and feel like someone is interested in them. Ask about work, their family, etc, but whatever you do, be genuine. What do you want to know about them? What made you interested in them?


The best questions are specific. Instead of "What do you do at work?" try "What do you enjoy about your job?"
Don't make your date all about you. If you spend the entire date talking about how great you are, chances are good this will be the last date you go on with them.
Avoid controversial topics like religion and politics on your first date. These topics are often incendiary if you don't know the person well enough to be respectful.
 While this seems tough to determine, the signals are actually pretty obvious. If your date leans in frequently, makes a lot of physical contact (shoulder touching, linking arms, etc.), holds long, strong eye contact, and smiles in your direction, they likely are into you. Start slow, perhaps by giving a compliment or moving in close to their face, and see how they react. If they don't pull away it might be time to go in for a kiss.


If you are not interested in continuing to see someone, then politely say goodnight and go home. Do not feel like you need to kiss them or reciprocate feelings you don't share.
 Casually mention that you'd like to see them again sometime. While you don't have to make plans on the spot, as it can seem a little clingy, say that you'll be in touch and would like to go for drinks. If they smile and agree, then you should try and organize another date in the next 1-3 days.


Ignore things like "the 3-day rule" and just be yourself. If you feel a connection, pursue it whenever feels comfortable.