 While smell is the largest trigger, simply being in a place where you know the smell was once can make you gag. Even thinking about certain food can make you feel nauseous. Keep track of what makes you feel nauseous and write them down. Avoid these things as much as possible.Smells are not limited to food. They could be the way the subway smells, sprays, chemicals, or stinky feet.
 Two common environmental factors that you should avoid if you are concerned about nausea is cigarette smoke and bright lights. Of course, you should avoid cigarette smoke as much as possible because it is not good for your baby when you inhale it, even if it is second hand. Stay away from people who are smoking and ask any family members or friends to avoid smoking near you. Bright lights can trigger nausea and vomiting, so keep the lights in your house dim if you can., When you take a pill, there is a chance that it will trigger your gag reflex, which in turn can cause you to feel nauseous. You will most likely take a few pills each day to keep your baby healthy.


When you take these pills, take them with a gulp of water, or put them in something like yogurt, which can be swallowed without chewing.
 Stress can trigger the vomiting center in the brain, so it is a good idea to stay as stress-free as possible. If you are feeling stressed or anxious, talk to a trusted friend or family member about what you are going through. Often, talking to someone can relieve your stress.You can also stress-free activities like:


Yoga.
Meditation.
Watching a favorite movie.
Gardening.
 Working yourself to the bone can make you really tired. When you are exhausted, it is much more likely that you will become nauseous. No one knows your body better than you, so listen to it—take breaks when you need to and don’t be afraid to simply rest when you begin to feel tired.
 Wearing tight clothing can make it difficult for you to breath. Shortness of breath can cause nausea so it is a good idea to wear loose clothing that is comfortable and will allow you to breathe as deeply as you like., Weight loss before pregnancy can also reduce the chances of hyperemesis gravidarum. Since high levels of estrogen play a part in hyperemesis gravidarum, it may help to reduce those levels. Women who weigh more generally have higher levels of estrogen, so if you are very concerned about hyperemesis gravidarum, you can try to lose weight before you become pregnant., A healthy mind can lead to a healthy pregnancy. Exercise causes your body to pump out endorphins, chemicals that make you feel happy. When you are happier, you feel less stressed. Stress can actually have an effect on your gastrointestinal system and can cause you to feel nauseous.