 There are a few different kinds of medicines you can buy to help relieve ear pain. Ear drops can help with the pain. You can also use acetaminophen (like Tylenol) or ibuprofen (like Advil) to help relieve pain.Do not use aspirin in children under the age of 2 years or in any child or teenager after the flu or the chicken pox.Giving aspirin to a child or teenager can lead to Reye's syndrome, which is a potentially fatal disease that causes the brain and liver to swell. The risk of a child or teen developing Reye's syndrome is even higher after the child or teen has had chicken pox or the flu., Most adults with mild ear infections heal within a week using home remedies. However, if the ear infection is severe enough, your doctor might prescribe antibiotics. Generally, antibiotics are only used in severe cases and not for every ear infection. If the pain or infection is bad enough, your doctor can prescribe eardrops or other medicine.For children younger than six months of age with an ear infection, antibiotics should be given immediately. Do not try to use home remedies for an ear infection on a child.
Amoxicillin is the most commonly prescribed drug for ear infections.Your doctor may recommend taking 500 mg every 12 hours or 250 mg every 8 hours for a mild to moderate infection. For a severe infection (patients with fever) your doctor may prescribe 875 mg every 12 hours or 500 mg every 8 hours.
Your doctor may also prescribe amoxicillin-clavulanate if your infection does not respond to amoxicillin or if you have severe ear pain and/or other symptoms, such as a high temperature.If you are allergic to penicillin, then your doctor may prescribe cefdinir, cefpodoxime, cefuroxime, or ceftriaxone instead.
Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and Moraxella catarrhalis are bacteria that may be to blame for your ear infection. Taking antibiotics should attack the bacteria. However, if your infection does not seem to improve within 48 to 72 hours after starting antibiotics, then call your doctor.
 There are a number of commercial ear oil products that can be purchased in most stores or online. Examples of these include: Wiseways Herbals, NOW Ear Oil Relief, HerbPharm Kid’s Mullein/Garlic Ear oil, and Gaia Herbs Ear Oil with Mullein/St John's wort. Try these if you don’t want to make your own.


Make sure to follow the directions for use.
If your child has an ear infection, do not try to treat it yourself. Ear infections in young children are more likely to lead to serious complications, such as hearing loss, facial paralysis, brain abscess, and meningitis.Take your child to see a doctor right away if he or she is having ear pain.

