 You may find the hottest, cutest outfit in the mall, but it won't do you any good if you don't feel comfortable or yourself while wearing it. Your lack of confidence will show. Instead of trying to look like everybody else, why not try to make your own style and wear what you feel most comfortable in? Who knows, you might start the next fashion trend!

, You don't have to wear accessories if you don't want to, but they can really make your outfit look more complete. For example, a wide belt over a maxi dress or a simple tunic can really take your outfit to the next level! Choose accessories, such as belts, hats, and jewelry that match your outfit, personality, and style.


Look through fashion magazines to get ideas.
Can't afford cute accessories? Make your own!

, An outfit may look super cute by design, but it won't look cute if it is messy, dirty, or smelly. Take good care of your clothes, and wash them when they get dirty or smelly. Take care of the way you put your outfits on. It is fine if you prefer a torn, ragged, "punk" look, but try not to be sloppy about it.
 Wear vibrant tops if you like your upper body/arms and slimming pants if you love your legs! If you don't feel good about any part of your body, ask a friend (or even a friendly sales associate) to help you find an outfit that will look cute on you. Sometimes, it is easier to see what looks good on other people than it is on yourself—your friend might be able to see something that you don't!

, There is an outfit for everyone out there! Whether you are skinny or overweight, you can still wear similar clothes, such as shorts and tank tops. What matters, however, is the cut. For example, if you have narrow shoulders, you'd look better in tops that have thinner straps. If you have broader shoulders, you'd look better in tops that have wider straps.
 Being kind is one of the easiest things to do to look prettier. Think: you could be the prettiest girl on the outside, but you may be really mean. Would you want to be that girl, or would you want to be the kind, friendly girl everyone wants to talk to?

, Whoever you are and however you look, own it. Beauty is a mindset. Feel beautiful, and you will be beautiful. Just look in the mirror. You don't need a wiki page to remind you that you rock.

