 Arrange the cornhusks in a pan. Cover them with hot water. Let the cornhusks sit in the water until they are soft and pliable.This will take about 1 hour., Set the corn husks aside on a paper towel so that they can continue to dry., Beat the butter until it is light and fluffy., Add them into the bowl and stir them in with a rubber spatula., Stir everything together one last time until evenly combined. At the very end, you may have to use your hand to knead the dough. Set the dough aside when you are done., Put the shredded chicken, cubed Pepper Jack cheese, and enchilada sauce into a mixing bowl. Add the thinly sliced green onions. Stir everything together with a rubber spatula., Arrange your corn husks on a flat surface. Scoop two tablespoons of the masa filling onto each corn husk., Use your fingers or a spoon to flatten the masa filling slightly. You should have a 1½-inch (3.81-centimeter) border of corn husk all around the filling., Use a spoon to help nudge the chicken filling into place., Fold one of the long edges of the corn husk over the masa filling. Roll the husk around the masa and meat filling until you reach the other end., Position the ties to either side of the filling. This will keep the filling inside dry and prevent it from turning soggy. You can use thin strips of soaked cornhusk or baker's twine., Fill your pot with 1½ inches (3.81 centimeters) of water. Insert a steamer basket., Arrange them in a single layer laying down. If you are using a smaller pot, stand them up vertically. Be careful not to pack them too tightly, or they won't cook right., Bring the water to a boil over medium to medium-high heat. Once the water is boiling, reduce the heat to medium-low. Cover the pot with a lid, and allow the tamales to cook. They are done when the masa is spongy and comes away from the husks.This will take about 30 minutes.Check the water from time to time. As it cooks, it will evaporate. Refill the pot as needed.
 Once the tamales are done cooking, take the pot off the stove. Set it down on a heat-safe surface. Let the tamales sit inside the pot for 10 minutes., It might be a good idea to use a pair of tongs to remove the tamales, as they will be still hot. Do not unwrap them before serving them; allow the guests to unwrap the tamales on their own. This is part of the fun of eating them!