 White peach scales are pests or small insects which attack the twigs and trunks of trees, and can even kill them. Spray with dormant oil sprays in the winter to control the pests. Avoid using insecticides because the insects protect themselves against it with their armor.Mixture ratios and spraying guidelines vary based on your tree. Be sure to read and follow printed instructions on the manufacturer’s bottle.Most call for a mixture of 1–2 tablespoons (14.8–29.6 ml) of oil per gallon of water to be used with a pressurized sprayer.Avoid spraying when temperatures are below 40ºF.
When applying, be sure to coat the entire tree including branches, trunk, and the underside of the branches.
 Sooty canker is a wilt disease that affects limbs and branches of mulberry trees. Trees that are affected usually wilt in hot seasons, have cankers on limbs that eventually die back, and have brownish cracks that split open to reveal fungi. Keeping the tree fertilized and well-watered will help to prevent canker disease. If infection appears to be affecting branches, trim limbs at least 1 foot below the site of infection.There’s no chemical control for sooty canker disease, so always make sure to prune dead branches as soon as you recognize them to avoid spreading the disease.Avoid over-watering and over-fertilizing as this stresses the tree and makes it more susceptible to disease.
Always make sure you clean your pruning tools after use., Popcorn disease is caused by fungus and occurs in late spring and early summer.The fruit becomes large and extends more prominently than healthy fruit, until it resembles popcorn. The best prevention method is to pick and discard any fruit that appears to be infected, including any fruit that has fallen.The disease isn’t harmful to the tree itself so if you aren’t interested in the fruit, you don’t have to worry about preventing the infection.
You can also try spraying the tree with a Bordeaux mixture to treat the disease. However, it is often not affective because it is difficult to spray down the entire tree., Powdery mildew is caused by fungi and is evident when the leaf’s surface appears to be covered by a white, powdery substance.You can control the mildew by spraying your tree with an approved fungicide such as Serenade Garden Disease Control.Mixture ratios and spraying guidelines vary based on your tree. Be sure to read and follow printed instructions on the manufacturer’s bottle.