 School age children won't want to be treated like children. Kids in this age group will appreciate it if you speak to them in a mature way and will be excited to show off their speaking skills. Talking down to children may actually annoy them and make interacting with them more difficult. Always try speaking to school age children with mature language to help them feel respected and acknowledged. If a child doesn't understand what a word means, they will usually be happy to have it explained to them.
Scolding or nagging children this age will likely only cause trouble. Instead, simply let your expectations be known and ask them how they plan to meet them.
 School age children will want to begin exerting some of their own control in life. Allowing them some basic responsibilities or a chance to plan their schedules can be a good way to interact with school age children.You might let a child decide what time of day they sit down to do their homework.
You can try letting them decide how much help they want with their homework.
Letting a child make some of their own choices can be a good thing. However, you should be ready to say no to something if it is unreasonable.
 Children between the ages of six and eleven will want to be taken seriously by the adults around them. Even if you already know the answer to a question they might ask, it's a good idea to take a moment and appear as though you are thinking about it. Showing this consideration can help a child feel like their thoughts, questions and opinions are being considered and taken seriously.For example, a child might ask you if they can eat ice cream for breakfast. You already know they can't, but it can be a good idea to say something like “Hmmmm. No, I don't think that's the best choice. Let's think of another thing to eat.”
You can also try asking a child to repeat the question to show that you are interested in what they have to say and make them feel like they are being heard.
 Showing a child respect and giving them your full attention will help build a positive relationship. Children are individuals and want to be treated as such. Making eye contact and speaking directly with a child can help them learn how to engage with adults and will make them feel that they are being heard and addressed. Whenever you are caring for a child, try speaking with them in a way that you would want to be spoken to. Giving a child your full attention will make them feel acknowledged.
Try to let a child speak fully before speaking to them. This can be a way to model good conversational habits.
 Children of all ages love to play and school age children are no different. However, school age children generally won't like the same activities that younger children might and may want to do something more involved. Try looking over some of these example activities to help make your time together fun for both of you:You could try building a race track by laying down lines of painters tape to mark “the road”.
Play a game of animal charades and try to guess which animal the other is pretending to be.
You could both build an indoor obstacle course. Try leaping over pillows, crawling under string, balancing a ball on your head or any number of safe, homemade obstacles.
Try building something out of popsicle sticks or cardboard.
Play some simple card games or work on a puzzle together.

