 A mole (also called congenital nevi) is a pigmented birthmark (caused by an overgrowth of the melanin-producing cells) on the skin that generally appears during childhood. The typical characteristics of moles include:Tan, brown, red, pink, blue or black color.
Smooth, flat, wrinkled or raised texture.
Oval to round shape.
Typically less than 1/4 inch in diameter but sometimes moles can be bigger.
Sometimes moles have hair growing on them.
Most moles are harmless but in rare cases they can become cancerous. Monitor your moles and contact your doctor if their appearance changes.
 These pigmented birthmarks are sometimes caused by a genetic disorder called neurofibromatosis. This condition is divided into three distinct types; the mildest form (neurofibromatosis 1) appears in childhood and is characterized by flat, light brown-colored birthmarks on the skin:Café au lait spots can be present at birth or appear during childhood and then stabilize. They can be treated with lasers but often return.In addition to birthmarks, neurofibromatosis 1 may be characterized by freckling in the armpit, soft bumps on or under the skin (neurofibromas or benign tumors), tiny, harmless bumps on the eye (called Lisch nodules), and/or bone deformities.
The two other types (neurofibromatosis 2 and 3) are much less common than the first type and are characterized by more serious symptoms and tumors.
If you suspect your child has neurofibromatosis, consult the pediatrician. Neurofibromatosis can't be cured, but your child’s pediatrician will monitor the complications and treat the symptoms., These are pigmentation birthmarks in children that commonly disappear when the child reaches school age. Typical characteristics of Mongolian spots include:Blue or blue-gray-colored spots on the buttocks, back, spine, shoulders, or other areas.
Flat and irregular shape.
The skin texture is normal.
Typical size is between 2 and 8 centimeters wide.
Because these marks disappear on their own, no treatment is recommended., Also known as salmon patches, stork bites or angel kisses, these are faint red vascular birthmarks (a result of blood vessels not forming correctly) most commonly present on the forehead, eyelids, back of the neck, nose, upper lip, or on the back of the head.They are characterizes by flat, light pink patches on the skin.
Macular stains typically fade away on their own by the time your child is 1 to 2 years old but some may last into adulthood.
 This is a vascular birthmark that usually is permanent and does not disappear on its own. However, some treatments can make these marks less noticeable.Laser treatment, such as the pulsed dye laser, is the only way to reduce the appearance of port wine stains. Laser treatment can lighten the mark but often works better in children.
You can also try to use cosmetics to hide these birthmarks if laser treatment proves unsuccessful.
 These are vascular birthmarks that appear within a couple weeks after birth and are often found on the head and neck.Hemangiomas are characterized by skin discoloration that may disappear within few months after birth or can take up to 12 years to fade away.Hemangiomas in the eye and mouth may cause complications, such as ulcers, and sometimes they can appear on the internal organs (stomach, kidneys and liver).
Consult your doctor if you suspect your child has internal hemangiomas that may cause complications.
Most hemangiomas can be treated or shrunk with medical treatment, such as oral propranolol, steroids or vincristine. In some cases, plastic surgery may be needed.