 Researchers have found evidence that smoking impedes cognitive function and may even shrink the size of your brain’s hippocampus.Research has shown that smoking can decrease abilities related to memory, planning, and overall mental ability., There are a number of foods that researchers believe can lend themselves to improved brain function. Of course, eating walnuts won’t make you a genius, but it may help your brain do what it needs to, and maybe do it a bit better.


Food high in omega-3 fatty acids, like walnuts and fish, are important to brain development and may help regulate mood and concentration.Eating foods rich in magnesium is also believed to improve brain function, and, because many people are magnesium deficient, increasing your intake might also be a good idea in general.
Antioxidant-rich foods are believed to help protect the brain from degeneration and are primarily found in fruits and vegetables. The darker the fruit or vegetable, the higher it usually is in antioxidants.For example, blueberries, blackberries, plums, red beans, and black beans are all high in antioxidants.Food rich in whole grains helps to regulate your body’s glucose levels, and because glucose is what your brain uses for fuel, keeping your levels steady is important to your mood and ability to concentrate. Good sources of whole grains include foods like steel-cut oatmeal, brown rice, and oat bran., Maintaining an exercise routine and a healthy diet is important for not just your physical health but for your mental health as well.Cardio activity releases a potent mix of hormones important to improving mood, relieving stress, and boosting concentration.A number of studies have connected exercise with improved cognitive function, including memory, attention, and the ability to move easily between different tasks.Though there isn’t an absolute consensus, many experts recommend moderate cardio activity 2-3 times a week in order to get the full mental benefit of exercise.
 You’ve certainly been admonished about it often enough, but sleep is important. And it turns out it’s notably important to good brain function.


Get at least 6 to 8 hours of sleep each night. Not only will it help you to concentrate and keep you alert, it will also help prevent loss of gray matter in your brain over time.
 Research has shown that daily meditation can improve your brain as well as your well-being. Meditation is believed to particularly improve decision-making and information-processing abilities.Meditative practices like yoga and tai chi have also been found to improve mood and mental function.