 At best, he is seriously misguided, and at worst, he is potentially violent and very unsafe. You always have a right to say no; this is important in considering whether and how to protect your safety.


Learn how to read emotions. A tense or harsh tone of voice may indicate someone is angry or upset. Facial cues might indicate the same, such as drawn in eyebrows, dilated nostrils, and a hard, piercing stare. If you notice these signs, try to end the interaction as soon as possible, or get in sight of others., If you feel that this guy is likely to hurt you or make you extremely uncomfortable, you're probably right. If you think that he isn't horrible but just misguided, then you're probably right. Err on the side of playing it safe. You don't want to get hurt.


Learn to trust your gut. How do you feel in your body when you are around this person? Does your heart beat fast in alarm? Do your fists clench? Do you find yourself holding your breath? All of these could be bodily signs that this person is making you uncomfortable, even if he has a smile on his face., Direct confrontation may lead to escalation, so avoid telling him off; he might start threatening you or turn violent. Trust your instincts and find ways to either end the interaction or get around others.


For example, you might look at your watch and suddenly exclaim that you are late for a meeting or appointment. This can be a good way to get away from the person. It also demonstrates that someone somewhere is waiting on your arrival, and will be wary if you are late.
 Some men become loud, threatening, or violent if a woman keeps saying no. He is less likely to do this if you are somewhere with more witnesses, and you are more likely to run into a kind bystander who can help you out.


Crowded areas are far safer than isolated places.
Look for other women. Many women can recognize the signs that a woman is being harassed by a guy, and can swoop in to the rescue or get outside help.
 If he won't listen to you, maybe he'll listen to someone in a position of power, whether it's a boss, bartender, or teacher. This person may also be able to threaten consequences if he doesn't knock it off.


At work and school, you have a right to focus on your work in a nonthreatening environment free of harassment.
 See if you can politely excuse yourself when he comes by. Say something like "I need to finish a project," "It's getting late," or "I'll see you around." Most people understand that if they follow you out, they would look like a creepy jerk, so he is likely to not do that.


If he starts following you, go straight for a crowd, authority figure, or police.
 If he won't listen to you being straightforward, then it's time to get outside help. Explain the situation and ask for help in extricating yourself from this situation.


If he's pressing you in public, start crying or saying no. Loudly. If he tries to cover it up by acting like he wants to comfort you, push him away. People will recognize he's bothering you, and they'll come help.
If he lays his hands on you after refusing to leave, then scream. Scream loudly and persistently until he leaves or someone comes running.
 An extremely persistent or violent guy may leave you with no other option than a restraining order or harassment charges. You deserve to be able to go about your day without worrying about what he'll do next, and you certainly deserve to be at peace.

