 Although this seems obvious, you can't be a fan of you hate their music. This doesn't mean force yourself to like every single song, it just means you should generally enjoy their music.;
, Coldplay is a band formed in Lond in 1998. Coldplay achieved worldwide fame with the release of their single Yellow, followed by their debut album, Parachutes.
 Coldplay originally was more of a light rock band, but has since moved into the category of alternative and even pop. Although Coldplay has remained an enjoyable band over the years, some longtime fans may be offended if you forget Coldplay's roots.
 There's:


Chris Martin, lead vocalist and pianist
Johnny Buckland, lead guitarist
Guy Berryman, bassist
Will Champion, lead drummer and backup vocals

, Currently, there are:


Parachutes
A Rush Of Blood To The Head
X&Y
Viva La Vida Or Death And All His Friends
Mylo Xyloto
Ghost Stories
A Head Full Of Dreams

, Chris Martin is a crazy guy at the concerts. You can't get the full effect unless you're there in person.
 It may be a bit difficult to remember the lyrics for all of their songs, so just remember some of the most notable songs, like Viva La Vida and Adventure Of A Lifetime.
 In interviews, Chris Martin has revealed the meanings of a few of his songs, but some are ambiguous and can be interpreted many ways.
,, This is the long part. Coldplay has released many singles, but only a few live albums. Some can only be found on their official website.
 These include Miracles, which was composed for the film Unbroken, the acoustic versions of their songs, remixes (such as the Seeb Adventure of a Lifetime remix), Prospekt's March, and other songs bundled with their singles.
 There are a ton of underrated Coldplay songs, like Lost?, Lost!, Lost+, Lost-, Lost@, Lovers in Japan, Birds, Lhuna, Speed of Sound, Talk, and Such A Rush. Make an effort to make these songs more popular, at least in your circles.
 Although a few of their music videos are a controversial topic, they're still a good watch.
 It can be found here.
 Here, you can be updated on the latest buzz about them. Below is a list of their social media profiles.


Facebook: https://m.facebook.com/coldplay

Twitter: https://twitter.com/coldplay/

Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/coldplay/

Tumblr: http://coldplay.tumblr.com/

Shazam: http://www.shazam.com/artist/33281/coldplay/follow


, This includes shirts, posters, mugs, etc.

