 This will open a small window, called the "console," where you'll be able to enter your cheats.This keyboard shortcut is the same for all versions of The Sims for Windows and Mac. If you're playing on a Mac, make sure you use the Control key, and not the ⌘ Command key.;
, Once the console screen is open, you can type the cheat you want to use and press ↵ Enter or ⏎ Return. This will run the cheat. For a rundown on some basic cheats for all versions, see the PC and Mac Cheats section below.
 If you can't get Ctrl+⇧ Shift+C to work on your Windows computer, try Ctrl+⊞ Win+⇧ Shift+C. This is usually caused by another program, such as a screen recording program, that takes over the usual cheat console shortcut., If you can't get the shortcut to work with the left Ctrl key, try using the one on the right side of the keyboard.
 Sometimes something goes wrong with the Ctrl key on the keyboard, and plugging in a different one can help solve the problem. Plug in a USB keyboard and try using it to enter the shortcut. This solution works most often with MacBook laptops., If your keyboard is set to a non-Latin layout like Japanese or Korean, you may not be able to enter the shortcut correctly. Try switching to a different keyboard layout and then try the shortcut again:


Windows - Open the Control Panel and select "Language." Click the "Advanced settings" link and then click the drop-down menu in the "Override for default input method." Select a Latin-based input method such as English.
Mac - Click the Apple menu and select "System Preferences." Select "Keyboard" and then click "Input Sources." Click the "+" button and then add a Latin-based input source, such as English. You can then switch between input sources by clicking the flag button in the Mac menu bar.
 The game will need to be paused in order to activate Cheat Mode. You can pause the game by pressing the Start button to open the Pause menu.
 Press and hold the following buttons at the same time to activate Cheat Mode:PlayStation 3 - L1 + L2 + R1 + R2

Xbox 360 -  LB + LT + RB + RT 


, Enabling Cheat Mode will disable earning Trophies or Achievements. If you want to proceed, select "I understand. Let the cheating begin!" You'll be prompted to save a copy of your game so that you have a cheat-free version.
 When you enable cheats, you'll no longer be able to earn Trophies or Achievements on that save file. Creating a copy of your save will allow you to play two different games: one without cheats that lets you earn Trophies or Achievements, and one with cheats where you can use cheats as much as you want but cannot earn Trophies or Achievements.
 After creating a save file for your non-cheats game, cheats will be activated. A dialog window will appear, explaining how to access the cheats.
 In order to use cheats, you'll need Spoot the Llama, which is available for free in the Decor section of Build & Buy mode. Press  
SELECT (PS3) or  ◁
BACK (360) to open the mode selector and choose "Build & Buy."

, You should see Spoot the Magic Llama at the top of the list.
 Spoot is free, so you'll just need to "purchase" it to be able to use it.
 You can place Spoot anywhere on your lot. Place it somewhere easily accessible, as you'll be interacting with it whenever you want to use a cheat.
 Once you've placed Spoot, press  
SELECT (PS3) or  ◁
BACK (360) and switch back to Live mode. This will allow you to interact with Spoot and use cheats.
 When you select Spoot on your lawn, a menu will appear around it. You'll be able to select from several different cheats, including free money, maxed karma, happiness points, and more.
 L2 or  LT and select a Sim. This will display new options that are unlocked when you turned on cheats. You can change the Sim's age or move it to your active family.


You can also hold L2 or  LT and select a mailbox make all of the residents happy, freeze their needs, force a visitor or NPC visit, make friends, and more.
If you hold L2 or  LT and click empty ground, you can teleport the current Sim there.
 The following are a few of the common cheats for The Sims. You can find more advanced cheats by searching online:



rosebud - This gives you 1,000 dollars in Sim money.

move_objects on - This allows you to extend your Sim house into the street, and also lets you delete your Sim. However, if you mistakenly delete your Sim, all you have to do is double click on his/her pic on the bottom of the screen to make your Sim reappear.

;!; - This simple cheat is one of the most useful for money. After entering rosebud once, copy and paste ";!;" into the cheat box until you hear a low thudding sound, signifying that the text box is full. Press enter to immediately receive approximately $120,000. You can repeat this cheat as often as you like.
 These cheats work for The Sims 2. They can be useful for quick money, or for moving objects to normally illegal locations:



kaching - Gives you 1000 simoleons.

motherlode - Gives 5000 simoleons.

moveobjects on - Allows you to place objects anywhere you like, such as putting a shelf through a sim. You can also delete stuff that normally cannot be deleted, such as homework, dirty food, roaches and dirty trash.

boolprop testingcheatsenabled true - Testing cheats used by the creators of the game. Shift-click (hold shift then click) on the mailbox, or a sim to give you options such as toggle zits, make an NPC selectable and many more! You can also drag your Sim's relationships and needs.
(Open for business required) sethour x - Sets the hour of the game to the value typed in the x. Example, sethour 7 will make the game's time become 7:00 am, sethour 13 will make the game's time 1:00 pm. This is useful when you come home from community lots.
(Open for business required) maxmotives - Puts every sim in the lot's needs to the max.
(Open for business required) motivedecay off - Prevents your sim's needs from decaying.
 Enter any of the following cheats for Sims 3. Use these cheats to get some money quickly, teleport characters, and more.



testingcheatsenabled true - ⇧ Shift-click on the ground, click on teleport here, and your Sim will teleport there immediately! Additionally, when you shift-click on your mailbox, this cheat will give you a list of options including "make needs static," so your needs will never go down! You can also drag your Sim's motives to the max, and drag relationships in the relationship bar to the max!

kaching - Gives you 1000 simoleons.

motherlode - Gives you 50,000 simoleons.
 Use these cheats to teleport sims, give yourself money, and more:



testingcheats true - Many cheats will not work if this cheat is not enabled first. Shift-click on the mailbox and you sill be giving options such as "disable need decay" which stops needs from going down. Shift-click on the ground and you will be able to teleport. Shift-click on a person and you will be able to make the sim happy. Shift-clicking on an object which is able to get dirty will give you the option to make the object dirty or clean.

kaching - Gives you 1000 simoleons.

motherlode - Gives your household 50,000 simoleons.

careers.promote job - Replace job with any job in the game such as writer. Jobs which are two words should be written as one like secretagent. Promotes you by one level.

