 In order to build up a Serbian vocabulary, you need to do more than merely encounter Serbian words. You will need to memorize them. Create flashcards of common words. Practice with your flashcards until you have a strong grasp on the terms.Begin with 10 common words.
It may help to include a phonetic pronunciation guide for yourself on each card.
 Babies are excellent at learning new languages because they are not too embarrassed to babble and verbalize new sounds. You can also sharpen your basic Serbian skills by using the same resources a baby would use.Practice short, simple words.
Look for baby books or baby toys that help Serbian kids learn to speak.
Don’t worry about perfect pronunciation or grammar. These skills will come in time.
 The absolute best way to learn Serbian is to speak with someone who speaks the language. Ideally, your conversation partner will be a native speaker, but anybody with a decent grasp on the language will do. Practicing out loud will reinforce the skills you have already learned, while encouraging you to build new sentences out of the words you know., If you can’t find an in-person partner to practice Serbian with, find someone online. You can use foreign language forums, or social media to find friends who speak Serbian. Then use a video chatting platform to meet up virtually., If you still can’t find anybody to talk to, you can always speak to yourself! Speaking out loud has a profound effect on your memory, so practice your Serbian any time you can. Speaking to yourself can keep Serbian words and phrases fresh in your mind, and this practice can build up your skills for the next time you can speak with someone else., Start a notebook for your new language journey. This is an excellent place to record new vocabulary words and phrases, and to keep track of your progress. But most importantly, this is a great place to practice your growing Serbian language skills. By writing in Serbian by hand, you will be accessing a different part of the brain, thereby solidifying your understanding and memorization of the Serbian language.