 Binge eating, or feeling compelled to overeat, is one of the main symptoms of bulimia. Common signs of bingeing include eating large quantities of food in a short time, even when not hungry; eating alone; hoarding food; or hiding empty food containers.Don’t confuse bingeing with regular overeating. Everyone overeats sometimes, and it’s generally not considered a problem unless it is a common occurrence. Bingeing, on the other hand, is a compulsive behavior that can cause feelings of guilt, depression, or being out of control. Someone with bulimia, binge eats at least once a week and continues for months.
Binge eating usually involves elements of secrecy and shame. People who binge may only eat in private, buy food at different stores to conceal their habit, hide their empty wrappers and containers, or replace food so no one will know they ate it.;
, Many people with bulimia try to make up for the excessive amount of calories consumed during a binge by purging the food afterwards, often by vomiting. The person may also abuse laxatives .


Common signs of purging include regular bathroom visits after meals, tooth or gum damage, swollen cheeks, and scars or calluses on the knuckles. Some people with bulimia also purge by using laxatives or enemas., Instead of physically purging, some people with bulimia compensate for their binges by fasting or over-exercising. Someone with bulimia may take an all-or-nothing approach to food and severely restrict their intake when they are not bingeing.Others may spend excessive amounts of time exercising to burn off the calories they consume.


How much exercise is too much? While it’s healthy to maintain a consistent exercise routine, any type of workout can become destructive if it’s taken to an extreme. Disordered exercise patterns are often characterized by prioritizing exercise over other responsibilities, feeling restless or agitated when exercising isn’t possible, and continuing to work out even when sick., Bulimia doesn’t always cause weight loss — in fact, many people with bulimia are normal weight or slightly overweight; however, this eating disorder can cause physical symptoms other than weight changes.


Signs of purging such as swollen cheeks, scarred knuckles, or bloodshot eyes can all be giveaways of bulimia. The smell of vomit may be another sign that something is amiss., Many eating disorders stem from a negative body image. Someone with a negative body image may see themselves as overweight or unattractive, even if others don’t. Constant self-criticism, comparing one’s own body with other people’s bodies, and idealizing an unrealistic body type are also signs of negative body image issues.Someone with a negative body image is excessively concerned about the way their body looks. This can lead to the idea that attaining a “perfect” body would lead to a better life. An eating disorder is sometimes the result of this irrational belief.
Body image issues often have their roots in early childhood. Children who are criticized for their weight may develop a negative body image that persists into adulthood.
People with perfectionistic or self-critical tendencies are especially likely to have a negative body image.
 Low self-esteem is a big factor in the development of eating disorders. Someone with a low sense of self-worth may try to feel better about themselves by changing the way their body looks, which can lead to an eating disorder like bulimia.


Signs of low self-esteem may include being hypersensitive to criticism, excessively seeking approval from others, having a pattern of turbulent relationships, or habitually being unconfident and unassertive., Trauma is a major trigger for the development of eating disorders. Not everyone with bulimia has a painful past, but many people with this condition have suffered sexual abuse or another kind of trauma.


Some common symptoms of unresolved abuse or trauma include withdrawn behavior, anxiety, anger, or mood swings., For many people with bulimia, their eating disorder started as a way of coping with stressful life circumstances. Bingeing may serve as a comfort mechanism or an escape, while purging or restricting calories restores a feeling of control.


Common stressors that can cause eating disorders may include relationship problems, problems at school or work, illness, or a difficult home life., Bulimia can be dangerous or even fatal if it’s not treated. If you have bulimia or suspect that someone you know has it, it’s essential to seek medical help immediately. A doctor can perform a physical evaluation, help you come up with a plan for recovery, and refer you to a therapist to address the emotional aspects of bulimia.


If you are unable to urinate, have heart palpitations, vomit blood, or have black stools, call a doctor or visit an emergency room immediately., Bulimia can damage the body in many different ways. By performing a thorough evaluation of your health, a doctor can determine whether bulimia has caused chemical imbalances in your body or damaged your heart, bones, lungs, or mouth. A thorough physical examination can help you and your doctor determine the best path to recovery for you., Food logs are a valuable aid in diagnosing and recovering from bulimia. Writing down everything you eat, as well as your mood and thoughts at the time, helps you to stay mindful about your food choices. A food log can also help a medical professional assess your eating disorder accurately.There are many ways to keep a food log. You can jot down everything you eat in a notebook, fill out sheets prepared by a nutritionist, or even use an app on your phone.
 A mental health professional can help you break the negative thought patterns that create and reinforce disordered eating habits. Often these negative thought patterns are too unconscious or deeply ingrained to fix without professional help. A therapist can help you create healthier thought patterns and find ways to deal with your emotions without resorting to disordered eating.


Therapy can be an effective way to work through unresolved trauma, poor self-esteem, and negative body image issues, which are often at the root of bulimia and other eating disorders.
 There are numerous sources of support and information on the internet. Many of these can help you find local groups where you get get face-to-face support from others who are recovering from eating disorders. Try searching here: http://www.nationaleatingdisorders.org/find-help-support or here: https://www.eatingdisorderhope.com/recovery/support-groups/online to find groups in your area or online.