 Take a good look at the assets you have at your disposal, you probably have more than you realize. Consider your savings and retirement accounts, any equity you might have in real estate, valuable vehicles or other belongings, along with any other investments you've previously made. It may be possible to sell these assets, or you can use them as loan collateral. You should also have a discussion with your bank about your credit line - they may be able to offer you enough credit to get your restaurant up and running., Commercial bank loans are the most common form of start-up funding for aspiring businesses. However, securing a loan from a bank as a first-time restaurant owner has its challenges:



Inherent risk factor. Commercial banks typically find start-up restaurants extremely risky to finance, since more than 25% of new restaurants fail within the first year of opening. Bank loans are risky for restaurant owners as well. If the restaurant business does go under, the owner is still responsible for repaying the loan.

Bias against first-time owners. Lenders examine restaurant loan applications closely, and first-time owners usually confront skeptical lenders when presenting their business plans. For subsequent openings, the process becomes much easier. Lending institutions prefer applicants who can submit evidence of successful past performance.

Probability of rejection. Many restaurant owners are rejected for loans the first time. Do not be afraid to try again at a different bank. With every attempt, refine your argument and perfect your business plan. It may take a while, but perseverance will usually reward you with the loan you need., Once you have taken account of all of your personal resources, you can consider turning to supportive friends and family members for financial support. Just be wary that borrowing money from those closest to you can result in complicated situations. Make sure to treat this as a business arrangement and to set its terms out in writing. Confirm that your friend or relative is aware of the risks involved in investing in a start-up restaurant., Finding a business partner can be a great way to get the start-up capital you need, while also finding someone to share in the responsibilities involved in opening a restaurant. Alternatively, you may find someone who would like to invest in your business, but wants no involvement in the day-to-day running of a restaurant. Either way, you should make sure that you outline each partner's individual roles and responsibilities in a written partnership agreement. That way everything should remain transparent and above board. Also be sure to choose your partners carefully--especially when it comes to family members., There are numerous local, state and federal programs which exist solely to provide financial support for small businesses. Do your research and find out if your new business qualifies - you may be pleasantly surprised by the resources available to you. Check out the SBA, read the literature on small businesses at your local library and be sure to find out about special business incentives for veterans, and minorities.