 There are several main styles of hearing aids. The one that will work best for you depends on personal preference, and weighing the pros and cons of each. Consider how easy the device is to use, how comfortable it is, and how visible it is.


It may be helpful to write down your list of priorities. Between cost, visibility, comfort, and other characteristics you notice as you check out different models, write down your needs from most to least important. This can help you decide which model is right for you.
Consult your doctor or audiologist for advice. Ask something like, “Can you recommend a model of hearing aid for me based on my goals?”;
, This model is molded to fit exactly into your ear canal, and is the smallest and least visible model available. It can help with mild to moderate hearing loss in adult populations.Pros: Other than being the least visible, it’s also less likely to pick up wind noise.

Cons: Uses smaller batteries that can be hard to handle and don’t last as long; doesn’t have extra features like volume control or directional microphone; the speaker can get clogged by earwax.
 This model is also custom designed to fit partly into your ear canal, and also improves mild to moderate hearing loss for adults. Like the CIC model, it’s less visible than larger styles (though more visible than the CICs), and sometimes the speaker can be clogged by earwax.Pros: Can include features that the CIC can’t accommodate, for instance feedback cancelling, wireless streaming with Bluetooth and other devices, and wax repellent in some models.

Cons: Those features may be hard to use and adjust because the device is so small, and not all features may be available.
 This model is designed in two ways – the full shell model is custom made to fit in most of the bowl-shaped part of your outer ear, and the half shell fits into the lower half. Both improve mild to severe hearing loss.Pros: Can include features like volume control that smaller models can’t accommodate; can be easier to manipulate because of larger size; has a longer battery life because the battery is larger.

Cons: More visible in the ear; might pick up more wind noise than smaller models; earwax can still clog the speaker.
 The BTE sits behind your ear, and hooks over the top of you ear with a tube connecting to an earpiece. The earpiece is custom-molded and sits in your ear canal. This is the classic model, and anyone can use it – it’s good for all ages and all levels of hearing loss.Pros: Can amplify sound better than other styles; almost anyone can use it.

Cons: Picks up more wind noise; larger and generally the most visible (though some newer models are sleeker and less visible than older models).
 Similar to the BTE, these models sit behind the ear and link to a speaker in the canal through a very small wire.Pros: The part behind your ear is less visible.

Cons: Is more susceptible to earwax clogging the speaker than traditional BTE models.
 Also similar to a BTE, this model sits behind the ear and connects to a speaker in the canal with a thin tube. It keeps the ear canal much more open, however. This lets low-frequency sound enter the ear more naturally, while amplifying high-frequency sound with the hearing aid.Pros: Good for mild to moderate hearing loss and less visible than other BTE models; doesn’t completely plug your ear canal, so your voice may sound more natural to you.

Cons: Can be harder to handle and adjust settings because of smaller parts.

