 A sense of humour can be created by the narration of funny incidents, interesting anecdotes, and memorable guffaws. Depending on the oratory skills of the speaker, perfectly normal, everyday incidents can also become a source for the sense of humour. You can also make it more effective with the help of gesticulations and funny mannerisms.


The communication to create a sense of humour should be periodic and not sporadic. Cultivate a sense of humour as a way of being every day of your life. Have people come to expect your sense of humour and to seek to be influenced for the better by your upbeat nature.;
, Sustaining a sense of humor is much more difficult than creating it. Sustaining the interest of the audience is difficult unless there is novelty in each communication.


Refresh your humor around an audience you know well and see often. Look for the extraordinary in the ordinary and always be a alert for new ways to explain things with humour.
Look for common ground or common experiences. Things understood without explanation can provide the most fertile ground for sharing a sense of humour.
Look at life as a child does, with awe and also a willingness to question what you see. There is much to feed a sense of humour in seeing the world through a child's eyes. (And it helps to listen to children too; they say the most humorous things without even trying.)

, Overdoing the humour can dilute the main subject, while being slow to catch the mood and share your humor can fail to communicate effectively once the appropriate moment for the sense of humor has passed. In other words, keep it brief and timely.
 It is very important to keep gauging the mood of the audience and their receptiveness to your sense of humour. Ensure that their mood remains receptive and does not turn antagonistic. Ill-timed or non-apt uses of your sense of humor can lose friends and upset people.


Before communicating humour, it is essential to ensure that the audience is habituated to your mannerisms and forms of gesticulation to avoid the potential for offence or misunderstandings. Additionally, the audience needs to be comfortable with your pronunciations and language flow. However, if you do think they might struggle, explain this aspect of your delivery... with a good sense of humour!
Before indulging in sharing your sense of humour, gauge the IQ level of the audience. No purpose will be served if the communication is beyond or beneath their IQ level or age group. Indeed, the effect will be detrimental if the level of delivery of the sense of humour fails to account for the IQ or age group of the listener.
 Your sense of humour should not be directed against anyone in the audience, or outside it, living or dead. Equally, while a little self-deprecation can be light relief from time to time, the majority of your sense of humor should not be directed against yourself.
Continuously berating oneself, if not handled properly, can result in loss of respect for you from the audience and can lead the listener to feel sorry for you rather than amused.
 Smiles are fairly universal and are a form of self-cheering even when we don't feel happy. And laughter is contagious, so once you evoke it through your sense of humour, it's likely to spread quickly.
 When you like someone's sense of humour and can see that they have a skill in deflecting tension and making others feel good about themselves, let them know that you appreciate them and their sense of humour.
Nurturing a sense of humour in another person is a definite way of spreading it because you've acknowledged something wonderful in that person. In particular, encourage children to expand and keep their sense of humour while helping them to understand when it is and isn't appropriate to share it.

