 Stomach pains and cramping are the most common symptom of food poisoning, and they can appear as soon as 30 minutes after ingesting the contaminated food. The pain ranges from moderate to unbearable, and happens as a result of the digestive organs becoming stretched and distended.
The pain and cramping can last anywhere from several hours to an entire day.;
, Diarrhea is the body's way of flushing out the toxins that caused the food poisoning. Once diarrhea occurs, it means that the contaminant has reached the intestinal section of the gastrointestinal tract.


Diarrhea occurs due to decreased movement in the intestines, which prevents the water in food from being absorbed by the body. The excess water is then flushed from the body along with any waste, resulting in diarrhea.
Experiencing diarrhea more than 4 times in a 24 hour period is a good indication that you have food poisoning.
 Nausea and vomiting are two more symptoms of food poisoning that occur when the body identifies a toxic substance in the stomach.


When the stomach identifies food as "good", it is digested and used by the body, but when food is identified as "bad", the stomach rejects it and eliminates it through vomiting.
With food poisoning, vomiting may occur three or more times a day. It usually stops after 24 hours, but sometimes it goes on for longer.
 Dehydration is a common side effect of food poisoning, as the body expels excess water through diarrhea and vomiting.


You'll know you are dehydrated if you are sweating more than usual (which occurs due to over-stimulation of parasympathetic system) and your mouth feels dry,
Dehydration can also lead to decreased urine production, as the body attempts to conserve water by rerouting the blood that's meant for the kidneys to other parts of the body.
 With food poisoning, muscle weakness often occurs due to a loss of electrolytes, caused by diarrhea and vomiting. You may also experience low blood pressure and heavier breathing.
 In more serious cases of food poisoning, you may experience additional, severe symptoms which require immediate medical attention. These may include.



Fever and chills: This is an indication of botulism poisoning, a a potentially fatal of food poisoning.Confusion and blurred speech or vision: These kinds of symptoms can occur after the accidental ingestion of a poison mushroom.
 Although most cases of food poisoning will resolve themselves within a day or two without the need for medical attention, there are certain situation in which it will be necessary to see a doctor immediately. These include:



Black, tar-colored, or bloody stool: This may indicate bleeding in the gastrointestinal system, which will require immediate medical attention.

Extreme dehydration: Dehydration which causes dry skin and mouth, sunken eyes, dizziness and decreased urination requires immediate medical attention to replace lost fluids.

Fever above 102 °F (39 °C): A high fever above 102 °F (39 °C) can cause irreversible damage to the brain cells, so medical attention is required to bring the temperature down.

Prolonged diarrhea or vomiting: If children have been suffering from diarrhea and/or vomiting for more than one day (or adults for more than two days) they can become severely dehydrated and may need to be hospitalized.
 One of the main causes of food poisoning is improperly prepared food. This includes food that has been exposed to germs and bacteria through improper storage, unclean preparation surfaces or unwashed hands.Take care to prepare food properly at home and don't eat a restaurant or cafe that looks dirty or messy. If you're not sure, take a look at the bathrooms — if they're dirty, the kitchen probably is too.
For more information on how to avoid food poisoning, see this article.
 Raw fish and other seafood is prone to causing food poisoning, as are raw, unwashed fruits and vegetables. Poultry is also a major cause of food poisoning when it is not cooked all the way through.
 Water from wells or streams that has not been treated with bacteria-killing chemicals can cause food poisoning, due to high levels toxins and microorganisms.


If you're visiting a place and you're not certain whether the water is drinkable, drink from purified bottled water to be on the safe side.
 Certain foods are more likely to cause food poisoning than others. Aside from seafood, raw foods and undercooked poultry, you can get food poisoning from:


Dairy products like milk, cheese and yogurt that haven't been cooled properly.
Undercooked eggs or eggs that haven't been refrigerated after cooking.
Mayonnaise that has been left out of the refrigerator for too long.
 It is very difficult to distinguish between food poisoning and gastroenteritis (aka stomach flu), as the symptoms are almost identical. The best way to distinguish one from the other is to make a note of when the symptoms first appear.


With food poisoning, symptoms can manifest as soon as an hour after eating contaminated food. With gastroenteritis, symptoms can occur up to 12 hours after coming in contact with the virus.
If you suspect food poisoning, it is a good idea to take note of what you ate and drank and if possible, get a sample of the suspect food or beverage for analysis. This can be sent to the lab for testing, to confirm a diagnoses of food poisoning
It can also be helpful to find out if other people who ate the same food are also displaying symptoms of food poisoning.

