 Some examples include Yahoo, Gmail, Mail.com, Outlook.com, and more.
 Make your new email address the primary email address for your Facebook account. The primary address is the one where Facebook sends you emails about recent activities and updates.


Click the down arrow in the top-right corner of Facebook and select Settings.
Click the Edit link in the Email section of the General Account Settings.
Click the "Add another email" link that appears, and then enter your new email address.
Make it your Primary email address, enter your Facebook password, and then click the Save Changes button.
 Make sure that the password is complicated enough so you can't remember it. Search online for "password generator" and pick a site that makes strong, cryptic passwords.


Copy the password so that you don't have to retype it. This will keep you from making mistakes as well as help prevent you from memorizing it.
 You can do this from the Settings menu that you changed your email address in.
 Change the password on your new email address to the password you just generated as well. Most email services have a Settings page that you can do this from.
 Visit a site like FutureMe, EmailFuture, or Bored.com. Use the future email service to send an email to your regular email address. Put the new email address and the newly-generated password in the body of the email.


Set the email to be sent after you are able to log back into Facebook without consequences.
 Once the email is set up, log out of Facebook so that you can't visit the site and be automatically logged in. Make sure that any traces of the password you generated are deleted, and that you didn't memorize it in the mean time.


If you copied the password to the clipboard earlier, copy something else to erase the password from the computer's memory.
 Once you receive your future email, you can enter that password into Facebook and check your feed. You can keep using the same password to block yourself each day, or create new ones.

