 Expect shucking corn to get a little messy. At the very least, have a bag handy to throw away the husk’s leaves and silken strands as you work. To make life even easier, line a trashcan or similar container with a bag so you can work over that, or even inside of it.Alternatively, you can also line your kitchen counter with paper or other compostable material if you want to compost the leaves and silk. This way you can easily ball up the whole bundle when you’re done.;
, Give the husk a quick look-over and find whichever leaf seems to be the outermost. Strip that off and continue peeling away the outer leaves as you work your way inward. Stop once the ear seems to be covered by only one layer of remaining leaves.The last layer should be a little translucent, so once you can see the kernels through the leaves, you should be there.
 Pull the tops of the remaining leaves away from the ear’s top. Stop peeling once you’ve exposed three or four rows of kernels. However, as you peel the leaves back, remember:The aim is to rip off all the leaves at once, in one move. So don’t peel the tops away from the ear in a way that would make it difficult to hold them all in one hand.
 The “tassel” is the bunched-up ends of all the silken strands inside. Gather this as well as the tops of the inner leaves in your dominant hand. Use your other hand to clutch the ear by its bottom.If you’re unable to grab them all in one hand, don’t worry. As long as you have most of the leaves and tassel in hand, the other leaf or leaves may still come off with them.
 Hold the ear vertically with its tip at the top. Then, with the leaves’ tops and the silk tassel in one hand, give them a hard yank down the length of the ear to where your other hand is. This should strip the whole ear, but if you weren’t able to get all the leaves’ tops in one hand, just repeat with any leaf that didn’t come off with the others.Your corn should now resemble a rocketship, with the ear as the rocket pointing in one direction, and the leaves and silk as its flames pointing the opposite way.
 Reorient your grip on the ear so you’re holding it by its exposed kernels. Gather the stripped leaves and silk in your dominant hand. Give them another hard yank to rip them free of the ear’s bottom.Or, if you find it easier to rip the leaves off one by one, go ahead and do that.
 Expect most of the silk to have been stripped away with their tassel. At the same time, don’t count on this to remove all of them. Inspect the ear for any stragglers and peel them off one by one.