 Make sure it's clean, sharp, rust-free and undamaged. If you have very light hair, you can use the same blade repeatedly. If you have coarse hair, you may only get a few shaves out of a blade. If you're not sure, once you feel the blade pulling or catching when you shave, it's time to change.;
, Or bath—whatever makes you more comfortable. Do your normal washing routine before you shave. You want to let your hair and skin get wet for about two to four minutes, but not so long in hot water that your follicles start to swell up, inhibiting a close shave.
 If you're showering, have a seat on the edge of the tub. If you're in the bath, prop a foot up on the wall. You want your leg bent so that you can easily reach your ankles.
 Try to find something that has moisturizers in it. The emollients help smooth the skin, and keeping it scent-free means you lower the risk of skin irritation. Using water-soluble skin cream may be kinder to your skin than traditional shaving cream; it also frees you from having to buy gender-based shaving supplies.
 Begin at the bottom of your leg, and with long strokes upwards, shave the hair against the grain. Don't rush; this is not a race to the finish line. It's more important to make smooth, even strokes than a speedy chop. Rinse the razor frequently—clean hot water is best—to clean and unclog the blades, and to ensure that the blades are always wet.









Work your way up the leg and don't forget your inner and outer thighs. Don't forget to rinse the razor frequently. For some people, these areas don't require shaving, for some they do. Only shave hair you think is unsightly.
 Carefully repeat the process on your feet—apply the cream, shave smoothly, and rinse. Shave the tops of your toes and the top of your foot. The skin on your foot is much thinner than the skin on your legs. Use caution accordingly.
 After you've finished with one leg, rinse it off, and repeat the entire process on the other leg.
 Run the tips of your fingers over all the parts of your leg that require shaving. If you find any missed bits, shave those, then continue the inspection. When you're satisfied, all is well, rinse off, towel off, and enjoy your smooth legs.
 Use an after-shave balm, oil, moisturizer, or medicinal embrocation to calm the skin, and reduce or eliminate the red bumps that sometimes occur with shaving.

