 Seek liberty for yourself and other people, or if you received life by a drawing, by chance, then would your life be expendable and probably lacking value?;
, It’s not too late to dream big.


Dreams can be started fresh -- or can be renovated.



Whatever your calling in life, age or situation, there are unrealized possibilities that you can form from new dreams and plans to be lived-out.
 So, you can then appreciate your unique, personal value, and your fulfillment which centers upon finding opportunity for yourself and others to live fully by ones own plans based on a set of goals and ambitions.


Avoid being expendable by being different, not droning on the same as others. That means work-out your dreams, and goals.


, Consider retiring later, if you wish, be productive longer; seek to compete and fulfill visions of personal self-fulfillment.


It is not too late, example: Colonel Sanders, the founder of Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC), was 62 years of age when he sold his first KFC franchise (he had worked for over 30 in his own, small chicken place). He sold KFC for millions of dollars at age 74, AND lived to be 90!

Break from family and friends ways, if they have failed to show you better ways and have even dragged your ideas down until now. You may have been discouraged from dreaming; or acting in your own upward mobility and expecting that for your family: some may be accused of acting like you are better than others of your people.

Move-on, in upward mobility. If some resent the fact that you now want to move up or to do something significant with your life, so what. Or, maybe they were trying to protect you from pain or disappointment, but still you’ve been discouraged from living your dream.
 Choose your education and career to have upward mobility in the next generations of your family and cheer your neighbors to "live well in freedom."

, Support or oppose a political official, candidate or system.
 Live your life creatively, not formless, amorphous life, but unique.
, Write your own diary, avoid merely being a book-worm (like reading another person's diary): seek to be free in the domain of personal beliefs, ambitions, family, property, places and things.
 Do not depend on testing or opinions to reveal who you are, or what you can be, should be, or must be. Understand your abilities and aptitudes, but consider what actually interests you and worked into what fits your opportunities. Make it work.

