 Trips can be expensive, so it’s important to know how much money you have to spend on a birthday trip for your girlfriend. It’s not just hotel costs that you should think about too -- you’ll need to consider transportation, food, and entertainment expenses as well. Set a firm budget, so you can start to narrow your destination options.You don’t need to have a lot of money to plan a special birthday trip. Even one night away at a bed and breakfast can mean a lot to your girlfriend.
 When you’re choosing a place to take your trip, budget will play a role. However, you should also try to find a destination that will be special for your girlfriend. That may mean taking her somewhere that she’s always wanted to go or taking her back to a place where you’ve shared happy memories before. It can also be as simple as taking her for a weekend to an amusement park that you know she loves. Make the trip all about her, so you know that she’s sure to enjoy it.If you’re having trouble coming up with ideas for your getaway, talk to your girlfriend’s friends and family to see if they have any ideas.
 Once you’ve settled on a destination, you can make hotel reservations and arrange for transportation, such as airline or train tickets. Use a travel site to find the best deals for the area, so you’re sure to stick to your budget. You should also figure out if you need any other reservations for the trip, such as for dinner at a trendy restaurant, tickets for a show, or admittance to a local attraction.Make sure to plan ahead, so you’re not making reservations at the last minute. You may wind up with limited options if you wait too long to plan the trip.
If you’re not sure if you need other reservations, speak to the staff at the hotel. They can usually help you figure out what you might want to plan ahead.
 You’ll want to have something to give to your girlfriend on her birthday, so put together a gift package that hints at the trip’s location. For example, if you’re taking her for a weekend of vineyard tours, put together a basket that includes a map of the area, a couple of bottles of her favorite wine, and a monogrammed wineglass. For a weekend away at the beach, put some sunscreen, sunglasses, flip flops, and a towel inside a beach bag for her.If your destination doesn’t lend itself to a gift box, just print out your itinerary or reservation confirmation, place it in a box, and wrap it for your girlfriend to open.

