 Once you have fully transitioned into full time professional work that fulfills your passion, you may lose that initial spark and start to get rundown in the mundane aspects of the work. Depending on your path, you may end up doing something that only supports others who are doing the real work of the passion. So find a way to stay engaged with the passion you set out to fulfill. Make time and devote energy to doing the actual work of what your passion is.


This could mean you set out to start a comic book store where you could interact with other comic book lovers and make some money selling them merchandise. Maybe your business become successful and you hired other employees who start running the sales part of the store while you sit in an office and handle the business and paperwork aspects. You are no longer involved in the passion work you set out for, so you need to readjust and stay on the front lines.
 You may start out with a very narrow focus of what it means to fulfill your passion, but as time goes on some new outlets and opportunities may present themselves. Don’t be afraid to take a new step and let the passion grow and evolve into something new. You may even realize that what you thought of as the sole way to follow the passion was actually just a step toward something even better.Let’s say you start a music shop where you sell various instruments, equipments, cases, and sheet music. If your business does well and you are making money, you could consider expanding to start offering lessons, either taught by you or by someone you hire. You could start having local musicians play shows once a week. Maybe you even want to build a studio in the store and help those people record some songs. You start the shop because of your love of music, but you may have the opportunity to do more than sell merchandise.
Perhaps you take a job as a reporter for a local newspaper to pursue your passion for news and writing. For one assignment, you end up having to snap a few pictures because your usual photographer is out sick. You may find that you actually really enjoy the photographer aspect too. You could transition into being an investigative reporter who uses a strong visual element in the stories.
 No matter whether you succeed or fail in your attempt to pursue your passion, accepting the results can be tough. If you succeed, you may not be willing to let yourself celebrate and get comfortable, but you must do this. Let yourself be a little excited, proud even, that things worked out for you. When you fail, and this is a common experience, do not take it as a sign that you should give up completely. Take a step back, mourn the failure briefly, and then regroup and find another way to make an attempt at following your passion.


For example, you take a job with an advertising agency because you have always been inspired by how marketing works. You are put on the sales team and after a month, you are not getting the hang of making the sale. You could consider this a failure, but you could also take the opportunity to look for non-sales opportunities in the agency. Maybe you could design marketing campaigns rather than doing sales.
Let’s say you succeed and you close a sale to a big client. When you get the commission check, take a little extra from it to buy a fancy dinner to celebrate your fresh start.

