 Young may be 40 or 50. In determining this age you'll want to be reasonable. If you're already 27 with no net worth, it is going to be very difficult to retire at 30, so the first step is setting the age you want to stop working.;
, Before you start bringing in the money necessary to retire young you'll want to know how to manage your money. There are countless amounts of stories of people who win the lottery, and end up miserable and penniless. No matter how much money you make it is important to manage it well.


Start and stick with a budget. A budget will help you control everything from how much money gets saved to how much money gets spent each month. If you haven't started budgeting already, do it. It's amazing how many people don't know how much money is coming in and going out each month. You can't be responsible like that.
 The studies are concrete: People with college degrees on average will make more over the course of their lifetimes than those without. These days a Bachelors Degree is what a High-School Diploma was 20 years ago. Find your passion, and get a degree (and subsequently a job) in that field. Think of a college degree as an investment in your future.
 The earlier you start saving, the quicker you'll retire. It's a devilishly simple idea, but it's hard to execute, and this is why: we humans value the tangibility and utility of the present over the far-off possibilities of the future. But you're not one of the unthinking masses, are you? You like the idea of saving early and saving often, because you know early retirement is sweet and attainable.


In your twenties, experts say that you should at the very least put away 10% of your income straight into savings. This much should be easy to do in your twenties, even if it means you have to skimp a little bit.
If you can, save any and all disposable money that isn't used to pay expenses, minus a bit of money for discretionary spending. If you earn $3,000 a month and have $1,500 in bills, squirrel away $1,250 each month and give yourself an extra $250 to do as you please.
 As in, big time. Increasing your earning potential won't do much good if you increase how much you spend the same amount. To put it simply: If you make $20,000 more per year, but increase your cost of living by $20,000 per year you haven't traveled very far on your road to retiring.


Rent instead of buy. Go to the library and rent books instead of buying them and then letting them attract dust forever. Watch movies online instead of buying DVDs. Renting may not make you feel powerful, but it will sure help you feel prudent.
Take advantage of free stuff. There are whole websites devoted to people who believe in freecycling. Sign up for a (free) conference and partake in their buffet luncheon. When you travel, try couch-surfing. The world is full of wonderful opportunities to get free stuff; just make sure you're respectful and courteous doing it.
Carpool if you can. With the rising cost of gasoline, you can potentially save $200-$300 a month on gasoline alone. This works out to a savings of $2,400-$3,600 per year.
Wash your laundry in cold water. Detergent manufacturers sell specially formulated detergents meant for washing clothes in cold water.
With cell phones being commonplace, consider whether you really need a land line in your home. If you do need one, some companies offer phone services using the internet, which is cheaper than regular land lines.
Use LED or fluorescent bulbs in your home. Not only are they just as bright, but use much less electricity.
Buy necessities in bulk. While the initial cost may be higher, you will save money in the long run. This includes water, toiletries, and food.

