 If visits from friends become fewer and fewer and phone calls suddenly stop, don’t count it as a loss and suffer in silence. Many who are adjusting to widowhood will simply let their relationships dissolve without even asking why. If you reach out to estranged friends, you may find that they really want to be there for you, but just don’t know how.Call up your friends and candidly say, “Yes, I lost my spouse, but I didn’t expect to lose you, too. What’s going on with us? I miss you!” Hopefully, you reaching out will help them understand that, although you may need space to grieve, you are still interested in continuing the friendship.;
, The fact of the matter is, unless you have a friend who has been in your shoes, most people don’t know how to help you. And, because they feel helpless about the situation, they grow distant. You can address this by clearly stating what you would like your friends to do for you as you grieve.Giving them a solid responsibility can allow you to help your friends support you. Don’t assume they know what you need — spell it out. You might say, “Jessica, it would be great if we could continue our Thursday night movies together. I could use a distraction at least once a week.” Or, say something like “Carl, you are so good with kids. Do you mind taking the children to the park this Saturday? They’ve been cooped up inside for too long.”
You may not have a particular request for your friends, but try to come up with a few things. For example, you might ask one friend to text you an encouraging quote a few times each week, or another friend may be your go-to person for a laugh when you need it.
 Do not allow people to make you feel guilty about how you choose to grieve. Many friends may treat you differently because you are not meeting their expectations of what a widow(er) should be.For example, a year or so has passed and you decide to reenter the dating scene and a friend becomes judgmental. She asks, “Don’t you think it’s a bit disrespectful to be dating this soon?” Your impulse might be to ignore her, but this shuts down the dialogue. See this as an opportunity to share your experience — your feeling of loss, loneliness, and that you feel it is appropriate to move forward with your life.
Explain by saying, “My husband has been gone for a year-and-a-half, and I know he would not want me to spend the rest of my life in mourning. I’m not getting remarried right away, but I would like someone I can have fun with. So, I’m going to give this dating thing a try.”

, It’s time to redefine who you are as a social person. As a widow(er), you no longer have to compromise on your choices based on your spouse’s preferences. Ask yourself: What do I want for my life? What kind of people do I want to be around?Maybe you once didn’t have gatherings at home, but now you do. Or, maybe now you’re more free to visit that friend on the opposite coast who you only see once a year.
Don’t think you have to maintain the same equilibrium that existed before your spouse died. You can’t. If you no longer want to stay in contact with their friends from work or college, don’t.
 Initiate social interaction to send the message that you want and need to engage with others. Bringing a sense of fulfillment back into your social life will depend on your level of commitment and effort. Yes, some friends may become distant. But, there are probably many other friends, family members, or coworkers who would love to have a chat, share a cup of coffee, or take a gym class with you.


If you’re feeling lonely, don’t wait for someone to come along and offer their company. Seek it out. Challenge yourself to call up a different person every day. Ask people over for dinner or drinks a few times each month
In some ways, you have to train your friends on how to navigate in this new territory. If you are interested in having a fulfilling social life, you will have to build a habit of taking initiative., You have the option of maintaining old friendships and making new ones. It’s entirely up to you. Make an effort to discover what it is you want from your social life by staying open to new experiences and new people. This period of life is a pivotal time in which you can reinvent who you are as person.


Set a goal to go on an outing at least once a week. Join a support group for others who are going through the same experience.Go to church or a meditation class for spiritual enrichment. Spend time with people who value you and see you as you truly are, not those who only define you by your marital status.
 Embracing your new self also means exploring new passions and interests. You may feel deeply committed to participating in your regular book club. But, you should also challenge yourself to try out other hobbies, too. Doing so may help you add meaning to your life, introduce you to like-minded people, and help improve your mood.


There are many ways you can explore newfound passions. Start a volunteer commitment with a local community organization. Join a cooking or pottery class. Start a new exercise habit such as visiting the gym or going hiking. Keep the hobbies you like, and toss the ones that don’t serve you anymore., Mourning the loss of a spouse is different for everyone. Don’t feel forced to rejoin the dating pool until you’re ready. In the same vein, you should not feel ashamed if you do desire companionship. Try some of these strategies to make the transition to dating easier.Connect with people you knew way back when, such as high school or college buddies.
Join an online dating site. And, be sure to follow safe practices.Keep an open mind. Try not to compare every new person to your spouse.
Save intimacy for when you’re ready. Be clear with your date about your need for time.
 As a widow(er), it can be easy to fall into a rut thinking that no one cares about you or wants to be around you. Even when some of your closest pals start acting strange or treating you differently, aim to have compassion for their situation.


Imagine how you would feel in their shoes. Would you know exactly the right thing to say or do? If your answer is “no,” try to be more lenient in passing judgment about their behavior.
 As upsetting as it is, some friends won’t follow you into this new chapter of life. Some people, who only knew you as a happy-go-lucky person, may not be able to cope with your bereavement, so they stay away. Others, such as married friends, may not know how to include you in activities reserved for couples.Find the confidence within yourself to not keep around friends who are toxic, judgmental, or unreliable. Have faith that there are many people out there who can offer you support and companionship without negativity.
If you used to spend time with a lot of couples, they may not know if you still want to attend their events. Let your friends know that even though you are no longer part of a couple, you would still like to be included. Before this, however, you may also want to consider if indeed you do want that, and to prepare for challenging the idea that you are a "5th wheel."

, Grieving a spouse can be a long, debilitating process. If you find yourself struggling to adjust to your new reality, or withdrawing from friends and loved ones, don’t hesitate to seek the services of a mental health therapist. Therapists with bereavement experience can help you learn to cope with widowhood and develop skills to effectively maintain and build friendships moving forward.