 Encase your mattress, box spring and pillows in dust-proof, allergen-proof covers available from specialty supply mail order companies, bedding and some department stores. Made of tightly-woven fabric, allergen-proof covers prevent dust mites from colonizing or escaping. You are closest to the mites and their feces in your bed, so enclosing your mattress and pillows in a dust mite cover pretty much eliminates the mite problem there.


Mattresses covered in fitted sheets are protected from the accumulation of human skin scales on the surface. These sheets are usually also waterproof., Replace down pillows with synthetic-filled ones. Also, replace woolen blankets with nylon or cotton cellulose ones. Memory foam mattresses are supposed to create an environment that is unfavorable to dust mites. You might consider replacing your mattress with memory foam., Carpet is a haven for dust mites, especially if it sits on concrete, which holds moisture and provides a humid environment for dust mites. Remove wall-to-wall carpeting to help with dust mite allergies, especially in bedrooms. Replace with bare floors, such as linoleum, tile, vinyl, wood or anti-allergenic carpet.


Also, remove furnishings that collect dust, such as fabric curtains, horizontal blinds and upholstered furniture.
Don’t forget to remove all rugs and mats from the home as they too harbor dust mites.
Bare floors can be damp-mopped or cleaned with electrostatic cloths.
 Tannic acid neutralizes the allergens from dust mites naturally. Tannic acid powder can be purchased from health food stores and other specialist providers. Sprinkle it liberally over mattresses, couches, pet beds and other dust mite havens to help reduce the impact of allergens.You can also make your own solution of tannic acid by adding one cup of weak tea to a gallon of water, spraying carpets and vacuuming 3 hours later.
 Minimize your child's stuffed toys to one or two favorites. Get plastic toys or washable stuffed toys instead. If you choose washable stuffed toys, wash them often in hot water and dry thoroughly.


Keep stuffed toys off beds.
Put any non-washable stuff toys that you keep in the freezer every couple of weeks to kill living dust mites.
 This can attract more dust mites to the area by providing ample food in the form of your dead skin cells. Couches tend to be more difficult to protect from dust mites than beds. It is better to sleep in a bed with a dust mite cover for protection from allergens and mites.
 That’s right, now you have a legitimate reason not to make your bed every day! Leaving the bed unmade each morning with the sheets exposed to air will air-dry and release moisture from bedding. This significantly reduces the number of dust mites you have to contend with. 