 Then, remove the exterior hardware (handles, lock cylinders, etc.).


If you have difficulty removing the hardware, you may simply mask the hardware prior to painting.






The cabinet and drawers will have to be hand-sanded around any hardware that is left in place.





;
, WD-40 and a razor blade work very well for this.


Spray some WD-40 directly onto the sticker and let it stand for a few minutes.






Then, carefully use a razor blade or something else that will scrape the sticker away.






Wipe away the excess WD-40 with an old cloth or paper towel.
 If there is chipped paint, sand the chipped area with 220 grit sandpaper until it feathers into the remaining paint.


There is no need to strip the cabinet of all paint.
Once you have sanded the chipped areas, use fine or very fine steel wool to rub down all exterior surfaces of the cabinet and drawers.
This will flatten the glossy surface and make the paint adhere better.
 Wipe the surfaces of your cabinet clean with household window cleaner.


This will remove any oily surface residue.
Do it twice, then wipe it dry with a clean paper towel.
 Make sure you are painting in a very well-ventilated area, and start by painting the drawers.


Set the drawers face up on a garage floor, patio, etc.
Be sure the surface is protected with newspaper, cardboard or other cover.






Note: Use ONLY spray enamel. Do not use a lacquer! Lacquer will eat up anything in its path, except other lacquer. Enamel is a safe bet over nearly any paint.
To be sure, spray a test area that will not be exposed when finished.
 Mask any hardware that hasn't been removed.


Use white or gray as this will make the final color more vivid.
Recoat with primer within the time indicated on the can.
Most enamels must be recoated within an hour.
Otherwise, you will have to wait until the following day.
Do not try to lay down one thick coat, because the primer will run and take a long time to dry.
Spray all drawers then set them aside to make room for the cabinet.
 Spray the sides of the cabinet lightly because you will be painting vertical surfaces and the paint is more likely to run.


Very light coats dry fast and can be recoated within a few minutes.
Allow about five minutes between very light coats so the paint has a chance to set.
This may require about four or five very light coats. Be patient!
You may apply a slightly heavier coat to the top of the cabinet, as you will be painting a flat, horizontal surface. This is similar to painting the drawer faces.
 Allow the cabinet and drawers to dry the amount of time recommended on the spray can before applying your color top coat.


If you create a design using masking tape, let the primer dry for at least 24 hrs. before taping, or the paint will peel when you remove the tape.
 Don’t worry about the primer coat showing through after the first couple of coats.


You may be tempted to go back and “fill in the blanks” with a heavier coat, but do not do that. It will ruin everything you have done up to this point.
Too heavy of a coat may cause the paint to “crinkle” and create a big mess, so be patient.
Be sure to hold the spray can about 10 inches (25.4 cm) from the surface as you spray, and make smooth passes from end to end.
Do not paint in a random zig-zag pattern or it will be difficult to get an even finish.
Several coats will be required, so be sure to have plenty of paint.
 When the paint has dried, usually after 24 hours, carefully replace the hardware.


You now have a freshly made-over cabinet!
You can replace the “U” shaped handle on the drawer with two decorative knobs, if you like.
Be creative! Paint additional designs on your cabinet either by hand or by using your favorite stencils.
You may choose to paint each drawer a different color. You can even personalize each drawer!

