 For this type of mobile you will need different colors of construction paper or card stock, an embroidery hoop, yarn or thread, and hot glue or tacky glue. Your mobile will be more secure if you use a sewing machine instead of glue, but you can use glue for the sake of simplicity.
 You can cut any shape you choose, but circles are the easiest. If you want an ombre or multi-colored paper mobile, use five different colors and cut them as follows:Color #1: twenty-two, two inch circles
Color #2: seven, two inch circles, and 11, 1.6 inch circles
Color #3: 19, 1.6 inch circles
Color #4: 11, 1.6 inch circles, and nine, 1.3 inch circles
Color #5: 22, 1.3 inch circles

, Lay out your circles on the ground, in the order that you want them. To use the above circle numbers and colors, create 11 columns of circles. You will then lay your colored circles in rows across the columns until you have used all of your circles. Your columns will not be an even length, but this will make your mobile look more fun.First, lay your color #1 circles in two rows with an inch between each row. You will have two rows of the same color with 11 circles in each row and two circles in each column.
On your third row, you will start by laying your color #2 circles, alternating between sizes. In your first column, lay one of your two inch circles. Then, in your second column lay a 1.6 inch circle and underneath that in a fourth row lay your two inch circle. Then, in your next column lay your two inch circle, and in the fourth column repeat your second column (lay a 1.6 inch circle and below that lay a two inch circle). Continue to alternate these until you have used all of that color.
For your third color, you can begin to place the circles out randomly. For example, on column one you can use two circles, on column two you can use two circles, and then on column three you can use one circle. Place the circles in these columns with one inch separating them, but have fun in placing them randomly. There doesn't have to be a specific order, and it's okay if on one column you already have a ton of circles and on another you only have three or four. You will fill in the gaps with the remaining colors.
 As with the previous step, you will begin to place your remaining circles in a random order on your mobile. It looks best if you place all of one color at once, meaning you don't place color #3, then #4, then #3 again in the same column. Try to group the colors together when you place them. After you have placed all of your colors, you can go back and make the changes you want.


Your columns should be all relatively even, with only one or two circles difference between the column length. You don't want one column to have 5 circles and another column to have 15, so make sure that they are somewhat close to the same length. They don't have to be perfect, though, meaning the space between your circles doesn't have to be the exact same length. Sometimes it looks better if it looks like you didn't try to make the space perfect -- then it looks like the randomness was intentional.
 Take your yarn or thread and cut out 11 pieces, each piece long enough to cover the length of your circles with two inches remaining. Then, place your yarn along your circles and begin to glue each circle to the yarn. Make sure you glue the yarn to the entire diameter of the circle so that the circle doesn't bend over.This is the step where it may look better if you use a sewing machine. If you choose to take on that task, use thread instead of yarn and push each circle through your machine. To use your machine simply place a circle under the presser foot, sew it, and then pull the thread some before you place your next circle down. Don't stop your machine between each circle. You won't need any special thread or needles -- so it can make this project much easier by using a sewing machine.
If you choose to use glue, yarn is better to use than thread because it will hold better against your paper.
 Choose a color for your hoop and paint it before you attach your circles. It can look good to use the same color for your hoop as your first row of circles, so that there is some uniformity. Let your hoop dry before you attach the yarn.
 Take the end of the yarn and tie knots around your hoop, securing all your strings to the hoop. You'll want to space these out somewhat evenly, but because there are so many strings, it won't be very noticeable if some of your circles are closer than others.
 Following the final steps in the previous section, attach your thread to your hoop, and tie a knot to connect the three strands. Then, position your hoop as you would like it and secure the knot. Hang it on your wall and enjoy!

