 Bands like Shellac, Glassjaw, and At The Drive-In cross lines between metal, hardcore, and noise music, often incorporating extremely harsh sounds and extremely fast technical playing into the sound with sudden pretty moments of melody. In the mid-2000s, this style of music became extremely popularized with bands like My Chemical Romance, Thursday, and Thrice breaking into the mainstream.Sometimes this kind of music is also known as screamo and will even have someone in the band specifically known as the "screamer." Often, the look was accompanied by v-neck black shirts, tight jeans, gauges, and the famous swooped bangs haircut.
 The hardcore thug look is related to bands like Madball, Skarhead, and E-Town Concrete, bands that incorporate elements of gangster style and culture into their music.


The music is often positive, despite its tough-looking image. Madball writes inspirational lyrics. Sometimes, this is referred to as "posicore." If you're into that style, bands of the genre include Youth of Today, Bane, Comeback Kid, Verse, and pretty much any band on Bridge Nine or Rivalry Records. Camouflage shorts are very popular in that genre, also.
Long work shirts or tank tops paired with a pair of baggy jeans, and some Nike Cortez's (Chuck Taylors, basketball shoes, or black low-top Vans) along with a fitted New Era cap with the sticker on. Band shirts work as well, but only for local indie or underground bands.
 By incorporating the breakbeats and abrupt changes from hardcore music, some bands with a more metal sound and style are now referred to as "metalcore." Deathcore and grindcore bands are also similar, with subtle differences in the sound. Stylistically, the look is similar to tough guy hardcore style.While some of the imagery in the videos of these bands looks very gothic or metal-like, the members of the bands themselves dress in pretty standard hardcore style.
 Often, talking about various kinds of hardcore music will make hardcore fans say "That's not real hardcore," but it can be difficult to know what "real hardcore" even is. Avoid these kinds of arguments. Hardcore fans are defensive about their culture and want to preserve it against outside influences. Learn about the history of the genre and the culture and you'll be safe.


At least give new hardcore styles a listen before deciding what you think. New and strangely popular subgenres like crunkcore and electronicore mesh hardcore sounds with EDM and pop-rap culture and are especially controversial, sometimes seen as marketing schemes more than actual music. If you don't like it, throw on an old Minor Threat record and move on.

