 If your dead flower arrangement is limited or unvaried in color, you can augment the color of the petals with other plants. Petals from different flowers work well, as do herbs such as rosemary, thyme, and sage.Some petals will have a stronger smell than others. For a spicier scent, try adding ingredients like cinnamon, clove, and star anise.;
, After gathering all your potpourri ingredients, you need to dry them thoroughly to prevent mold growth. Flowers and herbs can be laid out in a single, loose layer on a baking sheet. As long as the surface is completely smooth, it should work fine. the flowers in a dark, cool place for drying. Most flowers and herbs will be thoroughly dry after about two weeks if placed in an ideal location.To dry without rotting, the dead flowers and herbs should be placed in a location that is dry, dark, cool, and well ventilated. Ventilation is key, as it is crucial to removing moisture from the flowers and mitigating bacterial or fungal growth.
 Since essential oils dissipate quickly, you need to add a new ingredient to your potpourri mix: shavings of orris root. Use about a tablespoon (15 ml) of Orrisroot per cup (240 ml) of flower petals. You only need a few drops of each essential oil.Orris root is the root of a type of Iris, and it serves as a fixative for essential oils. The oils are absorbed into the root and slowly released into the air as fragrance.
Lavender, orange blossom, and rose oil are three common types for use in potpourri, but you can select oils that suit your own taste in fragrance.
 Once dried, place your flower petals and sprigs of herbs in a large mixing bowl. Mix the potpourri together with a spoon, folding everything gently together to avoid damaging the flowers., Place your mixture into a glass jar or brown paper bag. Each day, shake the container a little to redistribute the ingredients. This six-week waiting period allows the essential oils to become completely and evenly absorbed by the orris root., After waiting six weeks, your potpourri is ready for display. At this time, you can add more flowers and herbs if you want a mix with more volume. Your homemade potpourri can be displayed in a decorative bowl or stitched into small sachets for keeping your closet or car fresh.