 Many of the planets of our solar system have bright, vivid colors. You'll want to be as accurate as possible if it's an educational project, but otherwise, have fun and be creative! 








Mercury is typically a slight gray or blue.
Venus is a pale yellow.
Earth is mainly blue with white for clouds and green and browns land masses.
Mars is a reddish brown due to its rusty rocks and minerals.
Jupiter is orange with light white bands.
Saturn is a pale gold due to its high concentration of ammonia.
Uranus is a pale blue.
Neptune is also a light blue due to its high concentration of methane.
Should you wish to include Pluto, paint it light brown.
 Saturn, Jupiter, Uranus, and Neptune all have rings. The easiest way to make rings is to use a thin wire purchased from any local hardware store. You can make a small hole in the dried exterior using the wire or a small knife. You'll want the hole to be on the side of the balloon and somewhat centered to make it as much like the real placement of the rings as possible. Put the wire through the hole and close the end to anchor it. Then form a circle around each ringed planet with the wire long enough to stretch the entire diameter. The wire will support itself and will simply need to be bent around each planet.









If you do not have wire, you can use construction paper. Cut the construction paper 2 to 3 inches wide and long enough to make it around the entire balloon. Glue the construction paper ring around each planet. , If you want to hang your planets using fishing line or other string to give the allusion of a floating solar system, you'll need a place to tie the string. The easiest way to do this is to gently poke a hole in the hardened paper (being careful to not pop the balloon) and put a curved paper clip through the hole where string can be tied.
 One simple way to display your project is to use the paper clips you placed in earlier, tie fishing string and hang from something like a paneled ceiling, putting the planets in order so they realistically portray the solar system. You can also tie each planet to something simple like coat hangers that can be hung around the room, or make a wooden dowel that planets can be hung from.


The sun should be the first balloon, followed by each planet in order. The string should hang the planets low enough that they are visible to each child and readily able to be interacted with. Since it will be difficult to replicate the exact scale of each planet's distance from the sun, you should make them far enough apart to be clearly distinguished from one another. A good distance to shoot for would be 2 to 3 feet apart if you have plenty of space, otherwise use your space the best way you see fit.
 Point out the difference in sizes, colors, and so on. This is a great way to convey facts and to help children begin a journey of understanding our solar system better. 