 Whether you’re going out to do some gardening or gearing up for a jog, one of the easiest ways to prevent heat stroke is to avoid the combination of sun exposure and strenuous activity entirely between 11 am and 4 pm. Instead, pick a time in the early morning or late afternoon when the sun’s rays aren’t so fierce.Heat stress can occur even when indoors—for example, cooks and boiler room workers are at particular risk so don’t think that the sun is the only factor causing stress.;
, Clothes made of synthetic fabrics can significantly increase your risk of heat stress: since they are not breathable, they make you sweat and lose moisture at a higher rate than usual. Opt instead for loose-fitting garments made of cotton or other breathable fabrics.Light-colored clothing will keep you cooler in the heat, but dyed and darker fabrics are better at absorbing UV rays and preventing sun damage., You don’t need to worry about this consideration if working indoors, but any outdoor labor should be accompanied by plenty of topical sun protection. This will prevent sun burns and rashes, skin conditions which—although painful enough in and of themselves—can also have serious consequences. Left untreated, they can interfere with your body’s natural cooling capabilities and eventually lead to more serious heat-related illness such as heat exhaustion.Initially, you should use at least an ounce of sunscreen to cover your exposed body parts. Afterward, you should reapply sunscreen every two hours at least. If you're sweating profusely, though, you should go no more than 80 minutes before reapplying.While there are many sunscreens available with relatively low SPF levels, you should opt for a sunscreen with an SPF no lower than 30., You can work safely in extreme heat and humidity as long as you take regular breaks to retreat to a cool, shaded area. These breaks bring down your temperature while refreshing your body’s capacity to cool itself. If toiling strenuously, you should rest for at least an hour in this cool environment.


While some good shade coverage is sufficient if working in an arid climate, it is probably not sufficient if laboring in a humid environment. If your home doesn’t have air conditioning, seek out a public space such as a mall or movie theater where you can rest. In a pinch, you can try taking cool showers or baths throughout the day., When your body gets hot, it cools itself off by sweating. This coping strategy is effective, but it also causes you to lose moisture rapidly, so you must replenish fluids regularly in order to avoid dehydration.When you're working outdoors in extreme heat, you'll need at least 2.2 liters (0.6 US gal) of fluids each day. You can drink plain water, but it’s even better to consume sports drinks like Gatorade or Powerade, which provide the electrolytes, salts, and sugars you lost through sweating.


If you don’t have any sports drinks handy, you can make your own oral rehydration solution by adding six teaspoons of sugar and half a teaspoon of salt into one liter of water.In addition to drinking the right fluids, you should also avoid the wrong ones. Alcoholic drinks in particular are dangerous, as they accelerate dehydration while impairing your coordination and judgment., Though any individual can get heat stress, some people are at an elevated risk for this condition. For example, elderly people, pregnant and nursing women, babies, children, and people with heart disease are more likely to be affected by all kinds of heat stress. If you belong to one of these groups, you should take special precautions. Never labor or work out in the heat, and always carry sports drinks with you whenever you’ll be in a hot environment.