 Strip the sheets, duvet cover, and pillow cases. Place these in the washing machine and set it to wash while you clean the rest of the room.;
, This includes pillows, mattress protector, and miscellaneous items. The mattress will now be given a chance to breathe.


If it's that once-a-year spring clean of your bedroom, consider getting a helper or two to carry the mattress outdoors for some sunshine. Lay down a large tarpaulin or groundsheet beforehand, and lay the mattress on it, in full sun.
 If the bed has a headboard, wipe it down with a damp cleaning cloth, then dust it. Polish if appropriate.
 Since this is right next to the bed, it can be cleaned now too. Remove all items that have accumulated on the table and place back where they belong. Wipe the remaining items with a damp cleaning cloth, then wipe the surface of the table. Leave to dry, placing the items back when the surface has dried.
 First, remove any clothing that has been stuffed in there or isn't properly put away. This will make it easier to see what is in there.
 If mildew is growing, treat it with an appropriate cleaning solution. These are available commercially or you can make your own, such as using vinegar or clove oil.
 Depending on what the floor surface is, clean it in the appropriate manner. Remove all shoes, shoe boxes, and other items from the area first.
 Decide whether anything needs washing and put it in a washing pile. Other clothes can be folded neatly or hung up as appropriate and put back. This is a good time to make decisions about donating items that aren't getting used anymore.


Start a washing clothing pile in one corner of the bedroom for retrieval later.
 As with the clothes, use this opportunity to discard or donate anything no longer needed.


Clothes can be added to the washing clothing pile or immediately placed back where they belong in the wardrobe.
Books, magazines and newspapers should be returned to shelving or the recycling/donation box.
Gadgets, toys, electronic equipment, etc. should be returned to where they belong.
Other people's items should be returned to them.
 If they need cleaning, deal with this now:


Curtains that can be machine washed can be removed and placed in the queue for washing after the sheets. If they need special cleaning, consider dropping them off at the dry cleaners.
Wipe down blinds using warm soapy water or whatever the manufacturer has instructed. You may wish to wear a dust mask if they are especially dusty.
Wash the inside of the windows if needed.
 Use a damp cloth to wipe over all remaining undusted surfaces in the bedroom, including shelves and knick-knacks on the shelves. You can also use a duster for books on shelves, for shelf items and hard-to-reach areas of the room.


Microfiber cleaning cloths and dusters are recommended, as they attract rather than disperse the dust.
 Depending on the floor surface, now is the time to clean it.


Take rugs outside and beat them to remove dust. Vacuum them on return indoors.
If there are stains on the carpet, treat these appropriately to remove or lessen them.
Polish the floor if it's wooden.
 If there is a desk in your room, remove all items from it. Choose what is to go back on the desk and put away everything else. Wipe the desk down and dust any objects from the desk. Return the items to the desktop when dry.


Clean the computer to remove dust. You may also want to clean the inside of the computer. This keeps your computer running optimally and will not pose a fire hazard due to overheating. Do not get water near the computer or any other electronic items.
Check cords and power points for dust and fluff and remove.
 Depending on the furniture in the room, you may wish to clean and polish it. If you notice handles loose or missing, hinges coming unhinged or any other repairs needing to be done, make a note that these must be dealt with as soon as possible.
 Make the bed; it will be lovely and fresh now.


Plump up the pillows before adding them back to the bed.
 When done, fold them or hang them and put back in their rightful places.
 Dispose of all trash collected from the bedroom. Place donations in a box to be dropped off later.
 This might be a vase of flowers, a spritz of room spray, or a sachet of a sweet-smelling herb.

