 Trading cards often have dual purposes and for Pokémon cards, you can either collect the cards for the fun of hunting them down or you can collect them so you can play the Pokémon Trading Card Game.If you only want to collect and display cards, you have the freedom to go in any direction with the kinds of cards you want. You can collect based off of Pokémon types, card values, sets, or any category you can think of. , Some people exclusively try to collect rare or special cards while others are looking for certain types of Pokémon or want to catch them all. Being more specific with your list can help narrow down your search among the 700+ Pokémon that currently exist. As you start out, keep in mind that there are different rarities for cards. 'Rarity' is a term used to determine how hard a card is to find and the rarity is marked on the bottom right of the card with a symbol:Easier to find cards include common (black circle mark), uncommon (black diamond), or rare (black star).
Harder to find cards are either holofoil rare (black star with holographic art), ultra rare (white star), or secret rare(rarity symbol with a serial number).
Some of the most sought-after cards are either full art (cards with only art), EX ('EX' is next to the Pokémon name), or reverse holos (holographic sheen is on everything but the art). These cards are limited edition and can be worth a lot of money in mint condition., It's easier to start collecting the most recent printing of cards because they are more widely and readily available. Pokémon cards are released in sets when they are printed by the manufacturers but the sets are spread out across the world in separate packs of cards, such as starter or booster packs. Many people aim for collecting a whole set; there are generally 102 different cards per set. Be aware, sets can also have expansion packs that extend the list of cards you will need to complete that particular set. It is easier to collect a set while it's in print. The older a set is or if it goes out of print, the more difficult it will be to find those cards and they will often become more expensive as well., Vendors online as well as places like flea markets and hobby stores will often have options to buy cards in bulk. You can purchase a large amount at a discounted price and usually save money on shipping as well. One downside to bulk purchases is that you may not find anything of high value. But sometimes there's a rare card hiding among a few hundred common ones. The hunt for valuable cards is part of the advantage and allure for buying in bulk.