 The people you spend time with have a major impact on how you view the world and yourself. If you are around people who are critical of their own bodies or others, your own body image may suffer. Choose friends who are positive, uplifting, and open-minded.Focus on building a social group filled with people who have similar values and interests as you. Don’t narrow your choices for friends based on appearances.
If you have friends with poor body image, try to be a positive role model for them. Show them that you love your body just the way it is. A healthy body image can be contagious, too.
 Oftentimes, we have tunnel-vision, only concentrating on the things we don’t like. Switch your focus. Instead of going on and on about physical features you dislike, start focusing on your positive traits.


Every morning as you get ready for the day, find one unique characteristic about yourself and say it aloud. For example, you might say, “I like my pouty lips.”
It might also be encouraging to jot down your daily compliment on a scrap of paper. Drop it in a jar each day for a month. Include compliments paid by others, as well. At the end of the month, pull out all the compliments and review them to celebrate all your positive qualities., A big part of body image is the thoughts going through your head about your own body and others’ bodies. Learn to challenge negative self-talk and improve your confidence in the process.Listen to the script in your head as you get dressed or undress each day. What are you telling yourself about your body? Your thoughts might sound like: “I’ll never have shoulders like Jennifer Lawrence”
Challenge this script with goal-oriented thinking. Is this train of thought helping you feel good about yourself? Is it helping you achieve your goals? The clear answer is “no.” You can reframe this script into “My shoulders will never look like Jennifer Lawrence, but I can lift 20 pounds. I am strong.” Have friends and family members help hold you accountable., An often understated error to body comparisons is the differences in people’s bodies across races, cultures, and families. While there is no “ideal” body shape and size, it may be more helpful to use images of people from similar backgrounds as role models. Celebrities with a similar background may be a good place to start.


For instance, a Caucasian and a Hispanic woman may have remarkably different body shapes. Look to women and men from your cultural and family background as verification that images in the media are not comparable to you. Do the women or men in your family look like a certain celebrity? If not, it is unreasonable to subject yourself to the same comparison., You can benefit your own body image and assist loved ones by acting as a filter for positive body talk. When you hear friends, classmates, or family members talk about their appearances in a disapproving way, correct them.You might change the topic, or confront them, by saying, “I always hear you make negative comments about your looks. I challenge you to identify one physical feature that you love and tell me why you love it.”

, Getting involved with an activity you truly care about can help take the focus off yourself and help you keep things in perspective. Join a local group like Habitat for Humanity, for example, or offer to volunteer with a local animal shelter or women's shelter.There are a number of causes that may fit your passion. Check online or with your school's campus organizations to find something that fits you.

