 It can be difficult to stick to a New Year’s resolution, especially if the resolution requires physical activity or daily participation. You’ll be more motivated to work on your resolution if you have a community or support group around you. By making your resolution socially known, you’ll provide yourself with a support group and individuals who can hold you accountable to pursuing your resolution.For example, if you’ve resolved to drink less alcohol in the New Year, tell a few friends or family members about your decision. Ask them to check in with you weekly, to make sure you haven’t backslid.
Similarly, if you’ve resolved to take up an artistic practice in the New Year (painting, pottery, etc.), join a class rather than working in solitude.
 It can be easy to focus on the difficult parts of your resolution, or to feel like you’re not making much progress on the goal, and give up the resolution entirely. In order to avoid this pitfall, maintain an optimistic mindset and focus on the success that you have achieved. To facilitate this, you can break your resolution down into small sections and focus on completing one at a time.For example, if resolve to learn to play a musical instrument during the course of a year, don’t be self-critical if you haven’t mastered it by December. Rather, focus on the small steps of progress that you’ve made and allow these accomplishments to motivate further practice and improvement.
 As the months tick by and your initial motivation to accomplish your resolution fades, you’ll need a way to remind yourself why your resolution matters. An excellent way to do this is to write down a list of half a dozen reasons for pursuing your New Year’s resolution. If you do this early in the year—say, by the middle of March—you can refer back to your list throughout the summer and fall to keep motivated and maintain progress towards your resolution.For example, if you resolved to stop smoking within a year, you can make a list of reasons to quit including: “To preserve my health,” “To increase my lifespan,” and “To not harm those around me.”

