 The doctor will swab your child’s nasal fluid and use a rapid test to determine if RSV is the source of the infection. The results of this test are usually available within fifteen minutes.;
, Often, secondary bacterial infections can occur as a result of an RSV infection. Your child’s doctor can perform a physical examination to determine if any secondary infections are present and if antibiotics are appropriate for your child., Hospitals can provide supportive care for children with severe infection. During their hospital stay, children may receive oxygen, humidified air, and intravenous fluids as the infection runs its course., While certain levels of fever can be therapeutic in fighting RSV, fevers above 103 degrees F (38.4 degrees C) can be dangerous. Over-the-counter medicines, such as acetaminophen, can help manage fever and regulate body temperature. Dosage is usually based on your child's weight, but this can be variable in infants or children under 2 years old. Consult your doctor to calculate the appropriate dose to manage your child’s fever.Tell your doctor about any persistent or prolonged fever.
 Monitor your child’s urine output and any dry mouth, as a fever can cause dehydration. Offer plenty of water and clear fruit juices. If your child doesn’t urinate within a given 6-8 hour period, consult your doctor., Use saline and a nasal aspirator, such as a bulb syringe or a NoseFrida, to remove mucus from your child’s nose. This will aid their breathing and can help them sleep better. Follow the manufacturer’s directions regarding suctioning technique and how much saline is appropriate, depending upon your child’s age., Place a firm pillow or two behind your child’s neck and back to help them sleep in a more upright position. This can help relieve nasal congestion and allow your child to rest soundly.It is not advisable to put pillows or other soft objects in the cribs of children under two. Consult your doctor for measures that can help younger babies sleep well while fighting the virus.
 Adults have more developed immune systems than young children. To keep those vulnerable to RSV healthiest, wash your hands with soap and warm water for 30 seconds, scrubbing underneath your nails, before any interactions. If you have a young baby, request any visitors who want to hold the baby to do the same, particularly if they seem sick.For example, you might say, “I’m so excited to see you. I prefer that everyone wash their hands before holding the baby. Do you mind?” Guests are sure to oblige.
Children in daycare settings are much more likely to be exposed to RSV. If you have an older child, supervise their handwashing before they play with a younger sibling.
 If you are ill and need to care for a baby or young child, it can’t hurt to wear a facemask. You may have RSV and not know it, as the infection passes like a bad cold in most adults. Facemasks limit the spread of infectious particles that are dispersed when you cough or sneeze.You can buy facemasks at online retailers.
 RSV can be passed by intimate contact such as kissing. If you are feeling ill and don’t know if your infection is RSV or the common cold, avoid kissing children on the mouth, face or hands., Children are more likely to be exposed to RSV in daycare and group-play settings. Arranging care for your child in your home or in a home daycare with fewer children will minimize their risk of contracting RSV in the first place.This is especially helpful for young babies, whose immune systems aren’t fully developed at birth.
 Do not smoke cigarettes, cigars or a pipe around your child or infant. While RSV passes as a cold would for most children, children who are exposed to secondhand smoke are much more likely to have complications related to the infection. Some may even need to be hospitalized or put in intensive care. Minimize this risk by limiting your smoking.Ask others to do the same. If you have a guest who smokes, kindly ask them to do so outside away from your child.
 If your doctor has indicated that your child has an immature immune system due to prematurity at birth or an underlying health condition, avoid crowded events. In large groups, it is much more likely that someone may be ill. Plus, many people have trouble resisting playing with or holding small children.Crowded areas aren’t just restricted to events; everyday places such as shopping malls and elevators can provide the close quarters necessary for RSV transmission.

