 Reconciliation in some cases can also mean making sure that the general ledger balances match the balances reported for the same accounts in that period's financial statements. Start by getting copies of the business's financial statements. You'll need to compare line items on these documents to their equivalent accounts in the general ledger.
 Start by checking to see that the revenue, or sales, account is the same on both the income statement and in the general ledger. If this number doesn't match, almost everything else will be incorrect. If you detect a discrepancy, you'll have to go back and review the revenue account in the general ledger again.


Next, look at other revenue accounts, like interest income or non-operating income, if applicable. Check these balances against their reported values on the income statement.
When you've taken care of income values, move on to expense accounts, aggregating expenses into their categories on the income statement where necessary. For example, costs of goods sold would include both the cost of materials for items produced and the direct labor cost incurred., Look at the reported asset amounts on the balance sheet, including cash amounts, inventory, fixed assets, and other asset categories. Make sure that these balance match those reported in the ending account balances in the general ledger. Some of these accounts are aggregated on the balance sheet. For example, cash and cash equivalents can include a number of different types of assets, from actual cash to savings and checking account balances.


After checking assets, move on to liabilities, looking at the reported short and long term liabilities on the balance sheet. Make sure these match the ending balances recorded in the general ledger., The other financial statements will depend largely on the balances recorded in the first two statements. Make sure to mark if any discrepancies were noticed in the income statement or balance sheet and where any changes to these account might affect the statement of cash flows or shareholder's equity.
 If you notice discrepancies, go back and investigate the underlying transactions tied to the general ledger entries. Prove the account balance to be correct first and then make the change on the financial statement. Then, update the other balances affected by this change if your accounting software or spreadsheet doesn't do this for you.

