 One of the best ways to show your partner that you genuinely care for them is to listen to them when they talk. Listening is different from hearing. When you listen, it shows that you respect their opinions and feelings.When your partner is talking, set aside your phone and computer in order to give them your undivided attention.Look them in the eyes when they are talking.
Try to not interrupt them when they are talking. Hear them out, first.
Verbalize understanding of what they said. For example, you might say something like, “It sounds like you are saying ____. Is that right?”
Make sure to follow through with change when necessary. For example, if your partner asks you to call the next time you are going to be late for dinner, then make sure that you do so.;
, Both you and your partner should have a say in the kinds of activities you do together. It shouldn’t be one-sided all the time. If it is, it could turn into a power struggle with one person fighting to get his or her way all the time.For example, if you chose the last two movies, let your partner decide which movie you guys will see next time.
Show interest in your partner by trying things they like to do. For example, if they like going to the art museum, then offer to go to the museum the next time you guys are deciding what to do. Go with an open, positive mind and focus on trying to enjoy yourself. Do not punish your partner with negative words or attitude.
 You should be supportive of your partner in both good times and bad times. When your partner is going through a rough time, lend a shoulder to cry on. On the other hand, if your partner has a reason to celebrate, offer to take them out, and express how proud you are of them.For example, if your partner didn't get the job they applied for you can say, “Don't worry. There are plenty of jobs you can apply for. Try not to let one job get you down. I am here to help if you need it.”
On the other hand, if your partner did get the job you can say, “I am so proud of you. You worked really hard to get that job.”
Respond positively to your partner, but also avoid speaking ill of other people.
 Teach your partner how to respect you by setting boundaries. If your partner does not respect your boundaries, then this is a red flag. This is especially important in regards to sex.Does your partner understand and support your boundaries? If not, consider ending the relationship.
Does your partner stop right away when you say no, or when you’re not comfortable doing something? If not, you need to re-evaluate the person and your relationship with them.
For example, if your partner is ready to have sex, and you are not, do they pressure you by saying, "Come on, it is just sex. If you don't have sex with me, then I will break up with you." If they do, then they are not respecting your boundaries.

