 This represents the two axes y and x -- one vertical, one horizontal. The vertical axis is designated the Y-axis and the horizontal as the X-axis. The place where the lines cross is called the origin.


The areas below the X-axis and to the left of the Y-axis represent negative numbers. If your data set doesn't include negative numbers, you can omit those portions of the graph.;
, To continue the temperature-time example from the introduction, you would label the x-axis as months during the year, and the y-axis as temperature.
 To continue the temperature-time example, you'd select a range that was large enough to include the highest and lowest temperatures you plan to graph. If the range isn't very high, you can have a larger scale, spreading it out more so that it fills up the graph instead of just covering 10% of it.
 You might designate a scale of 10 degrees Fahrenheit (12.22 degrees Celsius) per line to measure temperature along the Y-axis, and a scale of one month per line to measure time along the X-axis.


Label several of the lines along each axis with the scale measurements. You don't need to label every line, but you should space the labeled line at regular intervals along the axis.
 For example: If the high temperature in your hometown was 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4.44 degrees Celsius) in January, locate the "January" line on the X-axis and the "40 degrees" line on the Y-axis. Trace both lines to the point where they intersect. Place a dot on the intersection. Repeat for all of your other data until you've plotted each point on the graph.
 Continue connecting the dots, one by one, working from left to right. Make sure that it looks like you're connecting the points with straight lines only, so that the graph does not look curved. Once you've connected all of the points, you will have successfully graphed all of the data.
 If you're graphing multiple data sets on the graph, use a distinctive color of pen, or style of line, for the first data set. Place an example of the color/line style off to the side of the graph and label it with the name of the information being displayed. For example: "High Temperatures."

Repeat steps 1 and 2 for the next data set, using a different-color pen or a different style of line for each data set.
Place an example of the second line color/style in the margin and label it, too. For example, you could use a red pen to graph high temperatures, then use a blue pen to graph low temperatures over the same period on the same graph. Continue repeating steps 1 and 2 for each remaining data set you want to include on the graph.
 For example: Average Monthly High and Low Temperatures in Seattle, 2009. You should do this last after you know how much space all of the graphs will take up on the page.

