 One of the best things you can do for your feet is to buy and wear the proper shoes. Shoes that are ill fitting create friction and pressure, which cause calluses, corns, and dryness to form.There are several things you can do to make sure you find the proper shoe.Get BOTH of your feet measured. You probably have one foot that is larger than the other. You need to find shoes that will fit the larger of your two feet.
Go shoe shopping at the end of the day, as that is when your feet are at their largest. Sizing your shoes later in the day makes sure your shoes don’t get tighter throughout the day as your feet swell.
Don’t depend on the manufacturer’s size. Base your judgement on how the shoe actually feels.
Look for shoes that have the same shape as your feet. Oddly shaped shoes will most likely cause you problems.
Don’t assume shoes will stretch after you’ve worn them awhile.
Make sure the balls of your feet are comfortable in the widest part of the shoe. And that the shoe is deep enough to fit your toes comfortably.
Check that there is 3/8” to 1/2” of space between the end of your big toe and the shoes. You can estimate this as the width of your finger, while you’re standing.
 Try to wear only soft cotton socks inside your shoes, especially when doing a physical activity. Allow your shoes to completely dry out after physical activities that cause your feet to sweat excessively. Don’t wear the same socks two days in a row. Change your socks throughout the day if they get wet or sweaty. Wash your feet everyday, including in between your toes, to prevent conditions like athlete’s foot. And completely dry your feet before putting socks on.Taking these precautions will help you avoid bad foot odor as well as development of rashes and eczema.


It is also a good idea to wear flip-flops or another type of sandal when in public areas like a swimming pool or public shower., The best way to prevent your feet from getting dry and cracked is to make sure you apply a good quality foot moisturizer to them every day.Moisturizing your feet is especially important in the winter when the air is cold and dry.Be careful that you don’t apply moisturizer and then attempt to walk around in your bare feet on a tile or wood floor. You may find that applying moisturizer just before bed is the easiest, and possibly safest, habit to get into.


Use your moisturizing time to give yourself a foot massage. Massaging your feet not only feels good, but it can help with blood circulation.
Avoid showering or bathing in really hot water, which can dry out your skin faster.Use moisturizer designed specifically for feet as other types of moisturizers may contain alcohol, which can dry out your skin more quickly.
 Interestingly, the majority of foot problems are not caused by the fact that you’re walking, but rather because of your shoes. Corns (which are calluses that form on your toes) are caused when your toes rub against the inside of your shoes, mainly because your shoes (or socks) are not the proper size. High heels can also cause corns because their shape forces extra pressure onto your toes and forefoot, which in turn causes your toes to push up against the inside of your shoes more often. You can help prevent and treat corns at home, but if they become severe, you will need to see a doctor.Soak your feet in warm water regularly, and use a pumice stone or foot file to remove dead skin and calluses from your toes and feet.
Wear ‘corn pads’ on your toes to help cushion them within your shoes. Medicated ‘corn pads’ are not recommended.
Switch to shoes that fit your feet properly and have plenty of room in the toes. Reduce your use of high heels if possible.
 It is actually doctor recommended, so go ahead and put your feet up when you can! Having said that, if you do find yourself sitting for a long time, take a moment to get up and walk around. And if you have a habit of crossing your legs while you’re sitting, change which way you cross them every so often. All of these tips are a great way to help increase the circulation in your legs and feet.