 Since everything moves to the same words and rhythm, you can cut from one video to another smoothly once you have your videos synced. In your editing software, stack all of the videos on top of each other, then slide them left and right until they are totally synced up. Since you'll be able to hear the song in each video take, you'll be able to easily match them up by hearing when the song is just a little off.

It can help to put a clean MP3 version of the song in the video editor as well, using this as your baseline when syncing videos.
High-end video software, like Adobe Premier, often has a sync feature. There are also professional sync programs, like PluralEyes, but they are generally used for shoots with many cameras and microphones.
If you took tons and tons of video you may decide to do this in smaller pieces, only syncing up the segments you are currently editing and then matching it all together later. Both strategies work., Try to make this footage as interesting as possible without any music at all. Remember, you're trying to tell the story visually. Consider it like a flipbook, or a story told in slideshow -- if one shot is the girl getting ready for the club, the next should be here going to the club or arriving. Don't show her getting ready over and over again. A good example of how not to do this might be Twista's "Overnight Celebrity," which resorts to the same or similar shots over and over again.


You can fine-tune the cuts to match the music later. For now, just focus on telling a good story. The music, when added, should make a good edit better. It shouldn't be the only reason it works.
 The best practice for editing a music video is watching a ton of them. Note how short each cut is -- music videos rarely hold on the same image for more than 2-3 seconds, and rap is no exception. Quick cuts keep the audience engaged and keep the song moving along quickly, whereas long cuts tend to make the song feel slower or like the video is dragging. There are always exceptions, but this is a good ground rule to start with.
 Falling on the beat means that each cut comes in a regular, rhythmic "1, 2, 3, 4." It is tempting for young video makers to cut everything right to the beat, but for an audience member this quickly becomes tiring and predictable. Instead, pick the 5-10 moments where coming in on the beat really highlights a big moment -- such as when the song "drops" or comes back in, or for select montages during climactic moments.


It can help to cut the whole video to the beat, then trim away and edit it later once you can tell the places where it works and the places it doesn't.
Alternatively, some editors will cut most of the video with no music, then go back and see how it lines up later, adding "on-the-beat" sections as desired.
 Watch the video with this clean version and make any last adjustments. Don't rely on the song recordings you got while shooting -- you want the best, most professional-quality version of the song you can get for the final video.
 Color correction separates the amateurs from the pros, which is why most young filmmakers forget or ignore it. Color correction, however, is easier than you think. To begin as a color corrector, pick your absolute favorite visual clip, and use the Brightness/Contrast and Hue/Saturation effects to adjust it until it is perfect. Then, use the same effects to make every other video look as much like this "master clip" as possible.


The primary goal of color correction is to ensure that the clips all flow smoothly together, as if they were all shot at the same exact time.
As you get better, you can use color correction to influence the mood of the video as well, using blues and greens for calm or darker tones and reds and oranges for happier shots.
 Check out Cyhi the Prince's "Cold as Ice" video. It is simple -- just 2 locations, a costume change, and a feature dancer. But the editing style, which overlays multiple shots at once, makes it immediately recognizable and unique. If you feel confident as an editor, rap videos are a great way to show your chops and make something wholly new and original.


Maybe you want to do one long take, without any cuts. This doesn't even have to be difficult, as Bob Dylan's seminal "Subterranean Homesick Blues" video attests.
What video effects can you play with and push to their extremes?
Try crazy color schemes, black and white, etc. These changes are very simple to change back in editing.