 A strong introduction will make the rest of the conversation easier. That said, it can be difficult to jump straight into introducing yourself. At the beginning of the event, find someone sitting close to you. You can also find someone who looks as if they are alone or uncertain.


A good introduction involves eye contact, a strong handshake, and a clear statement of your name. Keep it simple. Say, “Hi, I’m Sam.”If you are nervous, take a deep breath before going over.
If you are at a party and know the host, you can ask them to introduce you to everyone else. This will ease the burden on you.It may be easier to approach smaller groups or individuals until you meet more people at the event. It will be less awkward for you to start talking to them, and you will have a better chance of starting a good conversation., You do not want to sit alone in a corner. Starting a conversation yourself will show that you are self-assured and at ease. You can ask people how they know the host, where they work, or where they’re from. These can help ease you into a natural conversation.


You can ask: “How do you know the Wilsons? Have you been friends for a long time?”
You can make comments on the atmosphere of the room, such as “Oh, do you know this song? I love it.” or “That dip is amazing. Do you know what’s in it?”
You can also make a situational comment based on something you notice the person is doing, wearing, or drinking. For example: “What game are you all playing?” or "What beer are you drinking?" are good conversation starters at a party.
If you're at a professional event, find a speaker or performer, and compliment them. For example, “You gave a great presentation. Where did you learn all of that?”, When people say something to you, you should respond eagerly and positively. Ask more questions for clarification, or share something about yourself of a similar nature. As you do so, lean in slightly. Smile and nod along to what they are saying.


For example, if you asked where they lived and they said on the east side of town, you can say something like “Oh, there’s a great café over there that I love. Do you know it?”
You want to balance listening with speaking. Make sure that the burden of the conversation isn’t on them, but don’t monopolize the conversation with your own stories.
 If you’re lucky, you’ll start a great conversation that lasts for a while, but if the conversation ends, don’t worry. You do not have to stand awkwardly next to someone if neither of you have anything to say. Politely excuse yourself and move on to someone else in the room.You can say:


“Oh, excuse me. I’m going to get another drink.”
“It was lovely meeting you. If you’ll excuse me, I’m going to go thank the host now.”
“Good luck in the future. I’m going to duck outside for a minute.”

