 As a hard man, you cannot be controlled by your emotions or circumstances. It takes time to reach this stage and you must train yourself by dealing with small discomforts every day. The more you practice, the better you will become.Small discomforts such as taking cold showers, fasting one day a week, or eating a strict diet are a good place to start.
If you are having trouble finding a small discomfort, make a list of the things that irritate you or you don’t like doing. Then choose one of those things work on. For example, if you hate waking up early, start waking up 15 minutes earlier in the morning.
 Just because you can fight, does not mean you should. You do not need to prove anything to anyone. Only fight when it is necessary and for a good cause. You should never start a fight, but you can definitely finish one.Defend the victims of bullying and scapegoating. Sympathize with the victim and tell the bullies to leave the victim alone.
Someone bumping into you or saying something rude is not worth a fight. However, bumping into or disrespecting your girlfriend, partner, sister, or mother would be worth the fight.
 No matter how you are feeling or what you are going through, do not complain about it to other people. If you complain about things, other people will think that you are weak. Instead of complaining, face your problems head on and be brave.


This is especially important when you are in front of other people. For example, if you worked out really hard one day and you are very sore, there is no need to tell other people how hard you worked out and how sore you are. You do not want sympathy; you want to be respected.
If you were up all night working or studying, don’t go and tell people how tired you are the next day. Instead put extra effort into how you look the next day. People will see that you worked very hard, but it did not affect you.
 Do not be influenced by what other people do or say. Have your own mind and stick to your beliefs. Always act based on those beliefs, and take action if those beliefs are violated. Your reputation is very important. Be a leader, not a follower.For example, if you have strong beliefs about being friendly to animals and children, you may correct someone that hit their dog for being disobedient.
If you believe in being loyal and honest with your friends, do not tolerate friends who lie and are shady.
 Look people in the eye and speak with conviction. You do not need to raise your voice or curse, but speak as if you truly believe what you are saying. If you do not believe your words, other people will not believe you.For example, instead of saying, “I think that was a really good movie,” you would say, “That was a great movie. You need to go see it.”

, Even hard men have limits. There are times that your toughness may not be helpful to you or other people around you. You should never be a danger to yourself or other people. Ask for help if you need it. Remember that you do not have to prove anything to other people. You are a hard man because you have spent time working on yourself.


You may need to soften up a bit to comfort a friend, help someone in need, or show humility.
You can be a hard man and still have emotions.

