 Everybody makes mistakes; some people are just better at hiding it than others but mistakes always ooze out somewhere, no matter what. It is a far healthier approach to accept that mistakes are a part of life and to get on with things.;
, So you mucked up? What did you learn from it? Or are you too busy feeling sorry for yourself, thereby clothing yourself in embarrassment? Rather than seeking the shamed, guilty approach, adopt the "this is my learning experience" approach. Looking at it differently will really change your attitude and removes the sense of embarrassment.
 Embarrassment comes because we are afraid of what others think of us and we have the impression that we appear shameful to them. First, the reality is that people don't really notice things the way you do personally; they're too busy focusing on their own concerns. Second, if you take responsibility for your mistakes, you are too busy working through what happened in a constructive way, and how to remedy it to feel embarrassed. By being responsible, you stop letting other people determine how you appear to the world you stop worrying about not causing other people problems or wronging them. Too bad should be the motto; you mucked up, now you pick up but you are ultimately responsible for how you respond and feel.
 That not only takes time but it rakes through the matter in a non-constructive manner. Simply own up to a) having made the mistake and b) acknowledge that it is probably a nuisance/worry or/upsetting/annoying for the other person but don't say any more than that. Details are unnecessary, how you proceed from here is what really matters. There is no need for "I'm sorry"; factual statements are far more beneficial.
 Remember that people don't like self-troubled personalities because they have enough troubles of their own to deal with without taking on board your whining excuses. Don't take yourself too seriously; it ends up losing people's respect and that is something to be embarrassed about.
 Laugh about what happened to you instead of trying to hide or ignore it.
 Stop trying to be "perfect" as nobody can be and start living for real. Act on your beliefs rather than mulling all the time over how you could be a better person. Everyone is transforming daily, so you can too.

