 This delicious recipe sounds and tastes gourmet, but it’s very easy to put together. The prep time is only 15 minutes. The cook time is 45 minutes. The recipe will yield 4 servings., Husk the tomatillos. Slice them up, along with the onion, garlic and jalapeno. Spread the chopped vegetables on a baking tray and roast them in the oven for 12 to 15 minutes. Carefully remove the tray from the oven. Dump the roasted vegetables into a food processor, along with any juices that collected at the bottom of the tray.

Add the cumin, salt, cilantro and lime juice directly to the processor.
Pulse the processor several times, making sure the contents combine well but remain chunky. Don’t liquefy the salsa.
Set the salsa aside and prepare the enchiladas.
 Heat ½ ounce (15 milliliters) of olive oil in a medium-sized saucepan over medium heat. Dice the onion and add it to the saucepan. Cook the onion for 5 to 7 minutes, until it’s tender and caramelized. Add the chopped garlic and cumin to the pan. Cook for an additional minute. Sprinkle a small amount of flour into the pan, stirring continuously.


Add the rest of the flour gradually, stirring constantly so that it doesn’t burn.
Pour the chicken stock into the pan and simmer until the liquid has thickened.
 Once the liquid in the pan has thickened, remove it from the heat. Pour in half of the roasted tomatillo chile salsa and stir well. Chop up fresh cilantro and add that to the pan. Add the shredded rotisserie chicken and combine gently, folding it and the cilantro into the mixture. Season with salt and pepper (to taste)., Warm up the tortillas by either flash heating them over a stove-top flame or, if you’re using an electric stove, place them momentarily under the broiler. Use some of the reserved salsa to lightly coat each tortilla and then lay them out flat.

Spoon the filling mixture on top of each tortilla. Scatter shredded cheddar cheese on top, reserving half of it for topping.
Roll the tortillas over the filling tightly to create the enchiladas.
 Spread a large spoonful of the tomatillo salsa over the bottom of a large glass baking dish. Transfer the folded enchiladas to the baking dish, one at a time, using a spatula. Lay them side by side, seam-side down.

Drizzle more of the tomatillo salsa over the top of the enchiladas.
Lastly, sprinkle the rest of the shredded cheddar on top.
 Place the dish, uncovered, in the oven and bake it until the cheese is bubbly and lightly browned on top. Remove the enchiladas from the oven and plate them. Garnish with cilantro, chopped tomato and avocado slices (optional). Serve immediately with the remaining tomatillo salsa. Serve with tortilla chips (if desired).


Consider serving with additional toppings like sour cream, fresh guacamole, and chopped tomato.
Authentic and delicious side dishes for this meal would be yellow rice and black beans, spiced to taste.

