 Learn as much as you can about the characters. Series four is the best to watch for this as it features Donna, Martha, and Rose, and you don't have to watch through three series. Amy Pond appears in series' 5 and 6, and Clara has just recently debuted in series 7.;
, Talk to people and help them out - even if you don't know them all that well.
 Be prepared to do anything and everything. All four companions are very adventurous, and it changed their characters' lives!

, Rose was very fast-thinking and witty, Martha is funky, sarcastic, and sad sometimes, and Donna is funny with a soft side. Amy is independent, strong-willed, and stubborn. Clara is brave, sweet, and flirty.
 Rose was known for her strong eyebrows and blonde hair, Martha for her spiky hairstyle, Donna for her pale skin and auburn hair, Amy for her green eyes and orange/red hair, and Clara for her layered dark hair, and large, brown eyes.
 Like both Rose and Amy clicked with the Doctor because they were curious, Martha because she was smart and hungry for life, and Donna because they picked up on each other's humour. Clara and the Doctor clicked due to the fact that Clara continually helped him out, and he wished to know more about her.
 The companions have to face lots of scary and tough stuff, and being strong is an essential quality.
 It's the drive to save people that makes the companions very popular.
 Martha was the companion most recognised for her clothing, with her iconic spiky hair, pink top, jeans, and red leather jacket. Donna has a lot of clothes on board the TARDIS, so you could approach it from that direction too.
 Who didn't love the 'new' Martha in The Sontaran Strategem?!

, Sarcasm, drollness, wit, sometimes even be funny about things you don't know about! But remember, don't be too rude.
 Bring your friends to meet them, but you don't have to tell them everything. As Martha said in the The Sontaran Strategem, sometimes if you don't tell your family stuff, they can be taken advantage of or your actions can get you and them into trouble.
 Concentrate on their good points. It was great to see Martha and Donna getting along in The Sontaran Strategem.
 Companions generally have to do whole a lot of running.

