


Examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith; test yourselves. Do you not realize that Christ Jesus is in you—unless, of course, you fail the test? 2 Corinthians 13:5 (NIV)
You wouldn't go that long without checking your oil level and other fluids in your car, so why would you leave your spiritual life unchecked?;
,


Read the Bible to remember God's faith and love, and to remember what He did for us.
See to it, brothers, that none of you has a sinful, unbelieving heart that turns away from the living God. But encourage one another daily, as long as it is called Today, so that none of you may be hardened by sin's deceitfulness. Hebrews 3:12-13 (NIV)
Just like driving, you will know when you are drifting because things will be different when you pass the right or left barrier. You will have warning signs like coldness toward spiritual things, irritability, less Bible reading, and similar things. You must do step one in order to know you need to do step two.



If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. 1 John 1:9 (NIV)
Blessed are those who wash their robes, that they may have the right to the tree of life and may go through the gates into the city. Revelation 22:14 (NIV)
Repent of a sin you commit and make sure to not do it again. If thoughts of guilt come to you trying to make you think you are not forgiven, just simply ignore them and know that God has forgiven you. As long as you are struggling with sin, that means you are trying to resist the sin.



And you, my son Solomon, acknowledge the God of your father, and serve him with wholehearted devotion and with a willing mind, for the Lord searches every heart and understands every motive behind the thoughts. If you seek him, he will be found by you; but if you forsake him, he will reject you forever. I Chronicles 28:9 (NIV)
Read your bible and pray daily. Set your heart on God and he will gradually reveal himself to you. He will not ignore a truly repentant, honest, and persistent person seeking Him.



Hold on to instruction, do not let it go; guard it well, for it is your life. Proverbs 4:13 (NIV)
Make a habit of reading the word of God. At first it may be hard or you may face distractions, but make an effort to make it a habit. Once you make yourself do it regularly, you will eventually grow into liking it and the word will become alive to you.
 The Christian life is not to be lived alone but with others so they can strengthen you in hard times.


And let us not neglect our meeting together, as some people do, but encourage and warn each other, especially now that the day of his coming back again is drawing near. Hebrews 10:25 (NLT)
Simply going to church and seeing others who are wanting to know God will help you seek God more easily. Church is a good way to make friends too.
 Expect difficult times in your Christian life.


All men will hate you because of me, but he who stands firm to the end will be saved. Matthew 10:22 (NIV)
It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Stand firm, then, and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. Galatians 5:1 (NIV)
You will struggle, but don't give in. Remember, "no pain, no gain". If you aren't struggling, you are probably not doing something you should be doing. The devil doesn't want you to be a Christian and if you aren't butting heads with the devil, you are probably going in the same direction he is.



Be diligent in these matters; give yourself wholly to them, so that everyone may see your progress. Watch your life and doctrine closely. Persevere in them, because if you do, you will save both yourself and your hearers. 1 Timothy 4:15-17 (NIV)
Stand your ground. Realize that you cannot fail, because if you do, you won't make it to heaven. There really is no option. Heaven or hell, it's up to you. To go to heaven, you will have to work, fight, take pain, insults, and setbacks in your life, and do things you won't necessarily enjoy.



Do you not know that in a race all the runners run, but only one gets the prize? Run in such a way as to get the prize. Everyone who competes in the games goes into strict training ... we do it to get a crown that will last forever. 1 Corinthians 9: 24-25 (NIV)
I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. Now there is in store for me the crown of righteousness... 2 Timothy 4:7-8 (NIV)
Stay your course. You are not just running this race for a crown, you are running this race to find true meaning and purpose once this life is over. Once you die, it's over. All you can take with you is your soul and your good deeds and what you did for the Lord. All your degrees, awards, houses, cars, hobbies, and more will be gone forever. Fear not, because you will have new and better and eternal versions of all these things in heaven. All you have to do is make sure you get there.



Remember those earlier days after you had received the light, when you stood your ground in a great contest in the face of suffering. So do not throw away your confidence; it will be richly rewarded. You need to persevere so that when you have done the will of God, you will receive what he has promised … we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who believe and are saved. Hebrews 10: 32, 35-39 (NIV)
One tactic the enemy loves using is to remind you of your present situation and get you to forget what the Lord has protected you from, saved you from, and provided you with. You are a walking miracle and you don't even realize it. God has great plans for you in the future too.

