 You can visit their official website at Angels.navy.mil, or just google the phrase Blue Angels. Here are a few facts that might interest you.


The Blue Angels fly F/A-18 Hornet Aircraft, a high-performance fight-attack jet designed to be flown from the deck of aircraft carriers.
There are 6 aircraft flown at airshows. Four aircraft fly formation maneuvers while the other two are considered solo planes, and do their own stunts either separately, or paired together.
A typical airshow flight plan lasts about 50 minutes. Cloudy weather or low visibility conditions can mean the team will fly a low altitude airshow, without the high loops and rolls they are famous for.;
, If not, consider planning your vacation at one of the sites they will be performing.
 At the Pensacola installation, you can view them practice twice a week, usually Tuesday and Thursday mornings with take-off around 8:30 AM from the viewing area of the National Museum of Naval Aviation, then the pilots come to the museum to sign autographs and answer questions.
 The Blue Angels perform about 69 shows each year, and last year, 13 million people watched them fly. Most airshows offer much more than just the Blue Angels, however. Static displays of modern and vintage military aircraft, guest stunt pilots in a variety of vintage airplanes, and even aircraft vs. ground vehicle races may be seen, depending on the show you attend.
 This step will vary depending on the venue at which the show is performed. Military installations usually decrease security on airshow days, but having basic identification and arriving early will ensure you are admitted to the base. Traffic can be a problem as well, and although the host of each show attempts to provide convenient parking and extra traffic control measures, and early arrival time will still make the trip more pleasant.
 Hot weather on an airfield in the summer can be miserable, and cold winds in the winter can feel like it is cutting you to the bone.
 Once the excitement of the actual Blue Angels performance begins, you will likely find yourself on your feet to get a better view, but you may expect several hours of other activities before and after the actual flight and being comfortably seated will certainly make the experience more enjoyable.
 Remember, however, that the action is very fast, so inexperienced photographers may find it difficult to capture it well on film.
 You won't often find shops or vendors selling these items at the airshow location, and even if they do, the prices will probably be higher than you could find elsewhere. Most, however, will have food vendors near the viewing grounds, and some do permit souvenir sales on the premises.
 One maneuver has all six hornets flying over at a low altitude and the sound of 12 General Electric turbo-fan engines producing tens of thousands of pounds of thrust can be deafening. Be especially careful about taking small children or persons who are sensitive to loud noises.
 Blue Angels performances often draw crowds comparable to large sporting events, but the venues they occur at are not usually designed for that type of traffic.

