 To make a teabag hot air balloon you will need a teabag, a pair of scissors, a lighter, a small piece of foil, markers, and parental supervision. A teabag with string attached that can stand on its own will work best for this experiment.This experiment involves fire so parental supervision is necessary.
The teabag must be unused and dry.;
, Once the staple is removed, you can unfold the top of the bag and pour out the contents of the teabag.Pour into a cup so you can make the tea later or simply dispose of the loose tea.


At this point, you can decorate the teabag as a ghost by drawing a little face on it with a marker. You could also make it look like a rocket ship., After emptying the contents, unfold the bag so that it can stand on its own. Shape the teabag into a cylinder shape until it can stand upright. Stand the teabag on top of the small piece of foil.Alternatively, a baking pan or ceramic plate can be used as a base for the teabag.
 Parental supervision is recommended for this step. Using a match or the lighter, light the top of the teabag on fire.This will initiate the teabag hot air balloon.


At the end of the experiment the teabag will get burned up so you will need multiple teabags if you want to perform multiple tests.
 As the flame consumes the teabag, it burns to the bottom of it. Once it reaches the bottom, the teabag will become airborne and you have your very own hot air balloon. It will rise and then quickly fall. As it falls, it will be cool enough for you to catch and dispose of.The teabag rises because the flame heats up the air inside the bag. As molecules heat up, they spread out and the air inside the bag becomes less dense than the air outside the bag. The difference in densities causes the bag to rise., Once the teabag lifts off, try to catch it at its highest point before it starts falling back down. Hold your hand at this point and have a friend measure the distance between your hand and the table.Record the results of each teabag’s flight and then try testing different conditions with the teabags. Record the height for each test and compare the results.
 Try cutting the teabags smaller or using jumbo sized teabags. When you light it, what happens? Does the size of the bag affect the teabag's ability to fly? Does a bigger bag fly higher?Try cutting the teabag in half and then in thirds. Which size flies the highest?

, After setting up the teabag, dab a little bit of water onto it. After lighting it on fire, observe the results. Does the teabag still catch fire? Does it burn as quickly? Does it still fly?


Use varying amounts of water and see how it affects the flight of the teabag. Is it different if there is a little bit of water versus a completely soaked teabag?

, Because you will be using fire, it is best to have parental supervision. They will help keep you safe and make sure nothing goes wrong with the experiment., Working with an open flame always has the potential to be dangerous. Always have a fire blanket or extinguisher on hand in case something goes wrong.This is a simple experiment and should work fine, but you should be careful all the same.
 When working with fire, the safest place to be is in an outdoor space. Doing this outside may be difficult if it is a particularly windy day, so if you must be indoors, make sure there is plenty of space between your workbench and the ceiling.

