 This is done by adding up the maximum required power for each of the electricals that you will need the generator to power. Then, make sure that the generator's power rating at least matches this figure.


You can find the wattage information in your appliance's owner's manual, or on the ID plate located on the body of the machine. Make sure to consider both starting and running wattages.
Generator manufacturers generally provide two power figures for their generators: continuous/rated output, and maximum output. These figures match up to those found on your electricals. The continuous/rated output matches the running wattage, and the maximum output matches the starting wattage, which tends to be higher.
Ideally, ensure that the generator's power exceeds your requirements. You don't want to have to buy a new generator in a year's time when you buy a new, slightly more powerful appliance.;
, There are three main types that you should consider:


Petrol: the most common fuel, and easy to obtain. However, it has a comparatively short shelf life, is more flammable than other fuels, and isn't ideal for use in very cold conditions
Diesel: best suited to large generators, and only really effective when run at heavy loads. It has a lower operating cost and longer storage time than petrol, but it is also a noisy and environmentally-unfriendly fuel.
LPG (liquefied petroleum gas): cleaner and safer than both petrol and diesel. Different cylinder sizes enable different running times. However, LPG generators can be more expensive to buy, and often your best option is to pay for an LPG conversion. This would allow your generator to run on either petrol or LPG as required, which provides you with amazing flexibility.
 Regular generators provide power that fluctuates as the load changes, but high-tech power tools, appliances and electronics require smooth power to avoid damage. AVR and Inverter generators feature special electronics that "smooth" the power to prevent spikes and drops. If you will be powering computers or other sensitive electronics, then make sure this technology is included.


Inverter Technology provides the smoothest power, which makes it ideal for the most high-tech devices.
AVR generators still provide smooth power, but are a more cost effective option. There are also two different levels of AVR: standard and digital.
 Will it be in a sheltered area, away from potential damage? Or will be out on a building site, being knocked about and splattered with building materials? Make sure that the generator is robust enough to withstand its working conditions.

Open-frame generators are the most robust, as they are made from mostly metal with very little plastic.
 There are many features that can make your generator easier to use and more efficient to run, but they will increase the price. Features worth considering include:


Electric start. This allows you to start the generator at the push of a button, which makes it much quicker and easier to start
Switchable voltage. This allows you to power either 110v power tools or 240v household appliances and electricals as required.
EcoThrottle ensures that the output precisely matches the load. This means that less fuel is used, which saves you money, increases refuelling intervals, and protects the environment.
Circuit breakers, which protect you and your generator in the event of a fault when using the power outlets.
Handles, wheels, and other attachments, which help you to move the generator around with much more ease

