 There is a large network nationwide of legal aid programs that receive funding through the Legal Services Corporation, which is an office of the federal government. These offices employ lawyers and paralegals to offer free legal advice and services for eligible individuals in certain types of cases, including divorces, employment disputes, landlord and tenant issues, and the denial of public benefits. In order to be eligible for free services, your household income typically must fall beneath a certain amount.


Most LSC-funded programs use the federal poverty guidelines in order to determine if you qualify for free legal services. For more information on whether your household income falls under the federal poverty guidelines, click here.
You can use a search tool on the LSC website to find legal aid programs in your state. You also can ask for contact information at your local courthouse, your local bar association, or you can look in the phone book under legal services or legal aid.
 Many state and local bar associations sponsor pro bono programs, which match volunteer lawyers with people who qualify for free legal advice and representation. Some nonprofit organizations also offer free legal services.You may have to prove that your household income falls under the federal poverty guidelines or another set of income guidelines in order to be eligible for free legal services.
You can look online for local or state pro bono organizations that serve your area.
Your local bar association and your local courthouse are both likely to have contact information about local pro bono programs.
 Some law firms, particularly larger firms in big cities, may have their own pro bono departments for some types of cases. You can contact these law firms by telephone or online to see if they would handle a pro bono case like yours.
 Many state and local bar associations have a referral service that may include a free consultation with an attorney. To find out if your state or local bar association has a program like this, you can visit the website for the American Bar Association, or search online for a local lawyer referral service.

