 You only have 30000 gold and mana at first, so you'll want to upgrade your gold and mana vaults at least to level 4 so you can have enough. Things cost a lot more than usual on Castle Clash, so you'll need as much of the resources and possible.;
, The Town Hall is very important for your base. It keeps track of all the buildings in your base, and the more you level it up, the more buildings you will be able to add.
 A Warehouse is where you store items you get in the game. Every day you log onto Castle Clash, you will get a daily reward. The reward can be any item (a hero card, gold pack, mana pack, etc.), honer badges, and some gems. You will need a Warehouse to be able to claim these items, as well as store them in the Warehouse.
 If you run out of gold or mana to spend, you can later collect more from your Mana Mills and Gold Mines. If available, buy another gold and mana vaults, and a few more Mana Mills and Gold Mines. This will help you store more mana and gold, and it will produce more mana and gold as well.
 Watchtowers are defensive towers that can protect your base while you are offline. Continue upgrading them and they will take more HP out of the attackers if they attack your base. Once they reach level 10, your watchtowers can be upgraded into other better towers. The different kinds of towers are listed here:



Watchtower - This is the tower that you buy when you first start off in Castle Clash. They shoot very slowly however.

Arrowtower - This is a tower that's like a watchtower, but shoots more quickly, so it can kill small attacking troops more faster and easily. Sometimes, it can kill a low-level hero as well. You can also sacrifice heroes to level up the tower's special skills.

Cannontower - A cannontower does not look like a watchtower or arrowtower. Instead it has a base at the bottom, and the top part sticks out of it. The top part shoots bombs at attacking troops and heroes. However, when attackers try to destroy the cannontower, it does not shoot anymore. This also can be upgraded by sacrificing heroes.

Zappingtower - This is a tower that has a glowing blue ball that zaps multiple targets at once. For example, if two attacking troops start heading towards the zappingtower, the zappingtower lets out streaks of light that zaps both of them at the same time, so the zappingtower can kill many troops at once, and can even do the same with heroes. This tower also can be upgraded by sacrificing heroes.
 These will make it harder for the attacker to get in your base. You might not have enough walls at first, so you should surround your most important buildings. Every time you upgrade your Town Hall, you will be able to get 10 more walls to put around your base.


Upgrade your walls so they have more HP and the attacker won't be able to get in that easily.
, Surround it with defense walls to keep it more safe since it's one of the most important buildings.
 If you put them in the edge of your base, attackers will get to them easily and your resources will be stolen more easily. When you start out on Castle Clash, you usually get attacked a few times since you're new, and you have only a few resources at first.
 Place your army camps on the outside of your special buildings. Hire enough attackers so they can attack someone's attack troops. They will probably lose all of theirs and they might lose, which will make your defense successful.
 on the sides. Hero bases should be placed anywhere, usually scattered around your base. You can hire heroes later and it will look like the heroes are guarding the base. Heroes are more powerful than attack troops, and have more HP than usual. This way, a hero will protect your base better.
 You will need attack troops if you want to attack someone. At first, you will have the guardian, hunter, pyromancer, and treant attack troops. Use a bit of all of these kinds of troops. They all can be useful in some way.
 Heroes are very important, and it is likely you will get the Executioner hero. Each hero has a special talent. You can also roll gems to hire different heroes once you've earned enough. Consider rolling 3x since rolling gems for a hero one time may give you slime, which is not a hero and can only be used to upgrade the hero's skills. They can be helpful for making your hero more powerful however.
 The more frequently you level up your attack troops, the better. To level one up to level 2, it will cost 30000 gold. Level 3 will cost 50000. Later, it will cost more than a 100000 gold, so you have to upgrade your vaults more as well. Once an attack troop gets to level 5, you will be able to unlock stronger new attack troops. They will have more HP and survive longer in a raid or expedition.
 Heroes are very important. A 1 star hero is level 20. A 2 star hero is level 40, and a 3 star hero is level 60. Every time you level up your hero, you will be able to earn XP for the hero to become 20 levels more. You may even be able to do up to level 100 heroes and up. Note: 4 star heroes can study inscriptions.
 Since you just started off in Castle Clash, you might find bases that are easy to attack, have weak defense troops, or may not have any defenses at all. A good base to attack will have the following:


Check the level of the base's buildings. You can see this by how it looks. For example, if they have a mana or gold vault that's bigger than usual, but there are no defense troops, it would be good to attack if the vaults look full.
Check the level of the defense towers. There may be no defense troops, but there will be towers, which can kill the attack troops easily if they're low level. If it's a low level defense tower, it would be good to attack. You can check the level of the watchtower by how it looks. For example, if it looks like a regular wooden watchtower, it might be level 1, 2, or 3. If it looks like a thick watchtower that looks black, it might be a very high level for you to attack, such as level 8, 9, or 10.
Check how much loot there is available. Make sure there is a lot, otherwise if there is not, don't attack this base. When you start off attacking, there will usually be at least 10000 or 1000 loot of mana and gold. If there is less, you shouldn't attack this base.
 Treant's main building they like to destroy is a watchtower or defense tower. No matter if you drop them anywhere far away from those towers, the treant will just find a way to get to the watchtower and start destroying it. Treants also have more HP than the other attack troops, even when they're level 1 or 2.
 The reason you should send any troop in after the watchtowers are destroyed is because a watchtower can kill one of those troops in one hit, which will make you lose more troops easily. Treants have enough HP to handle it.
 Send them to destroy the Town Hall first, since that's the source of all the buildings in the base.
 They can kill one of the defense troops attacker in one hit. Then once all the troops are gone, you can send the treants to destroy the watchtowers, while the heroes destroy the other buildings. You can send the rest later too.
 In the Lost Realm, you will need a lot of these - crystals will get more and more important throughout the game. Collect crystals to fill the capacity of how much crystals you can fit.
 It is almost just as hard to get blue crystals, especially if your capacity is very big and you have not filled it up yet.
 To go into battle, you will need to have enough stamina. It will show how much stamina you have at the top left corner. If you don't have enough, use gems to buy stamina, wait until you get more, or use a stamina card.
 Press Battle for however much stamina it takes. Then press attack. Your heroes will then go into battle and battle whoever you chose. Know that the other opponent will have multiple heroes as well.
 Tap the question mark. Sometimes, out of these mystery boxes, it will either give you a Merchant or a Treasure Trove.


Tap on a chestbox if you would like to claim a prize in treasure trove. Tap all the chestboxes to claim all the prizes.
For merchant, several items will be shown, which cost either gems or gold to buy, such as valuable crests and other things. Save up enough gold every time you play Lost Realm just in case a merchant shows up and you are able to buy something good for your heroes.
 Aim for getting a whole set of the 5 of the same crests and put 5 of those crests on your hero. Your hero will gain a third ability. The more higher level and rarer the crests, the more strong it is (e.g. War God crests, Berserk crests, etc.). Study inscriptions for a certain amount of blue crystals and mana. Make sure you have enough to study all the way up to 100. Level up your heroes' skill levels and star levels as well.
 After a certain amount of battles you do in the Lost Realm, you will be able to fight in a boss battle. Even though the boss can be a smaller level than your heroes, it will be harder than you think. Earn thousands of red crystals in boss battles, as well as one kind of crest.


From the mystery boxes, besides Treasure Trove and Merchant, there is a boss battle called Here Be Demons. The demon you are fighting sort of looks like a dragon. Aim for beating the demon before one hour passes - that is the limit you have before it disappears and you lose. Use your 6 chances wisely - you only have 6 chances to use, and they each take a few minutes to refill. The demon's HP will leave off wherever it was last time though, so you won't have to restart. Use the help of your guild mates and buddies with strong heroes for a better chance of winning.
 Use the same strategy as raids, but in a different way. Since you're in high level dungeons, there will be other upgraded defense troops and heroes, as well as zapping towers, cannon towers, and arrow towers.
 Drop treants to destroy the defense towers. Make sure the enemy heroes are not in the range of them. You can also put any other tough troops in front of the defense buildings to destroy them. Usually, troops that target the defense buildings all the time are better to use.


Use flying troops and more upgraded troops such as ornithopters and mechs to deal more damage. Unlock these troops as soon as you upgrade other troops to their max level. Some of these troops, if there are enough at once, can actually destroy an enemy hero, giving more time to your other troops and heroes to attack.
 Scatter them across the base so they can destroy them and the buildings more easily at once. Drop them in front of defense attack troops as well, since some heroes can kill many at once.
 If possible, save one hero to destroy the town hall since that's the hardest to destroy.
, Storm Mesa is pretty similar to Wretched Gorge since they are just battles that are more complicated than each other. Press the first one to go to Storm Mesa, and press the next one after that to go to Wretched Gorge.
 Have 3000 might or more to go into Storm Mesa (the same goes for Wretched Gorge).
 Take level 100 heroes to beat the boss in Storm Mesa, since they have 'extra' HP.


In Storm Mesa 4, the boss in the middle is level 180, but seems to have doubled HP. Even though the other 4 bosses are only level 60, they are more stronger than you because they are the bosses. It is suggested you do this with your guild mates or with a team, since you actually need 3 high level Pumpkin Dukes to win this.
For other Storm Mesas, take heroes with you only and attack a base with 1 boss. You cannot take anything else with you, but if you join a team to defeat the boss and heroes, three other groups of level 100 heroes will be available as well. If you want to do a solo, it will be much harder.
 Level up your heroes as much as possible. You will probably need 10000 might to enter the first Wretched Gorge, so by now, you should have over level 100 heroes. The best level is probably 180.


Instead of attacking some kind of base with multiple bosses to defeat, you will be in a regular base setting, and other troops, heroes, and bosses will be attacking you. The goal is to protect your base from the attackers. Later, the boss will come. It can possibly be up to level 200, so make sure you have high level heroes. You can not take attack troops with you though.
You will need to set up a sort of 'mini-base'. Three other players will be with you as well, and they will have bases too, so when you put your bases all together, you will make one big base that may be able to defend the bosses and heroes. In your base, you can set up walls, hero bases, heroes, and defense towers.
 You have up to 10 expeditions a day, and if a base is not right for you, you only have 5 chances to skip, so consider having high level heroes.


In expeditions you earn honer badges and merit badges. You can use merit badges to buy hero cards, gold/mana/honer badge/shard packs, etc.
 You can have up to fifteen, even though they are not on a hero base. Consider choosing your "top fifteen" heroes. These are the heroes that are the most powerful. Usually, it depends on the skill level of the hero, not really the actual level of the hero.
 Since you only have 5 chances to skip bases, you should usually attack the first base you see. Skip only if it's really bad for you.
 They should be able to destroy those first, then you can use other heroes to destroy other buildings.


In an expedition, you aren't able to drop all of your 15 heroes. You can only drop a few of your fifteen. Get more might, and you will get bigger rewards, and you will also will be able to drop more heroes into battle.
 On the near bottom right side, you will see four arrows pointing in different directions. Tap that button and you will be able to rearrange your whole base to make it better. Tap Remove All. This will not delete your buildings. It will add them to the inventory, where you can tap one of those buildings and place them on your base. Try to rearrange your base every now and then to prevent attacks and even make your defense successful when you do get attacked. Each building is sorted out by level.
 Upgrade your most important buildings, such as the Town Hall, defense towers, Mana/Gold Vaults, Mana Mills/Gold Mines, etc. Upgrade your Relic Hall as well frequently to get more spells you can use in battle. You can also level up your army camps to fit more attack troops. Walls are also important to upgrade too.
 Save up as many honer badges as possible and fight in dungeons a lot, since every time you want to upgrade a hero to another star level, it will take certain requirements, such as how many dungeon battle torches you need to have, how much gold, and it even takes in honer badges. You can also study inscriptions of one kind of crest so your hero has another special talent. Make sure to save up enough extra heroes, slimes, and tome books so you can earn XP and improve skill levels.
 Battling in all types of places (arena, raids, dungeons, etc.) can earn you great rewards, and you will even complete achievements and quests to earn gems.
