 Adding glitter is a great way to dress up any pair of shoes. You can cover your entire shoe with glitter, or just a small portion (such as a heart or star shape). If you are glittering a pair of high heels, you can glitter just the sole part, and leave the rest of the shoe plain. Here's a list of what you will need:Shoes
Mod Podge, Gloss Finish
Fine glitter
Painter’s tape and newspaper
Foam brushes or paintbrushes
Plastic wrap
Plastic bowl
Spoon or stirring stick
Acrylic sealer

, These will only get in the way of glittering your shoes. Taking them off will make your work easier, cleaner, and neater. You can always re-lace your shoes, or glue embellishments back on, later once the shoes dry., Soak a cotton ball with rubbing alcohol and wipe down the area you will be glittering with it. Throw away the cotton ball when it becomes dirty and use a new one. Any surface dirt and oils may prevent the Mod Podge and glitter from sticking.

Even if your shoes look clean, it might still be a good idea to wipe them down with rubbing alcohol.
 This will make your work neater and crisper. You may also want to stuff the inside of your shoes with newspaper at this time; this will prevent any glitter from getting inside your shoes., You can use a spoon or even a popsicle stick to stir it. The more glitter you use, the fewer coats you will have to brush on. You want the consistency to be smooth. If you use too much glitter, it will be chunky and difficult to spread., Your first coat will appear thin and not very sparkly. Don't worry, it will become more sparkly as you continue to add more coats. Brush the glitter glue onto the other shoe., You may also want to rinse off your brushes or store them in a plastic sandwich bag so that the glue does not dry out on the bristles.

You are covering your bowl so that the glitter glue does not dry out.
Once the glue on the shoes turns clear, it is dry.
 Be sure to let each coat dry before you apply a new one. For a fully-glittered pair, you will need about four coats. This, of course, will depend on how much glitter you used in your original mixture., This Mod Podge should not have any glitter in it. You are merely sealing the glitter in so that it does not shed everywhere., This can take a few hours, depending on how dry or humid it is., You can also use a shoe sealer or a waterproofing spray—just make sure that it has a clear, glossy finish. If you spray your shoes with anything that dries matte, your shoes will lose their sparkle., Just because something feels dry does not necessarily mean that it is fully cured and useable. Some sealers will be cured in as little as 20 minutes to two hours. Some may requite up to six or more hours.

If you took off any laces or embellishments, now is the time to put them back on.

