 When you type, lightly tap the keys instead. Not only will this ensure that your keyboard lasts much longer, it is also better for your fingers and wrists.;
, Do not pick it up and drop it, especially if you have a digital mouse, as this can move the sensor out of place. Clean your ball mouse if you have one:


Turn your ball mouse upside-down and unscrew the cap;
Take out the ball;
Take a toothpick, cotton swab, or your finger, and clean off the three (3) small long rings inside of your ball mouse. Turn each ring slowly several times to make sure there is nothing left on the rings.
Replace parts and use the ball mouse again.
 When turning up volume, do it gently. Make sure the speakers are away from edges, so that they do not fall off the sides, which can badly damage them. Keep them away from heat sources as well.
 Make sure you have your screen saver turned on. If you use your computer often, consider setting the time to two-three (2-3) minutes before the screen saver comes on. Clean your screen at least once a week. Other ways to keep the monitor in good condition include:


Turn off your monitor at night or when not in use.
Take a window spray, such as Windex, and lightly spray it on your screen.
Immediately wipe screen vertically with a newspaper, or any other soft cloth that you may prefer. (Do not use paper towels, as they can scratch the screen, and small pieces can break off which, if not removed immediately, dry on your screen.)

, Use an appropriate cleaning product, such as a can of dust remover to spray to clean your computer parts. Parts should include: mouse, keyboard, speakers, modem, etc. To spray the mouse, simply remove the cap and spray in the hole for three-five (3-5) seconds. To spray the keyboard, simply turn your keyboard upside down and gently shake for several seconds. This will remove any large debris that may have gotten caught in your keyboard. Then simply tilt your keyboard at a 45 degree angle, and spray down each row of keys.



Shut down your computer completely.
Remove all cords from the back of the computer case.
Remove the outside casing from your computer. Look in your computer manual for further instructions on how to do this.
Spray all chips and parts in your computer. Warning: do not touch the chips with your hands, as this can badly damage them. If easily accessible, use dry cotton swabs to clean the fans and metal casings.
Replace all parts and cords, and start your computer.
 If you have small children in the house, you should always keep your computer up high and away from the edges, so that there are no dangers of any parts falling on them. If you cannot place your computer out of the way of small children, place a small child-safety fence in all doorways surrounding the computer, or a small fence around your computer/computer desk.
