 To prepare for crescent pose, you should begin by standing in mountain pose. Stand up straight, aligning your feet with your outer hips. Keep your spine straight. Make sure your hands are by your sides, with your palms facing either the front of the room or the sides of your body., Fold forward and place both hands on the floor. Step each foot back, one at a time until your body is in an upside down, or inverted “V” shape. Make sure your palms are pressing flat against the floor. Don’t worry about getting your heels to touch the floor. This will occur with increased practice and flexibility.
 While you are in downward facing dog, inhale deeply. Make sure you are relaxed. You should fill your lungs completely, but not uncomfortably, as you inhale.
 After inhaling deeply in downward facing dog, exhale and gently step your right foot forward. Aim for the space between your two hands. As you do this, your left leg should remain strong and firm., Once you have placed your right foot between your hands, gently raise your torso while inhaling. At the same time, sweep your arms overhead with your palms facing one another. Your torso should be completely upright at the end of your inhale, and your arms should be raised beside your ears with facing palms. Look up at your thumbs., It is important that you do not overextend your lower back while performing crescent pose. Instead, lengthen your tailbone in the direction of your mat or the floor. At the same time, reach back through the heel of your left foot. Doing this will ensure that your shoulder blades are deep on your back and your chest is supported., Be sure that your front shin is vertical, and that your knee does not move past your ankle. If necessary, you can widen your stance as much as is possible to prevent this from happening., Make sure you do not press your front ribs forward. Instead, make an effort to pull them down into your torso. Reaching through your little fingers, lift your arms. Hold the pose for 30-60 seconds., Exhale while lowering your torso to your right thigh. At the same time, sweep your hand back to the floor. Place both palms firmly on the floor. Gently step your right foot back, returning to downward facing dog. Take 2-3 deep breaths in downward facing dog.
 Once you’ve taken several deep breaths in downward facing dog, you can repeat the pose on the opposite side. Begin by stepping your left foot forward between your hands, and perform the pose in the same way as you did on the right side.

