 If there's dust lurking in your living space, it will make your need for an air purifier seem more dire than it actually is. Vacuum regularly, including furniture, and check your heating vents for lint and dust. If you still feel like you'd breathe easier with cleaner air, then you can start doing research on an air purifier., There are many things that can wreak havoc on your lungs when airborne: smoke, mold, pet dander, dust, and pollen, to name a few. If you're exposed to allergens in a clean home or workspace, and especially if you suffer from asthma or other respiratory issues, then an air purifier can help make your life more pleasant.


An air purifier is definitely not a substitute for an inhaler or other medication, but it can help improve your quality of life.
 The best air purifiers depend on one of two technologies: High Efficiency Particulate Arrestance (HEPA), or carbon filtration. Choose based on what particulates you need to be filtered out of your air. Both technologies are available at different sizes and price points.
 HEPA removes 99.97% of particles sized 0.3 microns or less from the air using layers and pleats of gauze.This means it's really good at filtering all types of impurities from the air, even tiny ones.


If you choose a HEPA purifier, sure it’s called “true HEPA” or “absolute HEPA,” not “HEPA-like” or “HEPA-type.” Neither of these last two labels is regulated by the government, so you just don’t know if it works as well as a true HEPA filter. In some HEPA models, the filter itself must be replaced once a year. The replacement filters can be pricey--even close to the cost of the purifier itself!, Carbon filters force air through a layer of charcoal. This technique absorbs particles that come from things that were once alive, like pollen, dust, pet dander, and even tobacco smoke.Carbon filtration also absorbs odors well, which is good for those who are sensitive to scent., Take careful measurements of the room or rooms in which you need the air purifier to do its job with a measuring tape or stick. If you have a 500-square-foot apartment and buy an air purifier designed for 100 square feet, it just won’t do the job.
 Air purifiers can range in price from $20 to over $1000. Don’t skimp if you don’t need to. However, be aware that you can find a reliable air purifier for under $200--it’s not necessary to drop a small fortune!


Remember that an air purifier can come with additional costs. It may add a few dollars to your energy bill every month, and replacement HEPA filters can be expensive.
 At this point, you should have a good idea of the sort of air purifier you want. Check out the websites of well-known manufacturers, like BlueAir, Alen, Honeywell, and GermGuardian, to find examples within your parameters.
 Once you’ve got your search narrowed down to a few models, you can look at what others are saying about them. Make sure to get reviews from different sources--Amazon, independent blogs, consumer reviews--to get a balanced picture of how well the air purifier works.
 Don’t be tempted to simply snap up the first air purifier you see! It’s worth looking at several different stores to find the best price and customer support. If you're shopping online, it's smart to check reviews for the store you'd like to purchase from, as well as the air purifier you plan to buy there.
 A large item like an air purifier can get pricey, so it's worth it to apply coupons and promotions if you can. Sometimes you can even combine coupons to save even more.


Manufacturer’s coupons come directly from the company, and can be applied to the air purifier when you check out at a store.
Store coupons are produced by a particular shop, like Target or Best Buy, and can be used on the air purifier of your choice. These can sometimes be “stacked” or combined with a manufacturer’s coupon, but usually cannot be stacked with each other.
Watch out for seasonal sales. Labor Day, Black Friday, and the beginning of January are all times when big box stores run promotions on electronics like air purifiers.
 When you’re buying your air purifier, feel free to make any inquiries you need to, both about the air purifier itself and the store you’re in. While you're at it, double-check the specifications on the box to make sure it's the right filter system and capacity for your needs.


If you're shopping online, you can still ask questions! Any reputable site should have a responsive customer service system, whether it's a chat function, email address, or phone number.
 This is your insurance policy in case your new purifier doesn't work the way it promised, so look it over, then file it away. Some stores offer extended warranties beyond the manufacturer’s guarantee; decide whether this would be a good use of your funds before you check out.
 Your air purifier can only filter so much air per hour, so you want to make sure that there isn't pollen from outside blowing in and complicating the purifying process., This will maximize your air purifier's effectiveness. If your need for an air purifier is centered around one thing in particular, putting the appliance close to it will help eliminate your concerns faster.For instance, if you're allergic to animal dander, try positioning the purifier near the dog's bed or favorite spot on the rug.


If you're setting the air purifier in your bedroom, place it five to ten feet from your headboard, facing you.This will keep you from feeling too breezy.
 It takes a few hours for an air purifier's work to be noticeable. When you first plug in your air purifier, it has to work overtime to filter out all the accumulated particles in the air. Once it's been working for a little while, it should be more efficient., The maintenance you need to do on your air purifier will depend on the model, which is why it's useful to read the manual. In general, it's good to keep the outside of it nice and clean, and extremely important to replace the filter when needed.


Make sure to clean underneath the air purifier regularly--it can't do its job if it's sitting on a layer of dust!
Many newer models have lights or other indicators to alert you when a filter needs to be cleaned or replaced.If you've purchased a HEPA air purifier, you will need to replace it after a year's time. This process will vary depending on what model you've chosen, but the manual should contain instructions for this process.

