 This is absolutely the best thing you can do to annoy your loved one. Make a point of always mentioning your ex, saying how great your ex is, and boasting about all of your ex's accomplishments. Some other ways to annoy your significant other when you talk about your ex include the following:


Make a point of texting your ex and giggling at everything he or she says. Loudly say, "He's the best!" This works especially well if you're on a dinner date with your significant other.
Invite your ex to come out with you. Surprise your significant other by inviting your ex to hang out with you when you're supposed to be on a date. You can also invite your ex to small parties because then you're significant other will find it harder to kick him out.
Always compare your significant other to your ex. Say things like, "This soup is pretty good, but (insert ex's name here) was the best cook ever!"

, Nothing is more annoying than a person who is always fighting, especially if it's for no reason. You can annoy your honey in less than a minute by picking a fight about nothing. Here are some ways to be extra annoying:


Pick a fight during an inappropriate time. Some great times to pick a fight include Valentine's Day, your special someone's birthday, or around your significant other's parents.
Pick a fight for no reason. Pick a fight just because you're in the mood. Get mad at your special someone for spilling a tiny drop of water or being only one minute early to your date.
Refuse to listen. State your side of the argument and then walk away. If you can't leave, stick your fingers in your ear and say, "La La La!" until your significant other gives up.
 Your honey has worked hard to plan the perfect date. What better way to annoy him than to completely ruin the occasion? Here are some great ways to really tank your dates:


Be very late. This is especially annoying if you're going to a movie or a show. When you show up, act aloof. Say, "Whoops, am I really late?" or "Sorry, I got caught up chatting with my ex!"
Complain about whatever it is you're doing. If you're watching a movie, keep talking about how boring it is. If you're out at a special restaurant, keep complaining that the food is dry or bland. If the food takes more than a minute to arrive, tap your fingers loudly on the counter and sigh.
Flirt with anyone around you. If you're at dinner, ask the waiter for his phone number and giggle.
Spend the entire evening on your phone. Nothing says annoying like the sound of a text message.

