 Putting the bar just anywhere isn't ideal. Look for a place that has the perfect amount of space, ambiance, room to store tools and ingredients, and will be large enough to work in and entertain guests.Use a counter top, dresser top, or any other flat and level surface for your bar.
Start small. You can always build a bigger and better bar as you need.;
, Different alcohol types will require different storage methods. Exposure to oxygen and sunlight should be kept to a minimum. You will need to acquire a refrigerator that is an appropriate size for the bar you have planned. You could also create space in a refrigerator you already own. Opened wine bottles need to be kept cold to prevent flavor from altering.
Beer can be enjoyed at room temperature, however, it is commonly kept cold.
Many liqueurs are refrigerated.
Champagne is nearly always kept chilled.
Any older stock you have that is lower in alcohol content should be refrigerated to preserve flavor.
Most highly alcoholic liquors do not require refrigeration.
 It might be tempting to purchase the highest quality alcohol and liquor, but it's not always necessary to do so. Some liquors are used mainly in mixed drinks, so their flavor isn't as critical as other liquors that are enjoyed alone, without mixing. Lower cost can mean lower quality ingredients, different taste, and different distillation techniques than more expensive brands.
Higher cost does not always entail a better taste!
All alcohol will have the same intoxicating effect, regardless of price.
 There are many different varieties of alcohol to choose from and the choice isn't always an easy one. However, there are some standards you can use to help narrow the selection process down.


Select varieties that you personally enjoy.
Keep in mind the tastes of your guests and try to select for them.
When starting your bar, don't go overboard. Purchase only what you will actually use.
 There are some varieties of alcohol that are considered standards. These standards will allow you to create a wide range of drinks for you and your company.Vodka
Gin
Rum (Light and Spiced)
Whiskey
Scotch
Tequila
Beer
Wine

, Liqueurs are generally distilled spirits that are flavored with herbs, spices, cream, milk, or even flowers. Use these to add sweetness to your drinks or to enjoy as a dessert beverage.Triple Sec
Kahlua
Crème de Cacao
Crème de Menthe
Chambord
Schnapps

, Many drinks from your bar will be alcohol mixed with other non-alcoholic ingredients. To properly make these drinks for your guests, you will need to obtain some of the more common mixers.Club soda
Tonic water
Cola
Juice
Grenadine
Cream or milk

, After you have collected the proper ingredients, you will now need some tools to help you create them. While not all are required, they will make drink preparation much easier.Shaker to mix ingredients.
Bar spoon to help hand-mix or stir ingredients. The length of the spoon allows for it to work well with nearly any size container.
Strainer.
Jigger to measure accurate amounts of liquid ingredients being used.
Wine and bottle openers to easily open containers.
Wine stopper to reseal any opened bottle that still contains liquid.
A handy book with basic mixing techniques and recipes

, Certain drinks might require certain glasses. Examine which drinks you and your guests might most prefer and select those types of glasses first. After you start your collection, you can always add other types of glasses that you might find necessary.


Shot glasses
Rocks glasses, tall and short
Set of wine glasses
Pint Glasses
Cocktail or martini glasses

, Now that you have all the key ingredients, tools, and the proper glasses to serve your drinks to your guests, you can start to look for the finishing touches. These items add unique flavors, make the drink look interesting, and help with serving the drinks properly.Sugar cubes
Syrups
Citrus
Bitters
Garnishes such as lime/lemon wedges, maraschino cherries, olives and pearl onions
Straws and stir-sticks

, Confidently entertain guests and friends with your new skills and fully stocked bar.


Have fun practicing your bartending techniques and learning new drink recipes.
Don't be afraid to try new things and experiment with different styles of ingredients.

