 If you're already on site, contact your consulate or embassy to ask them for advice. They will be best placed to assist you.


Register your travel and contact details with your consulate if they provide this facility. This will help them locate you in the event of an emergency.
If your foreign affairs department or consulate provides travel updates via email, be sure to subscribe to these.
 As with any travel, it pays to keep in mind the methods for staying safe, such as:


Wearing a money belt, not carrying enormous amounts of cash on you, and dividing your finances between plastic, traveler's checks, cash, and bank funds.






Only visit places that are known to be safe for tourists. Don't wander off the beaten track. Tourist meccas can be unsafe in times of unrest, however. They might be targeted for terrorist activities, so avoid gathering anywhere that attracts large numbers of tourists.






Don't draw attention to yourself. Dress modestly and try to blend in with the locals.






Maintain curfews. If you are visiting somewhere that is unsafe, it pays to be off the streets before it gets too late in the evening. A self-imposed curfew of being indoors before dark makes good sense when there is unrest at night.






Try to meet up with some trusted locals. If you know people in the country or city, try to connect with them and have them take you to events. Their local knowledge will be invaluable, as well as the fact that they'll be keeping updated with local news on any relevant events.






Be sure that you have had all your vaccinations and that they're up to date. If an outbreak of a disease is the major concern, talk to your doctor.
 Beware of any suspicious activities around you and get clear of them. Monitor your surroundings constantly and don't do anything to provoke people.


Monitor the media constantly and keep checking your foreign affairs' site for travel advisory updates.






Know the uniform, transportation and logos of official security (police, army, etc.) in the country you're in. This will help you to identify the authorities quickly if needed.
 Have police, fire, and ambulance numbers for the city or country you're in, as well as your consulate or embassy numbers and your hotel number (or the numbers of friends you know locally). In addition, have the numbers of family, your foreign affairs department back in your home country, your insurance agency, your credit card company, and your airline.


Keep all numbers neatly written down or printed in one place, on a small laminated card if possible. Try to make several copies for different bags and pockets that you carry with you and leave in your luggage as well. If you have a phone that travels, add these numbers to it, as well as keeping some numbers in an email or online document that can be easily retrieved.
 In part, you can gauge the safety or otherwise of certain activities by their usual standard of safety. Reading tourist guidebooks will tell you some of the more pertinent safety information. For example:


Is public transportation always a risky business or is it usually safe and efficient?
Is eating out in certain areas safe or dangerous?
Is it safe to travel alone? To travel alone as a woman? To travel as a group?
What areas are known for pick-pocketing, hustlers, thieves, etc.?
Where do the guidebooks recommend that you never go for the sake of safety?

, You might not be allowed to carry anything that could be used as a weapon, or any camera or computer equipment, large bags, any alcohol, etc. It's wise to check out lists of prohibited items on the website of the relevant sporting body holding the event, as often there will not be any storage facilities provided for items you've brought along that are prohibited.

