 This will give you a sort of blank canvas to work on. It may also make it easier for you to figure out what you have and where to put it. You might even find something that does not belong in your dresser.
 This will help you figure out what you should put in which drawer. There are many different ways to sort out your clothes. It all depends on what you already own and how much space you have in your dresser. Here are some ideas to get you started:Sort your clothes based on type, such as: pants, shirts, skirts, etc.
Sort your clothes based on season, such as: summer, winter, fall, spring, warm weather, and cool weather.
Sort your clothes based on occasion, such as: casual, school, work, formal, nightgowns, pajamas, and so forth.
 Are there clothes you have not worn in months or years? Is there something that no longer fits or suits your style, tastes, or interests? How about clothes that are ripped, stained, damaged, or torn? Go through your piles, and pick out the clothes you don't wear anymore. They are only taking up valuable space and could be put towards a better use.Here are some things you can do with the clothes you no longer wear:


Donate the clothes that are still in good condition. You can take them to your local salvation army or homeless shelter. You can also give them away to friends or family members.
Consider mending the ripped or torn clothes. Sometimes, you might come across something that you still like and would wear, if not for the horrible tear in the most embarrassing of places. Instead of tossing the garment, try mending it yourself with a needle and thread. If you are afraid to mend something, consider taking it to a professional seamstress. Keep in mind, however, that some things are beyond repair and cannot be mended.
Consider dyeing stained clothes that you still like. If you can't get a stain out, you can try dyeing the garment with fabric dry. You can also try coloring the stain in with an opaque fabric marker. It is not a perfect solution, but it might make the stain less noticeable.
Recycle torn, stained, and ripped clothes that are beyond repair. These types of clothes usually won't be taken by a salvation army or homeless shelter, and they are impossible to fix. Instead of throwing these clothes away, consider cutting them down. Use the stained parts as cleaning rags. Save the undamaged parts for future sewing and DIY projects.
 This will make it easier and quicker to put them away into the dresser. Be sure to still keep them in your piles.
 If your drawer has not been organized in a while, you might notice some dust inside the drawer. This is a great change to clean out that dust. You can also insert a drawer liner at time to give the inside of your drawer a flash of color and a new look.If you want to add a drawer liner, measure the bottom of your drawer first, then cut the liner to fit. Pull the backing off by about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) and press it down against the drawer bottom. Carefully peel the backing off little by little as you continue to press the liner against the drawer.
 This will give you a clean canvas to work on. If you'd like, you can place everything inside a bin or basket. This will keep everything together while you organize. Start by placing the largest items in the bin or basket first. Then, put in the smaller items. The largest items will take up the most space, and the smaller items can easily fit in between them.


Consider keeping a second bin or basket handy for items that do not belong on top of your dresser. This way, once you are done organizing, you can put everything back where it belongs.
 Dust the top and wipe it down with a damp paper towel. You can also use a cleaning spray if your dresser is especially dusty.

