 Particularly when you're looking for a divorce attorney, recommendations from your family or friends may be the strongest options for you to find an attorney. These people know you and your situation, and may be best suited to recommend someone with whom you'd work well.You are already dealing with the feelings of betrayal and personal trauma that come from discovering that your spouse is cheating on you. For this reason, you need an attorney you trust and who makes you feel at ease.
Since your family and friends know you best, they also are in the best position to recommend an attorney who will handle your case with care and provide you support and guidance through the legal procedure.
However, keep in mind that even though your friends and family doubtless have your best interests at heart, an attorney who worked well for them may not be the best choice for you.
A recommendation is not an invitation to skip the work of looking into an attorney's background and experience.;
, Even if you have a recommendation from a friend or family member, you still want to look at that attorney's background and experience before you make the decision to talk to them.If you don't have any recommendations, you may be able to find some possible attorneys by checking on the website of your state or local bar association.
Typically you can find a searchable directory you can use to find attorneys licensed to practice law in the area where you live.
Many bar associations also have referral services that can match you with an attorney based on your answers to a few questions.
If you do have recommendations, take the time to look them up as well. Visit attorney's websites to get a feel for their specialties and who they are as people.
 Ideally, it's best to have an initial consultation with at least three different attorneys so you can compare and contrast them to find the person best suited for you. Family law attorneys typically offer free initial consultations, so this shouldn't cost you anything other than time.Even though you probably just want to get everything over and done with so you can move on with your life, recognize that choosing an attorney may be the most important part of the process.
You may want to enlist a friend to work with you to brainstorm questions to ask the attorneys you interview. Pay attention to the things that are most likely to make you feel comfortable with the attorney-client relationship.
For example, if you prefer to communicate over email, you need to make sure any attorney you hire is available over email and responds in a timely fashion. If an attorney says they prefer phone calls and only check their email once a day, they may not be the one for you.
Be up front in the interview about your situation and your expectations for the divorce proceeding. Just because you caught your husband cheating doesn't necessarily mean the situation is entirely antagonistic, but let the attorney know if you expect your spouse to fight you at every turn.
 After you've finished your initial consultations, compare and contrast the attorneys you've met to decide which one is the best option for you. In addition to objective criteria such as experience and expense, consider your comfort level and how well you got along with each attorney.Ideally, you want to choose an attorney who has experience handling cases similar to yours, with a proven track record of results.
While fees may be important to you, this doesn't necessarily mean the attorney with the lowest fees is automatically your best choice. Think about what you stand to lose if you hire an attorney that is ill-equipped to provide you the service and support you need.
Don't be afraid to go with your gut. Your attorney is someone who will be working closely with you over the coming months, and you'll probably have to discuss deeply personal matters with them. Ultimately, the attorney you hire should be someone who makes you feel welcome and comfortable.
 Let the attorney you've chosen know your decision as soon as possible. They typically will meet with you to present you with a written retainer agreement and that details the services they'll provide for you and the fees you'll pay.Your attorney should sit down and discuss the retainer agreement with you in full. Read it carefully and make sure you understand every aspect of it before you sign.
Keep in mind that retainer agreements are almost always negotiable, even if they aren't necessarily presented as such. If there's something you don't like, speak up.
The worst that can happen is that the attorney refuses to budge on the matter, but frequently they'll be willing to come to a compromise with you.
Once you've signed the agreement, make sure you have a copy for your own records before you give the attorney any money or allow them to start work on your case.
 To get a divorce decree, you must first file a petition, usually in the county court where you and your spouse currently live. If you want alimony, this petition must state that you are requesting spousal support.Keep in mind that you don't have to petition for a fault-based divorce, but doing so may improve your chances of getting alimony. Your attorney will discuss which is better for you based on the laws in your state and the temperaments of the judges in your county.
In addition to describing the type of divorce you seek, your petition will include details about yourself, your spouse, and your marriage. You'll need to state when you were married, and typically must attach a certified copy of your marriage license or decree.
Your attorney will go over the petition with you before they file it with the court to make sure everything included in it is accurate and true, and it represents what you want out of the divorce proceeding.
 Your attorney will work with you to draft your petition, and take it to the clerk's office to file it once it's complete. This initiates the divorce proceeding within the court. The clerk will assign your divorce a case number and schedule the initial hearing.When your attorney files your petition, he or she also will pay the filing fee. This fee typically is several hundred dollars. How you pay it depends on the fee structure you've worked out with your attorney.
For example, if you've paid your attorney a flat fee to represent you for the entire divorce proceeding, this fee may be included. If it isn't, your attorney likely will want payment of the fee in full before your petition is filed.
Once filed, your attorney will have the petition served on your spouse. This typically occurs by hiring a sheriff's deputy to hand-deliver the petition and other court papers to your spouse.
 Both you and your spouse must complete financial disclosure forms, which provide information about your income and assets. In some courts, these forms must be filed with the petition. Other courts give you a few weeks after the petition is filed to submit these forms.Financial disclosure forms are completed under oath, which means you must answer all questions as completely and honestly as possible.
You'll likely have to compile financial records so you can complete these forms. Your attorney may have a checklist of documents or records you'll need to fill out the forms.
These forms require you to list separate income and assets as well as any assets that you and your spouse hold jointly. You also must include both separate and joint debts.
Generally, you should avoid making large withdrawals from bank accounts after you've filed for divorce (or even immediately before).
You also need to avoid running up the balance on joint credit cards or otherwise going into additional debt unnecessarily. At the same time, you probably don't want to make large payments to joint credit cards either.
 When you have your spouse served with your divorce petition, he or she has a short period of time to file a written response and complete financial disclosure forms.If your spouse doesn't respond to your petition, you may be eligible to win by default, which essentially means you get your divorce on all the terms you requested, including alimony.
However, you probably shouldn't expect this to happen, even if your spouse has told you they won't contest the divorce.
If your spouse has hired an attorney, the response will come from the attorney. Any communication you need to have with your spouse regarding the divorce should go through your attorneys.
 Soon after the petition and your spouse's answer are filed, you'll begin the process of discovery. Through this process, you and your spouse will exchange information that has relevance to the divorce proceeding.Document production is one part of the discovery process. You and your spouse will exchange documents and records related to your shared and separate assets and debts, as well as any documents related to any children you have.
You also may send and receive interrogatories (written questions that must be answered in writing under oath) and requests for admission (similar to interrogatories, but ask the recipient to admit whether a statement is true).
Your attorney will use the documents gathered through discovery, as well as your spouse's financial disclosure forms, to calculate the specific amount of alimony you will ask for.
Your spouse will be doing the same thing, although their attorney likely will come up with a number far lower than the number your attorney reached.
Depositions, or live interviews conducted under oath, are another aspect of discovery that you may deal with, especially in more complex cases. Your spouse's attorney likely will want to depose you, and your attorney may depose your spouse.
If you're seeking a fault-based divorce based on your spouse's cheating, you may want to depose additional witnesses as well who could potentially testify at trial regarding your spouse's behavior.
 Financial considerations typically are paramount in determining whether to award alimony. However, each court has a number of other factors that it also takes into account when comparing the relative position and abilities of the spouses.The fact that your spouse cheated on you does have some impact on whether you'll get alimony, but it isn't the only thing the judge will look at.
Judges do tend to look more favorably on spouses who are victimized by a spouse's bad behavior, but you typically still must show that you were financially dependent on your spouse and he or she provided the lion's share of the income for the family.
Other factors come into play as well. For example, courts may look at the relative ages of you and your spouse. If you're significantly older or significantly younger than your spouse, this might entitle you to more alimony.
The length of your marriage also affects your ability to get spousal support. Generally speaking, judges are disinclined to give alimony after marriages that lasted only a few years. However, if your marriage lasted for over a decade, your chances of getting alimony are higher.
 If you have a valid prenuptial agreement, it probably addresses the matter of alimony. This is especially likely if you married someone who had a significant amount of assets at the start of the marriage.Your prenuptial agreement may state that no alimony will be paid absent wrongdoing on the part of your spouse. In that case, proving your spouse cheated on you is crucial to getting alimony.
The agreement also may exclude you from reaching certain assets that your spouse brought into the marriage. This affect the property division and may affect whether you get alimony.
For example, if your spouse was retired when you got married and nearly all of his or her wealth was acquired prior to the marriage, your spouse may have very little income from which alimony could be drawn.
Even if your prenuptial agreement eliminates spousal support entirely, the court may still order it to the extent necessary to keep you from having to go on public assistance.
 Out of all the factors the court considers when deciding whether to award alimony, some will be more beneficial to you than others. You and your attorney will work together to find the ones that weigh heavily in favor of an alimony award for you.Essentially, you want to create a narrative that paints you as being financially dependent on your spouse, who had considerably more income than you do, and that you became accustomed to a higher standard of living as a result.
If this picture doesn't represent the reality of your marriage, you'll have a hard time getting alimony from your cheating spouse. It may not seem fair, but remember, alimony is not punishment.
However, if you were financially dependent on your spouse and you were married for many years, the odds are more in your favor. This is especially true if you made decisions that limited your income based on plans that benefited the two of you as a couple.
For example, suppose you took three years off work to stay at home with your children. Now you are behind in your career and find it difficult to get a job because you've been out of the loop for so long. You are likely to get alimony from your cheating spouse in this scenario.
 Typically, you can assume that your spouse will be opposed to paying alimony. Even if they agree that they should pay some alimony, the amount they believe they should pay likely is much less than the amount you think you deserve.Your spouse will want to emphasize how capable you are, and that you should have no trouble finding a job to support yourself.
He or she may even intimate that you are seeking alimony because you are lazy and don't want to get a job.
If your spouse doesn't want to pay alimony, expect him or her to make attacks on your character and try to paint you as a lazy, greedy person who is only after money. Stand your ground, and do everything you can to ignore those attacks and avoid internalizing them.
Keep in mind that your spouse is the one who cheated, breaking the marital vows. You would not be in this position if it weren't for their actions.

