 Once the layout has been finalized, the color scheme is down pat and the paint has dried, call the friends who helped you move everything out and bribe them with pizza again to help you move your furniture back in.


Stick to your layout and arrange the furniture accordingly. If you did your measurements right and considered the circulation of the space correctly, you should have a well spaced and easy to access layout for the room.
 Consider the lighting you already have in the room, such as a ceiling light or lighting attached to the wall, and decide if you are going to improve upon the existing lights with new fixtures or add in standing lights or table lamps to give the room different sources of light.


Ceiling lights offer even coverage for the entire room and will often provide the most light for the room. You can also customize the brightness or darkness of ceiling lights with dimmer bulbs. Ceiling lights can be great statement pieces for a bedroom, especially with a more neutral color scheme.Floor lamps are great for brightening up specific spaces and add a more intimate feel to the room, especially when placed by a bed or in the corner of a room.
A table lamp is also good for illuminating a specific area of the room, such as on a bedside table or a desk. They are also great for reading and working, especially at night, as table lamps are not too bright to interfere with your body’s natural sleep schedule and they won’t keep your bed mate awake., Bedding plays a major design role in your bedroom, as your bed will likely be the focal point of the room. Look for a pattern or design on a bedspread or duvet cover that works with the color scheme of the room.Of course you also want your bed to be comfortable and relaxing, so look for good quality sheets as well as pillows, throws, and accent pillows to really make your bed a spot worth lounging on.Think about also including accent rugs to add an extra sense of coziness to the space.
 Make your bedroom feel like a personal, intimate space by including personal items and keepsakes. Avoid a bland space by adding in details that show off your sense of style.


Hang wall art that you love, make space on a table or desk for books you cherish, and add a dash of nature with a row of potted plants or succulents on your dresser., Don’t feel pressure to make the room look at complete as possible. Like anything, the room will likely evolve over time, as you add or remove certain items of furniture or certain accessories. Great design usually takes awhile to figure out and will likely need to be refined, so take your time, don’t rush, and have fun with the design of your bedroom.