 You can do this from the Start menu (Start Button→All Programs→Electronic Arts→ Need for Speed: Carbon) or from the desktop by double-clicking its icon.;
, When it finishes loading and displays the main menu, choose “Career Mode.” This is the first option on the menu and can be activated by hitting the Enter key.
 This will return you to your Safe House and let you pick off from where you left in your NFS: Carbon Career.


A Safe House is a hideout in the game where you can escape the cops, customize your car, and manage your crew.
 The next menu that appears will have World Map as its first option. Choose it by once again pressing Enter. This will display a map of the game world on your screen.


On the map, available race events will be shown using miniature stars. Winning each of the events will earn you money, unlock an upgrade item, unlock a new car or unlock a new race.
 The next step is to keep winning the events until you eventually unlock the grand Canyon Duel in which you face off against Wolf.


To start a race, quit the World Map by pressing Escape, scroll right and press Enter to choose the next item on the menu: Free Roam. This will put you on the streets of Palmont City (the fictional city in which the plot is set), allowing you to drive to the racing event).
During Free Roam, pressing Escape and choosing the World Map option from the menu that appears will show you your car’s position and the location of the racing event. Drive to the event.
To engage an event, stop (Down Arrow key to brake and come to a halt) in its marker (a star-shaped marker on the road) and press Enter.
You will be presented with details about the event, e.g., its length and the prize money up for grabs. Press Enter again to accept and start the race.
By following the above steps and winning races, you will eventually unlock Wolf’s Canyon Duel. Beat him to unlock the Ashton Martin DB9, which you can then purchase and customize in the image of his DB9 at your Safe House!

, First of all, ensure you have accumulated at least 100,000$ cash (the cost of a stock Aston Martin DB9 in Carbon) by winning enough events.


Your career cash balance is displayed on the bottom left corner of the screen in Safe House and to the right while viewing available cars in Car Lot.
 Drive over to the nearest Car Lot. A Car Lot’s icon on the World Map looks much like the icon for a Safe House—a yellow-colored icon of a house—only its top part is flat while that of a Safe House has an apex shape.
 Stop in the Car Lot’s marker and press Enter to access it.
 Scroll rightwards until the Aston Martin DB9 appears and press Enter.
 You will be asked to confirm your intent to purchase the car. Choose “OK.”

, Press Escape to quit the Car Lot and choose OK to confirm returning to Free Roam mode.
 Spot the nearest Safe House on your mini map and drive to it. It is represented by a yellow-colored icon of a house with an apex roof. When you arrive at it marker, press Enter to access the Safe House.


Alternatively, you can press Escape to access the Pause Menu. Scroll rightwards and choose “Jump to Safe House” from among the options by pressing Enter. Confirm the action by choosing OK.
 Once you are in the Safe House, it is now time to customize your newly acquired Aston Martin DB9. To tune up both the performance and appearance aspects of the car, scroll rightwards on the Safe House menu and choose Customization by pressing Enter.
 For these visual parts, use the Arrow keys (Left, Right, Down and Up) to scroll the menus and press Enter at the end of each menu sequence to select the part:


Install Wolf’s body kit by following this menu sequence: Aftermarket/Body Kit/Body 2.
Install Wolf’s hood by following this menu sequence: Aftermarket/Hood/ G-Force.
Install Wolf’s Lowenhart LCL wheels by following this menu sequence: Aftermarket/Wheels/ Lowenhart LCL. Press 2 to change the size to 21".
Install Wolf’s paint by choosing the third paint from the bottom of the third row under Gloss paints. Follow this menu sequence to get to Gloss Paints: Visuals/Paint/Gloss.
Install Wolf’s rim paint by choosing the first color on the last row of Chrome Wheel Paints. Follow this menu sequence to get to Chrome Wheel Paints: Visuals/Wheel Paints/Chrome.
Install Wolf’s window tint by following this menu sequence: Visuals/Window Tint/Dark Black.
Install Wolf’s Vinyl by applying the silver Basic Body 1 vinyl to the top part of the car—from the roof to just below the Windows.

Follow this menu sequence to select the Basic Body 1 vinyl: Visuals/Vinyls/Body/Basic Body 1.
You will then be prompted to choose the color for the Vinyl. Use the Arrow keys to select the first color on the last row under Gradient 0 vinyl colors.
This will open up the Vinyl Transformation area. Use the Arrow keys to position your Basic Body 1 vinyl on the top part of the car.
 The performance parts available for purchase will depend on how many races you have won in your career to that point but for the most part, the upgrades listed below are unlocked by the time you take out Wolf in the Canyon Duel and should give your DB9 great performance. Use the Arrow keys to scroll the menus and press Enter at the end of each menu sequence to select the part:


Install the Pro Package Engine upgrade on the car by following this menu sequence: Performance/Engine/Pro Package.
Install the Pro Package Transmission upgrade on the car by following this menu sequence: Performance/Transmission/Pro Package.
Install the Pro Package Suspension upgrade on the car by following this menu sequence: Performance/Suspension/Pro Package.
Install the Race Package Nitrous upgrade on the car by following this menu sequence: Performance/Nitrous/Race Package.
Install the Pro Package Tires upgrade on the car by following this menu sequence: Performance/Tires/Pro Package.
Install the Pro Package Brakes upgrade on the car by following this menu sequence: Performance/Brakes/Pro Package.
Install the Pro Package Turbo upgrade on the car by following this menu sequence: Performance/Turbo/Pro Package.

