 Make sure the butter is softened so it spreads easily on the bread, otherwise it might tear. Place the bread on a clean surface, butter-side down.You can soften or melt the butter by placing about 1 tablespoon in a microwave-safe bowl for 5-10 seconds., Most recipes call for 2 slices of cheese, or about 1.5 oz. Go ahead and add more if you want a super-cheesy sandwich.Distribute your cheese evenly over the bread so all melts at the same rate.
 Don't build a sandwich any taller than 1-1 1/2 inches or the microwaves may not cook it all the way through., A crisper pan is made from microwave-safe metal that becomes extremely hot and works the same as a griddle or pan you would heat up on the stove. It will brown and crisp your bread, just like if you made your sandwich in a frying pan.To get the griddle-effect, a crisper pan must become extremely hot during the preheating process. Only use it with adult supervision and never, ever touch it with your bare hands. Use heat-proof oven mitts to handle the crisper.Follow the manufacturers directions about where to place the pan. It may have to sit on the floor of the microwave or may have built-in legs that lift it closer to the grill on the ceiling of the machine.Do not put anything on the crisper pan until it has pre-heated.



If your bread doesn't appear to be browning, try adding more time in 5-second increments. Remember, the bread that is touching the pan is the side that will be getting crisp, so you may not be able to tell until you flip it over., This will ensure that both sides of your bread are browned and toasted and that the inside of your grilled cheese is cooked through evenly.Press the sandwich with the spatula on either side to add crispiness.Be very careful no part of your skin comes in contact with the pan. If it is easier, first remove the pan with oven mitts, then flip the sandwich and return the pan to the microwave.
 Allow the sandwich to cool for 2-3 minutes before cutting in half and serving warm. The bread may continue to crust over a little as it cools.