 If you are a regular commuter, it is advisable to obtain a pass which comes monthly, quarterly, and yearly. You also have the options of a second class pass and a first class pass, the latter being more expensive. Also, you have the option of buying a one-way or a return ticket.


Purchasing a pass is more convenient because you don't have to stand in a long line every day.
If you are a college student, you can buy tickets at a discounted price by flashing your college ID or a letter from your college.
Other forms of tickets are the e-tickets (AVTM smart cards) and coupons. You don't have to stand in a line if you have a coupon. Simply punch your coupon into special machines.;
, You could also purchase a train calendar which comes for Rs. 5.
 It is recommended to memorize them to prevent trouble or confusion from occurring. The sections consist of:


The general section for both men and women.
The ladies' section for women only. Women are advised to travel in this place at all times.
The luggage compartment for fisherwomen and those who have heavy luggage.
The handicapped compartment for the visually impaired, the mentally challenged, physically disabled, pregnant women, people who have cancer and are undergoing therapy. #**Other commuters are strictly prohibited from traveling in the handicapped compartment. On doing so, you are fined Rs 100, imprisoned, or both.
 Always use the foot over-bridges. Never hang out of the doors, as doing this is highly risky. You may hit a pole or lose your balance and fall off.
 Even though the Mumbai Local is the fastest mode of transportation, it may take a long time to reach your destination, especially if you plan to travel during peak hours. Purchase any necessary items beforehand, such as food and water to sustain your energy. Look up the weather to see if it is in your favor since Mumbai has heavy rainstorms. Avoid arguments with people, as they are time consuming.


You can purchase items from vendors, as they sell various objects. Bargaining is popular, and fellow passengers may be willing to give you advice. The items sold may consist of hair clips, nail polish, or even vegetables.
 The locations you stop at will depend on whether your train is fast or slow. Slow trains halt at all locations whereas fast trains halt at only selected locations.
 It will tell you the correct platform to stand on in order to board your train. Be sure you avoid standing near the ladies' compartment - there will be a symbol on the platform.
 Once the crowd clears, slowly and carefully board the train. Maintain a queue and follow it to avoid confusion and angering other passengers.


Peak hours can be the most dangerous times, as hurrying people may trample you.
 The compartment may be crowded, and you'll want to avoid standing if possible. If there are no seats available, avoid standing in the middle of the floor. This will create difficulty for those departing or entering the train.


During your ride, switch off any lights or fans that you are not using.

