 Some people believe that if a starter gets below 46°F, you shouldn't bother working with it and it should be discarded promptly -- others disagree. If you do store it, it should be at least 30 days old and able to withstand the cooler temperature.


Feed your starter just before you refrigerate it. This seems to help it bounce back faster when you go to use it in the future. A starter that was mature when stored can be very difficult to bring back to life.
 Air pressure will build and possibly explode (or at the very least curb the growing process) the container. Place the lid on, but don't make it air-tight.


Glass is generally a safe bet. Plastic scratches easily and metal will give the starter a metallic-y taste if left in it too long.
 Measure out what you need and put the unused storage starter back in the refrigerator, no harm done. Let the starter you are going to use come to room temperature before you use it, however.


Remember that a starter at room temperature needs to be fed twice a day (even after refrigeration), so don't leave it out without feeding it! It has been going through its stores of starch in the starter while in the refrigerator and if it's going to sit a while, it needs a real feeding.
 Feed the starter for at least three days (twice a day) before using it or putting it back in the refrigerator. Use the same precautions you took when you were growing it (temperature, etc.).


Start the discarding process as normal. Discard 1/2 the starter and then feed another 1/4 cup (50 g) water and 1/2 cup (50 g) flour every 12 hours or so, like you used to in the good ol' days. When the starter is doubling nicely between feedings (good and actively stable), feed it one more time. Clean out your storage container, put the freshly revived starter back in, and then put it back into the fridge to be revived again later.

Again, the keys to a successful starter are to feed the starter until it is doubling consistently between feedings, to fill the cleaned jar no more than 1/2 full (it needs air), and to refrigerate immediately after you feed the starter (once it's mature, of course).



