 The safest, smartest, and quickest way to improve your sex life is to communicate openly with your partner. Tell your partner what turns you on and what turns you off. Discuss your limitations and your ambitions for your sex life. Tell your partner anything they need to know to make your sex life as pleasurable as possible.Don’t focus on what your partner is doing wrong, instead, focus on expressing your desires. Use “I” statements, such as “I like it when you touch me like this” or “I’d feel more comfortable waiting for that.”If you find it difficult or embarrassing to talk about sex with your partner, do simultaneous free-writes and share your writing with each other, or turn off the lights and talking in the dark.
Talking builds trust and intimacy. While it may seem hotter to cut to the chase, talking in the early stages of your relationship will help you avoid awkwardness and build the trust necessary to facilitate a healthy sex life.
Don't do anything you're not ready for. Talk about it first.
 When talking about sex, we often get sheepish and fall somewhat short of talking as specifically as would be helpful. Try to be as specific as possible so your partner doesn't have to work to decode your messages.Instead of saying, "I wish we'd have more sex" or "I wish we'd have different sex," tell your partner how much you love being with them and how you want to work on building your intimacy with each other. Then discuss specific things you'd like to do together, or specific things you'd like to change.
Don’t fake anything. This damages trust and intimacy in the relationship. Instead, make your desires known and be honest of what is and isn’t working., Both men and women experience physical changes that can affect their sex lives.If menopause is changing your libido, say something. It’s better than your partner thinking you are uninterested.
If you are experiencing erectile dysfunction, talk with your partner and your doctor. The condition is often easily treated and is nothing to be embarrassed about., Maybe you shrug off having a higher sex drive than your partner, but perhaps you are not engaging in the most interesting sex for your partner. Discuss what each of you likes that the other partner does. Then, discuss things you’d like to introduce that may be new or different. The goal is to ensure the happiness of both partners in mutual pleasure.Approach this discussion with a non-judgmental attitude and do not be afraid of shame; feel safe discussing sexuality with your partner.
 Talk about the things you fantasize about, the things that turn you on. Write them down if you feel sheepish and then discuss them with your partner. If something comes up in conversation, like when you're watching television or reading a magazine, ask "What do you think of that?" Be honest and be open with your partner. Sharing fantasies can be refreshing in your sex life.The brain is your most sensitive sexual organ. Discussing fantasies doesn't necessarily mean you're going to act them out in real life, but in a trusting and open relationship, discussing fantasies of all sorts can be an open door to explore your sexual side and keep your sex life fresh, spontaneous, and fun.
 Before sexually connecting, try connecting in different ways. These ways may differ from couple to couple, so it’s important to connect in meaningful ways as a couple. Find the ways you meaningfully connect, then engage these interactions before sex. Intimacy can include intellectual, experiential, and emotional connection.You want to build a sense of intimacy and trust as a foundation.


Emotionally connect through heart-filled conversation, sharing your feelings and practicing empathy.
Intellectually connect by discussing a topic you both care about.
Connect physically with your partner by sitting across from each other and staring into each other’s eyes. It may feel silly or you might start to feel vulnerable, but keep with it and maintain this intimacy until you are ready to move forward.

