 Make sure you are wearing appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) before collecting medical waste or performing decontaminating procedures. PPE provides a barrier against your skin, so you can work with biohazardous substances without contracting pathogens or coming in contact with hazardous substances. Laws mandate that PPE must be worn when there is anticipated splashing of body fluids. Splashes may also occur during decontamination, also making PPE necessary. Essential PPE items that must be worn during decontamination include gloves, masks, goggles and aprons or gowns.;
, Sharps spills present a hazard to anyone. No one wants to sustain a contaminated needlestick injury by simply walking in a hallway. Prevent further harm by enclosing the affected area to limit others’ access. Cordon the area and place hazard signs to alert individuals about the spill. Contain spills involving large amounts of fluids so that the contamination will not spread. This can be done by placing inert material like sand or clothing around the spill.
 After you’ve protected yourself and communicated the hazard, the next thing you should do is acquire equipment for cleaning, and appropriate containers for sharps and hazardous waste. Cleaning equipment must work properly as intended, and must be either cleanable or disposable. Only use cleaning equipment and materials that are effective in cleaning contaminants in the spill. Always use appropriate containers for the waste. For example, use a red bag for biohazardous waste and sharps disposal containers for sharps.
 Before starting the actual cleaning or decontamination, it is necessary to remove sharps first. Attempting to decontaminate a spill with sharps still present is hazardous. Avoid puncture injuries by removing sharps using tongs, or with a broom and dustpan, before the actual cleaning. Do not pick up sharps using your hands, even if you wear gloves! Always place sharps in sharps disposal containers that follow OSHA specifications.
 Use appropriate decontaminating methods to clean the spill. Decontamination removes, inactivates or dissolves the hazardous agent. The decontaminating agent or method must be tested and proven effective against the substances in the spill. Examples of appropriate cleaning tools for decontamination are the use of absorbents for liquids. Using alcohols or ether solvents for spills involving nonpolar compounds is an example of inactivation decontamination. Spills involving inorganic compounds and salts may be decontaminated by dissolving them in water. Check with your hospital or institution for the up-to-date, most appropriate decontamination agents or methods to clean up a particular spill.
 You may need to disinfect a spill that contains pathological substances. Even if visible pieces of sharps or other biohazardous waste have been removed, you need to disinfect the area to remove any infectious substances that are not visible to the eye.
 After cleaning the spill and placing the waste into containers, make sure to close the waste containers to reduce the risk of spills. OSHA guidelines describe the type of containers that should be used to prevent spills.
 Make sure to clean the cleaning equipment itself thoroughly after it is used on spills containing sharps waste, biohazardous waste, or chemical waste. In addition, inspect equipment for signs of wear and replace it if necessary.
 Do not forget to label waste disposal bags. Place a secure biohazard sign on containers and bags that contain biohazardous waste. Include sharps warning labels for sharps.
 Institutions have different methods of disposal for medical waste. Some methods include drop box or supervised collection sites, mail-back programs, or disposal through waste disposal contractors.
 Make sure that the spill is reported in accordance with local and state laws.

