

Texas electrical apprentice licenses are just licenses to learn. In Texas there are no educational requirements for these state issued electrical licenses. The state of Texas requires a criminal background check, supervised hours of "on the job" experience, an apprentice must work under a master electrician, or master sign electrician to qualify for the state apprentice license.
Apply to be an electrical apprentice or an electrical sign apprentice through the Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation. Pay $20, fill out the forms, including your criminal history, and submit proof of work under a licensed master electrician, or master sign electrician every year of your apprenticeship. Late fees will be required if you are late in submitting your license renewal paperwork.
Electrical sign apprentices usually work under a master sign electrician, but may be supervised by a master electrician also. They are taught to work with electrical signs and billboards exclusively.
A general electrical apprentice must work under a licensed master electrician, and may be taught to work in any/all electrical fields, depending upon the type of work of the master electrician, and/or the contractor.
This can be accomplished entirely online.



 

;
, While this is not necessary to become an electrician, it may be a preferable way to gain more knowledge about your chosen career.


You could also apply for a vocational electrician program (but it is not required, and will not speed your career path). Programs that take nine months to two years are commonly available at community colleges and tech schools, for a fee. While this is not necessary to become an electrician, it may be a preferable way to gain more knowledge about your chosen career.
,

To be a residential wireman, you must have 4,000 supervised hours (2 years) of supervised experience and pass the residential wireman examination.
To be a journeyman lineman you must have 7000 supervised hours (3 1/2 years) of experience and pass the journeyman lineman examination.
For the journeyman, and journeyman sign, or maintenance electrical licenses, you are required to have 8,000 supervised hours (4 years).
You can apply to be a master electrician, or master sign electrician once you have achieved 12,000 hours (6 years) of supervised electrical work. You must also be a journeyman (or sign) electrician for at least 2 years.



You can go to the Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation to apply for these licenses and sign up to take your examination. The application fees are between $20 and $45, in addition to examination fees.
 Unless you are a residential appliance installer, you will be required to obtain at least 4 hours of state approved continuing education credits annually in order to remain licensed.
 If you want to start your own business, then you must apply to be a residential appliance installation contractor, sign contractor, or electrical contractor. In addition to being a residential appliance installer, master, or master sign electrician, you must also start a business that meets Texas' licensing requirements.


You will need to show proof of liability insurance for injury and property. This must total $600,000 in aggregate coverage and $300,000 of coverage per incident. You must also must show proof of worker's compensation insurance and a surety bond.

