 This diet is not, strictly speaking, an Atkins diet, though Atkins does tout is as an option for vegetarians and vegans on its website.The concept of this diet derives mainly from a study detailed in the Archives of Internal Medicine (2009), which found that participants placed on a vegan low-carb, high-protein diet saw a markedly better drop in LDL (“bad”) cholesterol levels as compared to those on a standard low-fat vegetarian diet, while both groups lost weight roughly equally.The vegan diet in the study was 31% protein (mainly gluten, soy, and nuts), 43% fats (mainly nuts, vegetable oils, soy products, and avocado), and 26% carbs (from fruits, veggies, and some cereal products).
 The 26% of calories derived from carbs in Eco-Atkins equates to roughly 130 g. per day, which is low by traditional nutrition standards (around 225-350 g. daily) but quite high for typical Atkins plans (which tend to max out at around 80 g. Net Carbs).


Atkins, not surprisingly, states “Imagine how much better this group would have done if they followed Atkins protocols for carb consumption?”,but let’s presume that you intend to stick to the diet as described in the study.
The greater leeway on carbs on Eco-Atkins is not an invitation to consume white breads, rice, potatoes, or baked goods, however. You need to spend these extra carbs on vegetables, fruits, whole grains, oats, and the beans, legumes, etc. from which you are deriving much of your protein., One important reason to focus your carbs on vegetables, beans, legumes, and whole grains is the higher fiber content in these foods. When dieting in general, and especially when on a vegetarian/vegan low carb diet, fiber is definitely your friend.High-fiber foods take longer to digest, providing a greater feeling of satiety (that is, fullness), which can combat cravings and help keep your diet on track.
A high-fiber diet helps promote bowel health, can lower cholesterol and reduce blood pressure and inflammation, and helps control blood sugar levels.The value of fiber is why it is deducted from carb counts in Atkins’ Net Carbs.

