 The best rhubarb stalks to eat are also the best stalks to freeze. Look for stalks that are firm, tender, and well-colored.

The color of ripe rhubarb will vary depending on the variety. Most are red with hints of green, but some are mostly green while others should be all red.
You should look for rhubarb with as few fibers as possible, but stalks with only a few fibers are usually fine.
The stalks should be about as thick as your thumb.;
, Rinse the rhubarb under cool, running water and scrub the dirt off gently using your fingers.

Pat dry with clean paper towels.
 If the rhubarb you chose has tough, fibrous skin on the outside, use your fingers to peel this layer off.

Only peel off the outer skin if it seems to peel off easily with your fingernails. If you cannot separate a skin from the stalk, you likely have a variety that does not have this tough outer layer. You should still remove any stringy fibers, though.
You should also remove all the leaves from the outside of the stalk.
 Use a serrated kitchen knife to cut the stalks into bite-size pieces.

The pieces can be anywhere from 1/2 inch to 2 inches (1.25 cm to 5 cm). No matter what size you choose, though, try to keep the pieces even. Evenly sized pieces will freeze and defrost better, making them easier to use.
 For any method, you can freeze rhubarb raw or blanched (pre-cooked). Blanching the rhubarb beforehand helps preserve the color and texture of the vegetable, though, so many people find the extra step worth the effort.

Boil water in a large saucepan over medium-high heat. Rest a wire mesh colander inside the pot.
Transfer the rhubarb to the colander. Let it boil for 1 minute.
Remove the colander and the rhubarb from the boiling water. Immediately dunk the rhubarb into ice water and keep it there for another 1 minute. Doing so will stop the cooking process.
Spread the rhubarb out on clean paper towels and let air dry.
 Leave at least 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of empty headspace at the top, and label the bag or container with the amount and the current date.

If using plastic bags instead of stiff containers, make sure that all excess air is squeezed out of the bag as possible before sealing it.
You can also sweeten the rhubarb before dry packing it. Combine 4 cups (1 L) of chopped rhubarb with 1 cup (250 ml) of granulated sugar until well coated. This is only optional, though, and should only be done if you plan to use the rhubarb for a sweetened recipe like jam or preserves.
 Place the rhubarb in the coldest part of the freezer. You can store it there, at 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius) up to 10 or 12 months.When you are ready to thaw the rhubarb, defrost it in the refrigerator or in the microwave.
 Make sure that none of the pieces overlap or touch each other.

You can also line the baking sheet with parchment paper before adding the rhubarb so that the pieces will be easier to remove after freezing.If the pieces touch or overlap, they will end up freezing together, and it will be more difficult to pack them later on. The advantage of individual dry packing is that the pieces can be thawed in partial quantities rather than needing to be thawed all at once.
 Transfer the tray to the freezer, positioning it so that it is perfectly flat and not tilted. Let the rhubarb stay in the freezer for two hours, or until it becomes too solid to pierce with your thumbnail., Place the pieces into freezer-safe plastic bags or containers with a minimum headspace of 1/2 inch (1.25 cm). Label the container with the amount of rhubarb inside and the current date.

If using plastic bags, make sure to squeeze out the excess air from the bags before sealing them.
 Place the container in the back of the freezer, at the coldest spot. Store it in the freezer at 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius) for as long as 10 to 12 months.

When you are ready to thaw the rhubarb, defrost it in the refrigerator or in the microwave.
 Combine 2 cups (500 ml) with 4 to 6 cups (1 to 1.5 L) of water in a small saucepan. Heat over medium-high heat, stirring frequently, until the mixture boils. Continue boiling and stirring until the sugar completely dissolves.

Sugar can improve the flavor, stabilize the color, and retain the shape of the rhubarb. The solution can also help prevent drying, freezer burn, and oxidation.
You could use an artificial sweetener instead of sugar, in equal quantities, if you would prefer to skip the sugar.
If you would prefer not to use the stove, you can microwave the syrup in 30-second intervals, instead.
 Place the syrup in the refrigerator for an hour or so, or until it is cool to the touch.

The syrup should be as cool as possible. It is recommended that you make the syrup the night before and let it cool overnight, but a few hours will usually be enough if that is all you have.
 Place the cut rhubarb in freezer-safe plastic containers, packing it in firmly but leaving a minimum 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of empty headspace at the top., Cover the rhubarb with the cooled syrup, making sure that the rhubarb is completely submerged and that the 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) headspace is still being maintained.

If working with a pint (1/2 L) of rhubarb, you will only need about 1/2 cup (125 ml) of syrup. If working with a quart (1 L) of rhubarb, you will need between 2/3 and 1 cup (170 to 250 ml) of syrup.
Keep 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of headspace for a 1 pint (1/2 L) container and 1 inch (2.5 cm) of headspace for a 1 quart (1 L) container.
 Seal the container and label it with the amount of rhubarb and the current date. Place it in the coldest part of the freezer and let it stay there, at 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius), for as long as 10 to 12 months.

When you are ready to thaw the rhubarb, defrost it in the refrigerator or in the microwave.
 Place the rhubarb pieces in freezer-safe plastic containers, leaving a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of empty headspace or more at the top.

Juices that are low in acidity, like peach, apple, and white grape juice, are better choices than those with high acidity, like orange juice, lemon juice, or pineapple juice. The sugar in the juice works like sugar in a syrup, improving the flavor and stabilizing the color while also preventing drying and oxidation.
 Pour enough peach, apple, or white grape juice over the rhubarb to cover the pieces completely while still maintaining the 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of headspace.For a 1 pint (1/2 L) container of rhubarb, you will only need about 1/2 cup (125 ml) of syrup. For a 1 quart (1 L) container of rhubarb, you will need between 2/3 and 1 cup (170 to 250 ml) of juice.
Keep 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of headspace for a 1 pint (1/2 L) container and 1 inch (2.5 cm) of headspace for a 1 quart (1 L) container.
 Seal the container and label it with the amount of and the current date. Let it freeze quickly in the coldest part of the freezer, then keep it at a temperature of 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius) for as long as 10 to 12 months.

When you are ready to thaw the rhubarb, defrost it in the refrigerator or in the microwave.

