 A small kitten will adapt easier to a crate than an adult cat that has a lifetime of crate distrust built up.


However, starting crate training early in life is not always possible and that shouldn't dissuade you from trying. Just because you have an adult cat, for instance, that doesn't mean it can't grow to love its crate.;
, If you don't want your cat to be fearful in its crate, then the cat needs to be allowed to get used to the crate at times when it is not traveling. Place the crate, with its door open, in your home on a permanent basis and let your cat explore it.The goal is to make the crate somewhere that the cat willingly hangs out and takes shelter.


Do not force the cat into the crate. This will only give it negative feelings about the crate. The cat needs to go in on its own accord.
To lure your cat towards the crate, put familiar bedding and a treat or your cat's favorite toy inside.
Allow the cat to go inside, get the treat or toy, and then leave the crate without interference. Do not close the door. After you do this several times, the cat will begin to trust the crate as a location where good things happen.
 The hardest part of getting your cat to love its crate can be getting it used to a closed crate. Confinement can be hard for many animals, and add the stress of travel to that and your cat could have bad associations with a closed crate. So, the goal is to make your cat feel like the crate is a safe haven instead of a dangerous trap.


Begin closing the crate door momentarily while the cat is inside. Do this only briefly at first, as extended confinement immediately can make your cat panic.
Begin to lengthen the amount of time the door is closed. Always stay right there and reassure your cat that all is well.
Finally, close the crate door and then lift up the crate. If your cat remains calm, move the crate outside to the car. If you work up to this gradually, your cat is more likely to remain calm., You do not want your cat to assume that it is going to the vet every time it gets in its crate. To accomplish this, you need to take your cat to pleasant places the first couple times you take it in the car in its crate.For example, put the cat in its crate in the car, drive around briefly, and then return home. Give the cat a treat once you return home. Do this several times so that it connects a car ride with getting a treat.
 Your cat will never love its crate if that crate is too small for its body. A cat should be able to stand up and turn around in a crate. Also, it shouldn't be hard for you to physically fit the cat in the crate.Even if you have a crate that is the right size, a cat that is resistant to getting in a crate can make it hard for you. With this in mind, just make sure that your cat have some extra room around it when sitting in its crate.
Most crates that are sold at pet stores or online will provide a general weight range that will fit comfortably in the crate. Take this into consideration when buying a crate.
 Bad smells and uncleanliness can make the crate very unattractive to your cat. Take the time to wash your cat's crate regularly. Use soap and water to scrub it down, remembering to clean all surfaces. Then thoroughly rinse off the soap.


A crate can be especially unattractive to a cat if it has the smells of other cats on it. If you borrow a crate or get a used crate, be sure to wash is very thoroughly before attempting to put your cat in it.
 In order to make the crate more comfortable, provide a soft surface to sit or lay on that has comforting smells. A piece of familiar bedding, such as a blanket that the cat lays on normally, can go a long way towards making a crate more comfortable.Make sure that the bedding does not take up too much space in your cat's crate. You want to assure that your cat has enough room to move around in its cage comfortably and too much bedding can limit that movement.
 Once again, make your cat comfortable by providing items that it is used to. The cat's favorite toy or a treat that it always goes wild for will help it to remain calm and embrace the crate as a safe and happy place.Messy treats in the crate are not a good idea. You want to limit the treats to ones that will not get all over the cat and make a mess that the cat will dislike.
 There are feline pheromone products that are sold at many pet stores and online that can calm your cat down while it's in its carrier. These pheromones decrease the cat's anxiety and relax it by making the smell of the carrier familiar.Most feline pheromone products need to be sprayed in the crate a length of time before placing the cat inside, for instance many need to be sprayed a half hour before contact with the cat. Plan ahead for this time requirement so that you can use pheromones before you need to take the cat somewhere.
 It is easiest to get a cat in a carrier if the door is on the top of it. This allows you to set the cat down into the crate instead of having to angle it in sideways. If you have a crate with a door on the side, place it on its back so that the door faces up.Be sure that when you place the crate so that the door faces up that it is still stable and won't tip over easily. This may mean that you need to lean it up against a wall for stability.
 To get your cat into its crate you need to have a firm hold on the cat but you don't want to hold it so tight that it tries to escape. To do this, support the cat's chest with one hand and its rear legs with the other hand. This will allow you to control its body easily.If your cat is really resistant to being picked up, you may need to restrain it a bit to get it in the crate. Wrap the cat in a towel so that its legs are immobilized before picking it up and putting it in its crate., Lower your cat into its crate feet first. Since you have its feet under control, this should be relatively easy. Once your cat's rear end is at the bottom of the carrier, you can let go of its feet and chest.


As you lower it down, be sure to keep control of the cat so that it doesn't fall and hurt itself.
 Once the cat is in the carrier you should close and lock the door so that the cat can't escape. You will also need to place the carrier on its bottom if you repositioned it to get the cat in.If your cat is doing well and not trying to escape, give it a treat to reinforce the good behavior.

