 The target of your yandere love should be someone who struck you immediately as impressive. The kind of person you could really devote yourself to. Common targets include captains of sports teams, people who just moved to the area (Higurashi No Naku Koro Ni), and up and coming leaders (Code Geass).Your target should come across as the leading player in their own life-adventure. In a manner of speaking, they should be the hero of their own story... and yours as well.
Your target's talents and skills should be something you respect or admire. This way, your adoration of them will be genuinely intense.
Choose someone who is willing to receive your over-the-top advances. You should never make them uncomfortable. Pick someone who likes silly games, and already knows you well.;
, Attend the target's games, practices, and recitals. Be a one person cheering squad. Hand the target of your love a bottle of water when they step off the field or trot off the stage. Let them know how devoted you are.Talk with friends and classmates about the target's game-changing plays or virtuoso level piano performances.
 You've devoted yourself, heart and soul, to the target, so it's only fair the target reciprocates. Save up a Death Star grade stare-down for when others try to get fresh with the target of your love. Scold the target for leading on others when they're obviously not meant to be together.


Yandere types often act violently jealous when the target of their love is violated by the affection of an outsider. This, however, is not acceptable in the real world. Only "protect" the target in a playful, fun-poking way., Allow the target to choose the locations where you plan to meet, the movies you see together, and the snack shops you visit during your free time. Do what the target asks of you. Show respect for the target's wishes and goals.


The target will read your easygoing and agreeable ways as being in harmony with their own. This will draw them deeper into the complex web of your love, where they'll never, ever escape.
 Cuteness aggression is where something is so cute or you love something so much you want to do it harm, as in "You're so cute I could squish you!"It's only natural when you see the target you feel a little frisky.


Give the target a good bear hug, a gentle and friendly punch on the arm, or a poke on the shoulder. Scrunch your eyes closed as you do so and make a cutesy noise. Let them know you think they're so cute, you can't help yourself.
Throw light, safe objects at the target, like gloves, scarves, and paper at the target. Shriek with joy as you do so, saying something like, "You're so cute, I can't stand it!"

