 Yes, like the kind you bring on planes. Find a rolling bag that you like and that you think will be functional.;
, These are the folders that fold like an accordion. They are easy to organize and to use.
 Choose a style that you like and a size that you think will work best for your needs.
 It should be the kind that has 4+ sections with folders separating them. This makes it easy to categorize your writing.
 Sometimes you want the freedom of writing on loose paper, and this is perfect for just that.
 This is the kind of paper you put in a printer. This is good for sketches (characters, etc) and other graphics.
 This is for making graphs, tables, and charts while planning your story.
 The are perfect for making quick notes to yourself or notes about what you're writing (ex. "This is just a random scene---not chapter specific").
 You can buy them on amazon.com , and they're perfect for giving different uses to keep you organized.


Dedicate one mini composition book to random writing. This is the perfect outlet for when you have writer's block and you just need to get your pen to the paper.
Dedicate another mini composition book to research about your story's topic.
 They're easier than regular pencils and they work well. You should have at least 5.
 This will be important to have for serious writing. You can buy the extra lead boxes in pack of 3-5.
 You should have at least 5 unused erasers, as well as the one you're using. They should be the standard pink erasers.
 You should have black, blue, red, and green at least. These aren't good for writing, but they are good for editing.
 You should have at least three colors for taking notes while writing.
 These are for marking places that you need to go back over.


If you don't want to buy these separately, buy an extra pad of Post-It notes and cut them into strips.
 You should have at least two, preferably in different colors. These are usually used for marking specific spots that you want to look over.
 These are for putting related papers together. You should have around 30 of them.
 If something is written in pen and needs to be removed, white-out is perfect. You can get it in liquid or tape form.
 It should be fairly small. This is for writing deadlines and other important writing related dates.
 If you see, hear about, or otherwise experience something write-worthy, write the experience down in the journal and refer to it to make the writing more realistic.
 If there are multiple pages, punch holes in them and put brass fasteners in the holes. That way, you can add more pages if necessary.
 This is simply just for inspiration., That way, if you need to know something, you can look it up easily., You can use it for research and writing. Many carry on bags actually come with a built-in laptop pocket.
 That way, you can voice record any ideas that you have trouble putting on paper, and if you're in a place where you can't write, you can record your ideas.
 Sometimes, pictures and videos are the best ways to get inspiration for a story.
 You can use it as a dictionary, thesaurus, and a research outlet. Other devices (iPod Touches, laptops, etc) are okay, but only some smart phones get 3G, so only some can go on the Internet no matter where you are. You can also get lots of writing apps on the smart phone.
 Are you a visual person? Put in some art supplies for getting out ideas. Are you a musical person? Put in your iPod or MP3 player. Do you have other resources you need to pack? Pack them. While the items listed above are the most basic items for your set, you can customize it to fit your needs.
 This will keep your bag a lot more organized.
 Everything should fit, since carry ons have a lot more space than you think.
 Now you can write wherever you are, whenever you want!