 Using Epsom salts to remove your warts may be a safe and inexpensive home remedy. All you need is a tub, sink, or bowl to soak in and some Epsom salts. You can find Epsom salts at any drugstore or grocery store.Don't be afraid to buy a large container of Epsom salts. There are many things you can use the salts for around your house. For example, salt baths are a great way to ease muscle pain.;
, If your wart is on your foot or hand, you can just get a large bowl or bucket and fill it with warm but not hot water. Then add a small amount of Epsom salts to the water. The package should tell you the correct amount of salts to add depending on how much water you are using. For example, if you are filling a bathtub, you'll want to use 2 cups of Epsom salts. If you are just making a foot bath, try using a half cup of salts. Place the body part with the wart into the salt water and let it soak for 30 minutes.Make the water very warm but still comfortable. You do not want to use hot water.
If you like, you can fill your bathtub with Epsom salt water and soak your entire body. Epsom salt is great for easing aches and pains. It also soothes dry, itchy skin., Soaking a wart can help soften it, which will make it more receptive to other forms of treatment. Sometimes, however, it will need just a little extra encouragement to go away. If the wart is still there, you can gently exfoliate your skin to remove the remnants. Do this immediately after soaking, when your skin is the softest.Use an Emory board or pumice stone to gently scrub away the last of the wart. Make sure to wash or throw away any tool that you used to scrub away your wart, as they can spread the virus to other parts of your body.
Finish the wart removal by smoothing a non-irritating moisturizing lotion over your skin. You'll feel hydrated, smooth, and wart-free.
Since warts are caused by a virus, they may reappear after treatment. If your warts reappear, you can use this method as often as necessary to get rid of them. Most warts will naturally go away after a year or two.