 You'll need raffia or ribbon (2-4 large packages), scissors, a measuring tape, and a sturdy string, such as yarn or twine. You'll also need a sink or bowl to soak your raffia / ribbon in, and a flat surface where you can lay the raffia / ribbon out to dry.


If you want an extremely dense hula skirt (one that you cannot see through), you'll probably need about 4 large packages of raffia or ribbon. If you want a lighter skirt, 2 large packages should be enough.
All of these supplies can be purchased online or at your local craft store.;
, Start by unrolling your raffia 







, As you remove your raffia or ribbon from the water, lay it on top of a towel on a flat surface to dry. It will take a few hours to dry, and should feel completely dry to the touch before you begin attaching it to your skirt., While the raffia / ribbon is drying, take your measuring tape and measure the length from your waist to your knees (or however long you want your hula skirt to be). Write down this measurement so you don't forget it., Find the measurement you wrote down in the last step, then double this number and add 2 inches. For example, if you want the skirt to be 15 inches long, cut your raffia 







, Take your measuring tape and wrap it around your waist to see how long you need to cut your string. Then, take that measurement and add 12 inches. This added length will be used to tie and untie your skirt. This string will be your waistband.








For example, if your waist is 30 inches, cut your string so that it is 42 inches long.
 Look here for visual instructions on tying Larkshead knots.









To tie a larks head knot, start by taking a piece of raffia or ribbon and folding it in half.
Take the looped end of your folded raffia or ribbon and slide it under your waistband string. The looped end should be below the waistband, and the loose ends should be above the waistband.
Now, take the loose ends of your raffia or ribbon and fold them towards you, around your waistband string.
Slip the ends through the loop and pull tightly to secure your raffia / ribbon to the waistband.Do this with each piece of raffia or ribbon until your hula skirt is complete. It should take 2-3 entire packages. Leave 6 inches on each end of your waistband string so you can tie and untie your skirt.
 Use a bow instead of a knot so that you'll be able to tie and untie your skirt. Have fun in your new hula skirt!








