 Nowadays, many manufacturers are creating veneers using synthetic materials like fiberglass, polyurethane and recycled composites. These faux-stone veneers are lighter and easier to work with than real stone and come in many different authentic-looking shapes and colors. Do some research into which product might be right for your home.Faux-stone veneers are normally sold by the box-load, and can be found in a wide range of hues to help you find the one that matches your living space perfectly.
Companies like AirStone, ProVia, Black Bear and Centurion all offer trusted manufactured stone products.
 Map out the area of the wall you’re accenting and record these measurements for later. You can use the dimensions of the wall to deduce how much faux stone will be needed to cover it.

Consider the measurements of the veneers as listed on the box when determining how many stones you’ll need to cover your wall.
 Find out what type of adhesive is recommended for use with the faux-stone veneers you’ve purchased. Slather the adhesive across the surface of the wall using a trowel or putty knife. There’s no need to strip the wall or hang a sheet of supporting material first—the adhesive should be light enough to apply directly to the outermost layer of drywall.In many instances, manufacturers will either suggest a particular adhesive that works well with the materials their veneers are made from or formulate and supply their own.
The adhesive will form a bond with the veneers, meaning you won’t have to worry about it crumbling or coming unfastened like mortar. This also means, however, that the wall will have to be deconstructed manually if you ever want to change its appearance.
 Working 1-2 rows at a time, go down the wall in rows fitting the faux-stone veneers into the desired positions. This will probably require a little bit of forethought, as you want the wall to have a naturally varied, inconsistent finish. Press and hold the veneers until they remain in place.When you reach the end of the wall (or you just want to change up the size of your stone), you can cut the veneers to shape using a simple handsaw.If you’re having some trouble getting the veneers to stick, it can help to apply a thin coating of adhesive the back of each stone in addition to the wall itself.
Use a damp cloth to wipe away excess adhesive if it globs up between stones.
 After the last veneer is in place, the building materials will need a few hours to set up. Your best bet is to let them sit overnight so that the adhesive supporting them has plenty of time to dry and harden. In the morning, you can replace your furniture, wall hangings, outlets and other accessories and delight in the rustic sophistication of your new accent wall!Working in a dry, temperature-controlled space will ensure that the adhesive dries and sets up optimally.
Resist the urge to touch the veneers while the wall dries, and be sure to keep children and pets away.

