 Many people suffering from arthritis pain are successful in alleviating it to some degree through diet. Eating a diet that is anti-inflammatory, boosts the immune system, and contains foods that strengthen connective tissue and bones has helped many arthritis sufferers manage their pain. Explore different dietary approaches and try one that fits with your lifestyle and nutritional needs.Add anti-inflammatory foods to your diet. These include fruits such as pineapple, tart cherries, and beets. You can also try fish rich in omega-3 fat like salmon, tuna, and mackerel, and other healthy oils like olive oil.
Try eliminating foods known to trigger inflammation, including transfats and gluten.
Include foods in your diet that strengthen bones and boost your immune system, too. Good foods for bone strength include broccoli and dairy, which are rich in calcium and vitamins D and K. Try things like green tea and citrus fruit to help your immune system.
 Sleeping well is an important part of cultivating positivity when you are dealing with arthritis pain. Aim for eight hours of sleep each night, and avoid alcohol and caffeine in the hours before you sleep., Exercise boosts your mood and is an important part of managing arthritis. You should exercise according to your ability, pain level, and disease progression. Talk to your doctor before starting a new exercise regimen.Yoga, swimming, walking, and spinning are all exercises that can be beneficial to those suffering from arthritis.
 Dealing with chronic disease like arthritis can be an emotional rollercoaster. Keeping a journal can help you maintain balance and stay positive when you are dealing with arthritis pain. You can also use a journal to track your symptoms and possible triggers, which can help you maintain better control of your arthritis.
 One of the hardest parts of having arthritis is not being able to do things you once did without pain, and asking for help can be even more difficult. Learning to ask for help can ease your pain, improve your mood, and deepen your connections with others. Don’t be afraid to ask friends, family members, or coworkers to lend a helping hand when pain prohibits you from doing something.


Try saying, “Sis, going grocery shopping is really tough for me because lifting the bags flares up my arthritis. Do you think you could help me once a week?”
Before yoga class, you can say to your teacher, “Bruce, I cannot do poses that put pressure on my wrists, like downward facing dog. Could you give me some alternate poses instead?”

