 Popular culture romanticizes the holidays as a time when all seems right with the world, but for many people, the reality is different. The months of November and December can be emotionally and financially stressful, especially if you’re dealing with PTSD. Accept that the holidays might never feel the same to you as they did before your trauma, and don’t expect them to make your stress, sadness, and negative memories go away.Consider the triggers that might set off physiological, mental, and behavioral reactions for you. These might include being around certain people, lights, crowded stores, or other aspects of the holidays.;
, Let your family and close friends know why the holidays are a difficult time for you and what they can do to help. If there are any aspects of the holiday season that are likely to upset you, give them advance notice. A little honesty can go a long way in helping your loved ones understand and support you.Many people don’t understand PTSD. If you don’t explain how you’re feeling to them, they may take it personally if you aren’t happy or don’t want to celebrate.
Talk to people you trust. If a family member or friend has a history of being unsupportive, then try to consider why they might be unsupportive. Perhaps they simply do not understand PTSD and you could have a supportive friend or family member help you to discuss what it means with them.
You can open the conversation by saying something like, “The holiday season is tough for me, and I want to help you understand why I might not be able to participate in all the family celebrations this year.”

, You know yourself and your needs better than anyone else. Before the holiday season, give some thought to what you can handle and what you can’t. Don’t feel obligated to participate in any celebrations or rituals that will stress you out or bring back painful memories.It’s not your responsibility to make other people happy at the cost of your mental health.
 Decide which traditions and events you can participate in this holiday season and which ones you’d rather avoid. Consider factors like how long an event will last, who else will be there, and what you’ll be expected to do. Then let your family and friends know so there are no last-minute surprises. If you’re uncomfortable telling someone why you won’t be at a gathering, it’s OK to just say you can’t make it.
 Triggers are situations that aggravate PTSD symptoms, and they’re different for everyone. Anything can be a trigger, including dates, locations, and even certain smells. Being aware of your triggers will help you avoid them until you can develop strategies to cope with them.If you’re not sure what your triggers are, keep track of places and events that make your PTSD symptoms worse, and pay attention to any patterns that emerge. Log any notes in a journal in order to help you remember what to avoid or anticipate.
 Grounding is the practice of focusing on the physical world around you. It can help calm you down and prevent flashbacks in stressful situations. Exercising, showering, and holding a comforting object are several ways you can ground yourself.Practice using grounding techniques when you feel anxious at home. When anxiety arises, try splashing some water on your face. Or, count to 20 slowly while taking deep breaths. Name the different colors, smells, or shapes you see in the environments around you.
Once you have used a few techniques at home, you will know which ones works best for you to use in a pinch when away or in public.
 Feeling physically or mentally tense makes it harder for you to cope with stressful stimuli. Let go of stress by practicing relaxation exercises. Deep breathing, meditation, and muscle relaxation techniques can help you let go of physical tension. To relieve mental stress, try writing in a journal or meditating.Relaxation is very subjective to the individual. To you, it may translate to taking a 20-minute nap, lighting a scented candle, or taking a relaxing bath. Choose a few activities that you can do at home and on-the-go that help you stay calm.
Relaxation techniques work best when they are used regularly to fend off stress. However, it can also help to create a stress-relief toolbox to take with you on vacation, when visiting family, or to employ the night before a big event.
Meditation is a great way to relax and it can even help your body to release beneficial chemicals, such as dopamine, oxytocin, endorphins, and serotonin. These chemicals can promote a sense of happiness and well-being, so you might consider making meditation a part of your daily routine during the holidays., Many people with PTSD find it therapeutic to spend part of the holiday season helping other people who have been through difficult experiences. Consider contributing your time and abilities at a homeless shelter, soup kitchen, or shelter for abused women.If you feel lonely or if the holiday season has lost its meaning for you, you may find volunteering to be especially beneficial.
 When you’re dealing with PTSD, social support can make a big difference in how well your holidays go. Seek out family and friends who care about you and make an effort to understand your condition. Try to arrange your holiday schedule to limit the amount of time you spend around stressful or unsupportive people., If traditional celebrations are painful or difficult, you can still find ways to make the holidays meaningful. Start a new tradition that lets you honor the season without having to face triggering situations. This can help you heal and appreciate the holidays again.New traditions could include quiet one-on-one visits with friends and family, volunteer work, or a ritual designed to give you closure from your trauma.
 Family holiday parties can be crowded, noisy, and chaotic. To avoid getting overwhelmed, bring something small to do that will help you stay centered in the present moment.Try bringing a knitting project, a Rubik’s cube, or a jigsaw puzzle.
 When you’re drunk, you might not have the presence of mind to use your coping strategies in a stressful situation. PTSD also puts you at increased risk for alcohol addiction. Drink moderately, or better yet, avoid alcohol altogether.Alcohol can also interfere with SSRI medications, which are frequently prescribed for PTSD.
 If you start to feel tense or anxious, don’t hesitate to take a break. Find a quiet place where you can meditate, read, or breathe deeply for a few minutes. If you’re still finding it difficult to relax, leaving early may be the best way to keep yourself on an even keel.If you’re at a family gathering with your spouse, consider taking two cars so you can leave more easily if you need to.

