 Start with a list that contains your vocabulary words in one column and their definitions or translations in another column. Cover one column and read through the other word by word, trying your best to remember what's written in the covered column. The more times you do this, the more you will remember.It helps to read through the list both ways. Start by reading the word and seeing if you can remember the definition. Then read the definition and see if you can remember the word.
If you can easily remember some of the words, consider making a separate list that contains only the words you are having a hard time with.
After you've done this for a while, take a break and do something that does not involve your vocabulary. Then return to your list and make sure you haven't forgotten anything.
 For many people, writing down the vocabulary words and their definitions helps cement them in their memories. If this is the case for you, try writing each term and its definition several times., Flashcards are a quick and easy way to review your vocabulary and separate the words into different categories. You can also review them pretty much anywhere, which makes finding time to study a lot easier.Reviewing your flashcards at the gym is a great way to multitask, and it takes advantage of the stimulation that occurs in your brain when you exercise.
For a more interactive approach, have someone else quiz you with your flashcards.If you don't want to make flashcards, you can get similar benefits from online games. Search for one that already contains the words you are studying or one that allows you to input your own vocabulary.
 Saying the vocabulary words out loud can help just as much as writing them down for some people. This is especially helpful if the words are difficult to pronounce. Once you become comfortable with saying the words, you will be much more likely to remember what they mean (and how to spell them).It may also help to record yourself while you repeat your vocabulary words out loud.
You can also try explaining the words to other people. If you're confident enough to teach others your vocab words, then you should know them really well.
 If you're really struggling to remember some of your vocabulary words, consider writing them down on sticky notes and posting them in places where you will see them all the time. This will help keep them fresh in your memory.If you are studying foreign language vocabulary, try labeling items around your house with your new vocabulary.
If you are studying native language vocabulary or more abstract foreign language terms, just post a list of the most challenging words on your bathroom mirror, on your refrigerator, or in another highly visible place. Make a point of reading through the entire list every time you see it.

