 When you are assertive, you clearly express your ideas, opinions, or feelings. Expressing your ideas assertively means that you understand that you have the right to stand up for your opinions and ask for someone to change their behavior. Assertiveness also means that you respect other opinions and don’t ignore their opinions.An assertive person is open to other ways of thinking. They also encourage communication and compromise about the topic.
Assertive people think carefully about what they say. They make eye contact and keep a relaxed body posture.
 Passive people rarely speak their mind. When they do speak their mind, they are quiet, unsure, and apologetic. This often leads to others taking advantage of these people. Passive people act like their ideas don’t matter as much as other people’s. Passive people want to avoid conflict.Passive people display passive body language. They don’t make eye contact, they speak softly, and often they appear nervous. A passive person may have trouble getting words out.
Passive people sometimes let others make choices for them.
 Aggressive people also stand up for themselves, but in a way that impinges on other people’s rights or beliefs. Aggressive people usually make the other person feel humiliated or like they have a lack of control. Aggressive people aim to win arguments or dominate discussions at the expense of others.Aggressive people make eye contact, but in a threatening manner. They may sound arrogant, tower over another person, or appear stiff and rigid.
 People who are passive-aggressive do not come out and say what they want, think, and feel but instead try to manipulate situations, ideas, or people to achieve what they can't say out loud. They attempt to avoid a disagreement in the short-term by not expressing their true feelings and then may feel angry when their needs are not met. Instead of speaking up about this, they will retaliate in some way that is meant to "get back" at the other person without them recognizing the underlying anger.Passive-aggressive behaviors include sulking, giving someone the silent treatment, gossiping, or pretending not to see, hear, or remember something. For instance, instead of saying, "I can't make it to your party on Saturday," the person might not show up to the party and, when asked later, say "You were having a party? Oh, I must not have seen your text!"
Passive-aggressive behavior can be very damaging to a relationship. If you recognize that someone is being passive-aggressive, make the choice not to engage. Instead, you might calmly call them on behavior.
Say something like, "It seems like you're angry that I asked you to pick up your clothes." If the person denies it (and they likely will), don't argue. Just say, "Okay, I just thought I'd ask."

