 Start by sectioning off a ¼ inch section of hair at the nape of your neck for braiding first. Use your sectioning tool to create the layer at the nape of your neck. Clip the rest of your hair up so that it stays out of your way while you braid. You will put braids in this section of your hair first, and then you will section off another ¼ inch above the layer at nape of your neck and braid that section next. You’ll repeat the process by section until your whole head is braided.This section method will help ensure that the hair for each of your braids is about the same length. This will also help make your braids more even.
 Start at the far left or right side of the section at the nape of your neck, and with the tip of your comb, section off that piece of hair. You can also use the end of a bobby pin or a pen with cap to make a neat section about ¼ inch wide by a ¼ inch tall.

Try to find a section of hair that is mostly even at the tips.
 Braid your hair by braiding the left strand over the center strand and then right strand over center strand all the way down the hair. Pull your hair horizontally as you go to ensure the braids are secure and to keep the hair from slipping. But do not pull so tight that it strains at your scalp. Your head should not be in pain from the braids.

If you have long nails, it may be helpful to clip them, or have someone else with shorter fingernails braid the hair for you. Because braiding these tiny braids with long fingernails can be difficult.
Towards the end of the braid, hair may be in short supply, and strands will often become very thin. Depending on your preferences, you may stop braiding when there is not enough hair for you to braid, or you can move some hair from a larger strand to the thinning strand.
 At the end of your braid, use a small elastic hair tie to tie it off. Elastic hair ties that are slightly smaller in circumference than a dime and are made of a rubbery substance work best. Wrap the tie around the end of the braid several times until it is snug and secure on the end of the braid.

You can leave your braids in during showers and swimming.
Be careful, if you use heat on your hair, do not heat the band and accidentally melt it on the end of your braid.

