 The internet is a great way of doing some research, most groups have websites now. Also, take a look around State/National Parks and historical museums; a local group might sponsor an event there, which gives you the opportunity to meet many groups and see them in action.;
, Heavy Artillery units would also have had drummers. Cavalry and Light Artillery units would not have had drummers and are not the best options. However, these units might know of Infantry units to check out;
Are they family oriented or not;
Are these people you'd like to spend several weekends with;
What types of events do they do (battle re-enactments or more educational living histories) and which do you like better?

, The unit you're joining may be able to help you by pointing you in the right direction or even having spare uniform bits lying around. What you want to get will depend on the unit that you join. From pre-1863, most musicians wore a musician's frock (a frock coat with piping all over the front), but this is only appropriate for some units. Remember, this is an expensive hobby, requiring a few hundred dollars for just a uniform and equipment, and an additional few hundred dollars for a tent and blankets.
 Some units may have their own drum that they'll let you borrow. Some of these are very old or not completely authentic. Or you might like to have one of your own. Cooperman, Florence, and Heritage are some of the names, but search around before committing to one. Drums tend to run somewhere around $350-1,000.


Drums prior to the Civil War were often much longer (18" and more), but they were shorter in the Civil War, with 12-14" deep and 16" in diameter being the most common.
Drums can be made longer or shorter for taller or younger people. The maker would be the best person to ask for more information regarding proper sizes and the best size for you're height/age.
Tackwork is very common for Civil War drums, as were pictures like eagles and Confederate shields. It would actually be very uncommon to not have one or both. These tend to add an additional $50-200.
 There is also the option for different drum heads: calf skin is completely authentic but hard to manage as all weather distorts the sound. Synthetic skin looks pretty close from afar, handles weather well, and plays nicely and can be easily bought through REMO or similar companies if you need to replace it. Kevlar is more what is used by modern drums and sounds amazing but completely wrong for the period, it's also harder to get now.
 Most drum makers sell a cotton sling which is not authentic at all but cheap and passable. The thicker cotton slings that go around your neck are Civil War appropriate. Leather slings are more for Rev War and 1812, but look correct for the Civil War. You might want to use those because you might not find it easy to care a drum with a neck sling.
 Thin sticks that you'd use for a drum set won't do - they're way too small and light and won't play well against a drum head, they also make it harder to play certain rudiments (the building blocks of drumming) on these drum heads since they won't be anywhere as tight as modern drums. There are many people who make authentic sticks; Cooperman being well known for them. It can take a while to find ones you like, as each type as a different weight and feel but you will eventually. Regulation drumsticks were Rosewood, 16-17" long. Rosewood is dense and these sticks are quite heavy (100-110 grams), but are really the best for this style of playing. Either way, heavier is best. When you order drum sticks, make sure they're at least 85 grams (3 oz).
 These aren't necessary items, but will go a long way to help you learn:


Drum pad (can find that easily on Amazon or at any drum store) allows you to practice and not annoy your family and neighbours too much.
"Bruce and Emmett's Fifer's and Drummer's Guide" - this is a Civil War manual with self-instructions and the complete daily duties of the musician. Although commonly used, this manual is debatable not the most authentic. It is also a little more challenging to play for a new drummer. You can also check out Hart's or Howe's.
"The Bread and Butter of Jamming" by Walt Sweet has a large collection of fife and drum tunes that are the versions most people play.
 The ropes all around the drum are there to create tension that stiffens the drum head, making it playable. Before playing on your drum, you need to pull the ears down (the leather pieces on the sides). You'll develop your own taste in the stiffness of the head, but essentially you need to pull them down far enough to make the drum playable. You should also do two at a time (the two across from each other) to lessen the strain put on the drum.
When you strap your drum up, the rim should fall somewhere around your hip and be almost on your left side. Not too far though or you'll be sticking your hands out in the middle of nowhere! Try for good posture while wearing the drum, it'll help keep your back from getting sore. And your back and shoulders will get sore until you get used to carrying it and build up muscle.
Practice walking for a while; it takes a bit of skill to keep your drum where you want (especially on different terrains and in the wind).
When you're done playing, always make sure to put the ears up. The continual strain on the head will eventually cause it to stretch, meaning you'll need to push the ears down farther every time. Also the rope will start to slacken. Your rope will stretch and tighten over time and in different weather anyway, but it's best to not force it to loosen. Eventually you'll need to "pull" your ropes, meaning you'll need to undo the knot and manually pull the rope tighter, like tightening your shoe laces. Instructions will probably come with your drum, or you can request information from the maker.
 Sticks were held in a traditional grip because of the way the drum falls when you wear it.


In the right hand you should almost be making a fist around the stick with your thumb pointing up towards the tip of the drumstick. But that doesn't mean your whole hand should be squeezing the stick- in fact only your thumb and forefinger should be putting pressure on the stick. The other three fingers largely provide support and can be used to speed up your sticks movements.
In your left hand, make a gun with your thumb, pointer finger, and middle finger. The butt of the stick should go in the crock between your thumb and pointer finger and then your pointer and middle finger should curl around the stick, leaving the ring and pinky finger under the stick.

The thumb should always be placed over the pointer finger, this reduces pressure points on the stick. Most people develop a feel for where they like their middle finger to fall, sometimes very close to the pointer finger and sometimes hardly touching the stick.
 The first step is to get used to hitting the drum like this: the right hand should rely on a downward motion (the wrist for most strokes and the whole arm for stronger/louder strokes); the left hand is a twisting motion (you should be able to see your palm before you hit and the back of your hand after you hit).


You should practice each hand on its own until you're comfortable (be careful with your left hand!) and then learn to alternate your sticks.
At first, most beginners are very tense and try to either press the sticks into the drum or just bang on it- neither are very good. The stick will naturally rebound (taking some of the work away from you) if you relax and hit the drum soundly.
A lot of beginners also seem timid- don't be afraid to make noise! Just don't wail on the drum needlessly.
 Once you can stand and walk with the drum, have good sticking control, and can do both at the same time, you're ready to learn more. Because this type of drumming is very old, it's also very rooted in rudiments. These are essentially the "ABC's" of drumming and are different kinds of sticking patterns that produce different sounds/rhythms. You can look up the 26 essential rudiments and check out "How to Play Drum Rudiments". Most importantly for your purposes are:


Double stroke roll,
Flams,
Paradiddles,
Flamadiddles,
Flam accents,
Flamacues,
Ruffs,
Single and double drags,
Ratamacues, and
Sextuplets.
 Double stroke rolls can be broken down into specific, short rolls: fives, sevens, nines, tens, elevens, fifteens, and seventeens being necessary to learn. Double Stroke Rolls are really important as they are a major part of this style of drumming. Basically what they are is two strokes on each hand (technically the second should be louder than the second) progressively made faster until you are making a roll (it will sound almost like a machine gun). At first, it's almost impossible to do exactly that; in fact, on the first try most people will tense up before they get very far, but an expert could technically do a full roll without or with very little bouncing.
 There is a lot of information in there, but the following are some basics of what is important in a re-enacting situation:


Assembly (777 flam flam 777 flam flam 777 flam flam 77 flam flam 7);
Drummer's Call (7 flam flam 7 flam flam 7 flam flam 2x fast, 1x slow, 7 flam 7 flam);
Simple Cadence (Open Beating) (5 5 5 flam flam, repeat);

this is played to the rhythm "left, left, left, right, left; the 5's are the lefts and flam flam is for right left)


Reveille (it's 7 songs long, but usually only Three Camps is played);
To the Colours, which signals the men to Rally or Form by Battalion and is used as a salute to the flag.
Three Cheers- used as a fancy roll of during ceremonies like Retreat, Tattoo, and Dress Parade.
Long Roll- used as an alarm (immediate assembly under arms) and cease fire.
,


You should stand with good posture and at attention, with drums sticks tucked under your right armpit, when not playing.
When at rest, the sticks may be lowered. During a long parade rest, the drum may be set on the ground, but the musician should remain standing. If in a corps, wait for your Drum Sergeant's command to unsling drums.
While standing in formation, do not tap aimlessly on your drum. Remain quiet until ordered to play something.
When the men are assembled for things like roll call, the musician should stand on the far right of the company. If the company joins with the rest of the battalion, the musician should fall back into the third rank (with the file closers) and stand in the middle of the right half of their company.
On the march, the drummer may be asked to march at the head of the column, in order to beat a cadence, or to stand on the right of the column a few ranks back.
The fifer or bugler is always to the right of the drummer.
Saluting with nothing in hand was done like the British- with open palms facing outward and your fingers tips at the rim of your hat. With a fife or bugle, the instrument should be perpendicular to the ground in front of your face. Drum sticks should be held in an upside down "v" shape in front of your face, the tips coming to rest together over the bridge of your nose.
 Part of the Civil War drumming experience is learning tunes and this becomes easier (and more fun!) if you have a fifer and/or another drummer to play along with you. Also, playing with others helps you to develop confidence in your abilities, improves your timing and dynamics, and gives you the opportunity to learn other songs.


Army 6/8, Connecticut Halftime, and Army 2/4 in "Bread and Butter" are the best place to start. Almost all drummers can play those and they go to just about every fife song. Songs like "Yankee Doodle", "Dixie", "Garry Owen", and "The Girl I Left Behind Me" are favourites that can be learned also.
If you have another musician in your area or group, see what they know first so you can learn those or you guys can decide together what you like. If not, just flip through a music book and pick out songs that you think you can learn or that look interesting. Keep trying to challenge yourself to learn newer and harder material.



Camp duties: The 20 or so musicians in a regiment (10 companies) formed together to play a number of daily duties, including Reveille, Retreat, and Tattoo (the three roll calls) as well as ceremonies such as Dress Parade, Funerals, and Guard Mounting. In addition, two musicians were assigned to the guard every day. Typically the fifer was assigned orderly (like a runner) to the Officer of the Day. The drummer was at the guard house where he would play police beats, such as wood and water call, Drummer's Call (to assemble the drum corps), or Assembly.
On the march. The drummers kept cadence, though likely only for portions of the march. A day's march averaged 15–20 miles (24–32 km) per day and, depending on the terrain, the men would likely alternate between route step and other steps. Drummers and buglers could also play signals to indicate certain maneuvers, like right or left wheel.
In battle: There is some debate as to what role musicians actually played during the war. In tactical manuals, drummers duties are described as playing a long roll to signal cease fire, at which the men would cease firing, load their weapons, and wait for orders. Following this, the drummer plays a tap to signal the officers to take their places in line if the line is to move. There is also music for commence firing. As skirmishing became a larger part of military tactics, drummers added Recall Detachments, to signal the skirmishers. They could also play To the Colors, to signal to rally on the Battalion, or Assembly, to signal assemble on the company or battalion. Buglers had even more signals related to skirmishing, such as lie down, rise up, deploy as skirmishers, etc. Musicians may have been used as stretcher bearers and nurses, although this is not officially recorded in an regulations or tactical manuals.
Your own research is still vital. Drum manuals, such as Bruce and Emmett's and Howe's, have a good amount of information on the order of camp duties and how to perform them. The US Regulations, 1861, revised 1863, also detail the entire ceremonies that musicians are apart of (see Reveille, Retreat, Tattoo, Roll Call; Funerals; Dress Parade; Reviews; Inspection; Guard Mounting). Tactical manuals, such as Hardee's, Gilham's, and others, mention the roll of musicians. Overall, understanding the military tactics of the day will help develop an appreciation for the importance of just the command "cease fire".
Most importantly, you'll need to teach your First Sergeant, as well as other NCOs and Officers, what you know and how to use it. For example, once you learn Three Cheers and a Troop, you may need to explain how to include a musician during Dress Parade. If you learn combat related calls, you may want to take time to drill with the men so that they can learn these calls and how to use them.

