 Normal shampoo will work for every nine out of ten people who have hair that is less than 3 inches long. However, if you have problems with your scalp being too dry or too oily, buy shampoo for oily hair or dandruff shampoo. 







, It is called volumizing shampoo in the woman's section and a thickening shampoo in men's. This shampoo/conditioner will help give your hair more body.









Avoid creamy shampoos/conditioners that will make your hair more oily. You will want a gentle shampoo that you can use daily or every other day.If you have trouble with oily hair, you can apply dry shampoo to your hair between washes. Even guys can and should use dry shampoo, it will help your hair look fresh even when you haven't showered! Dry shampoo is also good because it will add texture and volume if you have fine hair.
You may not need to use conditioner if you have oily hair. Consider using a spray conditioner or a light conditioner with tea tree oil in it to absorb the oil in your hair., If you color or chemically treat your hair, look for wheat and soy extracts or silk amino acids in your shampoo! Men's hair care does not typically offer shampoo and conditioner for this hair type; however, there is no shame in buying woman's shampoo if you want to preserve your color. Look for color protection shampoos, or you can use a gentle baby shampoo that won’t strip your hair. 








Use your conditioner only on the ends of your hair if you have long hair. Your hair already has enough natural oils at the roots that you only need to apply the conditioner to the middle and end of your hair.
Avoid conditioners with silicon that strip hair. You want to preserve the color in your hair. Also do not wash your hair every day as it might strip your hair color as well.
 Good shampoos for coarse, curly hair contain wheat germ oil, macadamia or almond oil, or shea butter. Also you can use shampoos or conditioners with glycerin or silicon to keep your hair well hydrated.









You can also do hot oil treatments regularly to help tame your frizz. Use a deep moisturizing conditioner every time you wash.
 Coconut, argan, grapeseed and avocado oils are all great treatments for dry hair. Use an ultra moisturizing conditioner every time you wash your hair, as well. 








You can also use shampoo made for dry or color treated hair to tame your hair if you have frizzy, dry hair, because they do a great job of moisturizing your hair.
 This is the best method for combatting dandruff. Switch a shampoo with salicylic acid, one with pyrithione zinc, and one with selenium sulfide to effectively fight those pesky flecks. Also rotate in a regular shampoo occasionally, or a moisturizing shampoo if your hair is drying out from the dandruff shampoos. 








If your hair is still flecking, follow up your shampoo with an apple cider vinegar rinse to fight the yeast and bacteria. 