 Think of the occasion. Choose a theme: like lets say "Star Wars" and for fun make a dog parody of it "Pug Wars". Put pictures around of the theme and balloons.;
, If all of the party guests are toilet trained, an indoor party could work as long as you have space. If you have a securely fenced backyard, block off any precious flower beds or poisonous plants and you're good to go. You could also try a dog park or dog-friendly beach - try calling the owners and reserving some space.
 Your dog's birthday can be found by looking at his pedigree. If you don't know his big day, make one up and stick to it. Or, you could just have a party for any reason, such as Christmas or Thanksgiving. If you throw an Easter party, remember: no chocolate!

,


Make sure all the dogs you are inviting know each other, before putting all your dogs together, so that dogs won't fight, or hurt other dogs at the dog party.
 Your invitation might be a doggy bone, with a little card sent with it. Tell your friends the date, time and place, and remind them to bring their dog.


If it's your dog's birthday, you could ask for a little present to spoil Fido with.
 Disposable bowls are great for food and water. Make sure there is always lots of fresh, clean water on hand (tap water at parks may not be the best).
 What kind of party doesn't have a cake? You could just buy a white or yellow sponge (no chocolate or fudge) but that would be boring! Make a doggie birthday cake.


Treats will be needed for party games. Some treats are shaped like bones.
If you are bringing food that needs chilling, take a portable icebox or cooler with you.
Always ask owners before feeding a dog treats or food.
Remember to ask about allergies and look up foods that might be poisonous to dogs, so that you can avoid having those.
 Give the dogs the opportunity to sniff each other and get to know each other better. This will help to ensure that all the dogs get along and won't fight or be aggressive to another dog.


Tell the owners they are each responsible for ensuring the good behavior of their dog and should a dog start a fight, it either has to be separated somewhere or taken home.
 As well as the ones you provide, owners should bring their own toys, blankets and chew toys


Chew toys are just one of the many kinds of toys dogs play with. Check that the toy can't be swallowed, or harm the dogs in any way.
 You could set up a simple agility course with jumps, tunnels and hoops. You could hold a mini dog show or obedience trial. Try races (throw a stick and see who fetches first!). Give away awards for all kinds of titles (prettiest, best tugger, fastest fetch) so that every dog gets at least one.


If it's warm, include some water games. Perhaps have a sprinkler for your doggy guests to play in. Most dogs enjoy water and they can find it pleasing to run through it.
Have a tug of war.
Throw-a-Ball game requires a nice sized ball that your doggy guests can grab and fetch, because in this game, it's whoever is the fastest, who is the top dog, just throw the ball, and see who gets it first. It provides fun time with all of the dogs together! Make sure that the ball is a good chewy ball. The ball shouldn't be able to be swallowed, or even ripped apart, because some dogs enjoy to do this.
 Choose prizes to take home, such as meaty bones, treats, or simple affection.
 When it's time for your guests to leave, they'll be able to go home with your custom goody bags. This is a nice way of ensuring everyone gets to take something home. These could include:


A couple of dog biscuits or treats
Some nice-smelling dog shampoo (try buying a bottle and filling a bit into a small container for each guest)
A $5-10 dollar voucher for a local pet store
A dog bone
A piece of the doggie birthday cake
Something about dogs or dog-styled for the owner.


Alternatively, if you really want to impress, send out invites way ahead of time and plan each guest's bag individually. Try asking owners about favourite snacks, adding little essentials for particular breeds (for example, sunscreen for hairless dogs, coat whitener for white breeds or a little flannel for a drooling breed).
