 For some people stress is easy to identify — they feel worried, anxious, and exasperated. For others it may be more subtle, or they may try to suppress their feelings until stress is expressed physically in the form of fatigue, muscle aches, tightness, pain, headaches, and sometimes even GI problems. Irritability and overreacting to small annoyances are other subtle signs of stress.Try to identify how you experience stress.


Once you have identified your personal symptoms of stress and what it feels like to you, it can help you identify triggers. So if you notice that every Sunday night you experience significant stomach pain, GI issues, or nausea, then possibly Monday morning work or school is a significant stressor.;
, An important step in reducing day-to-day stress is identifying its causes. Throughout your typical day, take note of what things cause you the most stress. You may even want to keep a journal in which you jot down stressful events.You may find certain things only cause a minor amount of stress. Getting out the door on time, for example, may be a little stressful, but not a major cause for concern.
Other things may cause you a lot of stress. Maybe morning traffic really stresses you out. Maybe you dislike engaging with a negative colleague at work. Take note of any moments when your stress level spikes and you notice those symptoms of stress in your body or mood.
 There is a lot of stress you simply cannot control. You can't, for example, choose your co-workers or control morning traffic; however, there are some stressors you may be able to avoid.For example, maybe you frequently go to bed stressed. Think about what you do before bed. Maybe you watch the news and get anxious and upset over what's going on in the world. You could listen to the news on your radio in the morning and watch something pleasant at night.
If you really dislike something like grocery shopping, try going when you know the store won't be crowded. You can even order groceries online.
If someone at work stresses you out, you can lessen contact. Try avoiding the break room when you know that co-worker is present. Keep conversations short and professional in order to avoid getting sucked into small talk.
You might even be able to eliminate the stress of traffic by seeing if you can go into work earlier to miss the rush or if there are other options like taking the train.
 In the moments when you feel stressed out, perspective is important. When faced with day-to-day stressors, take a moment to consider the bigger picture.Remember, stress is temporary. The factors causing stress will pass. If you're worried about a report for work, think to yourself, "By the end of the week, it'll be done. I won't have to worry about it anymore."
Accept that you're feeling anxious over something. If you try to repress stress, that can actually make it worse. While accepting your anxiety, keep reminding yourself emotions are fleeting. You can repeat some kind of mantra like, "This too shall pass," to help combat your stress.
 Throughout the day, try to say and think nice things about yourself. If you have a positive attitude overall, you will be less prone to feeling stress.Never say anything to yourself you would not say to another person. For example, you may find yourself thinking things like, "You're so stupid and that's why you screwed up," or, "No one is going to like you, so why bother going out?"
Replace these phrases with more pleasant ones. Think things like, "I will get through this. I am competent," and, "You're going to have fun tonight because you're pleasant to be around."

, One of the biggest causes of stress is overcommitment. This is often caused by social relationships. You may feel like you have to say, "Yes" to everything. If the PTA board needs someone to help organize a meeting, you'll say, "Yes." If a friend needs you to watch her cat for the weekend, you'll say "Yes." Identify when you should say, "No."Know what your limits are. If you have too much on your plate a certain week, it's okay to turn down extra commitments. Just because you reasonably could do something doesn't mean you have to, especially if it's going to cause excess stress.
For example, you have a busy work week and some social commitments on the weekend. Your friend, who is a 30 mile drive from you, wants you to check in on her cat while she's away. Technically, you could do this, but it would cause a lot of stress.
You do not have to commit. You are never obligated to do someone a favor, especially if it's at the expense of your emotional wellbeing. Say something like, "I'm sorry. I can't this week. I have too much on my plate. Good luck finding someone else."

, Socialization is important for stress management. Your life should not revolve around work or school. Carve out some time each week to spend with close, valued friends.Choose people who do not stress you out. If you've had a long week at work, do you really want to spend Friday night with a friend who's always dramatic? Instead, select people who energize you rather than drain you.
You can talk about your stress to others. This can help you vent and get it out of your system. The people who care about you will be happy to listen. If you need to talk about your week, have dinner with a few good friends on a Friday night.
 Some people are difficult. Whether it's a friend, family member, or co-worker, there may be someone in your life who simply causes you a lot of stress. Set firm boundaries with this person to reduce your overall stress load.Do not feel guilty about setting certain boundaries with someone. You should never put your emotional wellbeing behind someone else's need for contact. If you feel drained in someone's presence, that person may be taking advantage of you.
Be direct and assertive without being hostile. You can let someone know which behaviors cross a line. For example, your friend Mary sends a lot of negative texts each day and does not seem to respond to any kind of feedback or advice. It's okay to text something like, "Mary, I care about you as a person, but I don't have the energy to deal with these texts all day. I am sorry you're going through this, but I think you need more support than I am able to give right now."

, Oftentimes, empathetic people are prone to stress. If you care about the people in your life, you may worry about them as well. Try to remember that care and worry are two different things. It's okay to care about someone, but do not let that care slip into the realm of excessive worrying.If you care about your friends and family members, there are things you can do. You can visit your elderly grandmother. You can call your brother if he's had a rough work week. You can send your cousin a care package if she lost her job. These are examples of caring.
Worrying is different from caring. You can worry all day, at work or school, about a friend or family member; however, you are not accomplishing anything by worrying. Nothing is getting done. Care for the people in your life but try not to obsess over their problems, especially during times when your mind should be elsewhere.
 Simply focusing on your breathing is a classic relaxation technique. One major benefit is you can do this anywhere. If you're stressed at work, for example, take a moment to breathe slowly and methodically.Before you begin breathing, try to interrupt your thoughts, get comfortable, and release tension from your muscles.
First, focus on your breath. Be aware of your current breathing rhythm. Shift from fast and shallow breathing to slow abdominal breathing.
Place your hand on your chest and the other over your navel. Breathe in a way that the hand on your navel rises. You want to breathe slow enough that you take six deep breaths in a minute.
 This technique involves tensing and releasing various muscles in the body. It can be done to unwind after work or school. It can also be done before bed to help prep you for sleep.Moving from your head to your feet, tense muscle groups for about five seconds and then release. Notice the difference you feel when your muscles are no longer tense.
For example, tense your shoulders, count for five seconds, and then release. Spend about ten seconds paying attention to the new feeling in your shoulders before moving on to your arms.
Continue the exercise until you've tensed and released the muscles in your body from head to toe.
 Trying to laugh even just a few times a day can have great effects on stress. Watching funny cat videos on the train to work or finding your five-year-old's endless "why" questions amusing rather than annoying seem small, but it begins to set up a mindset in which you try to find the joy or irony in even they tough things in life.Laughter raises and then lowers your stress response, leaving you feeling more relaxed. It also releases endorphins, which are "feel good" hormones., Guided imagery involves imagining a peaceful scene utilizing all your senses. You can try simple visualization. For example, when you feel stressed, take a mental vacation to a pleasant place. You can also find many recordings that can guide you through relaxing imagery.Audio programs are available online. You can download some and put them on a portable electronic device. When you feel yourself getting tense, listen to the guided imagery program.
Really commit to using all your senses. Imagine how a given scene feels, sounds, smells, tastes, and looks.
 A local community center may offer these types of classes. Yoga, meditation, and tai chi can help you better regulate stress by channeling your energy to the present moment.If you can't find a class in your price range, try to see if you can find routines online. A site like YouTube, for example, can provide many options for yoga routines.
 Simply moving around throughout the day can greatly reduce your stress level. If you don't exercise regularly, begin an exercise program. This can help you better manage your emotions and may eliminate some stress in your life.Pick an activity you enjoy, as you'll be more likely to stick to it. For example, if you enjoy long and aimless walks, try to walk a few miles a day after work.
Ease into any new routine. You will have to start small, especially if you haven't exercised regularly in awhile.
It's a good idea to talk to your doctor before beginning any exercise program, especially if you have a chronic heart condition.
 Poor sleep can worsen existing stress. Make a commitment to getting a solid block of sleep each night. You may find yourself feeling less stressed throughout the day.Stick to a sleep schedule. This will help your body's natural circadian rhythm. You'll feel tired at bedtime and energized in the morning. Even on weekends, try to wake up and fall asleep at the same time each day.
Choose a relaxing bedtime ritual that you engage in away from bright lights. For example, read a book or do a crossword puzzle. Bright lights from electronic screens can make it difficult to sleep, so put these away when you start getting ready for bed.
Make sure your bedroom is sleep friendly. Block out any unwanted noise and keep the temperature between 60 and 67°F (15.6 and 19.4°C). You may have to get a fan or air conditioner.
 If you're very busy especially, you may not actually make time for yourself to relax. Many people see fun and relaxation as self-indulgent. For your emotional wellbeing, however, relaxing should be a priority.You probably have more time than you think you do. Find a chore or obligation you could cut down on. For example, maybe you don't need to do the dishes immediately after dinner. Let them sit in the sink overnight, and take that time to do something you enjoy.
You can read a book, watch a movie, go for a walk, or call a friend. Do anything that helps you unwind. It's important to incorporate fun and levity into your day-to-day life.
 If you're not eating healthy, this can affect your mood. Try to cut out things like sugar and processed food and replace them with whole wheats, lean meats, fruits, and vegetables.Try to eat three meals a day. Never skip breakfast, as this can set the tone for a stressful day. If you're in a rush, at least grab a banana or a cup of yogurt on your way out the door.
Eliminate things like tobacco, caffeine, and alcohol. These can all raise your stress level.

