 Learn as much as you can about your topic, whether by reading additional books or talking with experts. The more that you know about your topic, the less likely you are to stumble talking about it. If you do stumble, you will be better equipped to improvise or fill in content until you find your place again. You’ll also be more prepared to answer questions, if needed.Just be careful that you don’t get overconfident and stray too far off of your prepared script. This can have the effect of making you seem even more nervous and frazzled.
 If you care about your topic, then your audience will recognize this and be more likely to listen to you. If you get a choice of topic, choose one that will hold your interest and that you think is important. If you feel your nerves increasing, then think about how significant your message is, regardless of whether or not you make a few mistakes., When you practice and immediately before you take the stage, think about how your ideal presentation would go. Visualize giving your speech and blowing your audience away. You might even say, “You can do this!” Or, “I can’t wait to tell everyone about this!”Some people even find that repeating, “Yes!,” over and over again works wonders to decrease nerves.Take a deep breath and then think of your favorite speaker. Perhaps envision Abraham Lincoln giving a battlefield speech. Be inspired by their poise and try to emulate this as you take the stage.Remember, though, not every speech will go exactly as visualized, and that is alright. The purpose of this exercise is to help bolster confidence. You cannot and should not expect to predict an audience's response.
 Invite your friends, family, and colleagues to attend your presentation. Before you start speaking, look to see where these friendly faces are sitting. You can also arrive a bit early to your talk and get to know the audience a bit. Then, you can even reference these persons by name during your presentation.If you find yourself freezing up, locate a friendly face and then focus your stare right above them. Hold this position as you continue to talk. Move on whenever you feel your nerves lessening.
 Everyone makes mistakes, but not every mistake is noticeable to others. If you stumble over a word, correct yourself quickly and keep going. If you leave out a part of your presentation, make a quick decision whether to circle back or continue. Try not to draw attention to your own errors.If you make an error, don't apologize. No one but you knows your speech! Just keep going, and save apologies for off-stage
Remind yourself that no one is expecting you to give a flawless speech. In fact, audiences often find small stumbles and other signs of being human relatable and even endearing. Try not to panic if you stumble. Instead, just focus on your recovery.
 As you take the stage, find a focal point just above the heads of the last audience row. Continue to look at that point until you feel yourself relaxing. Then, slowly let your gaze slide across the room until you locate another brief focal point.

