 When a schoolmate dies, a teacher, counselor, or administrator may want to first break the news to the deceased student’s class or classes. The students in the schoolmate’s class will feel the most impact from the death. Make sure to be direct, and use simple, straight-forward sentences when talking about the event.For example, tell the class, "Our school has experienced a tragedy. Jake has died in a car accident." Don't go around in circles or try to lessen the impact with metaphors or fluffy language.
Be prepared for questions about the event. Make sure the school staff has all the facts straight and is aware of what is going to be shared.
Let the parents know when you are going to talk to the classes. They may want to be present with their children.
 Help the students work through their grief by helping them channel their feelings into positive actions. This can help give the child or teen closure and help them come to a place where they can move on.For example, let the children release balloons, plant trees, collect money for a bench, or make a memory book for the deceased classmate’s family.
Organize a school activities that help the community in honor of the deceased schoolmate. Have a bake sale to raise money for charity and donate it in honor of the child.
 When a student dies, it affects the entire school. The students may not know they can be open with their feelings. Try to foster an environment of acceptance where students feel safe expressing their feelings and asking questions. Talk honestly about your feelings so your students may decide to open up about their own feelings and address their grief.Tell your students, "If anyone would like to talk in a safe environment where you won't be judged, feel free to come talk to me."
Be around for the students in case they need to talk. They may not feel safe talking to parents, so provide an open, safe environment for them to talk about their feelings, confusion, and questions. It will also be important to have counselors on hand to talk with parents and students. Depending on the situation, more counselors may need to be brought in to help the students, teachers, and parents to cope with the loss.

