 When you are choosing a veil, you have several options. Pick the length and style the best suits your personal aesthetic.


Blusher: This shoulder length veil rests just below the shoulders of the bride. The standard length of the blusher is 22 inches long. Brides that want a double-tier veil often pair the blusher with a longer veil.Elbow length veil: This 25 inch veil rests at the bride’s elbow.
Waist length veil: The bottom of this 30 inch veil sits at the bride’s waist.
Mid-hip length veil: The mid-hip veil is 33 inches long.
Hip length veil: The hip length veil reaches the bottom of the bride’s hips. Its standard length is 36 inches.
Fingertip veil: This veil brushes the tips of the bride’s fingers. Its standard length is 45 inches.
Waltz veil: This veil hits the bride just above the back of the knees. Its standard length is 54 inches.
Ankle veil: The ankle veil sits just above the floor. Its standard length is 70 inches.
Chapel veil: This veil has a short train. Its standard length is 90 inches.
Cathedral veil: The Cathedral veil has a grander train than the chapel veil. Its standard length is 108 inches.;
, The benefit of making your own veil is that you can easily customize the length to match the proportions of your body. Retrieve a measuring tape and ask a friend to assist you. Place and hold one end of the measuring tape where you intend to insert the clip or comb. Run the measuring tape down your back until it reaches the appropriate length (to shoulders, elbows, waist, mid-hips, hips, fingertips, top of your knees, ankles, 20 inches beyond your ankles, or 38 inches beyond your ankles). Write down the measurement., If you have decided to create a two-tier veil, drop veil, or full veil, you will need to make an additional measurement. Place the top of the measuring tape in the location you intend to insert the clip or comb. Run the measuring tape over the crown of your head, down the front of your face, to your collarbone. Write down this measurement., If you are creating a single tier veil, you will need to purchase fabric that is as long or slightly longer than the measurement you wrote down. If you are creating a two-tier, drop, or full veil, add the first measurement to the second measurement. You will need to purchase fabric that is as long or slightly longer than the the sum of the two measurements.