 If you're using a blend of flours, lightly whisk them together to break up clumps and ensure it is all well-mixed. Sifting makes sure all the flour blends into your dough without unappetizing bits of uncooked flour.
 This ensures that the salt is evenly distributed. If you have a kitchen thermometer, the water wants to be roughly 110F -- warm but not too hot to touch., Using a scooping motion, start combining the flour and water until you have a mixture resembling wet sand -- it should only take a minute or so. You want to almost toss the water in the dough instead of pressing or beating it in., Once the water is incorporated the first time, add half of the remaining water and mix. When done, add whatever water remains, mixing until the dough starts to form strands and holds a vague shape.Mixing in the water and flour can also be done with a stand mixer. Simply use the dough hook attachment and mix at medium speed for five minutes. Start after adding the first half of water, adding the rest slowly as the machine runs

, Squeeze all of the air out of the bag, seal it, and then wrap it in a towel -- you're reaching the fun part! Udon, traditionally, is kneaded by foot, as this allows you to get much more pressure on the dough to get a chewy final texture., Rotate and turn as you do, ensuring you're really working the dough evenly. Keep stepping until the dough expands to take up the whole bag.

If you want to knead by hand, know that you'll need to knead for 10-15 minutes to get the right texture for these springy noodles. They need vigorous work to stretch the gluten that gives you the necessary chewiness., Knead the dough again until flat, then take it out, fold it up, and do it all again. You should knead the dough with your feet a total of three times., Put it in a warm, dry place to sit and relax. This stage takes all of the gluten you beat into a tough, gummy pulp and lets it relax into a more chewable and delicious final texture., The thickness is up to you, and the thickness of this dough rectangle will be the thickness of your final noodles. Use a rolling pin and a lightly floured surface to make a nice, neat rectangle., This is just like you did with the kneading. When done, you should have a long, thick slab of three-layered dough.

Don't press the layers into each other. Simply fold them on top of one another

, Simply start cutting on one end of the dough rectangle, leaving the noodles as thick as you'd like. Most restaurants aim for about a 1/4" or less, but you can cut them to your heart's desire., Before putting them in the water, unfold the noodles from their rolled up form.As soon as the noodles hit the pot, use chopsticks or a spoon to ensure they don't clump and sit together. Add a dash of salt and boil until the noodles start floating to the top and have a tender, chewy texture., This has a two-fold effect: it stops the noodles from continuing to cook in the hot water trapped inside, and it removes the unappealing coating of slimy starch that forms around the noodles. Give them a good, cold rinse for 2-3 minutes, and you're ready to serve.When rinsing the noodles, use your hands to give them a light toss, removing excess starch.