 Whatever kind of beer you use will impart a subtle yeasty flavor in the bread. Experiment some with different styles and brands to see what you like best in your bread. While fruity or flavored beers might be a little funky in a bread recipe, it's fine to use any beer you like to drink, or whatever's in the fridge.


Light pilsners, like most domestic Budweiser and Coors, are good for beer bread because they're cheap and easy to find. They don't leave much flavor, but some subtle yeastiness, making them great to use if you've got any laying around.
Wheat beers, like Blue Moon, are already quite bread-like to begin with, making them a great addition to a beer bread recipe.
Dark beers, like brown ales, porters, and stouts will leave a sweet nuttiness in the bread that a lot of people like. It'll also make the bread darker.
The baking process burns off any traces of alcohol from the beer, but leaves some of the flavor from the malts, sugars, and yeasts in the beer, making this treat a perfect side for people of all ages. No worries about feeding beer bread to youngsters.
 Beer and cheese? Yes please. This bread was made to have cheese added to it. Hard or soft, any cheese you like to eat can be a good mix-in for this particular recipe. Experiment to see what you like, and grate or crumble the cheese of your choice into the dough before adding it. Here are some good ideas:


Sharp cheddar
Pepper jack
Gouda
Crumbled blue cheese
Grated parmesan

, If you want some more substance in your beer bread, adding about a half cupped of finely chopped raw vegetable with help to lift the bread and make it a little more interesting. Any combination of the following ingredients can be great mix-ins for beer bread:


Onion
Garlic
Chopped green chile
Grated carrot
Grated zucchini
Diced bell pepper

, Before you put the bread into the oven, try the following technique: Brush some melted butter on top of the bread, and sprinkle the top liberally with any of the following seeds:


Poppy seeds
Caraway seeds
Mustard seeds
Sesame seeds
Toasted cardamom and cumin seeds

, Don't have a loaf pan? No problem! Pop a cast iron skillet into the oven while your oven preheats, and pop a pat of butter in to grease it. Pour it in when its hot to create a crisp, even crust across the bread, then finish it in the oven for 20-30 minutes.