 If you think you have rosacea, you should make an appointment to be seen by your doctor. Your doctor can perform an evaluation, confirm whether you have rosacea, and suggest one or more ideal treatments for you based on your personal health.Rosacea is not a threat to your general health, so you do not need to be seen on an emergency basis if you think you have it.;
, Ask your healthcare provider to prescribe medications that can help treat rosacea. In most cases, your doctor will prescribe either topical or oral antibiotics that can treat affected areas by reducing inflammation. However, these typically are not a long term solution for rosacea, as they tend to cause unwanted side effects, such as diarrhea and abdominal pain.If you do not want to treat rosacea with prescribed antibiotics due to unwanted side effects, ask your doctor about other treatment options. You do not have to take any medication that your are uncomfortable with.
 If you have rosacea, your doctor or dermatologist may suggest that you apply brimonidine gel to minimize it. Brimonidine gel works by constricting blood vessels in the skin, thus minimizing the skin's redness. This redness is reduced for 12 hours after each application.The most common side effect connected with the use of brimonidine gel is a warming or flushing of the skin.
Talk to your doctor about possible drug interactions with brimonidine gel. For example, brimonidine gel can interact with medications that lower high blood pressure and prescription pain killers, such as oxycodone. Also, those that are pregnant or are allergic to any of the ingredients in brimonidine gel should not use it., Some forms of laser surgery, such as intense pulsed light (IPL) therapy, can help reduce the visibility of blood vessels in your face, while also enhancing your appearance. There may be a temporary increase in redness and you may need several treatments, but laser surgery can be an effective treatment for severe rosacea. Consult with your doctor or dermatologist about this option for your rosacea treatment.Laser surgery can be a very effective and long lasting treatment for rosacea. The elimination of redness can last up to several years.
Discuss the cost of this treatment with your doctor or dermatologist before having it done. It can be relatively expensive and insurance rarely covers it, so you will need to be prepared for the cost.

