


Register with an online payment site.
Include a button on your site that allows users to donate money.
This can be expected to generate a small amount of revenue.;
,


Perform an Internet search for a tool that will allow you to advertise for other websites, organizations, or companies on your site.
Target advertisers that are related to your web comic. For example, if your comic is about sports, target businesses that are involved in sports, such as sporting goods retailers.
If your site has a high volume of visitors, typically 100,000 or more per month, join an advertising network. Perform an Internet search for advertising networks to find the network that is best for you.
In general, as the number of visitors to your web comic grows, more advertisements will be clicked, which will increase your revenue.



Provide information on your site that explains how readers can go about purchasing the original artwork.



Contact producers of the products you wish to sell and negotiate deals with them.
Sell shirts, stickers, toys, mugs, mouse pads, and other items that have your web comic's name or designs on them.



Partner with a publisher to print your work.
Advertise the printed versions of your work on your website.
Offer new work in your printed versions to entice your readers to buy it.



Offer readers the option to pay a small fee for additional material.
Offer more elaborate, uncensored comics.
Offer wallpapers and art that is not available to general readers.
Offer images from your sketchbook and commentary on the work that you have done.
Offer access to side projects that are currently not available to your general readers.
Offer question and answer sessions for readers to engage in with you and any other creators of your web comic.



Perform an Internet search or check a local newspaper for comic conventions in your area.
Sell your merchandise, display your work, and talk with existing and prospective fans at the convention.
The crowd at such conventions ranges from a few hundred to over 50,000 people. The potential to gain new fans is large in many cases.



Find a website that will allow you to participate in such an auction.
Find a well-known person that you would like to incorporate into a comic.
The person's exposure in the comic typically dictates the price paid to use his or her likeness. Expect to pay more to use someone's likeness as a speaker in your comic than to use his or her likeness as a background character.
Having a well-known person in your comic will increase interest in it, which will lead to more revenue if you have advertisements or other potential sources of revenue on your website.

