 If you do not have measuring cups or a food scale handy, such as when you’re dining away from home, you can estimate portions by comparing the size of your food to a common object.


An average-sized adult fist, a baseball, and a pint of milk are each about the size of 1 cup. A child’s fist, a full cupcake wrapper, and a lightbulb are each about the size of ½ cup.A golf ball and a large egg are each about the size of ¼ cup. , If the pasta takes up the same amount of space as your fist, you have about 1 cup. Move the food around on your plate if necessary to shape it into the size of your fist to help you better estimate.
 Use a nutritional chart that lists the amount of carbohydrates for commonly eaten foods to determine the amount of carbohydrates for your food item. The USDA provides an online tool that provides nutritional information for many foods, found here: https://reedir.arsnet.usda.gov/codesearchwebapp.There are also many apps you can download onto a smartphone that provide nutritional information.


In addition, the American Diabetes Association teaches people there are about 15 grams carbohydrate per serving of common foods. So if you don't have a way to calculate the number of carbs in your food, try to keep serving sizes in mind as a guideline. For instance, if you grab one small piece of fresh fruit, you know that this is equivalent to one serving of fruit, so you can estimate that there are roughly 15 grams of carbs in that one serving.If you do not have a smartphone or access to the Internet while eating, consider keeping with you a list of the carbohydrate contents of foods you commonly eat. You could print out or write a list to keep in your wallet or purse.
Once you make a habit of counting carbohydrates, you will probably memorize the carbohydrate amounts in many of your favorite foods.
 Many nutritional guides will list the amount of carbohydrates per cup of food item. Multiply the amount of carbohydrates listed per cup by the amount of your serving size.


For example, if you are eating 2 ½ cups of pasta and a cup of pasta contains 45 g of carbohydrates, multiply 45 by 2.5 to equal 112.5g of carbohydrates in your serving.
If you are eating ¾ cup of pasta, first convert the fraction into a decimal by dividing the first number by the second (3 divided by 4 equals 0.75), and then multiply the carbohydrate amount (45 g) by that decimal amount (0.75) to equal 33.75 g of carbohydrates in your serving.

