 Consider your skin tone when making your selection.Choose gold or platinum if your main concern is durability and you’re willing to pay for fine jewelry. Opt for silver if you want your locket to withstand wear and tear without paying the price for gold. Alternative metals that are popular include cobalt, tungsten carbide, ceramic, stainless steel and titanium.If you have cool skin tones, your ideal metals are light or white. For example, platinum, white gold and silver.
If you have warm skin tones, you’ll look best in yellow gold, rose gold, copper or brass.
People with neutral skin tones can wear any shade of metal.;
, If you have a cool skin tone, look for gemstones in cool tones like red, blue and purple. If you have a warm skin tone, try yellow, green or orange gemstones. You may want to wear your birthstone or the birthstones of loved ones.Examples of gemstones for cool skin tones are ruby, amethyst, sapphire and aquamarine.Examples of gemstones for warm skin tones are citrine, emerald and peridot.
 Some of the available shapes are round, heart-shaped, oval and square. Choose a heart-shaped locket for a romantic vibe, or to give to a partner as a gift.A round or oval locket is versatile and makes a good gift for someone who is not your romantic partner.For example, you may want to give a heart-shaped locket as a gift for an anniversary or Valentine’s Day.
 Get a locket in a standard shape with minimal ornamentation for a piece to wear with many outfits. Alternately, go for a unique locket to wear as a statement piece.


A simple locket is often round or oval, and may be plain on the face or have a lightly discernible etched pattern.
Look for lockets in unique shapes like an oyster, or with an interesting detail – for example, a butterfly perched on a heart locket., Choose a chain that allows the locket to sit at your collarbone, by your heart, or just below your bustline. Alternately, choose a long slide chain if you want the locket to sit near your naval. Opt for thin chains if your locket is dainty and formal. Wear a thin or chunky chain for a casual vibe.Wrap or double-wrap a slider chain to change the length of your necklace.Try different chains with the same locket for different ways to wear the same pendant., Choose an image to display in your locket. Press a piece of tracing paper into the recess of your locket. Trace around it with a pencil to get the shape you’ll need to cut your photo down to.Use an image of one of your loved ones to fit into your locket. For example, you may want to frame a small photo of a family member, spouse or pet in your locket. Other options are an image of a religious icon, or a Victorian picture for a vintage feel.If you’re printing out an image, opt for a grayscale print on regular paper. Photo paper absorbs less ink and can fade more easily.
 Choose a small memento, such as a lock of hair, bit of ribbon, or a dried flower petal. Or take a small square of fabric, dip it in perfume or scented oil, and close it in your locket.Think outside the box! If your locket opens and closes, you can put a little souvenir in it that has meaning only to you. For instance, a small piece of a ticket stub.
 Take your locket to a jeweler or engraver to get custom text written on your locket. Choose words or letters that are meaningful to you. These can be initials, a name, a date, or a phrase.For example, you may want to engrave a few song lyrics, a Bible verse, or a short literary quote.
If your locket isn’t an engravable metal or you want a more temporary option, print the words on paper and display them inside your locket instead.
 Wear black or solid color top to give the most focus to your locket. Avoid layering on other necklaces or pendants. Keep your locket clean so it can shine its best.A top with a high collar helps showcase the locket entirely over the fabric you’re wearing. Alternately, if your locket falls at the collarbone, you can choose to wear a top with a neckline that cuts just below the locket.
Try wearing a lace blouse to compliment the vintage feel.
 If you wear other jewelry, try to keep the metal or shade consistent with that of your locket. Keep earrings minimal so as not to distract from your locket. Try bracelets with charms to mimic the dangle of your locket pendant.


For example, you may want to wear simple hoops or stud earrings.
 Wear a locket with any casual outfit – such as jeans, a tank top, and a loose cardigan. Don a simple sweater for casual or business casual attire, to give your locket all the attention. Wear a short chain if your top’s neckline is below your collarbone and a long chain if your neckline is at or above your collarbone.


For example, pair a locket on a short chain with a scoop-neck tee.
Wear your locket on a long chain with a v-neck tee and a cool jacket. The locket dangling on a long chain will make the chain mimic the “v” neckline of the top.
Try wearing a locket on a long chain over a sweater or casual dress.
 Wear delicate, fine jewelry lockets with business attire, formal wear or even bridal wear. Choose a loose top with butterfly sleeves or a fitted top over a skirt or trousers. Pair a locket with any dress, as long as the neckline allows the locket to properly show. If that’s an issue, wear your locket with a different chain.


For example, dress in a black fitted top and a voluminous white skirt. Choose a top with a boat neckline and wear your locket over the shirt.
Wear your locket around your neck or attached to a bridal bouquet to incorporate it into your wedding.