 Since an injunction is a court order, you also can file a contempt complaint or motion to have the person held in contempt for the violation. The specific documents you'll need vary greatly among jurisdictions, so your best course of action is to contact the clerk of the court that issued the injunction.You also can get civil contempt forms by contacting the clerk of the court located in the county where the violation occurred.
However, keep in mind that if your injunction was issued in a different county or state than where the violation occurred, you may have to complete additional paperwork to register your injunction before it can be informed by that court.
Whether you use a complaint or motion depends on the court in which you are filing your contempt action. If you're filing a contempt action in the same court that issued the injunction, typically you will file a motion using the same case number that was listed on your original injunction.
The clerk will let you know what documents must be completed and filed and the court's procedure that you must follow to enforce your injunction. However, the clerk will be unable to give you any legal advice concerning your case.
If you're seeking to enforce a restraining order or other domestic protection order, you should file a civil contempt action only as a last resort. Violation of these injunctions is a criminal offense and typically should be addressed by the criminal justice system through the district attorney.
For other types of injunctions, filing a civil contempt action is your only method of enforcement.
 An attorney can ensure you're filling out the forms and filing them correctly, as well as represent you at the hearing. Having an attorney speak on your behalf can be especially beneficial if you know you will be threatened or intimidated by the presence of the restrained person in the courtroom.Additionally, keep in mind that since a contempt charge could result in jail time, the restrained person may have the right to a court-appointed attorney if they can't afford to hire someone.
For this reason, it's worthwhile to have an attorney on your side.
If you question your ability to afford attorney's fees, contact your local legal services office. There also are a number of nonprofit organizations dedicating to assisting victims of domestic violence in particular that may be able to assist you.
 Either on your own or with your attorney, you'll need to draft a complaint or motion outlining the violation of the injunction and the reason you're requesting the restrained person be held in contempt for these violations.At a minimum, your complaint or motion must contain factual allegations that describe the incident you assert constitutes a violation of the injunction.
If you're filing a motion, you may not need to go into detail about the injunction since the motion is filed under the same case number and that information is readily available to the court.
However, if you are filing a complaint, you may need to begin by providing details about the injunction, including information about when and where the order was issued and the specific conditions of the injunction that you allege were violated.
Include as many factual details as possible, including the date, time, and location of the incident that constituted a violation of the injunction.
You also may want to include references to any evidence you have of the violation, or the names and contact information of witnesses.
 Once all the required court documents have been completed and signed, you must take the originals and at least two copies to the clerk of the court that issued the original restraining order.You may want to contact the clerk ahead of time and find out how many copies are required and whether you must pay a fee to file the documents. In most states there are no court fees associated with enforcing an injunction related to a protective order or restraining order.
For other types of injunctions, you typically must pay a small fee, usually under $100, to file a motion to enforce the injunction.
The clerk will stamp your originals and copies "filed" with the date you submitted them. You'll get the two copies back, one of which is for your own records and the other of which must be delivered to the person you want to enforce the injunction against.
 Before the restrained person can be held in contempt, they must have sufficient legal notice of the allegations of contempt and an opportunity to defend themselves in court.The service process for a civil contempt action will be the same as the process you followed to get the original injunction.
Typically you will have the restrained person served by providing a copy of the court documents to the sheriff's department in the county where the person lives. A sheriff's deputy will hand-deliver the documents to the person and complete the proof of service document once that action is completed.
You also can use a private process serving company. Private process servers can be particularly beneficial if the person is attempting to evade service or if they have done so in the past.
In some states you also may have the option of serving the person by sending the documents using certified mail with returned receipt requested. This option may be easier, however it may not be the most efficient, particularly if the person has a history of evading service.
 For the restrained person to be held in contempt, you will have to be able to prove in court that they violated the judge's injunction. Any documents or other physical evidence will make a stronger case than if you have to rely solely on your own testimony.In terms of documents, you typically must have the originals to present as evidence with the court. There are authentication procedures that must be followed, which you can learn by reading the court's rules of evidence if you don't have an attorney.
If there were witnesses to the incident, make a list of their names and contact information. You may want them to appear in court to testify on your behalf, in which case you may need to work with the clerk to have a subpoena issued.
Make sure you talk to any witnesses you plan to call before the date of the hearing so you can go over questions they'll be asked and gain an understanding of what they will say.
 If you want the restrained person to be held in contempt for violation of an injunction, you must appear in court on the day the hearing is scheduled and argue your case before a judge.Keep in mind that the restrained person will be in the courtroom at the hearing. If you don't have an attorney, you may want to consider bringing along a friend or family member for moral support.
If the restrained person does not show up at the hearing, they automatically will be held in contempt and a bench warrant will be issued for their arrest.

