 You do not necessarily need to peel them. The skin adds extra flavor to the apples and also contain a good deal of the fiber apples are famous for. Other people like to peel their apples because they do not like the texture of the dried skins. It is really just a matter of what you like.


Any variety of apple can be dried, though Gala, Fuji, and Golden Delicious work particularly well.;
, You will also want to cut out any worm-eaten parts. Kitchen stores sell apple corers that will easily and efficiently remove your apple cores. However, if you do not have one of these devices you can also core your apples by hand.If you are using these apples for decorations, or you really like your food to look as beautiful as possible, skip the coring. Apples that are not cored and are cut so that they keep their circular shape have a pretty star pattern in the center created by the core.
 You can either cut your apples so that they retain their circular shape, or you can cut them into thin wedges. Again, this is simply based on your own preference, though some say that the thinner the slices, the easier it is to dry the apples.
 An excellent solution for this is lemon juice, pineapple juice and water mixed together. The pineapple juice isn’t necessary but it adds sweetness to the mixture that counteracts the sour flavor of the lemon juice.Pre-treating the apples will also help them retain more of their vitamin A and vitamin C properties as well as provide a better texture in the final product. Here are some methods you can use to pretreat the apples:


Soak the apple slices in lemon juice. Mix 1 cup (240 mL) lemon juice into 1 quart (2 pints) of water. Do not soak for more than 10 minutes. Drain the liquid from the fruit.
Soak the apple slices in sodium bisulfite. Mix 2 teaspoons (9.85 mL) of sodium bisulfite into 1 quart (2 pints) of water. Do not soak for more than 10 minutes. Drain the liquid from the fruit.
Soak the apple slices in ascorbic acid for a result 6 times more effective than lemon juice. Mix 1 tablespoon (14.78 mL) of crystalline ascorbic acid into 1 quart (2 pints) of cold water. Soak the fruit for 3 minutes. Drain the liquid from the fruit.
You can also add orange juice and lemon juice mixed with water.
 Some people like to flavor their apple slices with spices like nutmeg, cinnamon, or allspice. These give the apple slices a flavor boost, but unflavored apple slices are equally delicious., You can even make your oven go down a bit lower, to 145ºF (62.7ºC), but many ovens will not go down this low., Make sure that they are not overlapping or else they will fuse together while they are drying.
 Bake the apple slices for an hour. When the hour has passed, remove the sheets and flip all of the the apple slices over. Bake the apples for one more hour is you prefer your apples to be a little less crispy. If you like crispy dried apples, bake them for two more hours. Just make sure to bake them evenly on each side.


You should keep an eye on your apples and check them periodically. All ovens are different and your oven might take a longer or shorter amount of time to dry the apples.
 Inside, crack the oven door open a small amount and let the apples cool inside the oven. You should not take the apples out until the oven has cooled completely (this should take one or two hours)..


There's another school of thought that you should keep your oven open during the entire cooking process, with a fan blowing on it to help circulate the air. If you decide to prop the oven open in advance, just cook the apples for 6-10 hours.
 Cover the bottom of the trays with parchment paper or some other cooking paper before placing the apples on the trays. Cooking trays that have lips are better than cookie trays because the drying apples may leak a little juice which could make a sticky mess.
 Keep them out as long as the sun is out. Cover the apples loosely with cheesecloth to protect the fruit from any pesky bugs. In the evening, before the dew falls, bring the apple slices indoors so that they do not get moldy. Place the tray in a dry spot in your house., At least once a day, turn the apple slices over so that the underside faces the sun. This will result in an even drying. You should also turn them when you bring them in for the night., The next day, spread the apple slices in the sun again and keep them out all day once more. They will probably become quite dry during the course of the day. Normally this method takes about two days to be fully completed.
 When the apples are quite dry, which is when the outside flesh is not moist at all, put them into brown paper bags and hang them up in an airy, dry place; alternatively put them in plastic airtight containers for storage.
 Try to spread them out so that none of the pieces are touching each other. If they do touch, they might fuse together while they are in the dehydrator.
 If your dehydrator has a temperature control, set it to 140ºF (60ºC). Using the dehydrator will take anywhere from 12 to 24 hours depending on the type of apple and how thickly you cut the slices., You can tell when a dried apple is done by feeling it. The slices should feel bendable or leathery and not brittle. Some people liken them to the consistency of a fresh raisin. Store the apples in airtight containers until you are ready to sit back and enjoy them.

