 If you want to switch your pet to a non-GMO diet, talk to your veterinarian first. The vet can give you tips on avoiding GMOs and making sure that your pet gets a balanced diet.


Ask the vet to recommend specific products that don’t contain GMOs. Your vet has a better sense of your pet’s health, needs, and what products are available that will promote overall wellbeing.;
, Many foods contain GMOs, but some are more likely to have them. The five most common GMO crops are corn, canola, soy, cotton, and sugar beets. It may be easy enough to avoid foods with these products, but they are also used as additives in pet foods. Any of the following products in pet food may also contain GMOs:Corn syrup
Oils such as corn, canola, and cottonseed
Sugars such as corn
Flavoring agents
Thickeners, including carrageenanFructoseGlucose
Soy flour
Soy milk
Xantham gum

, Many types of meat come from animals that eat common crops containing GMOs. Some pet foods may have meat from these animals. Look for products specifically labeled organic or non-GMO verified. This ensures that any meat by-products in your pet’s food are GMO-free., Just as there are common genetically modified crops, there are also foods that generally don’t contain GMOs. Most pet foods contain a combination of protein, carbohydrates, vitamins, minerals, fats, and preservatives. The following are generally present in pet foods and non-GMO:Grass or grain (non-corn) fed meat and animal-by products
Beans
Rice
Oats
Barley
Wheat
Vegetables
Vitamins such as B, C, and D
Minerals including sodium and calcium
Vegetable fats

, The easiest way to identify non-GMO pet foods is to look at the packaging. There are several different labels by government agencies or 3rd party verifiers that make it easy to find products with no GMOs. Anything labeled “organic” is also non-GMO. Check for any of the following on the front of pet food packaging:Organic
USDA Organic
Non GMO Project Verified
NSF Non-GMO True NorthCertified CCOF Organic, Once you’ve had a chance to acquaint yourself with non-GMO foods and certifications, it’s time to find the best choice for your pet. Compare different products and retailers to get the best foods and deals.Shop at large and reputable retailers, small independent stores that you know, or directly at pet food manufacturers’ website. You can find non-GMO pet foods on-site and online. Sites in countries such as the United States or Germany, for example, may offer safer products than places that don’t regulate safety or organic standards.
Check the range of products each retailer offers. Make sure the company guarantees its products as at least non-GMO. You should also have the option to return products if you’re not satisfied. Many sites, including Greenest Beans, offer easy online searches to find non-GMO products that meet your specific wishes.See if retailers offer frequent buyer clubs or free shipping. Non-GMO and organic food may be more expensive than other products and this could defray your costs.
Contact customer service or chat with online reps if you have any questions about the company or specific products.
 If you are buying directly from a pet food manufacturer or large retailer, check the company’s credentials. This can verify that you’re buying non-GMO or organic pet food from a reputable source.Check for reviews of the company by government authorities. For example, the Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO) establishes the guidelines on how pet food manufacturers can label their products. The Better Business Bureau also provides an exhaustive list of company reviews online. Search for the pet food manufacturer by name, website, phone number or email address.Look for any recalls of the pet food by the FDA. This may guide your product choice.See if there are any customer reviews. In addition to government sources, these can provide you insight on experiences buying food for your pet, whether the claims of non-GMO or organic were correct, or whether a pet enjoyed the food. You can often find reviews of the products from the retailer or manufacturer. You may also want to check sites such as Non-GMO Shopping Guide or Organic Pet Digest.
 Once you’ve found a couple of foods that you think your pet might enjoy, examine the ingredients. This minimizes the risk that you accidentally purchase food with GMO products.Read the entire list of ingredients. Pet food ingredients are listed by weight and many products that are high in moisture, such as meat, may appear at the top. Less heavy ingredients, such as wheat or barley, will be lower on the list.
Ask store clerks, online retailers, or manufacturers any questions you may have about specific ingredients.
Make sure the pet food also has the Guaranteed Analysis. This designation lists the minimum amount of protein and fat by percentage. It also lists the maximum amount of fiber and moisture by percentage as well.
 Look on the pet food label to locate the Nutritional Adequacy Statement. This paragraph ensures the food is complete and balanced for a specific stage of life, such as growth or reproduction.the statement will read, “This food is completed and balanced for,” followed by a life stage.Finding this label can minimize the risk that you buy a non-GMO or organic pet food that isn’t suitable for your pet.
 You should also see a designation on the pet food label that describes the feeding trials or tests on the product. It lets you know how the manufacturer proved the Nutritional Adequacy Statement.Consider only those products with the feeding trial information statement. This ensures that living animals ate the food as well as were willing not only to eat the food but stayed healthy while eating it., After you’ve reviewed several pet foods, whittle them down to a short list your pet may like. Then you’re ready to buy the product. Make sure to ask about guarantees and return policies in case your pet doesn’t like the food.

