 They earn substantial monetary benefits; the first heist has a total take of around $125,000 (Hard mode) and is relatively easy. Heists become more audacious and challenging, with progress and the rewards will pay better.;
, In-game missions are sent to you automatically as part of the game storyline; to make sure you don't miss these, check your phone for calls and texts regularly. As you get these options, carry them through to earn cash.
 Both being a team player and being greedy and self-centered can have its monetary benefits.


Be a team player, if you pick the "good" path. It doesn't pay to be a pain; if you're a friendly and mindful player, you'll sometimes be rewarded with some small cash amounts in your bank account. Work together with other players to benefit from shared good sportsmanship.
Alternatively, put yourself first. Every time a player dies, they drop money by their body, so if you want to be ruthless, you can pick it up and earn this way. Killing for cash often ends up with your earning a bad reputation, though, so do this only with care.
 Holding up these establishments is a good way to earn cash fast. You need to intimidate the cashier in order to fill the "intimidation bar" and get the earnings. It's a good idea to have a headset plugged in, since yelling at cashiers both works and attracts less police attention than using a gun.
 There are a variety of one-off activities that can earn you money; look over your map in the game in order to find options like races (on land and water), team death-matches, and other blue icons for this kind of activity.


The way you earn through these activities is by betting. Bet with other players, in multiples of a hundred, and earn the dough if you come in first place.
 If you click on the custom menu for any given car, it gives you the option to sell it. What you get for the car depends on the model and condition; it often helps to repair any damage before trying to sell it.
 Finding other players that you trust is key. Many missions take two or more people, but you want to be sure to partner up only with people who you truly trust, lest they rob you. Team up with players who have your back, be loyal to them, and it'll help you both out.
 The game gives you the option of gifting money to other players. Sometimes, doing this can encourage others to share money back to you - but, honestly, it's a gamble. Most players won't return the favor, so don't count on this for income.
 When you look at your earnings, you'll see both "Bank" and "Cash" balances. Your Bank money is found in your bank, and you can use ATMs to withdraw more, deposit cash, or check your balance. When you do this, make sure there's nobody on your tail who might rob you.

