 Many people whose bodies are disabled are not held back at the level of the mind, so engaging in courses or programs that stimulate their brain — as well as the creative flow of ideas and new learning — can be very beneficial. Ask if the person is interested in enrolling in an internet course or a degree (perhaps even one that can be obtained "long-distance" via internet courses, if they are unable to transport themselves to a college or university).
 These usually range from a more gentle activity such as Tai Chi, water exercises and other kinds of exercises aimed at improving mobility and circulation, to more complex sports and games depending upon the person's abilities and the extent of the disability.
 It gives a sense of confidence, self-esteem, and happiness to give to others who are in need or less fortunate, and it can also help a disabled person to feel better about their own situation as they realize they still have gifts they can give to others who may be in even more challenging situations than they are.


Examples might be volunteer services such as knitting blankets or scarves for the homeless, volunteering as a mentor to other people with disabilities, or finding other services that they can do.
There are also companies that specialize in employing the disabled for paid work and will even organize transport. This may be a good option to look into if the person is still interested in working.
It is important to recognize not all disabled people are unable to make a career for themselves. A qualified individual such as an accountant, an architect, a phone-based salesperson, etc., can still work from home with the use of a computer, so it is wise to inquire if their employer can find ways to keep their employee active.
 If the person with the disability is to thrive mentally and emotionally in the long-term, it is important that they find ways to enjoy their life and to feel like they can make a meaningful contribution to the world around them despite their handicap. Brainstorm ideas with your loved one as to how they may regain passion for life and an overall sense of purpose.

