 If the owner is present, make sure to ask if it is okay to interact with their dog. Some dogs are being trained or are too fearful to be touched, so it is best to check first. If the dog is running unsupervised, then you must follow your judgement regarding to approach or to call an animal rescue for assistance.When speaking with the owner you might say, “What a cute dog! Is it alright if I pet him?”;
, When you first notice that the dog is behaving in an aggressive or standoffish way, look around you to identify possible external causes of this behavior. Are there lots of cars around which could cause anxiety? If you determine that you are the cause of the unfriendliness then you will need to approach with even more caution.At this point you might ask the owner (if there is one) for any tips about how to interact with their dog. They might suggest, for example, that you keep your distance for a bit.
 When you do decide to make friendly contact (whether for the first time or after multiple interactions) avoid coming at the dog head on. This places the two of you in a confrontational position and can heighten the dog’s defenses. Instead, come at the dog very slowly and slightly to the side, moving in a soft arc., Refrain from making direct eye contact when you interact with an unfriendly dog. Holding a dog’s eyes can be seen as a dominant move and can make them withdraw from socializing with you. Instead, flick your eyes up occasionally but generally keep them elsewhere. It might help to focus on the dog’s ear, for example.
 When you spend time with the dog try to do so at their level. Crouch down or bend down on your knees to face them. This puts you in an equal position with your potential canine friend. It lets the dog know that they have power as well, which takes away some of the pressure of these interactions and allows them to relax.Once you get into a crouching or seated position you lose much of your ability to retreat quickly. It is not advisable to assume this position if the dog is acting overtly aggressive.
 Once you are in position, slowly extend a single hand out, palm up for the dog to sniff and inspect. Leave your hand hovering in air within reach of the dog’s head. Do not immediately move to pet the dog. After the dog sniffs a bit you can then remove your hand and repeat the process.When the dog finally loosens up you can move your hand forward for a gentle pet. However, continue to avoid the facial area. This makes a dog feel vulnerable. Instead, gently rub their side or back.
If at any point in this process the dog bares its teeth, wrinkles its nose, or growls you should retreat and try again later.
 Whenever you are trying to befriend an unfriendly dog you must proceed methodically and slowly. You are on their timetable. If you try to rush the process the bond won’t be as deep and the dog might retreat back into aggression or shyness., If the dog’s owner has treats then ask if you can offer a few to their pet. If the dog is running solo and you have treats, then feel free to offer them as well (with caution). It is best to give an unfriendly dog treats in an indirect way. Toss a few treats to the ground in front of the dog while looking slightly away.If the dog begins to associate your presence with food, then you are making progress in the battle of bonding.
 Another option is to pretend that the dog is not there and go about your business as usual. You can do this for a brief time or you can act like this over several separate interactions before you build up to an attempt at petting. If the dog sniffs you, just stand still and let it happen. It is a good sign that they are curious about you.