 Inside the watch is a hairspring, a very delicate component that is responsible for keeping time. Exposure to magnets may cause the hairspring coils to stick together, resulting in a watch that runs too fast. While you can probably easily keep your watch away from traditional magnets, think about consumer electronics that have magnets, such as televisions, speakers and iPads. If your watch suddenly runs a lot faster or is five minutes ahead of where it ought to be, it’s possible that it was exposed to magnets and the hairspring was impacted. Take your watch to a reputable watch repair shop to have them fix the problem., Most watches are able to handle water depths of about 30 meters, so your watch won’t be ruined after an accidental dip in the lake. But for regular water exposure, you should choose a different watch such as a waterproof quartz watch that can handle being in water longer and at greater depths., Watches can be impacted by extremely cold or hot temperatures, which can affect how accurately they keep time. Most modern watches are constructed to accommodate changes in temperature, but if you are going to be somewhere with really hot or really cold temperatures, you may need to take special care with your watch., Watch straps can be made of various kinds of material, from leather to metal to rubber. This will depend on the aesthetic design and intended use of the watch. Rubber watch straps, for example, are typical for waterproof watches that will be used when swimming, diving or boating. Check rubber straps for cracks and tears, and replace them when they show signs of weakening. Leather straps don’t respond well to water, cologne, perfume, sunscreen, and other liquids. Rub in leather oil occasionally to improve the look and longevity of the leather. For metal straps, polish them up with a soft cloth., Your watch, especially if you wear it every day or every few days, will gather dirt, dead skin, and other grime that needs to be cleaned away. Use an old toothbrush and warm water to scrub the watch, especially around the connection point between the watch and the straps. If you have a metal band, use your toothbrush to clean it.
 If you are not planning to wear your watch frequently, you should store it carefully in order to protect it from dust, moisture and theft. It will also help keep the watch’s lubricating oils from deteriorating or clogging. Store it in the manufacturer’s box or in an airtight container. If it is a particularly expensive watch, you may choose to store it in a safe deposit box. You can also store it on a watch winder.
 Waterproof watches can get loosened up with regular wear and exposure to the elements or sand. Check the seals around the face, crown and back of the watch to make sure that it is still going to keep water out. If there are signs of wear, replace the seals. It’s best to take the watch to a watch repair shop to accomplish this, since they will have the expertise to properly replace seals.
 Expensive watches in particular should be maintained every few years just like a car. Their gears have lubricating oil that can get clogged, and gear teeth can be worn down. Take the watch to a reputable watch repair shop to get it relubricated. The watch repair professional will also repair or replace worn gear teeth and jewels. This maintenance can be expensive, from $250 to several thousand dollars depending on the watch. But this maintenance will prolong the life of the watch, which is important particularly if it is an heirloom watch that you want to last.