 If you have a separate receipt for the item and the GSP Plan, collect both for your call. You may need to provide information such as plan number, item number, store number, and purchase date.


Your GSP Plan receipt will include your plan number, labeled as "GSP #."Cancelling by phone is your best option if you don't have your original receipt(s), particularly if you had the foresight to either photocopy/scan them or jot down key information like item number, GSP number, purchase date, and store number.
The Geek Squad website also states that you can call them (1-800-433-5778) regarding a lost receipt.;
, Follow the voice prompts, saying "protection plan" and "cancel my plan" when directed to reach a support staff member.
 Provide the requested information regarding your GSP Plan.


If the person tries to talk you out of cancelling, remember that he or she is only doing his/her job. Unless you are reconsidering, calmly reiterate that you want to cancel and your decision is final. Note the relevant section of your contract, regarding your right to cancel at any time for any reason, if necessary (Section 10.b.II, page 7 at present)., The means of determining this amount, along with the actual cancellation date of your GSP Plan, will vary depending upon whether you paid in full or pay monthly.For plans already paid in full, you will receive a pro-rated refund for the time remaining on the GSP Plan, minus the amount for any services rendered. For instance, if you cancel after one year of a two-year plan, you will receive half of your payment amount back. If, however, you had a repair done, that can be deducted from your refund.
For plans that are paid monthly by credit card, you pay in advance for each month of service. Therefore, unless you happen to be right at the end of a payment cycle, your coverage will continue until the end of that cycle, then your GSP Plan will be cancelled.
 Ask for the person's name and a form of confirmation, such as a confirmation number or email, that your GSP Plan is no longer in effect. Mark down the date and time of your call, and keep this evidence until you are sure the cancellation has been made.


It may take 60 days for refunds to show up on your credit card.
If your card is charged the next month or you do not see a refund in 60 days, you should call back to inquire. Relay the confirmation details as necessary to prove your original cancellation.

