 A common cause of noisy fan belts is a slight misalignment of the belt on the pulleys. With the hood open, examine the belt to ensure it is mounted on the top most pulley completely straight. If you are unsure, place a tape measure along the pulley to provide yourself with a frame of reference.If the belt is offset even slightly, it will cause squeaking, squealing or chirping.
A belt that is not properly aligned with wear out faster.
 If your belt needs to be replaced, it will often become noisy as a result of the wear or damage. Shine a light on the belt and look at it closely. If there are any visible cracks or chunks of belt missing, the belt should be replaced immediately.Modern EPDM-made belts are designed to last up to 100,000 miles before being replaced, but may wear prematurely due to misalignment or unusual driving conditions.
Neoprene belts must be replaced every 30,000 to 60,000 miles.
 Some vehicles come equipped with a tensioner pulley that applies tension to the serpentine or fan belts. If you are unsure if your vehicle came equipped with a tensioner pulley, refer to the service manual for your specific year, make and model vehicle.The tensioner pulley is often bolted directly to the engine block and has an opening that will fit a ½ inch drive ratchet.
Not all vehicles come equipped with a tensioner pulley.
 If the tensioner pulley (or auto tensioner) is too worn out to be able to apply sufficient tension to the belt, you will need to replace it. You should not be able to press on the pulley to relieve belt tension by hand. If you are able to, the tensioner must be replaced. Most tensioners are held in place using only one or two bolts.Remove the old tensioner by removing the bolts passing through it and into the engine block.
You may want to replace the belt at the same time due to any damage that may have resulted from the loose tensioner.
 In some vehicles, the belt tension is established by an adjustable bracket on an accessory such as the alternator. In these cases, loosen the two bolts that pass through the adjustable eyelet on the bracket. Slide a pry bar between the alternator and the engine block and pry the alternator away from the engine with the belt over the pulley. Maintain that tension while you tighten the two bolts you loosened in the eyelets.This task may be easier to accomplish with a friend helping maintain the tension on the belt.
Be careful to ensure the belt is completely straight on the pulley.

