 One of the best ways to get a uniform look is to choose the same cabinets for your space. If you cannot find the same model, choose the same type of wood or color, so that it matches your décor.


Cabinetry comes in 3 types, stock, semi-custom and custom. Stock cabinets are those available to order in standard sizes, materials and colors. Semi-custom cabinets can be modified and personalized. Custom cabinets are designed and built by a carpenter according to your preferences. This is the most expensive type of cabinetry.
 Choose a desk that matches your kitchen counters or table. An excellent option is a modular desk, available from Ikea, the Container Store and a number of online outlets.


Modular desks are often sold in "systems." They can be adjusted to the size and shape of your space. You may or may not use all the pieces in the system, but you can connect drawers to the main desk shape and choose elements that extend out from the wall if you have the space.
Another great option is a roll-up desk. Unlike normal models, this traditional style of desk comes with a door that allows you to close it when not in use. It often contains cubbies in the center, and it reduces the amount of clutter associated with a home office.
 A kitchen office will not have as much space as a dedicated room; however, you can be creative with the kitchen area. Consider the following ideas:


Keep printers, scanners and other electronics in a closet. If you have extra space in a closet system, clear some room. Place the electronics inside and print your documents wirelessly.
Install pull-out shelves. Shelves that have runners give you easier access to the materials in the back. These can be installed in modular desk cabinets or in wall cabinets.
Use a kitchen island as extra storage. If you need more room to chop up ingredients for meals, buy a hollow island and use the interior space for books, files or other storage. Place something inside that you don't need to access regularly.
 It is more important to keep things tidy in a small office space, so create drawer and desk spaces where everything has a chosen space.
 Make sure the chair fits inside the empty center space of the desk. Picking a mobile chair allows you to move it when you need more space for company.
 If you place the office inside an empty closet, you can choose a chair that fits inside so that you can close the doors. If you have the office in an open space, then consider buying a screen or other partition to get some privacy for your work.

