 Most creams come in two versions; one for your body and one for your face. Do not use a cream designed for your body on your face, as it contains a higher concentration of chemicals which could damage the sensitive skin on your face.Research brands to see which kinds other people like the best. Popular brands of depilatory creams include Veet and Nair.
Many depilatories have a harsh smell, so consider choosing one with added essential oils or one with a fragrance.;
, Depilatories come in sprays, creams, gels, and lotions. The main difference is the method of application, otherwise these are all quite similar. Choose the formula that you think will be the quickest and easiest to apply.Some depilatory products are also water-resistant so you can use it in the shower, then wipe it off with a washcloth.
 Put a small amount out on the inside of your elbow to test for a reaction. It's best to wait a few hours to a full day to be certain you won't have a negative reaction to the cream.Negative reactions include discomfort, burning, itching, and redness.
 The area you are applying the depilatory product to should be clean, dry, and free of any oils or lotions. Don’t apply the product to any area in which you have cuts or wounds, as it will irritate broken skin.Wait at least 72 hours between shaving and using a depilatory product.
 Apply a thin layer of the product to the entire area that you want to remove hair from. Don’t rub the product into your skin, just gently dab it on.You may want to use gloves. Otherwise be sure to wash your hands thoroughly after applying the depilatory product.
Take care not to get the product on anything but your skin, as it can damage or discolor material.
 For most depilatory products, you wait around 5 minutes before removing them. It’s very important not to leave the depilatory product on longer than the directions indicate. Doing so can lead to irritation of the skin.If you feel any itching, burning, or discomfort, remove the product immediately.
 You can use a depilatory spatula to remove the product, wipe it off with a towel, or rinse it off in the shower. It’s recommended that you rinse it off as this removes all the product at once, while using a towel or spatula can leave the product on certain areas of skin longer than the recommended amount of time.If you use the spatula, scrape the product off using a downward motion.
 Always rinse your skin after removing the product, especially if you used a towel or spatula. This will ensure that all of the product has been removed.


Some products come with a lotion to be applied after removing the hair. If yours includes this, apply it to your skin.
Wait at least 72 hours between depilatory product applications.

