 If you’re worried about your surgery, don’t bottle it up. Share your troubles with a family member. If you’re really worried, you could even ask someone to accompany you. Heading off to the hospital for surgery by yourself can feel lonely and increase your fear. If you have a trusted friend or family member nearby right up until you head into the operating room, you can talk to them and you will feel better. Sharing your anxiety with a loved one will allow you to relax a bit and let go of some of your fear. For instance, you might open up with a loved one by saying:”I am quite scared of my surgery.”
”I fear I may die on the operating table.”
”I do not want to be cut open in surgery.”
”I’d feel much better if I didn’t have to go alone to my surgery. Would you accompany me, please?”

, Psychologists are trained to help you deal with your fears. There are two ways they might help you. They might help you deal with the fear directly by walking you through the process and demonstrating how your fear is unnecessary. Alternatively, they might help you confront the underlying issues that are causing your fear (which might include having a bad experience with surgery in the past, or seeing a loved one in pain due to a surgery they had). Whatever the case, talking to a psychologist can often help you overcome your fear of surgery.To locate a therapist in your area, use your favorite internet search engine. Try a word string like “therapists nearby” or “therapists in .”
You can also ask your surgeon for a referral or try asking friends for a recommendation.
 Surgeries associated with particular conditions often have support groups to help people cope with the feelings about the surgery afterwards. Cancer support groups, for instance, can help you cope with your recovery period after getting a tumor removed. Look for a group in your area associated with your surgery or medical condition.Talk to people in the group, and bond over your common surgery or medical condition.
If you have continued anxiety or fear related to the condition, ask them for ways to cope.
Ask your surgeon for recommendations on a group.

