 While you may find roleplaying guilds on PvP or PvE servers, they will be fewer and farther between. Furthermore, the overall culture of a roleplaying server, as well as certain rules specific to each server type, will have an effect on your ability to immerse yourself in your adventures. A list of WoW’s servers, along with their locations, types, and popularity, can be found at battle.net on the Realm Status page.
 Consider when your primetime for playing will be, and choose a server accordingly. You’ll want to choose a server where the bulk of the population will be on and playing at the same time you are, for the most enjoyable experience., While cross-realm grouping has eliminated many of the issues associated with low population servers, a busier realm will have more guilds and more opportunities for adventuring with others. Low population servers can be great for farming rare mobs, but the cons (difficulties in downing world bosses, finding a guild that suits your style, etc.) tend to outweigh these., Once you’ve chosen your realm, just select it from the server list upon entering the game, and prior to creating your character., When roleplaying, creating the role itself is one of the more enjoyable aspects. However, before you jump to the character creation U/I, it’s important to understand just what a blood elf is and certain aspects of their culture—Class, Gender, Name, and Appearance. The first aspect, Class, will affect your gameplay experience and influence, to some extent, the appearance of your character. However, it will also play an important part in determining your character’s backstory and influence their future adventures. Here’s a breakdown:


Death Knight. When Arthas invaded the elven city of Quel’Thalas, he raised the fallen as death knights—undead warriors whom he planned to command as his own minions. Playable death knights, however, have escaped his control. You have not, however, escaped the unalterable fact that you must inflict suffering upon others or end up in agony yourself, so expect to spend a lot of time seeking adventures where doing so suits you. One thing (other than being undead, of course) sets DKs apart from other blood elves: they are no longer addicted to arcane magic.

Mage. If you’re looking to live a high profile life in Silvermoon City or another blood-elf dense enclave, being a mage is the obvious path for the ambitious. Mages are the most socially revered blood elves in a general sense, and the highest ranging mages constitute a large portion of the ruling class. It’s a natural reflection on the society’s addiction to and proclivity for all things arcane.

Paladin. Most blood elf paladins are associated with a faction known as Blood Knights. Unlike other paladins, Blood Knights draw their power from the Sunwell, the source of arcane magic upon which all blood elves are dependent. This means your character is much less obligated to be an ethical beacon, as it were.

Monk. Blood elves have a rather short history when it comes to the martial arts styles favored by Pandaren. If you become a blood elf monk, you will be part of one of the first generations to embrace this novel path.

Hunter. Hunters, often referred to as rangers in blood elf society, are renowned for their agility and prowess, even by other races. The existence of the Farstrider faction, composed of rangers, has helped to further their good reputation—Farstriders seek to destroy evil whether they find it. They have a contentious relationship with Blood Knights, due to their differing views.

Priest. A blood elf priest may be a practicing member of the Church of Holy Light, but as with paladins, their ability to draw power from the Sunwell negates the obligation of devotion.

Rogue. Rogues have a wide variety of roleplay choices. They may associate with the more benevolent worldview of the Farstriders, and simply consider themselves gifted melee fighters. They may also find work as couriers, spies, or assassins if they are so inclined.

Warlock. Because blood elves are already magic-addicted and, some would say, tainted by fel magic, this career path is not as shunned amongst blood elves as it is among many other races. There is little, however, lore on the topic of blood elf warlocks. Given the high status accorded to mages, however, these demon-oriented magic users are a good fit for a blood elf roleplay that seeks to focus on the darker sides of their nature.

Warrior. Blood elf warriors are ferocious melee fighters who rely upon their agility and grace to wield swords, axes, maces, and shields. Unlike death knights and paladins, their skills are primarily physical rather than magical in nature.
 While gender has no effect on gameplay mechanics, it is useful to note that certain aspects of blood elf society are more skewed toward males or females. For example, there are notably more male mages in power than female, though some have risen in the ranks. On the other hand, some of the most legendary rangers are blood elf women., Blood elf first names vary quite a bit, with many having names with a bit of a Roman influence, while others have something of a Celtic feel. Almost all blood elf names flow appealingly. One good way to get a good handle on appropriate first names is to take a look at lists of blood elf NPCs online. Surnames are almost always a combination of two standard words: Sunsworn, Dawnblade, Brightstar, etc., Appearance is important to blood elves, so take this into account when deciding what your character will look like. Most blood elves are pale with light colored hair, however, their consumption of fel magic can darken their complexion. Other hair colors are available as well, and some blood elves also dye their hair to further distinguish themselves from their high elf relatives., In just the past few decades, elven society has seen incredible upheaval, devastation, and experienced what many consider unforgivable betrayal by their allies and even their own leaders. Reading up on blood elf history and lore online is a good idea even if you’re not looking to create a complex backstory right from the get-go. While allowing your ideas for your character’s backstory to develop is a good plan, having at least an idea about how these huge events affected their life will definitely help. This will help when you encounter characters of other races, as this history will certainly affect your character’s perspectives. Even though blood elves are aligned with the Horde, they are arguably the black sheep of the family, and there is a great deal of distrust and suspicion on both sides., While this isn’t strictly necessary, it’s highly recommended. A guild is a group of players who have committed to some common goal, share common interests, or simply enjoy playing together. On WoW’s official forums (which can be found at battle.net), each realm has its own subforum. Roleplaying realms will typically have a stickied list at the top of their forums with a guild directory. Just as PvE guilds might focus on social activities or raiding, roleplaying guilds have varied focuses. Some are military in nature—a fighting force. Some are race specific (blood elves only, for example), or class specific (paladins only, hunters only). Still others might focus on more niche activities: treasure hunting, or furthering certain racial or faction goals. The guild directory will usually have a link to the guild’s website or their specific recruitment threads.

Joining a guild varies according to the guild’s processes. However, typically you can expect to fill out an application on the guild’s website. These applications will usually address the type of roleplay you’re interested in, some basic facts about your character, your most active gaming times during the day, and so on. If your application is accepted, you’ll receive an in-game guild invitation which you simply accept in order to become part of the guild.

