 Quail are not usually the type of pets to tame as they are very skittish and hate being picked up (tame or not). Quail are especially hard to tame if they are fully-grown as it’s best to tame quail at a young age. Before you start taming your quail consider whether you actually want or need to tame them.


Remember; you can always purchase fertile quail eggs and incubate them. Then you will be able to hand-raise the chicks and get them to become tame by just interacting with them.;
, You shouldn’t rush the process of taming, make any sudden movements, shout, get angry at your quail, chase your quail, grab your quail, approach your quail from above or force your quail to eat food out of your hands. This will make the quail more scared of you – the opposite of taming a quail.
 It is quite hard to tame a quail, especially a fully-grown quail. No matter how much you try, some quails cannot be tamed – it’s in their nature.


Button quail are extremely hard to tame, they're more for watching than interacting. However, coturnix and bobwhite are great pets to keep once tamed.
 Feed them a high-quality feed, provide them with fresh water, keep their cage clean, get rid of disturbances, house them in a cage with plenty of space, etc. The more happy your quail the better chances of getting them tame. Also, if you interact with them daily from caring for them they will get use to your presence which is the first step to getting them tamed.
 Interacting with the quail straight away can get them stressed; they need at least a full week to adjust to you and their new surroundings.
 Before you tame the quail it must get use to your presence and know that you’re not a threat. Sit by the quails cage everyday and make sure the quail can see you.


Sit next to the quail for at least 20 minutes each day. This doesn’t mean that you have to do nothing during the time, grab a chair and read a book or do some other sort of time-passer. Just make sure your not moving about or shouting, you don’t want to frighten the quail.
If the quail are running along the sides of the cage this means that they are scared. Move a certain distance away from the cage (but still stay in sight of the quail) and stay still, the quail should soon calm down. Every day move a little closer until you are right next to the cage, the quail should soon know that you are not a threat.
 Talk to the quail just like you would with a friend or you could whistle or sing to the quail. Speak softly and do not shout or raise your voice, this step will get the quail use to your voice.
 At this point your quail should now stop running up and down its cage and feel calmer when around you. If your quail is housed inside of your home perform actions that you would usually do in your daily routine such as sweeping the floor, studying at a desk, playing games, etc. If your quail is housed outside perform actions such as watering plants, tending the garden, raking leaves, sweeping the pathway, etc.


Avoid noisy tasks such as vacuuming, mowing the lawn or dancing to loud music.
 Carefully and slowly place your hand in the quails cage, make sure the quail cannot escape. Lay your hand in the cage perfectly still and do not chase the quail with your hand. Do this for 10 minutes a day and the quail should soon get use to your hand, they might even come near your hand soon.
 Remove the quails feed from the cage and offer a treat that your quail enjoys out of your hand. A good treat to feed your quail is meal worms, or you can change it up by feeding the quail a different treat every day.


Don’t chase the quail around with your hand or force the quail to eat the treat, just lay your hand still and see if the quail will eat the treat. Eventually your quail will get less scared and take the treat out of your hand.
 If the quail is very calm towards you, try rubbing the quail underneath its head. If the quail is tame it shouldn’t run away.
 Prey (usually birds) attack quail from above which is why quail hate being picked up or patted on their back. Even a tame quail will like this; instead they will climb into your hand. Only grab a quail if necessary.
 It’s good to create a routine when taming quail, you will want to interact with them at least once a day.

