 Remember that it shouldn't be too expensive, and it shouldn't be too far away. Note that your parents might like it better if you chose a scholarship pageant rather than a glitz one.;
, If your mom used to be a cheerleader and loves shopping and makeup, you should probably ask her first. If your dad doesn't give much thought to "girl activities" and might say yes without even considering that a pageant is a big deal, you may want to ask him first.
, This is useful and it also makes it looks like you have done your homework.


Try to have some pros other than "I want to." Suggested pros:

Activities show initiative and look good on college applications.
At a pageant, I could make new friends from different areas.
Engaging in competition and doing my best could enhance my self-esteem.
I would like to try something different, that I've never done before.


A good persuasive technique is to have an argument prepared against potential cons. For instance:

Some people think that pageants focus only on looks. However, the pageant I want to enter judges its contestants on many criteria.
Preparing for a pageant can be time-consuming. However, I plan to budget my time so that I can still excel in school, and can participate in my usual activities. (If you are in a lot of other activities, it might be helpful to have a chart or schedule detailing how you would be able to do this.)



, You could babysit or do odd jobs.



Make sure the talent is something you truly are good at. Singing is fun, but many people are not trained to sing at a competitive level. If you play an instrument, this could be a great way to use that skill, and to combine pageant preparation with another parent-approved activity. Otherwise, research what kinds of talents other pageant winners have used, and try out a few. Have a friend or family member help you assess what would be the best choice for you.
 This way, your parents can do a carpool, and they will be happy.


Beware: This might make it look like the pageant is just a trendy thing to do, and competing against your friends might not work out so well. Some parents would feel comforted if other families are participating in the same activity, while others would question your motive for entering the pageant. Think about how your family would react.

