 Most political campaigns have an office in each city or county. Depending on the population in your area, this office may be very small and only have a handful of staffers.


When you call the local office, you typically will be speaking to a volunteer. Ask him or her how you can assist with campaign efforts in your area.
Larger state or national campaigns often list local office contact information on their websites, as well as information on the types of opportunities available.
You also can find local office contact information by going to the website for the candidate's political party in your state.
 If you get involved in politics in your area, such as by attending meetings or events for the political party you support, you have the opportunity to make connections with people who have experience and power.Use an online service to create business cards that provide your basic contact information and any experience you have in politics and government. You can hand these cards out at political functions.
Don't forget to use your own personal network as well. Talk to friends and family members to see if you can connect with anyone who is involved with the candidate's campaign or with the local political party.
Once you make connections, keep your network active by communicating on a regular basis. Offer to help others with their efforts, and try to avoid just calling a political connection when you have a favor to ask or want them to do something for you.
 If you have skills or experience that might be of use, you may be able to get an internship or even a paying job with a larger campaign.Think about the activities you enjoy and the skills or experience you can contribute to a campaign, as well as your availability.
Create a politically oriented resumé to send to campaigns and political organizers who have internships or open positions to which you want to apply. This campaign should highlight your skills and experience that are specifically related to political campaigning.
There are many websites that list political jobs and positions on campaigns, such as Democratic Gain, Emily's List, and America Votes. Some of these websites give you the opportunity to create a profile and upload your resumé so organizers can find you as well.
Check for campaign training programs in your area. Many of these programs are relatively low cost and give you the opportunity to learn specific skills useful to campaigns.
 Even if you lack the skills or experience to qualify for a paying job, political campaigns always need volunteers. Campaigns use volunteers for many different tasks, but one of the easiest things you can do is call people and encourage them to vote for your candidate.Fundraising is a huge part of any campaign, so often the most inexperienced volunteers will be put to work soliciting donations over the phone.
You also can volunteer to host a phone bank in your own home and bring other volunteers together to support the candidates of your choice.
If a campaign staffer takes your name and doesn't get back to you right away, keep calling or go by the local office. Show passion for the cause and some initiative and they'll find a place for you.

