 Confidence is the backbone of being sexy and appealing. Have confidence in everything that you do. It shows a high level of self-esteem and demands a certain level of respect from onlookers.


Don’t be quiet. If you’re a quiet person, you don’t have to lose yourself and become an extreme extrovert. But don’t let being quiet dull your shine. Gain sex appeal by staying engaged in conversation, even if it’s only a couple words at a time.
Always dress for the occasion. Even if you’re running errands, put on an outfit that makes you feel great. The better you feel about yourself, the sexier you appear.
 Try something new, meet new people, and continue to grow. All of these experiences will teach you what you like and don’t like and make your more comfortable with yourself and that makes it easier to be confident.


Having sex appeal means you have a fun, delightful, delicious manner about yourself. Add some surprise into this and you’ll have ultimate irresistibility. , Knowledge is power; power is sexy. If you’re always staying engaged, you’re always going to be learning. The more you know, the more confident you’ll be—about yourself, your job, your hobbies, or anything else.


Always ask questions. This can get you noticed. Whether it’s in a work meeting, group outing, or new class, attention will be on you if you ask a question confidently.
Don’t get complacent. This stands for every aspect of your life. If you stop challenging yourself, you’ll stop growing. Someone continually moving forward with life attracts other people who are doing the same.
 Not only is working out going to make you look better, but it will make you feel better immediately. Even if you’re tired, working out will give you more energy, so get to the gym as often as you can.


Have a good body image. A good body image portrays confidence. You don’t have to be a model to be sexy. Know that your body is healthy, take care of it, and own it.
Endorphins keep you engaged. Endorphins are released when you exercise, they give you more energy and high energy is contagious. It helps your confidence stay up when you have the energy to constantly stay engaged in what you’re doing and who you’re talking to.
 Friends play an extraordinary role in your life. They help build your confidence, define your priorities, and support you. People are attracted to people who have a reputation for being friendly. You won’t always meet quality friends, but the more people you meet, the easier it will be to see who is compatible with your personality. Those that are compatible will help your confidence stay high (not to mention, they’ll speak highly of you) and help you look appealing.
They’ll keep you in check. If you’re stuck fishing for compliments, friends will let you know. On the other side of the spectrum, if you’re too confident and appearing egotistical, they’ll be sure to keep you grounded. If you have this in-between of self-realization, you’ll be comfortable in your skin and sexy as ever.
They help your success. Friendship helps sharpen your mind, which has shown to make you happier. They help you learn yourself better, inspire you, and keep your best interest in mind. All of these things lead to a more confident, healthy life. This portrays sexiness to everyone you run into. 