 If you know you have done something wrong, or offended someone, you should directly apologize. Be sincere about your mistakes and what you have learned from them. This will help put you on the right track for good karma. Try some of the following conversations:


”I am very sorry about what I said about your cooking last week; I did not mean to hurt your feelings. Please forgive me.”
”I am sorry for not calling you last week. Why don’t we get coffee on Friday?”
”You were right to be angry about my actions. I will try not to do that again.”
”I didn’t mean what I said last week. I’m sorry I was in such a bad mood. Can you forgive me?”;
, If you feel you have bad karma but are not sure of the direct reasons, a good place to start is to write down what you feel you have done wrong. Think about a specific time in the past, like a day or a week, and list out what you’ve done that may have given you negative karma. This will give you a good starting point on how you can repair your negative karma. Think about:


Did you offend someone by your words?
Did you offend someone by your actions?
Did you neglect or forget to do something you were supposed to?
Did you lie or cheat about something?
Did you break a set rule or law?
Have you been selfish or neglectful?

, You may know what you have done to receive bad karma. However, you must also understand why your actions negatively impacted you and those around you. To do this, you can meditate or reflect on your actions.There are different meditation techniques:


Breathing meditations -- This type of meditation focuses on controlling your breathing.This will calm your mind and promote inner peace. In a quiet place, sit in a comfortable position. Partially close your eyes and focus on your breathing. Become aware of the sensation of breathing in through your nose and out through your mouth. Practice this movement until your mind starts to clear and you begin to relax.
Transforming meditations -- This type of meditation is designed to bring peacefulness to your mind by training your body not to worry about mental or physical discomforts. This type of meditation is done by studying and considering the philosophy that drives your morality. You can do this by: reading the works of your religions or religious figures, reading the works of philosophers, or studying science and the construction of the universe.
Loving kindness meditations -- This type of meditation is practiced in four steps: preparation, contemplation, meditation, and dedication. The first step requires you to prepare for meditation by sitting in a comfortable position and breathe deeply. The contemplation stage requires you to think about how all life should be cherished and that happiness comes from your kind actions. Meditation allows you to come up with concrete ways to practice kind actions such as: “I will cherish each day that I am given” or “I will be kinder to myself and others.” Dedication is living up to those promises made in the meditation stage., Mahatma Gandhi famously said: “The best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others.” You can reverse bad karma by practicing positive actions. This may include:


Donating your time to a cause that you believe in (i.e. volunteering at an animal shelter or a soup kitchen)
Giving money to a cause you believe in (i.e. American Diabetes Foundation)
Giving more compliments
Doing kind favors for someone (i.e. Making a dinner for a loved one or doing home repairs for an elderly neighbors.)

