 This is important if you live in an area that has venomous snakes. Clear away brush piles and undergrowth. You want to minimize the places that a snake will hide.Also make your yard unattractive to rodents. If you have rodents in your yard, and you live in an area that generally has snakes, then snakes will be attracted to the area. Keep food, including bird seed, out of your yard, so that rodents are not attracted there.;
, There are some dogs that are more likely to get a snake bite. With this in mind, you should take preventive measures to avoid the potential for snakebites happening to your dogs.


Dogs are naturally inquisitive when young and puppies often think a snake is a moving toy. Keep an eye on puppies or young dogs when in areas populated by snakes.
Hunting dogs are at greater risk because of their instinct to hunt. When young and agile, they may be able to attack a snake and succeed in killing it before the snake bites. However, as the dog's agility lessens with old age, the outcome may not be so successful and older hunting dogs tend to get bitten.
 Snakes are more active in the warmer months and tend to hibernate during winter.Early spring bites will carry the most potency, as the snake's venom glands have built up during hibernation.


Remember, prevention is always better than cure; it makes sense to take precautions to avoid snakebite in the first place.
Keep dogs out of long grass or shade shrubberies where snakes are likely to lie hidden.
 Being bitten by a snake causes a range of problems of varying severity. At the milder end of the scale is the pain and discomfort caused by a penetrating bite, which can include soreness, inflammation, and pain locally on the skin. On the other end, a snake bite can lead to death.


Depending on the snake's species, the toxin it injects may either be a neurotoxin (affecting the nervous system) or a hemotoxin (affecting the blood and circulation). This can lead to rapid paralysis (neurotoxin), including the muscles of respiration so the victim slowly suffocates, or a life-threatening inability to clot blood, organ failure and shock (hemotoxin)., This depends on whether they have recently bitten something else, and also on the time of year.Observe the pet closely, but if in any doubt seek veterinary attention.


It is better to travel to the vet's to discover the dog is fine, than wait until symptoms appear by which time treatment could be too late.
 Bear in mind that some of the symptoms are general, such as vomiting, which means that it is not the case that every vomiting dog has been bitten by a snake. These general signs become significant if the dog also has puncture marks, possible exposure to snakes, and rapidly developing symptoms. Here are some of the symptoms to be expected when a dog is bitten by a venomous snake:


Trembling
Vomiting
Salivation, drooling, frothing
Diarrhea
Weakness in the back legs, unsteadiness
Dilated pupils
Respiratory distress
Bloody urine
Continuous bleeding from the bite wound
A flaccid paralysis leading to coma or respiratory failure
Death can occur within 30 minutes to two hours, depending on the type of snake venom and the amount of venom injected.
 This can be very helpful if the venom from a snake in your area has unique symptoms. For example, a bite from a Coral snake may be painless, and it can take up to 18 hours before symptoms develop. This means it's all too easy to be lulled into a false sense of security and assume the dog is OK. Instead, the opposite is true and you should use the time to seek veterinary treatment., If you see the snake, do NOT approach the snake. It is not recommended under most circumstances that you try to kill the snake yourself; you could end up a casualty or waste the precious time you need to save your dog.
 Pay attention to it's head shape, approximate length, color, and pattern. In the US the commonest cause of venomous snake bite is the rattlesnake but other significant snakes include the coral snake, Cottonmouths (Water Moccasins) Banded rock snake, Black-tailed snake, Canebrake, Diamondback snake, Massasauga, Mojave, Mottled rock snake, Pacific snake, Pygmy, Prairie snake, Red diamond and Ridge-nosed snakes.Also be aware that as a general rule of thumb venomous snakes have slit shaped pupils (like a cat) and non-venomous snakes have round pupils (like a dog). Of course, do not get close enough to look if you aren't certain!

, If you can do so safely, take a photo with your phone or with any camera you have handy. If the snake is aggressive and moving towards you, skip the photo and retreat.


Likewise, do not prevent the snake from escaping in order to take a picture. You could end up being bitten.
 If your vet can identify the bite area, your vet can swab the bite site using a snake detection kit to identify the snake venom. However, if you can give any details about the snake or your dog's reaction to the bite, it will help.
 You need to keep a calm head and focus on your dog's health. Getting your dog help should be your primary concern, so focus on it and don't lose your composure.
 Call your veterinary clinic ahead of time and tell them you are bringing in a dog with a snakebite. This will allow the vet to prioritize treating your dog once you arrive. It may also help them to make logistics arrangements to make the admissions process smoother, such as getting you a parking spot close to the clinic and retrieving your dog's health records.


Be aware that a dog showing signs of toxicity is not a problem that you can care for at home or will not stand a good chance of survival with first aid alone. The dog is likely to require anti-venom, intravenous fluids to support failing organs, and pain relief. All of these require the intervention of a veterinary professional.
 The farther away you are from the vet and the greater the amount of venom from the bite, the worse your dog's chances of survival. However, some basic first aid will increase your dog's chances of survival, especially during the car trip to the vet's:


Apply a pressure bandage to a limb bite but do not apply a tourniquet or bandage the wound too tightly. This will restrict blood flow too much.
Do not wash the bite area or cut the wound. Do not try to suck or squeeze out the venom.
The dog is likely to be in pain and restless. However, moving around increases blood circulation and spreads the toxin more rapidly. Try to keep your dog calm (and its heart rate down) by acting calm yourself and speaking to it in a reassuring manner. Do not encourage the dog to walk, instead carry him to your car., There are many myths when it comes to treating snakebites, and taking these actions can make matters worse rather than better. Avoid trying to suck venom out, cutting the animal to make it bleed, applying a tourniquet to localize the venom, and ice-packs over the site of the bite. These are all to be avoided.
 You may feel better if you know how the vet will probably treat your dog. Although treatment depends on the type of venom and the treatment facilities available, Your vet will likely:


Determine the stage of envenomation
Examine the site of the wound
Administer a snake detection test (blood or urine sample) and analyze the results
Give your dog intravenous fluids and appropriate anti-venom

Anti-venom is administered by slow intravenous injection. In a small number of cases the dog can be allergic to the anti-venom, in which case the outlook is poor. Many vets will administer an antihistamine at around the time the antivenom is given, in order to reduce the risk of a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis), which could send the dog into shock.
Intravenous fluids may be given to support the organs, especially the kidneys. Once the dog has recovered the vet may suggest monitoring its renal function with blood tests to check there was no lasting damage.Give your dog antihistamines, allergy reduction reduction drugs, painkillers, or sedatives if they are necessary

Broad spectrum antibiotics are generally given to protect against secondary infections as a result of tissue damage.In some cases the venom causes blood clotting disorders, which can lead to hemorrhage. The vet may assess the dog and decide that a blood transfusion is necessary or the administration of replacement clotting factors in order to prevent internal bleeding., The consequences of a bite can be extremely painful, and while the anti-venom can reduce the spread of the toxins, they do not deal with the pain. Expect recovery in 24 - 48 hours, but expect that your dog will take more time to get back to his old self. Set aside time to nurse your dog back to full health and ask the vet for advice.


The vet will likely use strong painkillers, such as those from the morphine family, to control the pain while the animal recovers.If the dog has nerve damage and difficulty breathing, it may need intensive care facilities, where it can be put in an oxygen tent or onto a respirator until it recovers.
 Some dogs suffer long term complications, such as damage to their kidneys. This will only reveal itself over time, and the vet will monitor your dog's renal function by taking regular blood tests.


Others recover from the toxin but suffer extensive areas of skin loss and sloughing because of damage done by swelling and the toxins. These will be managed by your veterinarian with antibiotics, pain relief, and dressing, with a view to a skin graft if necessary.