 Most pans come with an indented top, to make it easier to decorate it like a cupcake.;
, You need to decorate with a firm cake.
 Cover it with plastic wrap so that it doesn’t dry out.
 More than taste, it will serve as a glue to hold your fondant down.
 It is more important that you have an even layer than if it looks nice. The evenness of the top and sides will create an even base for the fondant.


Apply it to the top and rotate your cake to cover the angled surface.
If the cake is looking bare in places, add more frosting.
 Fondant should not sit out for long, or it will dry out., Then measure the angled height. You will need to double the height and add the width to find the diameter of your fondant circle.


For example, if your cupcake top is six inches wide and five inches from base to top, your round will need to be 16 inches wide to ensure it more than covers your cake top.
There will be more excess fondant than with a traditional cake

, Use a plastic fondant mat or cover your clean rolling space with a dusting of cornstarch.
 It will make it more pliable and ready to roll.
 Roll it into a circle, and then move the circle continuously to make an even circle. Always move from the middle to an inch from the outside of the circle.
 Cut off any spare fondant outside of your circle with a fondant cutter or knife.
, Pick up the sides of the rolling pin.
 Align the back edge of the fondant with an edge of the cupcake half. Roll the pin away from you so that the rest of the fondant slowly covers the cake., Smooth the fondant down from the center toward the base. Work slowly and smooth areas down below the bottom of the cake

, It is ok to have a wrinkle after the edge of the cake, because you can cut it off.
 Use your hands to indent the fondant along with the shape of the cupcake.
 Turn the cake so that you can see where the fondant meets the base. Smooth the bottom edges with your fingers, so that it adheres completely to the buttercream.
 Repeat with this process with the bottom section of the cake, usually in a different color of fondant, to mimic the look of a cupcake liner. You will need to cover the bottom of the cupcake by turning it upside down.
 Place it on a cake stand or base.
 Lay the top section on top of it. Take care to make the cupcake halves to align so that it looks like a real cupcake.
