 Rather than focusing on getting your own points across, stop and listen what the other person is saying. Focus on really listening, by breaking down their viewpoint and where they are coming from. Ask questions for clarification to show that you are interested and listening.Once they are done speaking, consider paraphrasing what they said. For example, say something like, "It sounds like you think he's the strong candidate due to his economic policies and his confident style of speaking. Is that right?"
Showing that you can listen will actually make for a more productive conversation because other people like to know they've been heard, even if you may disagree with their views.
 It's important that you are able to articulate your thoughts and views in a clear and concise way. If your points are clouded by strong emotions and anger, there is likely little opportunity for a productive conversation. The same goes for when someone else wants to speak their mind. This will likely just make both sides feel uncomfortable.Humility is key to effective communication, whether it's about politics or other hot-button issues. Show that you are interested in an open and shared conversation, rather than aggressive attack on other people's views.
Think before you speak. Be clear about what you want to say and why. Don't start talking and then end up having to back-pedal to figure out what your point was.
 Each person has a right to their own political views. While you may have strong views about the economy, certain social service programs, or the environment, conversations about these and other political issues are likely to go nowhere if you don't respect each other's rights. Give each person a chance to speak.For example, say, "I respect your opinion," or "I can see you viewpoint on this is important to you."
If you feel like you want to still show that you are strongly against their views but respect their rights to have a different opinion, consider very careful wording such as, "While I have a different opinion on this, I respect your right to a different viewpoint."
Know that respecting someone's right to have a different opinion doesn't mean you agree with the opinion. Avoid using language that implies that you agree with their viewpoint if you feel that it is deeply against your beliefs. If you cannot stand to listen to them speak, simply excuse yourself and walk away.
 Political conversations shouldn't be off-handed comments between you and a co-worker down a hallway at work. The same is true for conversations with distant relatives who seem to always bring up awkward political conversations at a large family gathering. Make sure that there is actual time for real, in-depth conversation if you want it to be productive.For example, ask your politically-minded co-worker out for lunch where a more productive conversation can take place. Focus on discussion rather than proving your point.
Or if you're with a politically active relative at a holiday party, talk with them privately in a space where you can actually have a more open, back-and-forth conversation.
If it seems like they really are just interested in spouting their own views without listening to you, accept that they may not be ready for a productive conversation.
 Being an informed person will help you to understand different political values and opinions. Being open to analyzing, or possibly challenging, your own political beliefs will help you to have more productive political conversations. Don't expect others to be self-reflective on their beliefs, without you having to do the same.


Think about where your beliefs come from. Understand that there are biases in every situation.
Don't think you're immune to being biased against one side or another. Think about where those biases come from, and whether your biases are rooted in facts or through people's perceptions.

