 A business broker can help you by finding and valuing potential businesses. They may also help you in the negotiation process. Although sellers usually have business brokers, more and more buyers are using them, too.Business brokers charge a commission, so they aren’t free. Typically, the fee is 10% of the purchase price.
Brokers also do the same tasks as lawyers and accountants, so it may be cheaper to skip the broker altogether.;
, You probably should have a lawyer help you with the process.An experienced lawyer can help you properly value the business and make a competitive bid. The lawyer can also help you secure necessary financing in a timely manner so that you can close the sale.


If you don’t have a business lawyer, then you can get a referral from your local or state bar association., You probably will also need an accountant’s help to understand the financial documents you are looking at. You should schedule an appointment with an accountant, who you can find in the following places:Ask another business owner if they would recommend their accountant.
Obtain a referral from your attorney.
Get a referral from your state’s Society of Certified Public Accountants.
 The SBA and local resource partners provide mentoring, counseling, and training. You can find local assistance by visiting the SBA website at https://www.sba.gov/tools/local-assistance. Enter your zip code.


For example, the SBA can help you draft and revise a business plan to show to potential lenders.The SBA also provides a wealth of online tutorials that address a variety of issues involved in starting a small business.
 This document opens the discussions. It is not an offer, and it doesn’t commit you to buying the business.However, it is a way to stop anyone else from buying the business while you investigate it. The letter should include the following information:your proposed purchase price
the assets you propose to buy
an exclusive right to negotiate for a limited amount of time
any conditions for the sale of the business, such as proof at closing that the business is worth a certain amount

, Business owners might hesitate to show you the books if they think you will disclose to others the financial condition. Accordingly, you may have to sign a confidentiality agreement.Make sure you run the agreement past your lawyer first.
 Get copies of the financial statements for the past three to five years. They should be audited statements, with an audit letter from a CPA firm. Don’t simply accept unaudited returns reviewed by the business.Pay attention to the owner’s discretionary income. This is the amount left after deducting for rent, overhead, and the cost of employees. If the ODI is declining, then be careful.The business’s best days may be behind it.
Definitely pull your CPA into the analysis so that you understand the financial health of the small business.
 Don’t make an offer until you look at the business’s tax returns for the past three to five years. By studying the returns, you can gauge how profitable the business has been as well as its tax liability.You also want to make sure that the owner has been paying sales tax accurately. After you buy a business, you are responsible for any sales tax the current owner has not paid to the government.You also should ask for a state “clearance certificate” that states that the taxing authority won’t come after you for sales tax owed.
 You can determine the business’s cash flow by separating out 30-, 60-, and 90-day accounts receivable and accounts payable. Doing so allows you to see whether the business promptly pays its bills and whether its clients also pay their bills on time., A profitable business could have high liabilities, so you need to check if the business is facing any legal issues. You can ask that the business owner present you with a list of the following:business debts
any lawsuits filed against it
any liens on the business
other claims

, In addition to tax returns and financial statements, you also want to request and study the following business documents before making an offer:Contracts and leases. If there is a current lease, then you must work with the landlord to assume the current lease.
Customer lists. You want to make sure the business has a customer base appropriate to a business of its size.
Employee and manager contracts. If you intend to keep employees, then you need to understand what they get paid and the terms of their employment.
Advertising materials.
 You can’t rely only on numbers and spreadsheets. Instead, you need to understand how well-respected the business is. If you buy a business with a poor reputation, then you are setting yourself up to fail.


Hang out around town and ask the locals about the business. You can talk to people at the library, coffee shops, or senior centers.Also check with the police to see if any complaints have been lodged against the business. You can also check complaints with the Better Business Bureau.
 You should discuss any employment considerations, such as salary and fringe benefits. If the current owner wants to leave the business, then you will need to discuss a possible “covenant not to compete.”This is an agreement the current owner will sign, agreeing not to work for a competitor or start a new business within a certain amount of time.
You may have to pay more for the business if you want the owner to agree not to work for a competitor.
 A business that has been successful in the past might not remain that way. You should consider whether the business is likely to succeed in the future. For example, think about the following:


Is the business located in a city or town that is going downhill? Is the location no longer a popular one for consumers?Think about the business’s current largest competitor and whether a new competitor is considering opening nearby.
 You have many options, including the following:Rollovers for Business Startups (ROBS). You purchase a company by using the money in a retirement account. You generally need to work with a company who specializes in this type of financing.
SBA loans. The U.S. Small Business Administration works with lenders to guarantee certain loans. With the guarantee, the SBA agrees to repay a portion of the loan if you default.
Conventional bank loans. If you don’t qualify for an SBA loan, then you can get a conventional loan.
Seller financing. You might be able to get the seller to finance the sale. This will not be available in all situations, and the seller might only finance a portion of the sale price.
Other credit. You might also be able to get a loan from family or friends, or possibly take out a Home Equity Line of Credit.
 With a ROBS, you use equity built up in a retirement account such as 401(k) or 403(b). You can free up the money to use within 3-4 weeks. You won’t incur taxes or penalties.However, ROBS have many downside risks which you should think through before going ahead. For example, you need to work with a company that specializes in ROBS. This company will probably charge a large fee.There are also annual reporting requirements to the IRS.
Furthermore, you put your retirement at risk if the business fails. Once you spend the money, it’s gone.
 You don’t get an SBA loan from the Small Business Administration. Instead, you get one with a bank and the SBA backs it. SBA loans offer competitive interest rates and have the longest payback periods.However, you generally need excellent credit—a score above 680.
You also need a large down payment, such as 10-30% of the business price.
 If you want to get a loan from a bank—even an SBA loan—you will need to show the lender a business plan.Your plan should explain why you want to buy the business. It should also include at least three years of financial projections., Each lender has different requirements and different forms you will need to complete. You should call as soon as possible. Here are helpful tips for securing financing:Check your credit report before applying for a loan. Correct any errors on the report. If you have poor credit, you need to repair it as soon as possible.
Try to get pre-approved from a lender. You have to provide the lender with information upfront, such as the business you intend to purchase and how you intend to repay the loan.
Get pre-approval from more than one lender. The bank’s lending requirements might change by the time you get to closing. If so, you can hop to a different lender.
Prepare to pay 15-20% as a down payment.
Identify collateral. Banks are hesitant to lend to small businesses. Accordingly, you may have to pledge assets as collateral. Some banks want to see enough collateral to cover 50-70% of the loan amount.
 You might need to adjust the price based on your due diligence. You should negotiate with the owner. Be prepared to back up any price with reasons why you are lowering the amount that you gave in your Letter of Intent. The price should reflect the following:any prorated rent
utility and other fees
value of inventory
accounts receivable and accounts payable

, You should have your lawyer draft a sales agreement. If the seller’s lawyer drafts it, then you can have your lawyer review it. The sales agreement will finalize the sale, and will list the business assets that you are purchasing, such as customer lists and intellectual property., You want to make sure the sale is legal, so there are many documents you and your lawyer will have to review at the closing. Make sure to go through the following:evidence that the business is in good standing with the state
tax releases
corporate resolution approving the sale
any promissory note if the seller is offering financing

, The bill of sale is proof that the sale has gone through. At the closing, you and your attorney should review it.You will want to keep a signed copy. It is also the document that transfers ownership of business assets., This document lists the details of the sale. You should have negotiated or addressed everything listed on the settlement sheet.Your attorney will typically draft this document. However, if you use an escrow to close the sale, then the escrow agent will prepare it., When you received financing, you probably had to pledge assets as “security” (collateral) for the loan. This means that if you default, your creditor can seize the assets. At closing, you probably had to sign security agreements.


You also have to record these security interests with the Secretary of State in the state where you purchased your small business.Your lawyer should be able to handle this filing.
 You must complete IRS Form 8594 Asset Acquisition Statement. The form indicates the amount of the assets and how you purchased the business.You will need this information for your tax return.


The form and its instructions are available at https://www.irs.gov/uac/form-8594-asset-acquisition-statement-under-section-1060.

