 Once she knows you care—and seems to care about you too—it might be time to ask her to spend more time alone with you. Tell her that you like her, and ask her out on a date.


Asking a girl out doesn't have to mean that you're exclusive, and it doesn't need to be anything more than an invitation. It is a way to tell her outright that you care about her, and it is a way to test whether she cares about you too.
 Whatever your relationship to this girl, telling her outright is the easiest and most straightforward way to let her know that you care about her. Find a time when the two of you are alone, and wait until the moment is right. Say, "I just want you to know that I care a lot about you, and that I really value our time together." Make it genuine, and make it sweet.If you know the girl well, you can bring this up just about whenever you like; but if you are still beginning your relationship, you may consider waiting for a quiet and sentimental moment. Tell her when you're sitting together on the lawn, or when you're staring at the stars, or when you've been walking together for more than a few minutes.
This admission doesn't need to be in a romantic context. It can just be a statement to a friend: "I just want you to know that I have your back," or "You should know that I really value your presence in my life."

, Give her specific compliments and insights. Tell her why you care, or what you care about. Say, "I really value the time that we spend eating lunch together each day," or "I feel that we've grown really close over the past few months, and I care a lot about the conversations we have."


Keep it simple. You don't need to impose any expectations onto her, and your care doesn't need to be anything more than what it is. Make it clear that you mean what you say, and that you aren't trying to get anything from her.
 If you really care about this girl, make sure that she doesn't forget it. Show her that you appreciate her every day that you see her. Don't be overbearing; but let your care flow into every action. Find new ways to tell her that you care, whether that means a compliment ("You look beautiful today,") or an appreciation ("I really appreciate your smile and your positive spirit. You always manage to brighten my day.")