 In order for other people to think you're "hot," you have to believe it to be true yourself. If you don't like your skin, clear it up; if you don't like your hair, get it cut or grow it out. Don't change yourself to meet someone else's standards. Instead, make yourself the kind of beautiful you want to be.;
, Try getting a haircut two weeks before school starts. Go to a salon instead of a family member. Try looking through magazines to look for good hairstyles with your head shape or ask a stylist for suggestions. Try getting a good haircut every few months.
 You should wear whatever makes you comfortable. If you're going for that "No Makeup" makeup look try going for natural tones. You can add eyeliner which will give a bolder look to your eyes. If you want your eyes to appear bigger, try taking a brown liner and line it from the middle of your lash line out. Add mascara to make your eyes open up and look more awake.
 Try going for necklaces or bracelets. You can wear earrings as well. Hoop earrings or studs, whatever fits with your style and what you like best. Remember that being seen as "hot" you have to feel it. So if you can't wait to take something off, maybe you shouldn't be wearing it. Some stores you can get earrings at are: Claire's, forever 21, justice, and many others too!

, If you like your upper half better, try wearing lighter colored tops or blouses and darker bottoms. (Dress with lighter colored bottoms if you like your lower half better.) This will draw peoples' attention to the lighter colored top/bottom first. Some stores are: Macy's, Aeropostale, American Eagle, Hollister, Forever 21, but anywhere that you can find clothes you are comfortable in is good.
 Try going for a bold color and make it neat. It won't look good if you aren't patient it will look messy. If you have very short nails try getting a cuticle gel that can make your cuticles stronger when they grow out. If you want your nails to grow faster get a nail growth miracle from Sally Hansen, it works wonders.
 If you feel more comfortable in glasses, then try finding frames that suit your face. You can ask the salesperson for help on finding the right frame for you.
 Try to not go 3 days or more without taking a shower. When you wash your hair, try to put conditioner only on the ends.If your hair is oily, wash your hair every other day and in between use dry shampoo. If you have dandruff you could get a shampoo that helps dandruff like Head and Shoulders. You should wash your hair with shampoo and conditioner for your hair type and needs (frizzy, oily, dry, flat, etc.). Some great brands are Herbal Essences (smells amazing), Aussie (great if your hair gets really greasy within a few days), Pantene (if you just want clean), Garnier Fructis (good if you have thinner hair), and TresSemme (another amazing brand).
 It's true, you can shave or wax your legs but try waxing more than shaving it last longer and grows back thinner.
 Use deodorant, perfume/body spray, take care of your dental health, and shave to smell like a goddess.
, If people are mean to you, don't listen to them. They might be insecure about themselves. They might be jealous or they are just mean people and in that case there is not point in listening.
 If someone asks to borrow something, try to lend it to them; if someone's having trouble with something, offer to help them. It's the little things that make people realize what a good person you are.

