 If you are traveling through or living in an area where cholera is present, only drink water that is either bottled or has been treated. Bottled water is always a good bet, so long as the bottle cap is sealed when you purchase the water.


Make sure you wipe the lip and cap of any bottle to remove any lingering cholera bacteria that might have gotten on the outside of the bottle.
 If you are in an area known to have cholera, treat or purify any water you get before you drink it. There are many ways to purify water, but some of the best and most efficient include:


Boiling the water. Put the water in a clean pot or heat-resistant container and bring it to a boil over heat. Continue to let the water boil and bubble for at least one minute, then remove it from the heat. Let the water cool down a bit before you drink.
Use bleach. Add around eight drops of bleach to a gallon of water or two drops of bleach for every one liter of water. Shake and let the water stand for at least 30 minutes before you drink it.Use iodine purification tablets or liquid. Iodine works as a water purifier, which you can get prepackaged as tablets at most outdoor adventure stores and pharmacies. Follow the instructions on tablets’ packaging. If you have a liquid 2% tincture of iodine, you can add five drops to every quart of clear water., Storing your clean, treated water properly is very important. Make sure you keep your water in clean, airtight containers. Use treated water to clean your containers and keep them covered if you store them outside.


This will ensure that cholera bacteria does not get on the containers through contaminated rinsing water.
 To prevent the spread of cholera bacteria, you should follow proper hand hygiene. Follow the three minute rule when washing your hands. Start by wetting your hands and lathering them with soap. Rub your palms together and then rub the backs of each of your hands for at least 20 seconds. Clean the areas between your fingers and then work your way up to your wrists. Rinse your hands thoroughly with clean water and then pat them dry. This should all take about three minutes.You should also wash your hands often.


Wash your hands before preparing a meal and eating. You should also wash them after eating.
Remember to wash after going to the bathroom, changing soiled diapers, and caring for someone with diarrhea.
Clean your hands with hand sanitizer if there is no soap present.
 You should always defecate in a bathroom. However, sometimes this may not be possible, like when you are hiking in a remote part of a third world country. If you do have to go to the bathroom outside, make sure that you get as far away from a water source as possible because it can contaminate the water.


After going to the bathroom, bury your feces and wash your hands with clean water and soap.You can also defecate into a plastic bag, tie it up, and bury it far away from a water source.
If you are concerned a bathroom might have cholera in it, clean it with a bleach mixture. Mix one part bleach with nine parts water and clean everything thoroughly.
 The cholera virus thrives in contaminated water, which means you should not eat food that is raw. This means that all your food, including meat and vegetables, has not been cooked at all. This is a good rule to follow whenever you are in a foreign country, but is particularly important when you are in an area affected by cholera.Always check to make sure that your food is thoroughly cooked. One of the best ways to do this is by cooking the food yourself. If you do happen to go out to eat, don’t be afraid to ask the waiter how a certain dish is prepared.
Always wash fruit with treated water and stick to fruit that has a protective layer that you don’t eat, such as a papaya, passion fruit, or orange.
Only eat cooked seafood. Make sure that it is cooked all the way through and try to eat it while it is still hot. , Make sure that you and your surroundings are always clean, which will help to keep you from getting cholera. Bathe twice a day with water that has been treated. If you can’t bathe with treated water, try to keep water from getting into your eyes, mouth, nose, and ears.Ensure that your bathroom is at least 30 meters, or 98.4 ft, from your water source. This will prevent your water source from contamination.
 There are certain situations that are cause more of a risk than others. During these situations, you need to be extra careful and follow as many safety precautions as possible. These situations include:


Travel to epidemic areas
Exposure to food or water that has been contaminated
Having O type blood, since these individuals are more severely affected by cholera compared to blood group type AB
Having a low gastric acid secretion
A history of gastrectomy
Taking acid-suppressing medications