 Bond is so likable because he is charming. To be charming, you need to interact with people effectively by knowing what makes them tick. This requires showing an interest in others, listening carefully and reflecting back that you've heard them, all the while observing their body language and demeanor. A good listener is a flatterer and charm is all about flattery.


Improve your people skills if they're not already top notch by learning the art of conversation, the intricacies of small talk and the skill of active listening. Improve your ability to read body language. And learn to read between the lines, to understand that the things that people aren't saying are just as important as what they actually say. You can learn and master every single one of these skills if you're determined.

Improve your wit. 007 can always turn a bad situation into a funny one. Wit is a game of skill, so if you haven't got it yet, practice Bond's lines and branch out with your own when you feel comfortable. The internet has many examples of witticisms you can "borrow" until it feels more natural.
Learn how to speak some of the basics of the more popular languages; knowing other languages will open more doors around the world and keep you culturally attuned. If nothing else, be able to say "Hello" and "How are you?" in the world's most prominent languages: Mandarin, Arabic, Spanish, French, Russian and German.

Tell good stories. Bond is a storyteller, in the tradition of all charismatic persons. Storytelling is a skill, just as good conversational skills are; it's about taking the listener to a place or situation filled with interest, intrigue, dynamism and excitement. Use strong verbs, descriptive language and leave out the boring details that hold the story back.;
, Bond is rarely disheveled, for he takes pride in the appearance that he presents. Whether it's formal or casual, his clothing is of good quality, well pressed and tailored to fit. If you can't afford tailoring, don't despair — it's about trying clothing on for fit and ignoring the sizing — brands vary so much by sizes but the test of truth is in trying the outfits on and going by feel and look. If the item sits well on you, then it's something that will bring confidence and comfort for you; if it's baggy, too tight or looks like something your grandfather might have worn, don't even think about it. Good grooming includes paying attention to the following:



Iron your clothes before wearing. Pressed clothing always gives the impression of a man who cares about his appearance.

Polish your shoes. If they're the type of shoe that requires polishing, keep them polished regularly. Shoes that can't be polished should be clean, neat and regularly maintained.
If you wear a tie, don't make a statement with it — avoid loud colors, childish or frantic patterns, and unusual widths. Keep it understated and matching with your outfit: cool, calm, and collected.
If you wear accessories, such as a watch or a shirt pocket handkerchief, ensure that they're of top quality. People notice these things immediately because they stand out. You want to be judged by others as tasteful and time-tested.
 As a spy, Bond has ample opportunities to be daring. You may not be a spy, but you will have opportunities in life to show courage and to take reasonable risks. Life is a balance of risk and caution. Know when it's reasonable to risk it, and when it's reasonable to withdraw back to safety. Step outside of your comfort zone now and then, and try new adventures regularly to stay engaged with all life has to offer.


Talk to a lady with exuberant confidence and deadpan delivery. Does Bond worry about rejection? You can bet your tail he doesn't. Don't go into the conversation expecting anything. If she's interested, your boldness will have been rewarded. If she's not, your ego needs nothing more than a smoky, peaty scotch to soothe its temporary bruise.
Consider asking for a raise. 007 knows how much he's worth. Do you? If you've been working at your company for more than a year without even a nominal raise, think about having a chat with your boss. Understand what you are doing before you try to negotiate a raise; you might not get what you want. But nothing ventured, nothing gained. Right Mr. Bond?
Flirt with disaster (in a safe way). Have you ever been skydiving or bungee jumping? How about race car driving? Consider doing any of the above with an experienced professional. When put between a rock and a hard place, Bond merely shoots out of the tangle at incredibly fast speeds. You might, too.
 Bond doesn't do complicated. Whether it's his work, his relationships or his life in general, he aims to sort things out so that they're simple enough without being too simple. If you don't want long-term relationships, be open about this from the beginning — it's unkind to leave people dangling and it's going to complicate things too much for you if you're not clear. As for your work life, avoid entangling yourself with office politics as much as possible because it makes matters unnecessarily messy, distracting you from getting on with what really matters.



Be sophisticated while remaining uncomplicated. Choose the best and discard the rest — you don't need those dollar store or sale table bargains. One coat will do instead of a whole wardrobe filled with sales knock-offs. One French champagne is better than a dozen sparkling wines from the specials bin.
Familiarize yourself with the top-shelf. You don't have to be bleeding cash to taste a little bit of the good life. Treat yourself every once in a while to the very best, the crème de la crème, of life. Save and skimp for a while so you know what it's like to taste Johnny Walker Blue Label, or what it's like to wear a Patek Philippe watch.
If you can afford expensive cars and gadgets, keep these uncomplicated too. One beautiful car to lavish your attention on is sufficient — a garage full of them is just boastful and time-sapping. Ditto the gadgets — just how many can you play with in a day? Keep it real.
 You might not be able to jet off to Monte Carlo or live it up in Rio during the carnival, but you can avail yourself of beautiful places near you. Choose places that are naturally beautiful, such as beaches, local forests, or mountains near your locale; spend time relaxing in nature with your loved ones. Whether you're camping or staying in a five star resort, you can make the most of the world's beauty by appreciating it and making it the backdrop for your vacation activities, just as Bond would do.
 Self-defense is the the art of getting out of fights as much as possible and engaging when there's no other choice. In the case of actual engagement, good self-defense skills will enable you to disarm an opponent, not simply through force, but also through anticipation and focus. A Martial art is highly recommended because you'll learn the skills of reading people, staying aware, avoiding combat and engaging artfully when the need arises. Martial arts also help to increase confidence and maintain flexibility of both body and mind.



Stay fit. Your primary defense is fitness, an ability to move agilely, to run fast, to react quickly, etc. Bond is always in good shape through daily exercise and workouts, a healthy habit to adopt in your life too.
Improve your street smarts. Be more alert and aware of your surroundings — look around and think ahead to see the things that others don't. Always be thinking one or more steps ahead of others around you, asking yourself "if this happens, then…". Notice things that are out of context or out of character and be alert for what this may mean. Again, noticing more about the people and world around you is a skill you can hone.

Swim. Bond is a brilliant swimmer, both distance and underwater. Swimming is great all-round fitness and who knows when you might need to swim for any length of time to escape your foes?

, Bond knows that women are his equal and can hold their own in any situation. Treat women with respect wherever you go; this mantra is important both for forming solid and loyal relationships, but also maintaining healthy self-esteem. A man with good self-esteem doesn't need to put down women to feel better.


Be a gentleman through and through. Hold the door open for her when she's nearby. Avoid barbaric displays of swearing or hooliganism. Be warm and inviting to her mother — you'll be happy you did.
 Bond upgrades as often as possible, keeping abreast of all the new developments. He isn't threatened by change but embraces it willingly, often with gusto. You will find the world a less threatening place when you're prepared to acknowledge that life keeps changing and when you're willing to give new things a go and bring them into your own life.


Read the newspaper every day. Aim for a newspaper with an international feel, so that you can learn about developments around the world. Special interest and lifestyle should take a necessary back seat to politics and world news.
Make friends in high places. Not only will friends in high places benefit your career and your social life, they might make you privy to certain information that won't appear in newspapers and news sources. And while you're probably not going to need the information for spying or selling government secrets, they do make great cocktail stories.
 Bond thrives on quality food — fast food outlets are not his style. Healthy, unprocessed food is a source of good energy, brain power and longevity. As for drinks, be a connoisseur of alcoholic drinks, not a guzzler. Bond enjoys a refreshing drink here and there (in particular, the famous shaken-not-stirred vodka martini). Yet, he doesn't over-indulge as a rule. Staying alert and healthy requires taking a sensible approach to alcohol.


Have a go-to cocktail that you can call your own. You don't need to guzzle martinis like it's Prohibition, but you should know what you like to drink and which drinks like you. That way, you can fire off a request to the bartender tout suite and start scoping the scene for villains or vixens.
If you don't know how to cook, start learning. It's yet another skill that is easy to learn when you put your mind to it. Cooking frees you from relying on others to produce your meal, as well. Best of all, cooking will keep you healthy and fed wherever you may find yourself.

Eat with etiquette. Know how to hold the cutlery, chopsticks, etc. and know how to deal with fiddly or sloppy food so that you don't make a mess. Chew with your mouth closed and avoid making eating noises. And keep your elbows off the table.
Be hospitable. Always be ready to pop the bubbly and throw an event to entertain your friends. Whether you're rich or not-so-rich, there is always time for sharing food and good conversation with friends.
 Bond always has a Plan B, whether it's a spy mission, a confrontation with the boss or a date. There's no need to vocalize your changed intentions––Bond doesn't do that, he just gets on with things as needed, to sort out a bad situation and make it good again. And apply common sense to all that you do, just as Bond would.
 A good memory makes the world your oyster, just as Bond proves. It enables you to remember all the small details about people, the conversations you've had and the experiences you've lived through in intimate detail. Knowledge is power and memory is the way to retain that knowledge and keep hold of that power. A good memory is something Bond treasures, as it enables him to speak different languages, keep tabs on the people he meets again throughout his life, and harness the processing power to crack tricky puzzles.


Play memory games when you can. Use mnemonic devices to assist in your quest to strengthen your memory: Limericks, acrostics, and acronyms are all helpful in making you a memory savant.
Sleep enough, eat healthy, and keep stress levels low. Sleep helps you boost your memory, as can certain omega-3 foods and antioxidants.Stress destroys brain cells and negatively affects the hippocampus, an area in the brain involved in memory formation and retrieval. Get good sleep when you aren't saving the world; treat yourself to a hearty salmon fillet with spinach at your finest establishment; and don't stress too much about the Russian oligarchs trying to disrupt the balance of world power.
 Even though Bond may seem free and loose with his loving ways, he is capable of nurturing love, which the case of Vesper Lynd makes clear. Treasure the people you love and care about. Realize that these people are the ones who make life what it really is — all the fast cars, sleek gadgets and chic lifestyles cannot replace the love and friendship of those who trust you and are always there for you.

