 A simple way that you can boost your study sessions, is to make some flashcards that have your spelling words on them. To make a flash card, simply write down a spelling word on one side of the card and leave the other blank. You can use flashcards in a few different ways to help you study more effectively. Try studying with flashcards using some of these methods:


Glance at the side of the card with the word on it. Flip the card over and try to spell the word from memory.
Have a friend read the word out-loud to you. Try to spell the word without looking. Have your friend tell you if your spelling was correct.
Review your cards anytime to get more familiar with how to properly spell your words.
 While you can do well studying alone, studying with a friend can give you some extra help. You can both improve your spelling skills as you work together to memorize the words on your list. Try scheduling study sessions with a friend to get in some extra practice and make learning your words a bit more fun.


Studying with a friend can allow you both to quiz each other.
Both quizzing and being quizzed will give you practice.
Try including a fun competition to see who can spell the most words correctly.
 Mnemonics are mental associations that can be used to help remember things. You can use basic mnemonic methods to help you remember the correct spelling of the words on your spelling test. Consider using some of the following examples of mnemonics to help you do well on your test:You can use acronyms to help with tough words. For example, the word "weird" could be remembered by assigning a word to each letter. "Would everyone inside read documents?" could be the saying you use to remember how to spell the word "weird".
Try including difficult areas of a word in your mnemonic. For example, Sep"arat"e is "a rat of a word to spell" could help you remember the tricky middle section of the word separate.
 The English language is made up of words that were borrowed from many other language families. Because of this, many of the words in English can be difficult to spell. However, learning the language of origin for a word can give you some hints when you are remembering how to spell it. Take a look at some of these examples to get a better idea of how learning the origins of words can help you spell them:Many English words come from Latin. In words with a Latin origin, most "K" sounds are spelled with the letter C. Many "S" sounds will be spelled with an "SC" combination.
Words with Greek origins may spell the short I sound with the letter Y. For example, in the word "symbiotic", the "y" has the sound of a short i.

