 This is especially important if you have a chronic illness or a history of heart disease. Most people can handle some amount of exercise, but some people need to keep it milder than others, at least at first. Ask your doctor what level of physical movement is best for you and what the best way to get active might be.The most important thing is to make sure you avoid being sedentary where you can.With your doctor, make a plan to accommodate your lifestyle change. For example, if you’re diabetic, you may need to alter your calorie intake or meal times.
 If you haven’t exercised in a long time, don’t try to do too much right away. Start off with just ten minutes of aerobic exercise at a time. You can space these out into different times of the day if you feel comfortable doing so. Gradually work your way up to 30 minutes a day.Make sure to warm up before your aerobic exercise by gently stretching your muscles.
Stay hydrated as you work out.
Cool down after you’ve finished your workout. You can do this by continuing to move at a lower rate for a couple minutes after you’re done exercising. You should also gently stretch your muscles again.
Your goal should be to exercise for at least 150 every week, preferably doing some level of moderate physical activity every day for at least ten minutes.Another option is to do de-weighted training, especially if you are obese. This involves seeing a physical therapist and doing exercises inside the pool. This is different than water aerobics. Some therapy facilities also offer classes for people with arthritis and musculoskeletal problems.
 It’s natural to dislike or even dread exercise at first if you’re not used to it. The key is to keep at it, even if you don’t like it right away. The more you do it, the more you’ll look forward to it and enjoy it. In the meantime, work at thinking positively about your new regimen.


Focus on short-term goals like stress reduction and mood improvement. You will see these results much faster than you’ll see long-term results like weight loss and muscle strength. Focusing on the short term will help you to see the immediate improvement that regular exercise can cause in your day-to-day life.As you exercise, pay close attention to how your body is moving and feeling. Pay attention to your breathing and heart rate and try to focus on the moment, rather than how long you have left until it’s over. This will help you to keep track of improvements and problems. It will also reduce stress and make the time go by faster., Exercising may be difficult, but it should never hurt. If you feel sharp pains or experience shortness of breath, dizziness, or chest pains while exercising, stop right away and talk to your doctor.You should also stop if a joint swells or changes color or hurts when you touch it.