 If you feel that you're eating a lot of ultra-processed foods, it's a good idea to think about eliminating them from your diet. To get a good idea of how many processed items you're eating and when, start keeping a food journal.


Buy a paper journal or download of a food journaling app. Start tracking all your meals and snacks before you've made any changes to your diet.
Make sure to track every breakfast, lunch, dinner, snack, beverage and little nibbles you take throughout the day. The more accurate you are, the more this food journal will be helpful.
Keep a food journal for a couple of days or a week. Then, look back over your journal and highlight or circle items that you ate that were ultra-processed (like that fast food meal at lunch or diet soda in the afternoon).
Write a list of the ultra-processed foods you typically eat so you can begin to cut these foods out gradually.
You may be tempted to take a cold turkey approach — that is, cutting out all ultra-processed foods from your diet at once. This is often an ineffective approach, especially if the bulk of your meals are processed foods. Instead, make a goal to reduce consumption of these items by half. If you currently drink two diet sodas daily, try to reduce to one diet soda daily for a week or a month. Then cut it out all together and move on to the next item on your list.;
, One common group of ultra-processed foods is the meat group. Items like hot dogs or salami go through a significant amount of processing and even have been linked to adverse health conditions. Avoid these to help you cut out ultra-processed foods.


Processed meats contain a lot of added sodium and preservatives. Studies have shown that when people have eaten large quantities of these items or eat them frequently they have increased risk of cancer (like colorectal cancer).Avoid meats like: hot dogs, bacon, sausage, salami, deli meat, canned meats and beef jerky.
Try to limit how often you eat these foods. Eating a hot dog once a year at the ballpark is reasonable. Grilling hot dogs every weekend is probably too often.
If you do consume these foods, only have a small portion of about 3 – 4 oz or 1/2 cup. Make sure to measure so you don't overdo it with these ultra-processed meats., Another big group of highly and ultra-processed foods are carbohydrates. This group can include things like sugary cereals, cakes, pies, and breakfast pastries. Cut these out so you can minimize ultra-processed foods from your diet.


Ultra-processed carbohydrates are a dangerous grouping of food to eat frequently. They're associated with weight gain and increased risk of heart disease and diabetes.Avoid processed carbohydrates like: sugary cereals, white bread, pasta and rice mixes, boxed macaroni and cheese, donuts and breakfast pastries, chips and buttery crackers.
Although a small serving of these foods won't hurt, make sure to measure the portion size so you do not over do it. Most grains (like bread, cereal or pasta) should be measured to a max of about 1/2 cup per portion., If you're in the mood for a snack, definitely skip the processed junk foods. These usually fall into the ultra-processed group and provide little to no beneficial nutrition.


Processed junk foods may include foods that have ultra-processed meats (like jerky) and ultra-processed carbohydrates (like crackers or chips). These foods are known to be high in sodium or sugar and calories. These foods when eaten regularly can lead to weight gain, heart disease and diabetes.In addition, these foods don't keep you feeling satisfied long. You may go for chips as a snack and feel hungry soon after.Try to choose healthier, more nutritious snacks instead of typical junk foods like: chips, crackers, cookies, snack cakes, candies, ice cream, popsicles, pretzels and cakes or pies. Before eating a snack, ask yourself — "What will this food item do for me? What vitamins/minerals will it give me?"

, Outside of foods, there are also very processed and ultra-processed beverages. Many of these drinks contain very few if any natural ingredients. Stay away from these beverages as you eliminate ultra-processed foods from your diet.


Processed beverages are generally high in sugar. These sweet drinks can cause weight gain, tooth decay, heart disease and diabetes.In addition, your don't feel satisfied or full from drinking so many people do not curb their total calorie intake when consuming high calorie beverages.
Avoid beverages and drinks like: regular and diet sodas, fruit juice cocktails, sweetened coffee drinks, alcohol, sports drinks and energy drinks.
Remember: the only beverage our bodies actually need is water. Water flushes toxins out of vital organs, carries nutrients to your cells, and keeps tissues in your throat, ear, and nose moist.
 One particular section of the grocery store that may have more ultra-processed foods is the frozen aisles. Many of these foods are overly processed and are either higher in fat, sodium, sugar or a combination.


However, you can also find some very healthy, minimally processed foods in the freezer — frozen vegetables. These are actually preferable to canned vegetables, as they have less sodium.
Many other frozen foods (like TV dinners) still are overly processed. Like other processed foods that are high in sodium, fat or sugar, these foods can also increase your risk for weight gain if eaten regularly.Typical frozen foods that are ultra-processed include: TV dinners (even the "healthy" or "diet" ones), french fries, tater tots, breakfast sandwiches, breakfast bowls, pizzas, desserts and vegan or vegetarian items.
 Outside of grocery store items, you can also find ultra-processed foods at some restaurants (fast food restaurants in particular). Make sure to be careful about where you're eating your meals out to avoid ultra-processed foods.


Many fast food restaurants serve ultra-processed foods. Although they have gotten better about providing less processed, more nutritious foods, some of the "old standbys" are overly processed.
Also, foods from gas stations or convenience stores may also be overly processed. The pre-made or pre-cooked items may use foods like processed meats or processed carbohydrates.
Avoid foods like: hot dogs or sausages, chicken wings, frozen ice drinks, chicken nuggets, deli meat sandwiches, pancakes and the accompanying sauces.
 When trying to avoid processed foods, it's important to learn how to read the food label. This is present on all packaged goods and all ultra-processed foods, and can help you determine whether or not you should consume a particular food.


Both the nutrition fact panel and ingredient list are required to be on every packaged item. They are generally found on the side or back of the package.The first thing you need to look at is the serving size. Although this won't tell you how processed an item is, it will tell you how much you're supposed to eat of that item and how many calories, fat, grams of sugar or milligrams of sodium you're consuming for that serving.Pay attention to how many servings are in a container. The nutrition stats for a single serving may not look too bad — until you realized there are four servings in a container.
If a food has a relatively high amount of sugar, sodium or fat (especially saturated and trans fat) it may be highly processed. 20% of your daily value is considered high.
Also read the ingredient list. This is another key area where you'll figure out whether or not an items is ultra processed. Ingredients are listed from the highest quantity to the smallest quantity.
If you see a lot of ingredients you cannot pronounce or do not know what they are, it's most likely an ultra-processed item. In addition, if it's a product that has multiple items listed on the ingredient list, this also usually signals that it's ultra processed.
 An easy way to cut back or eliminate the ultra-processed foods is to quit purchasing them and make more nutritious and more natural versions at home.


When you cook and prepare things from scratch, you're able to control exactly what goes into your foods. You can control whether or not your food is organic, how much sugar you add or how much fat or sodium you add to the food.
You can also use ingredients that are minimally processed as well. For example, you may want to give up eating white bread and make your own bread at home. Using organic 100% stone ground wheat flour is a great minimally processed ingredient to use.
Studies show that when you cook and prepare more things from home, you eat more fruits and vegetables and have an easier time managing your weight., Skip the fast food restaurants and processed deli meat at lunch and pack your own less processed and nutritious meal. This will help you avoid those ultra-processed meals.If you pack your lunch, you may not be as tempted to go out to a fast food restaurant or order lunch in. You'll be confident you have your own nutritious meal to eat.
Try lunches like: spinach salad with home-grilled chicken breast and homemade dressing, roasted turkey breast sliced on whole wheat bread with cheese, homemade chili with a sprinkling of cheese and onions or a homemade "protein pack" with sliced cheese, fruit and nuts.
To make sure your lunch stays cold and fresh, consider purchasing an insulated lunch box. Or freeze a water bottle and keep it with your lunch items until you can put it in the refrigerator.
 If you're in the mood for a snack, consider skipping the vending machine (which may be full of ultra-processed foods) and choose a more nutritious and less processed snack.If you can, consider packing your snacks and bringing them with you. That way, you're not tempted to grab something from a convenience store, fast food restaurant or vending machine.
If you're in the mood for a sweet treat, try the following: greek yogurt with fruit, homemade trail mix with dried fruit and nuts, a piece of fruit and peanut butter or a homemade granola bar.
If you rather have something salty or savory, go for: a homemade roasted nut mix, homemade beef jerky, raw vegetables and homemade hummus, a cheese stick and fruit or a hard boiled egg sprinkled with some salt.
 Skip those sweetened beverages and stick to the best drink — water. This will help keep you hydrated and support a healthy lifestyle.


Drinking an adequate amount of water (or other clear, hydrating fluids) is essential for proper health. It's important for your body's fluid balance, temperature regulation and ability to transport nutrients to your body's cells.Without water, you can become dehydrated.
Men should drink 13 cups (3 liters) of fluids each day and women should drink 9 cups (2.2 liters).Instead of the processed drinks, go for: plain water, sparkling water, decaf coffee or decaf tea.
 When you've cut out ultra-processed foods from your diet, you may find that you need a little extra help planning a more well-balanced and nutritious diet. Write up a meal plan to give you a guide on what you should eat.A meal plan is a list of foods and meals that you plan on eating during the entire day or week. Use a meal plan app or a sheet of paper and write down every breakfast, lunch, dinner and snack that you plan on having each day of the week.
This meal plan will also serve as a guide to come up with your grocery list. You'll know exactly what you need to purchase and not rely on buying ultra-processed foods., Since processed meats are not a nutritious food, it's important that you make smart choices when choosing protein-based foods.


Protein is an essential nutrient in your diet. By eating a source of protein at each meal and snack you can be sure you're consuming enough of this important nutrient every day.
Make sure to go for minimally processed and lean protein sources. These are naturally lower in calories, fat and preservatives.Measure out a 3 – 4 oz or 1/2 cup serving of protein foods. Include items like: seafood, poultry, eggs, low-fat dairy, lean beef, pork, beans, lentils or nuts.
Some proteins, like canned beans, are processed but only minimally. They have very few added ingredients and are an appropriate food to include in a well-balanced diet.
 Another very important set of food groups are the fruit and vegetable groups. These nutrient-packed foods need to make up about half of most of your meals.Both fruits and vegetables are naturally low in calories, but high in fiber, vitamins and antioxidants. This is why most health professionals recommend making half of your plate a fruit or vegetable (or try for five to 13 servings daily).Make sure to measure out appropriate servings of these healthy foods so you ensure you are getting enough. 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of salad greens or about 1/2 cup of fruit equals one serving.Some fruits and vegetables, like frozen items or lettuce that is pre-washed, are considered processed foods; however, they're moderately to minimally processed and still are appropriate to include in a nutritious diet.
If you choose canned fruits and vegetables, make sure they are low-sodium and are stored in water or their own juices, not sugary syrups.
 Be careful when choosing grain-based foods for your diet. These can be deceivingly processed; however, if you choose plain 100% whole grains, these can be a great addition to a nutritious diet.


Look for only 100% whole grains. These grains in general are less processed than more refined grains (like white rice, white bread or crackers). They contain all the nutritious parts of the grain and are typically higher in fiber and other nutrients.Also choose 100% whole grain products that are plain and without seasonings. So instead of buying a whole grain rice mix with a seasoning blend, choose plain brown rice and add your own seasonings at home.
Make sure to measure appropriate portion sizes. Aim for 1 oz or about 1/2 cup of cooked grains per serving.Whole grains to include are: brown rice, quinoa, whole wheat pasta, whole wheat bread, whole grain oats and millet.

