 You don’t draft an appeal letter when the IRS is still gathering information or when you are asking for an abatement. Instead, you write an appeal letter after the IRS proposes certain actions, such as collections actions., Set it up in block paragraph style, and include your name, address, and daytime phone number at the top.Set the font to something comfortable to read, such as Times New Roman 12 point., In the first paragraph, state you want to appeal the IRS findings to the Office of Appeals.Identify the IRS decision letter by date so the IRS knows what you are referring to., Identify all of the items that you disagree with. You will need to identify the item and then provide the facts and applicable law underneath. If you have two items you disagree with, then your letter will be organized as follows:

Item 1: facts, discussion of law, application of facts to the law.
Item 2: facts, discussion of law, application of facts to the law.
 Make this a section heading. You should write something like the following: “The Taxpayer disagrees with the IRS proposal to disallow the miscellaneous deductions of Taxpayer’s 2016 Form 1040, Schedule A.”, Underneath your heading, you should provide facts that are favorable. You can also minimize any facts that are unfavorable. Remember to be absolutely accurate and don’t omit any key facts, even if they are unfavorable.For example, you might be deducting job hunting expenses. You would need to provide the dates of your trip and what you spent money on.
 You’ll need to do research on tax law in order to bring a successful appeal. Find statutes, court decisions, and scholarly articles online. Don’t overlook unfavorable law, but try to distinguish it from your current situation.If you don’t understand tax law, you should consult with a tax attorney who can do research for you.

Continuing with the job hunting example, you might explain the law as follows: “According to Publication 529, Taxpayers may deduct for amounts spent ‘for preparing and mailing copies of a resume to prospective employers,’ so long as the Taxpayer is seeking a job in their ‘present occupation.’”

, Explain to the IRS how the law, when applied to your set of facts, is clearly in your favor.Any fact you mention in this section should be mentioned up above in the letter, when you described the key facts.

For example, you might write, “Here, Taxpayer is clearly entitled to deduct the $26.73 for printing and mailing her resume, since all of the jobs she sought were in her current field as a dental hygienist.”

, Right above your signature, you need to include the following information: “Under the penalties of perjury, I declare that the facts stated in this protest and any accompanying documents are true, correct, and complete to the best of my knowledge and belief.”Put your name and signature underneath this statement.
 You must include a copy of the letter the IRS sent you.Also pull together any documents that support your case. The IRS should be able to find its own regulations and statutes, but you might want to print off a scholarly article or court decision that is favorable.

Only send copies, never originals, since the IRS often loses documents.
 Don’t send your appeal to the Office of Appeals. Instead, send it to the address provided in the letter explaining your appeal rights.Keep a copy of the letter for your files.