 When your baby is this young, all her nutritional needs will be met with breast milk or formula. If you are breastfeeding, a baby may nurse around 8-12 times a day, approximately every 2-4 hours, or when they are hungry and demand feeding.


If you are using formula, your baby may need to eat 6-8 times a day. Newborns will start with a daily consumption of about 16-24 ounces, with about 1 ounce per serving for the first week, and 2-3 ounces per serving after the first week of life.
If the baby does not feed enough during the day, waking her at night to feed may be necessary if she is underweight.
Maintain close contact with your doctor so she can monitor your baby and advise on the action you should take.
 By the time your baby has reached around four months, she will begin to cut back on the number of times she feeds each day. If you are breastfeeding, she may now feed 4-6 times a day, rather than 8-12. The amount of milk she consumes at each meal will, however, increase.


If you are using formula the number of feedings will also decrease as she gets older. To adjust to this, the amount of formula you provide for each meal will go up to around 6-8 ounces.
By the time the baby is 4-6 months old, she should be consuming around 28-45 ounces of formula a day, and you can begin the transition to solid food.
 When your baby is around 4-6 months old you will be preparing to start transitioning her to solid foods. You need to take care and not try to rush this change. If your baby is not physically able to deal with solid foods, there is a risk that she could choke. There are a number of milestones in her development that may indicate she is ready to solids:


Her weight has doubled since she was born.
She has good control of her head and neck.
She can sit up with a bit of support.
She doesn't keep pushing the spoon or food out with her tongue.
She can indicate to you that she is full by not opening her mouth, or turning her head away from food.
She is beginning to show interest in food when she sees that other people are eating.
 When you begin to introduce solids into her diet, use a iron-fortified baby rice cereal, which you have mixed with breast milk or formula. Make sure it is mixed to a thin consistency in the early stages. As she becomes more adept with solids you can use a thicker consistency.


To start with, mix one or two teaspoons with the breast milk or formula. Offer this as a serving twice a day.
Gradually increase the amount of cereal you mix in to 3 or 4 tablespoons, once or twice a day.
Once she is eating cereal regularly and routinely you can try bringing in other instant cereals, such as oats, wheat, or barley.
Carefully control the new cereals and don't introduce more than one new cereal every 3-4 days. With each new one watch for intolerances and allergies.
There is some disagreement amongst experts about in what order to introduce new foods. Experts do agree that you should introduce your baby to a wide variety of new foods, but there is no scientific consensus about in what order they need to be introduced.Some people begin with fruits or vegetables, while some even start with meats. Talk to your pediatrician if you are thinking about trying a different order of starting foods.
 When your baby is around 6-8 months old and has successfully mastered a variety of cereals, you can begin to introduce more variation to her diet with strained fruits and vegetables. As with the cereals, introduce them one at a time and wait a few days before adding another food so you can check for allergies or intolerances.


It's best to start with plain vegetables, such as peas, potatoes, squash, and carrots. For fruits, you can start with banana, apricots, apple sauce, and pears.
You might want to start with vegetables first, as some people believe that the sweetness of fruits might make the vegetables less appealing.
Offer 3-4 servings a day of 2–3 tablespoons (29.6–44.4 ml) of vegetables and fruits. Depending on the child, the total amount she might consume per day can vary from 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) all the way to 2 cups.
Although her consumption of breast milk or formula will be falling, you should continue to offer it 3-5 times a day.
 When your baby is around 6-8 months old, she will be eating plenty of fruits and vegetables, and will be ready for some strained or finely chopped meat. If you have been breastfeeding your baby, 6-8 months is the appropriate age to introduce meat. Breast milk is not a rich source of iron, and by 6-8 months her iron stores will need replenishing.


You should continue to offer breast milk or formula 3-4 times a day. Your baby should, however, be off the bottle by 1 year old. Any bottle you use after 1 year should just contain water.
Introduce meats one at a time, and allow a full week before you offer a new meat. Offer the meat in 3–4 tablespoon (44.4–59.1 ml) servings.
Increase the serving size of fruits and vegetables to 3–4 tablespoons (44.4–59.1 ml), four times each day.
You can also feed her cooked egg yolk (not white), 3 or 4 times a week.

