 Musicals can be great if you like singing and dancing, or you can choose a play without any music. Think about the location, if you are ready for the commitment, etc. Ask your drama or music teacher at school if he/she knows of any upcoming auditions in your area.;
, Some of them want taped background music, others piano accompaniment. Make sure you have the right shoes. Most importantly, make sure you fit the roles. Most companies offer a list of roles, so you can be prepared.
 Don't choose the same old song that the directors have heard a million times. By choosing a new and fresh song, the directors are more interested then they would be in another kid singing "Somewhere Over the Rainbow".
 You must know it like the back of your hand if you are to ace the audition. Don't be afraid to put your own spin on it. Directors like when performers show they are creative and can be individual.
, Remember: You are like a salesman trying to sell a product, only you are selling your talent. You want to make sure you look your very best. Make sure you wear clothes you can move in, and have your hair styled in a way that the focus is on your face, not your hair.
 Directors are not looking for someone who doesn't think they're good enough. They want a kid who is confident and gives off the message that you believe you have what it takes. When you stand up to read or sing, give a winning smile and look right at the directors. If you believe you're right for the part, they will too.
 Nothing turns off a director like a conceited actor. Acting like you are above everyone else or refusing to listen will give off the message that you are stubborn and hard to work with. Directors are not only looking for an ability, but also the way you behave in general. So don't be a snob.
 If something in the script, sheet music, or dance combination confuses you, don't be afraid to ask the director for some tips. That's what they are there for. Wanting to be completely sure of how they want it will assure them you genuinely care about making the play the best it can be.
 You will probably hear back from the company in about two weeks. So do not spend two weeks being anxious and worried. Do what you normally do and get plenty of sleep.
 It's just one play. Maybe they didn't think any of the parts really fit your talent and personality. It doesn't always mean you are not good enough. Just keep trying and one of those times you will get in. If you truly can not handle the rejection, try a different hobby. Jennifer Hudson lost American Idol but went on to win an Academy Award. Sometimes you have to take a wrong turn to get on the right track.

