 The bible is the life-force of Christian ideology beyond Christian music. Having a grasp of the bible is great, start by reading The Gospel According To John and then read The New Testament in its entirety. Then read the Old Testament. Remember that Christianity revolves around the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth.;
, Believe that Jesus came to save the world and is coming again. Find energy in reading your Bible. The Jesuscore social genre is not worn out or beaten. Be a strong, empowered young man or woman through the power of Jesus. Dance, sing, wave your arms, jump up and down. Pray often - real, true prayer. Talk to God. Tell Him about your day. Ask for guidance and love.
 Make sure you live by the ideologies of Christianity, make sure you put the teachings of Jesus in your heart. Don't immediately act like you know everything, 1Timothy teaches that new follower should not be the leader of a church, especially if you are new to Christianity as a whole. Do not drink, smoke, cuss, or have sex promiscuously, don't judge others and make fun of others. Christianity is about acceptance.
 Christcore adopts a ton of influences from many music-based fashion styles. Everything from hardcore punk, to scene, to emo, to metal. Pick and choose according to your heart. Example, Zao, a Christian band is more of a metal look, A Plea For Purging; a more hardcore look, and Confide is a more emo/scene look. Some of the items commonly worn:


Skinny Jeans
Stretched ears
Band Tees
V-neck Shirts
Slip on shoes
Cross necklaces
Various piercings and scripture based tattoos

,, The music of Christcore, varies from softer bands like Sent By Ravens all the way to harsh sounding bands like Texas In July and August Burns Red. Bands that are adored in the Christcore society today are Norma Jean, UnderØath, The Chariot, For Today, Haste the Day, August Burns Red, Impending Doom, As I Lay Dying, The Devil Wears Prada, Mychildren Mybride, Confide, Family Force 5, Agraceful, Texas in July, Blessed by a Broken Heart, Gwen Stacy, The Crimson Armada, A Plea for Purging, In the Midst of Lions, Inhale Exhale, and Maylene & the Sons of Disaster.
 Christcore is a highly criticized genre and group because of the fact it is Christian. Know why you're a Christian, and defend that because you will have people from every direction criticizing you. However do not insult them directly and pray they will find the love of God somehow., Christcore bands like UnderØath didn't sell millions of Albums by themselves, they did it with the help of their great fans. So find struggling Christcore bands and tell your friends about them. Do this with your band of choice and go to shows that they play. They need your help, buy their merch, give them a place to crash, give them money, etc.
 The goal of many of The Christians playing music now is that they believe that they have a calling to further The Kingdom of God and to save people and teach them the love of Jesus Christ. Attend Church, but especially if you are young, attend Youth Group and tell fellow youth about Christcore to further the musicians incredibly hard work. Put Christianity, and the morals that correspond to it into everyday life when it comes to interacting with people, love, family, friends, music, etc. Read the bible and Pray from the heart. Because what Christianity comes down to is seeking God through the sacrifice of Jesus Christ and seeking to be a better person through the power of Christianity.

