 Wolves resemble cats the most on Animal Jam, though some clans do not like people using them as they are canines, not felines. Snow leopards look a lot like cats too, but some Clans think that they look bad and will ask you to change. A lot of good Clans don't mind this though, so don't be afraid to try! Biologically, tigers are the best thing to use as they are the closest thing to clan cats that you can get in AJ. Not many people use cheetahs when they aren't roleplaying so a lot of people don't like roleplaying with them, and those are also rarely used. People use lynxes for kits a lot, and bunnies are what is traditionally used for kits.;
, This is a very crucial step. Warrior Cats Wiki has lots of information about Clans. Know the prey, insults, compliments, time terms (Like sun-high) and anything of that sort.
 This is probably the step that most people struggle with. The more you hang out with Clan people the easier it will be, but most of them aren't very approachable. As you may have noticed, they use loads of "faces". (Ex; o.o, o3o, :D, :), XD, ;-;) those are very few ones, but are some of the most used.
 Don't go around wearing pink or having unusual colors for your pelt. Try to make your pelt as natural as possible. Gray, black, brown, orange, and white are some colors that are worth your time trying. As for the undercoat, unnatural colors are okay as long as it is dark. Unnatural bright colors might make the Clan cats think differently of you, but it does not hurt to try. If you want to have a light undercoat, try one of the natural colors.

As for pattern, do not do hearts. It not a good pattern for realistic-ish cats and not many people use it. Lightning and the Blob patterns are the most popular and pleasing to look at. You are not required to have a pattern. Your pattern color can be any color as long as it looks good with the rest of you. For accessories, do not wear skirts or any human-like clothes.
For the back of your animal, a sword, bow, Jamaaliday bow or nothing is okay. For paws, elf bracelets, spike bracelets, gloves, and anything that is not too kittypet or two-leg looking (like the diamond ring) will suit you fine. The head is usually nothing or a fox hat. Skull helmets work too. Anything else will not make it any easier to look like a Clan cat. The tail a raccoon tail or tail armor of any color won't be too abnormal. The neck anything is okay, just not kittypet items again. A leaf necklace, heart necklace, spiked collar are good choices. Make sure your items do not look weird with your pelt. Try to match a little bit.
 Clans hunt, fight, and survive. There are ranks for each "cat". Don't walk into a Clan and ask, "What's a Clan?" Right after you asked to join. If you do not know basics by this step, go back to step 2.
 Many Clans will have their leader go to the world Aldan and go to Sarepia Forest  announcing to go to their den and join their Clan. There is nothing wrong with that, but make sure the person announcing it isn't a kittypet clan. Member leaders are more legit. They have more realistic items to roleplay with and Clannish-looking dens. The more experienced and better leaders are not likely to be in Jamaa. Many of the experienced leaders just expect you to come to their den and ask to join. The den above is holo the wolf's den also a dark forest of warriors. If you want a less aggressive clan to join try WindClan or ThunderClan. So if you are looking for a good start, head for other places. Coral Canyons will probably have 1-3 Clan cats there. Sarepia forest is likely to have a whole Clan, or even more than one for that fact, and the second runner-upper is Zios. Kimbara Outback very rarely has Clans, and Appondale may have more inexperienced clans. Crystal Sands is bound to have 0-2 Clan cats.
 You can go ahead and boldly go up to the leader of the Clan and simple ask, "Can I join your Clan?" or maybe you would want to get to know the leader first. Who knows, the leader may seem good, but once you join they won't even know what the definition of hunting is! The more you know the leader, the better you know how to approach him/her to ask for a place in their Clan. Or if the leader somehow hates you, try to reason, but do not try very hard. It will make you seem too desperate (even if you are.)

, Does this Clan have more boys or girls? Does this Clan have more members or nonmembers? Is this Clan nice or mean? These might seem like very stupid questions, but they will make you way to live in your new Clan much easier. If the Clan has more boys than girls, you might already have an idea of what the Clan will act like, if the Clan has more members than nonmembers, it is more likely it is more experienced, and if the Clan is mean instead of nice, you might also have an idea of how many battles or orders there will be.
 Don't let all of this Clan talk get into your head. Clan people sometimes chill when their leader isn't on, and it is a very good way to bond with their Clan-Mates. A Clan is a very good opportunity to make friends, and get a better reputation around Jamaa.

