 The Grumpyre can only be bred once you’ve reached level nine. Your current level status is displayed at the top left corner of your screen.


To start advancing toward level nine, tap on “Goals” and complete the list of required goals.;
, The Grumpyre is considered an Ethereal creature, and can only be bred on Ethereal Island.


If you haven’t placed a breeding structure on Ethereal Island, tap on “Market,” tap on “Structures,” then select the option to purchase a breeding structure for 200 gold coins or 10 shards.
, At this stage of the game, your four-element monster will be the Deedge. Examples of three-element monsters you can choose are the Congle, the Bowgart, the Spunge, and the Thumpies. For the best chance of creating the Grumpyre, pair the Deedge with the Congle.Breed the Deedge by pairing monsters that provide equal parts of the elements Air, Plant, Water, and Cold. Examples of successful monster pairings that can breed the Deedge are Spunge + Mammott, Thumpies + Toe Jammer, and Congle + Potbelly.Breed the Congle by pairing monsters that provide equal parts of the elements Air, Water, and Cold. Examples of successful monster pairings that can breed the Congle are Tweedle + Maw, Toe Jammer + Pango, and Mammott + Quibble., The breeding structure will start flashing to indicate that your monsters are now breeding. The breeding period for the Grumpyre lasts 36 hours. After the breeding period ends, the Grumpyre egg will automatically be relocated to the Nursery and ready to hatch.


To avoid waiting for the breeding period to end, accept the offer to pay 36 diamonds after tapping on “Breed.” You can then sell the Grumpyre, or place it on its island., The Grumpyre egg will now be waiting for you at the Nursery.


If your breeding attempt was unsuccessful, return to the breeding structure, tap on “Retry,” and either select the same monsters you used previously, or try a different monster pairing. According to gaming statistics for My Singing Monsters, you may need to execute about 70 attempts for a 50 percent chance of breeding one Grumpyre, and about 690 attempts for a 99.9 percent chance of breeding one Grumpyre., You’ll receive a notification informing you that the Grumpyre egg has hatched. You can now sell the Grumpyre, or select the option to place the Grumpyre on Cold Island or Ethereal Island.