 Recognizing the symptoms of anxiety is the first step to managing your anxiety and help your doctor determine if you may have some form of an anxiety disorder. There are groups of people that are specifically more prone to issues with anxiety, such as women, individuals who experience traumatic events, individuals who experience extreme stress or mental health disorders, or individuals with a history of alcohol and drug abuse. Common symptoms of anxiety include:Feeling nervous
Feeling as if you are in danger or that something is always going to happen to you
Experiencing an elevated heart rate
Hyperventilation, sweating, and shaking
Having feelings of weakness or tiredness without cause
Inability to pay attention or think about anything other than current anxieties;
, There are multiple kinds of disorders that deal with anxiety. Although most can manifest in similar ways, these disorders generally occur due to different events in your life. Generalized anxiety disorder includes persistent and unnecessary worries about everyday, common events or activities, which can disrupt concentration and lead to other issues, such as depression.


You may also suffer from agoraphobia, which is an intense and irrational fear of places or events, which cause you anxiety, embarrassment, or despair.
Another common disorder is social anxiety disorder, which involves extreme levels of anxiety. These individuals also avoid social situations because to embarrassment, self-consciousness, and concern about being seen badly by others.

Selective mutism is another anxiety disorder, which is a constant and long-lasting failure to talk in certain situations, such as school, work, or social events, even when you speak normally in other situations. This disorder can disrupt school, work, and social functioning.

Panic disorder is also a common anxiety disorder which involves multiple episodes of extreme fear, anxiety, or dread. These events are called panic attacks. Feelings of impending doom, trouble breathing, heart palpitations, or pains in the chest are all symptoms of panic attacks.

Separation anxiety disorder is a common childhood disorder that occurs when a child is separated from their parents or guardians, characterized by unnecessary anxiety.
If you are a drug user, you may be suffering from substance-induced anxiety disorder, which causes panic attacks and anxiety due to the drug use. This disorder can also be caused by medications, toxic substances, or drug and alcohol withdrawal.
Certain phobias can cause major anxiety when exposed to a specific object or situation, and may provoke panic attacks in some people., Traumatic events, extreme change, heredity factors, or intense stress can cause anxiety disorders. Sometimes, anxiety can occur as a warning sign or side effect of an underlying medical issue. This is more likely if no one in your family has anxiety, if you never experienced anxiety as a child, or if you have a sudden onset of anxiety that seems to not be connected to your daily life.


Anxiety can also be a side effect of certain medications.
If your doctor suspects your anxiety has a medical cause, they may suggest tests to look for signs of a problem.
Common conditions linked with anxiety are heart disease, diabetes, thyroid problems, asthma, drug and alcohol abuse or withdrawal, irritable bowel syndrome, premenstrual syndrome, and, in rare cases, tumors., Anxiety may not fade or disappear on its own. It can also get worse over time if you don’t seek medical help. Anxiety is easier to treat if you get help when you first notice the signs. Get a medical examination to help you determine if your anxiety is temporary or if you have some sort of anxiety disorder.


Never take herbs, supplements, or medications for anxiety without your doctor’s approval, as some can cause side effects. You should see your healthcare provider or seek medical care immediately if you experience anxiety that is interfering with your work, relationships and daily activities. Also talk to you doctor if you experience panic attacks a lot, your anxiety is causing stress and fatigue, you feel depressed, have trouble with alcohol or drug use, or have other mental health concerns, or you think your anxiety may be the result of a physical health problem.
Seek medical care immediately or call 911 if have suicidal thoughts or behaviours.