 Love in this case is a verb or set of actions. It may seem impossible to love yourself after the rejection of being left for someone else, but you can build up to it through small steps in your day to day life.Praise your strengths. Make a list of things you love about yourself. If you're having a hard time coming up with them because of how you feel, ask people you know love you, such as a parent or best friend. They will be able to point you in the right direction.
 A great way to receive love is to give it. If you have a friend in need, helping them will ultimately help you to feel better as well. Even small acts like baking someone a cake for their birthday or giving someone a ride will lift your spirits.


People who do good deeds actually live longer and are healthier overall. Being kind reduces your stress and activates chemicals in the brain related to happiness and love., It can be easy to slide into a pit of sadness and end up avoiding people, but for a speedy recovery it's useful to make plans with people and engage in some level of activity, even if it's not as much as you would normally do. Plan friend-dates and other activities in advance so that you have them to look forward to, rather than relying on spur of the moment plans to emerge, which may just result in not getting anything done.Try to regularly have dinner with a friend during the week, so you'll have something consistent in your life.
Even if you aren't feeling up to an activity, you may want to try it anyway. You never know how you'll feel once you're actually out doing things with people you like. Try to find a balance between staying in and going out that feels right to you.
 Trying new things can help you get out of the rut you're in. It's easy to focus on the past and get stuck there when you're dealing with a breakup, so put yourself out into the world and build new memories in order to create a new life for yourself. Even if you have a hard time enjoying the new activities or enjoying meeting new people, it can be better for you than ruminating on the breakup.Ask your friends to take you with them when they do things they love, like yoga or kayaking. Their enjoyment will be contagious and help you appreciate the moment too.
 Use this opportunity, where you have more free time and time to yourself. Join a gym and start a regular exercise program. Focus on making good grades in school. Practice skills that you are interested in, like playing an instrument or photography. This will help you feel better about yourself, and it will also raise your confidence so you'll be prepared to date again when the time comes.It helps to make a list of ways you would like to grow. Try to think of things you've always wanted to do but never had the time for, like learn to be a better writer or take up running.
 You may be tempted to jump from one relationship to the next, especially since the guy is already with someone else, but you should be careful about distracting yourself from what you're feeling by replacing him with someone else right away. Grieving the old relationship is an important step in your emotional growth, and if you fail to give yourself time you may end up bringing that emotional baggage into the new relationship, which can be a disaster.Not all rebound relationships are bad news, though. It depends on the quality of the match. If you find someone wonderful, there may be nothing wrong with "rebounding." It's only a problem when you don't actually like the person very much and you're only with them to feel less alone or ignore your pain.