 Kids have a lot of energy and trouble sitting still, and music often makes us want to get up and move anyway. Children show they respond best to music they can actually experience through clapping, running, snapping, and other activities.There are hand motion games like "The Itsy Bitsy Spider," "Patty Cake," and "Miss Mary Mack," which often help children to learn about rhythm and beats.
Try music with dances, activities, or games associated with them like "The Hokey Pokey," "London Bridge," "The Chicken Dance," and "Twist and Shout."
Some games like "Musical Chairs" don't use any specific song to play but instead any music you choose can be used for a fun time.
Imagination games that utilize toy figures from popular shows like "The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles", "Batman," or "Transformers" usually have memorable theme songs associated with them that could be sung or hummed during play.
 Certain books and toys will play music at the touch of a button or a squeeze. This can be a stimulating option for very young children. Although we usually think of musical instruments as being expensive, too fragile, or too complicated for toddlers, there are definitely cheaper, easy options for youngsters that will let them experiment with creating their own music.


Toy xylophones, toy guitars, and plastic electronic keyboards are a great way to introduce your child to the shape and use of an instrument before giving them the actual thing.
 In the same way that you can put music on in the background for everyday enjoyment, you can play music, especially classical music, while helping your child solve a jigsaw puzzle. Kids enjoy solving puzzles, but they quickly grow tired of any activity that lasts too long. Having music playing in the background may help them to solve the puzzle more quickly in addition to providing enough of a change of atmosphere to keep them interested longer.
 Although many parents generally feel opposed to very young children playing video games, kids are often innately attracted to devices like touch screen phones, tablets, and computers. In addition to helping them learn how to use electronic devices, there are a wide variety of educational games available to help your children learn all kinds of skills, from problem solving to numbers to social skills and empathy.


These games usually have music playing in the background to make them more enjoyable, and especially for games that involve a story, they can help your child to understand and empathize with feelings.