 You can choose any system you want, from free programs like Windows Media Maker and iMovie to paid programs like Avid or Final Cut. You can even edit many simple clips on smartphones and tablets now using apps like Vee for Video or Magisto. Your choice really depends on what you want to do with your video clip:


If you want to add or splice clips, add basic titles and/or music, apply a basic effect, or trim the intro and outro, free software will be fine. You can even use a collection of free, online editors, like YouTube's editor, for short clips.
If you want to add special effects or transitions, fine-tune the color or lighting, or want tight control over your edits, you should use professional software.

Mobile software often uploads easily to Youtube or Vimeo, and allows you to quickly shoot, edit, and post a clip that only requires light touch up.;
, Always keep a copy of your original video, untouched, in case something happens while editing. Most editors even save new copies every time they edit the clip, allowing them to keep old versions if something happens.
 All video editing software has a timeline where you order the clips for your final video. If you've only got one clip to edit, you still must pull it into your timeline to edit it.
 Basic video editing is rather intuitive. You physically move, stretch, and cut the clip together in the timeline, which then plays the clips exactly as shown. If there are more two clips stacked, the top clip will always play. While each program is a little different, you can search for a quick tutorial video online to teach you the basics of your software if you get lost.
 When the clip is done, you can hit "File" → "Import" to bring in music, or click on "Effects" or "Filters" to play with some fun special effects. Save these changes for when the movie itself is done -- you want to make the major changes before the cosmetic ones.


Remember that you cannot use copywritten music, like a pop song, without permission if you plan on selling your video or using it for profit., Again, these will change based on the software you're using. Place the titles on the very top of the video, effects, and music in the timeline -- this keeps them from being affected by the rest of the changes you've made.


Place your titles in the upper or lower third of the screen for a professional look.
 Usually, you click "File" → "Export" to send your video out into the world. While you have a wide variety of options available, the most common video file extensions are .mov, .mp4, and .avi. These three formats can play on YouTube, Vimeo, and most other streaming sites and computers.


Some programs only have a "Save As" button, which brings up a menu that allows you select your video type.