

Proteins: Sources include, beans, legumes, nuts and grains. Dairy and egg products can also be a good source of protein. Quinoa is a complete protein, meaning it has all 8 amino acids the body needs. Other sources like beans and lentils can be paired with brown rice to make complete protein.



 


Meat Substitutes: Tofu, textured vegetable protein, tempeh, seitan and other soy-based meat substitutes are available and can be used in place of the meat in some common omnivorous recipes. Using the same spices and seasonings used on a meat-based dish is an easy way to mimic the intended flavor of the original dish.
Vitamin D: Vitamin D is commonly found in meat and other animal products and often needs to be supplemented in a vegetarian diet. Vitamin D fortified tofu, soy milk and basic cow's milk are all good sources.
Calcium: Calcium can be derived from cow's milk and cheese, but if he or she abstains from these--or prefers other sources--there are calcium fortified milk alternatives available. These include rice milk, almond milk and coconut milk. In addition, nuts and seeds such as sesame seeds are high in calcium.






Iron: Iron is commonly found in meat and is essential to good health. Sources include potatoes, spinach, tofu, watermelon, pinto beans and cashews. You should consume more vitamin C to increase the absorption of iron. Oranges and other citrus fruits can provide you with adequate amounts.
Vitamin B12: This vitamin is essential to healthy brain function and is mainly derived from animal products. Dairy products provide adequate amounts and additional sources include nutritional yeast and fortified milk alternatives.
Omega fatty-acids: Vegetarians commonly have lower fat intake than meat eaters, unless cheese and milk are a large portion of their diets. Omega fatty-acids are essential to healthy joints and brain function. Fish are traditional sources of this type of fat, but are not usually included in a vegetarian diet. Flax seeds, flax oil and walnuts can be incorporated into a recipe to provide adequate amounts of omega fatty-acids.;
,


It is essential to read the label on processed food when buying food for a vegetarian.
Many packaged foods include things like chicken broth and other meat products that might otherwise look entirely vegetarian.



It might be best to ask what the person prefers to eat. It is common for vegetarians to be aware of what they should and should not eat.
Make sure you are aware of their dietary restrictions. Ask if they eat fish, drink milk or eat eggs.
There are many types of vegetarians who do it for health, ethics or both. Be sure to learn as much about the person as you can.



Simple ideas for breakfast and snacks are bananas, apples, oranges, grapes, avocados, spinach, kale, carrots, crackers, hummus, chips and salsa.
These simple foods provide a vegetarian with adequate nutrition and are easy to prepare.

