 Awkward situations are always uncomfortable. Don’t try to be someone that you aren’t. If you meet some new people don't worry about not having anything in common with them, just make light conversation, be friendly, and ask questions. For example, say you're at a party that you came to because you wanted to make friends. Say you're talking to someone you really don't enjoy talking to. Just be polite and end the conversation! You don't have to be fake.;
, Try to always look on the bright side, be positive and smile. No one can resist a happy person. This doesn't mean be fake, or feel you have to hide your feelings. If something's really bothering you, never feel you have to fake a smile. Just make sure you try to see the best in things and show people that you're a happy person. , If it looks like everything you do is with the goal of getting other people to like you...well, you're not going to try to come off very well. The most important thing is developing a dependable group of friends who you care about and who care about you. Don't rush into having lots of friends just for the sake of numbers. Choose the people that you really enjoy hanging out with. If that ends up being a lot of people, great! If it's only three people, that's fine too.
 One essential part of having a good personality is having interesting things to talk about. That doesn’t mean you need to study astrophysics – you just need to have interests. If you are excited about something you probably will be able to tell other people about it in an interesting way. It really doesn’t matter what you like to do! Try to read something everyday. Watch movies. Look for new hobbies. Just try to experience what the world has to offer!

, This is similar to developing your interests. When you talk to people you want to have things that matter to you that you can talk about. Develop an opinion on politics or sports or animals or parenting or anything like that you are interested in. Don’t worry about agreeing with the other person as long as you can converse civilly. People will appreciate the personality of someone who is able to express their opinions about things. Having an opinion will help you talk to people and make your conversations more interesting. If you meet someone and they say something you don't agree with, don't be afraid to respectfully state your opinion. They probably will think you are more interesting than if you just agree over and over again.

