 This method should only be used by dogs who aren’t afraid of the door, but simply haven’t figured out how to use the door. If you try this method and your dog exhibits any fear, then try a different method.This method probably won’t work well for a large dog that you can’t easily pick up and place through the door using two hands.
 When training your dog, choose a time where your dog is active and alert and where you won’t be distracted or disturbed by other things going on in the house.Limit the training session to ten minutes at a time to avoid frustration. If you train for too long both you and your dog might become frustrated, which will cause the dog to associate the door with negative feelings. By limiting sessions to ten minutes at a time, you improve your chances for success.
You can train more than once a day if you like, but be sure to have several hours “rest” in between each session.
 Using a soft, soothing voice pick your dog up using both hands. You don’t want your dog to get the idea that something bad is going to happen or that they have done something wrong. Make sure that it is clear that everything is alright.Hold your hands gently but firmly around your dog’s ribcage so that they feel secure.
 To do this, you will need to press your dog’s face gently up against the door and push him through. Do this gently and slowly so that your dog won’t become frightened.Do this gently. Don’t jam your dog through the door as you will probably scare them, and you might even injure them.
 Once your dog is through the door, get excited. Show the dog that you are happy that they went through the door, and give them lots of affection and a treat (if you want).If your dog seemed fearful or agitated by the door, stop the training and try another method.
 As long as your dog seems comfortable, you can continue this type of training over the course of a few days. Each time you place your dog through the door, be sure to celebrate the event with lots of attention.You can put the dog through the door more than once in a training session, but remember to limit the session to 10 minutes.
 Once you have put your dog through the door several times, try holding the dog around the ribcage a few inches from the door. The dog should use his own nose to push his way through the door.If the dog doesn’t seem to understand, keep placing the dog through on your own. Eventually, they will get the hang of it.
Don’t forget to give your dog lots of praise when they push themselves through the door.
 Once your dog has learned how to push their way through the door, stand on the other side and call your dog. If they come through on their own, give them lots of praise and a treat.


If they don’t come back through, pick them up and hold them in front of the door again so they can push their way through.