 Notice that it is you who is starting a dialogue with your brother in most of the above scenarios. You want to solve the problem instead of making it worse, so communicating your needs and feelings with words is important.


Try talking to your brother when you are both in a good mood, not when you are angry at each other.Don’t promise your brother something if you can’t follow through. If you set aside time to hang out, for instance, be sure that you do not schedule anything else during that time.
Tell your brother the truth. He will know if you are being dishonest and will resent you for it., Don’t yell or raise your voice. Even if you are frustrated, you will only make the situation worse if you start screaming, and your parents most likely do not want to hear you arguing.


If your brother says something to push your buttons, do not respond immediately. Take a few deep breaths or walk away. Physical distance, however, will not resolve your problem, but it might give you some time to cool down., Don’t talk down to your little brother. He may be younger, but he’s usually not incapable of understanding when you’re being rude. Don’t speak too slowly or use sarcasm.Pretend he is a friend of yours. How would you speak to a friend if they were doing something that bothered you?

, No matter what, do not engage in violence. Do not hit, push, pinch, or bite your brother. Control your temper by sitting on your hands if you have to.


If your brother is violent towards you, do not hit back. Reflect on the moments when your brother has shown aggression toward you. Was it in response to something you said or did? In the future, try to avoid creating a situation where your brother might respond with violence.
For instance, maybe your brother always hits you when you ignore him. Instead of ignoring him when he is talking to you or asking for help, acknowledge that he has spoken. If he is interrupting you, respond to him, but explain that you are busy now and that you can help him a little later.
 Your brother is probably bugging you so much because he wants to be like you. Even if he’s being mean to you, the fact that he’s paying attention to you at all proves that he wants to be around you. Do the right thing and show him how to handle difficult situations with grace. One day he’ll thank you.

