 The State Department has different forms for different passport applications, from renewing your current passport, to changing your name and getting extra visa pages. You cannot get a new passport or replace a lost or stolen passport by expedited mail service.Fill out Form DS-82 if you're renewing your passport.Fill out Form DS-5504 if you need to change your name on your passport, for example because you got married.If the information on your passport is inaccurate, also fill out Form DS-5504.Fill out Form DS-4085 if you need extra visa pages.;
, All passport applications require additional documentation to the forms, including proof of citizenship and passport photos.


You’ll need proof of US citizenship, such as an expired passport or a driver’s license or military identification and Social Security card, or birth certificate; and passport sized photographs. You will also need a separate copy of your photo identification., All passport applications require at least one passport photo.


You can have official passport sized photos made at places such as the United States Postal Service offices, stores like CVS, or even professional photography stores.
 You must submit payment for passport fees together with your application. Make sure to calculate the right amount to avoid any delay in getting your passport.


Additional services, including getting an expedited passport, cost more than the standard passport issuing fees.
For mail service, you can pay by personal check or money order made out to “US Department of State.”A passport booklet and passport card cost $140.Expedited service costs an additional $60 and the overnight delivery fee with package tracking costs $14.85., You may send in your application once you have collected the required documents.


Send your documents in a high quality envelope. For example, a Tyvek envelope will protect your personal documents and passport application.Clearly write “EXPEDITE” on the outside of the envelope so the State Department knows it contains an expedited request.Mail with a trackable delivery service, such as FedEx, UPS, or USPS to ensure the security of your documents and their delivery at the State Department., The State Department offers a status check your passport's processing time approximately five to seven days after you file your application.Check current processing times to get an idea of when your expedited passport will arrive.You can check the status of your passport at http://travel.state.gov/content/passports/english/passports/information/application-status.html.
Your new passport will arrive with USPS Priority Mail.The new passport may arrive separately from the personal documents you submitted with your application.