 You don’t want to stain any more clothing or get your hands dirty. So wear gloves and clothing that you wouldn’t mind getting paint on.;
, You can use a kitchen utensil like a knife or spoon or a scraper such as a popsicle stick.
 There’s a good chance that some or most of the paint will crumble off after it dries. After you’ve removed the dry paint, you can clean the remainder of the paint that has seeped into the fabric.


After the paint dries, use your hands to make gentle creases in the fabric that is stained to help make the paint crumble off.
 A dish soap/hand soap combination (1:1 ration) should work well when used with these steps. You might also consider fabric soap as well.


Test your cleaner of choice. You may want to test a small amount of your cleaning liquid on the inside or hidden part of your shirt, so you are sure it won't harm the shirt further.
Dab the area with a sponge. Soak the sponge in your soap solution. Pat the stained area with soap and then rinse under warm water. Repeat this process until you get out as much of the stain as possible.
 Saturate the painted area in either isopropyl rubbing alcohol or hairspray. Hairspray is slightly more effective, but more expensive, and alcohol is less expensive, but slightly less effective. Remember, you need to soak the area with product, so rubbing alcohol may be a better choice.
 This time period will allow the alcohol to soak in and effectively saturate the fabric and paint.
 Using an old cloth, rub the area in circular motions, so you don't just smear the now soft paint. Use some elbow grease.
 You’ve now done as much as you can to clean the shirt yourself by hand. You can run the shirt in the laundry machine.


Be sure to run it alone so that the shirt doesn’t potentially expose your other clothes to stains.
 Look at the stained area. If it looks good, you’re all set. If not, repeat the process, as needed, starting with the alcohol step. Maybe you need to use more alcohol or let it soak in the fabric for a longer time period this time.

