 The Petition for Name Change of a Minor Child or Children form begins the process with the court to getting your child's name changed. You must file this form with the Clerk of District Court in the where you and the child whose name is being changed reside. A filing fee applies., Call the Clerk of District Court for the name and phone number of the bailiff or hearing scheduler you must contact to schedule your hearing. Schedule your hearing for six weeks later in order to have ample time to publish legal notice. Write down the hearing date to use to complete the Legal Notice form. You must have the legal notice published in your local newspaper once per week for two consecutive weeks, and you must also have the newspaper provide the the court with proof that the notice was published accordingly. This proof will come in the form of an affidavit., If the other parent of the child whose name will be changed agrees to the name change, you must file a consent form to this effect. You will have to give this form to the court at your hearing., A copy of the Notice must be sent to the other parent by certified mail within five days of newspaper publication. If the other parent pays child support, this notice must be sent to the last address provided to the Clerk of District Court. If you know the address to be outdated, you should send to this address and the current address. Keep the certified mail receipt to bring to your hearing., Fill out the form as completely as you can before the hearing and bring at least one extra copy. The judge will keep one original copy for the court record. You can keep the other for your own personal files. Also, contact the Clerk of District Court to ensure that the newspaper has sent the affidavit verifying the publication of your Legal Notice. Bring copies of the affidavit to the hearing in case the judge wants to enter them as exhibits in the case., Attend the hearing and be prepared to answer questions about your reasons for wanting to change the child's name. Contact the bailiff before your hearing to find out if your minor child will be expected in the courtroom., Once the court had granted the name change and issued the decree, you will receive the official decree from the clerk of court. The certified copies you receive will allow you to change the minor's name on records, including social security.