 To collect hydrogen using the reaction of mixing a strong acid with an active metal, you will need: a Erlenmeyer flask, a rubber stopper, plastic tubing, water, test tubes, a large container, water, 3 molar hydrochloric acid (HCl), and magnesium or zinc pellets.An Erlenmeyer flask is a glass flask that has a conical bottom and narrows at the top.The rubber stopper is for the top of the flask and needs to have a hole in the middle for the tubing to go through.
Either magnesium or zinc will work for this experiment, you do not need both.
Some of these supplies may need to be purchased online or at a laboratory supply store.;
, When working with a strong acid such as hydrochloric acid, you want to make sure you take proper safety precautions. Wearing a lab coat, gloves, closed-toe shoes, and eye protection are essential.Goggles should wrap around the sides of your eyes to protect them from splashes.
Wear gloves that fit properly so you maintain good dexterity of your hands and fingers.
 Insert one end of the tubing into the hole of the rubber stopper. You want the tubing to go all the way through the rubber stopper and stick out slightly from the end. Fill the large container with water and place the free end of the tubing into the water. When the experiment begins, you will put the rubber stopper into the Erlenmeyer flask.Set these pieces aside until you are ready to use them.
 Take at least one test tube (you can use more if you want to collect more hydrogen) and submerge it in the water. Tilt the tube so that no air bubbles remain in the tube. Place it on top of the tubing that is attached to the rubber stopper.It’s essential that all air bubbles are removed from the tube before you begin. If they are not, the gas collected in the tube will be more than just hydrogen.
 Add enough hydrochloric acid to fill the flask about halfway. About 100 mL should be sufficient. Make sure the flask is clean and dry before adding the acid. Wear rubber gloves and use caution when filling the flask.


Take care not to spill any water into the acid. Water added to acid can lead to an explosion and injury., Add a handful of zinc or magnesium pellets to the hydrochloric acid in the flask. The exact amount you put in is not important, but a small handful should be enough to start the reaction.


After adding the pellets, place the stopper into the flask so that the system is now closed.
 As the metal reacts with the acid, hydrogen gas is produced. This hydrogen travels to the top of the flask, through the tubing and into the test tube submerged in the water. The gas will displace the water and you should see a bubble form at the top of the test tube.When the test tube fills with hydrogen, submerge another tube with water and place it over the tubing. You can collect as much hydrogen as is produced by your reaction.
Keep the test tubes facing down to prevent the hydrogen gas from escaping into the air.
 In order to confirm that the gas is hydrogen, you can do what is called the splint test. Light a match and hold it underneath the tube. You’ll hear a “pop” or squeaking sound, indicating that hydrogen is present.