 Rather than use standard words of praise like “Great job!”, “Good boy/good girl!” or “That’s right!”, you should try to get your child to evaluate themselves and their skills when you praise them. You may say, “You look like you enjoyed that!”, “I’m happy you did that, you look pleased with yourself!” or, “Did it feel good to do that?” Doing this will encourage your child to think about their own actions and decisions, rather than constantly seek your approval or validation. This will allow your child to feel empowered and see good behavior as a positive way to act.You may also ask your child questions as a form of praise to get them to self-evaluate. For example, you may ask, “How do you like your painting?” or “Are you happy with how that piece fits into the game?”
You should also try to encourage your child to reflect on their decisions and choices. You may ask, “How do you feel about the picture you drew?” or “Did you enjoy telling that story in class?” This will help to build your child’s self-esteem and strengthen your relationship with them.
 You should also try to always use “I” statements when you give your child verbal praise, as this will show your child you appreciate their actions. It will also make your praise specific and singular to your child. Your child can model their behavior on yours and also learn how to use “I” statements for themselves.For example, you may complement your child’s behavior by saying, “I love the colors you picked!” or “I really enjoyed how you performed that dance!”. Do this instead of saying “what a good dancer you are!” or “gosh, you’re a great dancer”. “I” statements will make your praise more specific to your child and show your child how you express your feelings and thoughts in a positive way.
You should also avoid generalizing statements like, “Good girl for sharing your pencils!” or “You are a good boy for staying quiet in class today.” Instead, you can say, “Thanks for sharing with your friend today, I think he appreciated it.”

, You should never say your child is “bad” or “good”, only that their behavior is “bad” or “good”. This will ensure your child does not associate your praise with themselves overall, and only to their behavior. Be specific and tell your child exactly how and why her behavior was good.For example, your child may have made you a birthday card. Rather than say, “What a great card you have made me!”, you should be specific and tell your child what elements you liked in the card. Maybe you complement their choice of color, their penmanship, or their sweet message inside the card.

