 In Arizona, you have the opportunity to change your name during the normal proceedings of becoming married or getting a divorce, and you may not have to apply separately for a court-ordered name change.


If you want to change your name because of marriage, you should make sure to complete your marriage license and any other forms necessary to finalize the marriage.These documents can then be used as proof of your name change for other purposes, such as getting a new Social Security card and driver's license. You do not have to apply through court to change your last name because of marriage.
If you want to change your name because of divorce, there will be an opportunity to address this during the court proceedings for the divorce.Your divorce decree can then be used as proof of your name change for other purposes, such as getting a new Social Security card and driver's license.
If you do not request to change your name while filing for a divorce, but want to afterwards, you will have to go through the normal court process of applying to change your name as an adult.;
, Go to your local Social Security office and show proof of your legal name change (your marriage license showing your new name, or your divorce decree), proof of your identity (for example, a passport and/or driver's license), and proof of U.S. citizenship (such as a birth certificate).A new Social Security card will then be issued to you with your new name. You can then use this as proof of your name change for general reasons.
 Take your new social security card and your current driver's license to the Motor Vehicle Department. If you have the correct documentation, they will issue you a new driver's license with your new name.


Arizona law requires you to request a new license within 10 days of changing your name. Wait two days after you have changed your name with the Social Security Administration so that the information can be verified by the MVD.Bring an original or certified copy of your marriage certificate/license or divorce decree with you.There is a $12 fee for a replacement license with your new name., Some accounts you will need to change include (but are not limited to): bank and credit card accounts, mortgages, car titles, voter registration, passport, and doctor's offices. Contact the relevant offices or agencies for instructions on changing your name in their records.

