 Most schools announce involvement and volunteer opportunities at Back to School Night at the beginning of the school year or during parent-teacher conferences sporadically throughout the year.If your child’s teacher or administrator doesn’t mention volunteer opportunities at these meetings, they can be a great opportunity to approach them yourself.;
, The Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) is a very common way for parents to become involved in their child’s school. The PTA usually requires a membership fee which not only admits the parent to the school PTA, but also to the national organization. Parents can often be elected to hold the office of president, vice president, treasurer, and recording secretary in the school PTA.


School PTA meetings are held about once a month and can involve anything from managing fundraisers to discussing changes to the curriculum and education standards that are being implemented in the school.
 If your child’s school doesn’t have a PTA group, contact the office or teacher to see what volunteer opportunities are available. Some schools publish volunteer opportunities in a periodic newsletter or on the school website.


Ask your child’s teacher the best way to stay involved on current volunteer needs.
 Most schools are always in need of volunteers, and there are generally a lot of ways to get involved. Choose the activity and outlet that matches your schedule and interests. If there is a particular project or event coming up or if you see a need at the school, don’t be afraid to approach a teacher or administrator with a suggestion of how you would like to be involved.If you have expertise in a certain area or see a need that fits your interest and skillset, contact your child’s teacher to see if there is a way to volunteer in that area.
 There are opportunities to get involved that will match nearly every parent’s schedule. Be open about your availability and time commitments from the beginning to find the volunteer activity that will work best for you.


Stay-at-home parents might be more able to help in the classroom during the day, while parents who work can help with evening special events or by representing the school at school board meetings.
 Attending school events is a great way to be involved in the school. These events include Open House, book fairs, science fairs, spelling bees, festivals, class productions, and sporting events. These events give the children higher self-esteem and pride in their school.
 Things like No.2 pencils, folders, art materials, and other common school supplies are necessary for the children to succeed in school, but some families cannot provide them for their children. If a child does not have the supplies that they need, the teacher will usually provide it. Often teachers will purchase these extra supplies with their own money so that the children do not have to go without.


Schools can always use help with having enough supplies for all of the children and many of them have established Wish Lists that they will provide to parents.
 Before committing to volunteer at the school, ask questions so you are clear as to what is expected of you. Find out the schedule and time requirements for your assignment, as well as who you’ll be working with and if there is any financial requirement, such as purchasing supplies or paying for admission on a field trip.Clearly understanding your role can help avoid confusion later.
 Depending on your volunteer assignment, you may be required to attend trainings. This can be as informal as meeting with a PTA leader to learn how a certain event works, or as formal as going to a district-wide safety training that some school districts may require.


In general, once you are trained on a school or school district’s practices, you don’t need to be re-trained for a while.

