 The sailor fuku blouse typically only has two types of sleeves - long and short. However, even with just those two types of sleeves, there are different ways the sleeves can be designed - with buttons, with or without cuffs, slightly puffed, or plain sleeves. Some girls also choose to wear long-sleeved summer shirts and roll up the sleeves, either to the elbow or to turn them into short sleeves.

The shirt can be either long-sleeved or short-sleeved if it's the summer uniform. Typically the long-sleeved shirts are saved by the girls for when it's somewhat colder, such as in the spring months, although they can be worn with the sleeves rolled up. The sleeves of the short-sleeved shirt can be somewhat puffy or be buttoned at the cuff.
The winter uniforms do not have short-sleeved shirts. The fabric of the winter uniform is also heavier, so a slightly oversized winter uniform would have somewhat baggy sleeves.
 Some girls choose to wear cardigans over their shirts, which tend to have longer and somewhat thicker sleeves (though not as thick as the winter uniform itself). Common color choices for the cardigans are tan, white, and occasionally black., The classic tie seen in many anime series and manga stories isn't the only option! There are many varieties of ties and ways to knot them - such as various bows or Western-style ties., Not every school has skirts of the same length, and even skirts from the same school can be of different lengths! Skirts can be longer or shorter than knee-length.

Short skirts resembling miniskirts are common sights in anime and manga. (These come from rolled-up skirts, so the waistband would be thicker due to the extra fabric.)
Extremely long skirts reaching down to the ankles are key traits of sukeban (female delinquents), an archetype that doesn't appear much in the real world now. However, before long skirts were associated with delinquents, some schools had uniforms that used long skirts.
 While most sailor fukus are paired with knee-high socks, some aren't. Drawing shorter socks (such as ankle socks) or stockings are creative ways of altering the uniform.

Stockings are a common choice in the anime and manga world, especially with tsundere characters. To draw these, just raise the height of the socks to above the knee.
Loose socks are common in manga and the kogal and gyaru fashion.
 Typically, the collar has at least one stripe on it, although two stripes is also a common sight. Some schools also have small stripes on different parts of the collar - for example, in the back corner of the collar, but this is not often seen.

If a uniform's collar has stripes on it, as well as collared cuffs on the sleeves, the cuffs may be seen sporting stripes, too. Don't forget about those!

