 The product has proved to be beneficial for several skin disorders, particularly acne.Retin-A helps to unclogs pores and reduce skin peeling. It can also be useful in reduce the appearance of wrinkles and skin damage due to sun exposure; however, Retin-A cannot cure acne, reverse wrinkles or repair sun damage.Retin-A has long been recognized as beneficial for the treatment of mild to moderate acne, including blackheads, whiteheads, cysts and lesions in teenagers and adults.In addition, the appearance of wrinkles are greatly diminished (though they do not disappear) with extended use and increased strength of Retin-A. Darkened skin, also known as sun spots, will also lighten with continued use of Retin-A.Studies have further shown Retin-A improves the roughness of skin by smoothing or exfoliating the skin surface.;
, Retin-A (generic name: tretinoin) is a derivative of vitamin a and is a member of a group of medications called retinoids that impact the growth of skin cells. Retin-A works by changing the growth patterns and inter-cell attachments of skin cells. It inhibits the development of microcomedones, small plugs in the skin due to dead skin cells gathering inside the pore and clogging it. The development of microcomedones is typically recognized as a precursor to acne; thus, Retin-A works to prevent this from happening and can decrease the number and severity of pimples that do develop.The medication also facilitates quicker healing of acne pimples. In addition, Retin-A decreases the “stickiness” of skin cells in sebaceous follicles or oil glands.
 If you think Retin-A might be a good option for your skin problems, you should make an appointment with your primary health practitioner who can then recommend you to a dermatologist if needed. Dermatologists are physicians that specialize in the skin and in particular, skin disorders.


Primary care doctors can and often do prescribe Retin-A if its an uncomplicated case, so you may not need to see a dermatologist.
Your doctor will be able to choose to most appropriate treatment for you based on your symptoms and particular skin type. Be sure to notify your doctor of any other conditions and medical history, especially if you have or had other skin conditions, such as eczema., Retin-A comes in a topical liquid, gel, and cream formula. Gels are generally better for acne because they have less emollient properties; however, gels can dry the skin, so if you have dry skin, the cream form of Retin-A is likely the best option.Retin-A comes in different medicated strengths, The gel is available as 0.025% or 0.01%. The cream comes as 0.1%, 0.05%, or 0.025%. The liquid comes as 0.05%. Your doctor will generally prescribe a lower strength to begin with and increase strength or dosage as needed. This graduation is to prevent side effects., Mild side effects from using Retin-A are to expected; however, if any of the following side effects become severe, intolerable, or hinder your daily functioning, contact your doctor immediately. Note that most side effects occur during the first two to four weeks of use of Retin-A; in most cases, side effects decrease with continued use. The most common and scientifically documented side effects include:Skin dryness
Blisters and redness of skin
Itching, peeling, and scaling
A warming or burning sensation
Initial increase in acne

, Since this medication is absorbed through the skin, pregnant women should not use Retin-A because it has been proven to be very teratogenic (can cause birth defects).If you are using Retin-A to treat acne, do not use other acne products while using Retin-A because they may increase skin irritation.
Avoid using peeling products or products that contain peeling agents such as benzoyl peroxide, resorcinol, salicylic acid, or sulfur or other acids.