


Make sure that the mating surfaces are free of debris and grit.
Line up the joints so that they are straight and gently push them together with a twisting motion. Never force.
If you start having trouble lining them up, gently take off the end that has the problem and clean the joint with a soft cloth, which you should be doing frequently anyway. Never use lipgloss or vaseline to ease the joints of the flute together. It will give you a quick fix, but later down the road will give you much more trouble than it's worth as dust/dirt and grime will build up much quicker when they have something to adhere to.
If you will march with this flute, make sure that the joints are snug enough to prevent parts from flying off when the instrument is snapped up or down, and definitely think twice about joint lubrication. Marching is hard on instruments, so it makes sense to march with a spare instrument if you have one, especially if there is any chance of rain.;
, The pitch will change somewhat with the temperature. If the flute cools off between playing passages, you can warm it up by closing the keys and softly blowing warm air straight into, not across, the hole. Feel free to play scales or some music to make it interesting.
, Remove the moisture by gently sliding the cleaning rod through each of the sections in the same direction "without" using a twisting motion. By twisting the rod and cloth, and if pushing/pulling it back and forth inside your flute, the cloth and rod run the risk of snagging a pad or even getting stuck inside! If you use a cleaning swab or stick, do not store it in the body of the flute; the moisture in it will be absorbed in the pads. Also, never store the cleaning cloths inside the case of the flute, as the pads could, again, absorb the moisture.
 Make sure to always handle the flute by the barrel when cleaning, as to not bend the keys and/or rods. Pay extra attention to the areas between the parts of the flute, as this is where the most gunk usually builds up, but be careful not to damage the keywork when trying to reach these areas. Don't worry if there's still some dust etc., when your flute is professionally cleaned, they will sort this.
, They also sell small tools for doing this.
 If sticky, they will make a little noise when they lift up. Slide pad paper or a piece of clean cigarette paper under a key, then close the key firmly. Never used the gummed edge of the cigarette paper. Do not use dollar bills--they are filthy! Do not pull the paper out while the key is pressed down, as this will create friction in the pad and bladder of the key. Instead, open the key and then slide the paper out. It will be just as effective and pulling the paper from under the keys, but not nearly as harmful to the pads. The stickiness is due to moisture, so make an effort to keep the flute dry. Use this technique gently and sparingly, since it could damage the thin membrane that makes the seal when you close a key.
 The case is the safest place, but if you play frequently enough and have a safe corner, you might also consider getting a stand for any occasional breaks from practice.
 If a key fails to lift when released, look to see if a spring (one of the tiny wires along the rod) has popped out of place. You may be able to push it back into place with the eraser end of a pencil or some similar, soft instrument. If you don't feel comfortable doing this, take it to a music shop or to an instrument repair shop.
 If your flute is consistently out of tune, check the cork at the top of the head joint. Take the head joint off of the flute, insert your cleaning rod carefully into it upside down. The end of the rod should have a line towards the bottom of it which should appear directly or close enough to the centre of the embouchure hole. If the line is not in the center of the embouchure hole, then it means your cork is slightly out of alignment. Corks that are out of position will cause your flute to not properly play in tune. Do not attempt to solve this yourself by pushing in or pulling out on the cork, as you could cause damage.
 Misaligned keys or deteriorating pads, especially, can mean leaks, which can affect your tone. If you find that you need to press down harder on the keys to get the notes to speak best, you probably have a leak and need some pads replaced at the repair shop.
 There are some problems that develop over time and simply require professional care.
