 The truest mark of an eccentric person is that they live life the way they want, not the way society wants them to. If you desire to become eccentric, you need to let go of your desire to conform to the norm of society's standards. Caring what others think of you will hold you back from becoming eccentric.


Eccentric people are generally happier, because they're living by their own standards. They don't compare themselves to others or try to live up to something that they don't really want to be.;
, An eccentric individual is always eager to learn. Their curiosity is one of the main things that keeps them unique and intelligent, as they are always learning something new. If you are eager to learn new things, you're more than likely an open minded person. Being open-minded is necessary if you're looking to embrace your eccentricity, as you must be able to let down all of your walls and be open to different things.You should ask questions, read about history, learn new languages, etc. The more open you are to learning new things, the better.
 Developing unique hobbies and interests is a great way to step into your eccentricity. Stepping into different worlds will open your eyes to different ways of life and introduce you to many different kinds of people.


Some unique hobbies can include collecting crystals, joining a chess club, or making jewelry. Do whatever hobby you've been dying to try, even if it might seem "lame" or uncool to others.Unique interests can vary from loving world music to studying astrology. Again, you're allowed to be interested in anything you want. Embrace whatever it is that you're interested in!
If you're unsure of what you're interested in, try things out! Take classes, read books, go to concerts, etc. If a friend asks you to accompany them to an event, you should always go. Being open to trying new things is a great way to discover the eccentricity inside of you. You could also try journaling ideas or meditating to help you narrow down the things you're interested in.
Having unique hobbies and interests will introduce you to many different kinds of people, and interacting with different types of people is the best way to expand your views and open up your mind to different ideas.
 It's often said that "You are the company you keep." So keep interesting company! Surround yourself with people who inspire intelligent conversations, people who share their life stories, and people from entirely different backgrounds. You can learn so much from the people you are around, so take advantage of that. Having eccentric friends can ignite your eccentricities and bring out the best in you.


You can meet interesting people by trying new hobbies, going to unique events, taking fun classes, or joining a club. Spark up conversations with people everywhere you go and be open to making new friends.
 Most eccentric people are creative in some capacity. Whether it's drawing, painting, creating music, writing, or even sculpting, use your creativity to it's furthest extent. You don't have to be a professional artist, but you should embrace whatever create endeavor you enjoy doing.Don't be afraid to try new things, such as performing at an open mic. Eccentric people don't care what others think of them anyways, so try out new experiences whenever you get the chance.

