 Leave it to the intellectuals that study romance to coin a painfully unromantic phrase like “functional harmony”.Translating their findings into operable advice: Look for compatibility, not compromise. While compromise is always necessary in any type of relationship, it cannot be the basis of a deeply gratifying romantic partnership.


Too many compromises, even in a respectful and affectionate relationship, will leave you or your partner wondering about other romantic endeavors. Demand more than attraction and compromise from your relationships, and you’ll wind up happier.
 Realize that the strength and enjoyment derived from your relationships with other human beings has little to do with their most apparent traits, especially physical traits. Don’t waste time searching for an ideal partner. Search for another person with whom you can share an ideal relationship.


Do not let popular conceptions of ideal romantic partners effect the assumptions you make about who will be your ideal partner. Recognize that your assessment of a potential partner is unique to who you are.There’s beauty in this: your ideal relationship is the product of what you and your partner alone determine.
 While shared interests and mutual attraction might get the ball rolling, what will lead to a stable, fulfilling relationship? Research indicates that our determination of potential romantic partners, and even our desire for a particular person, depends less on surface-level characteristics the more time we spend with them.The more you get to know someone, the more the deeper stuff matters. Pay attention to these characteristics to get an idea of whether you and someone you’re interested in might make an ideal partnership:


Sense of humor. More than just an important part of your first date, a potential partner’s sense of humor can say a lot about the type of person they are. If you tend to be amused by the same sort of wit, or simply laugh at similar scenarios, take this is a very good sign.
Financial stability. Not a fun topic, but it matters immensely in long term partnerships. Look for someone who handles their finances similar to the way you do – or even better, so long as you’re willing to step up your financial maturity as well.
Spirituality. This is an incredibly meaningful aspect of many peoples’ identity. Some people view religious practice as an essential aspect of their lives. Some prefer to let science and reason entirely dictate their understanding of the world. Be aware of someone’s spirituality, especially if it is an important part of their lifestyle or worldview.
 Our feelings about the world around us – even about existence itself – matter immensely to our personalities and behavior. Understanding reality in similar ways can predict strong relationships as well. Recognize that psychological similarity – literally thinking like one another – makes for happy, healthy relationships.People who have comparably positive outlooks regarding immeasurable concepts (such as whether or not they consider themselves lucky) tend to gravitate towards one another and end up in fulfilling romantic partnerships. That can’t be all luck.
 Dating apps are a great way to meet people. In fact, 5% of Americans currently in marriages or long-term relationships met online.Just don’t expect a cute profile photo and a witty blurb to translate into romantic bliss. It has happened, and will again, but do not let online dating experiences dictate your feelings about yourself or the type of relationship you’re looking for.
 The next hand you shake may fit perfectly in your palm, the next stranger sitting beside you on a train might make your day with a polite compliment, and the human that’s been looking for exactly the sort of ideal relationship you want to be a part of might accidentally lock their bike to yours tomorrow. Be patient, but be excited!

