 To help your buffet table appear well-organized, your decorations should be relatively symmetrical on either side. This will give your table a great, balanced look. Try to imagine a line splitting the buffet table in half and try to create a mirror image on either side of the line.For example, if you have a candlestick about six inches tall on one end of the buffet, try to place an item about as tall on the other end. You could have a candlestick on one end and a plant on the other.
You could try having a pattern in regards to the height and shape of objects. Towards the middle of the buffet, place shorter objects. Have the objects get bigger as you move outward.;
, This can give your buffet an organized feel. You don't necessarily have to group the exact same objects together. However, you can group objects of similar colors and shapes together.For example, try grouping together items of a similar color and height. A crimson book can be paired next to a short red figurine, for example.
Pair items by shape. You can, for example, have a tall, slender plant paired next to two long candlesticks.
You can also pair the same types of items. One section of your buffet can contain candles and candle holders while the other can contain antique books you're using as decoration.
 You should not have all the items on your buffet match perfectly in terms of color. This can be a bit much and may be overwhelming to look at. However, a general color scheme, especially one that goes with the room, can really help your buffet look well organized.For example, for a room with a warmer color scheme, go for a warm color palate. Stock your buffet with oranges, reds, yellows, and other similar colors.
You can also look to other decorations for ideas about color. Maybe you have a painting that uses a lot of gold and yellow colors hung on the wall just to the right of your buffet. Think about using yellow colors to decorate your buffet.
 You don't need your buffet to contain every decorative item in your home. In fact, this can easily be overwhelming. Opt for a less is more approach when it comes to decorating your buffet. Challenge yourself to choose only the best items and those that work with your decoration scheme.


For example, you may have accrued a lot of figurines over the years. However, you can't put them all on the buffet. Think about which figurines are the nicest and would work best with other decorations.
You may, say, be doing a green color scheme. Choose figurines that have some green in them and select the ones you like best. Think about other aspects, like height and shape, to keep the buffet symmetrical as you select the right items.

