 Depending on the size of the blanket you’re washing, you may have trouble getting it to fit into a washing machine. Front-loading washers and top-loaders without agitators will produce optimal results, as the drum is spacious and allows plenty of room for the blanket to move. If your blanket is too big to fit in a standard washing machine or is made of an especially delicate material, wash it by hand instead.Take the blanket outsides and give it a good shake to remove any loose dirt or dust before washing.
Laundromat washing machines are typically bigger than commercial washers and might be the best option if you’re washing a blanket that is particularly large or thick.
 If the blanket has never been washed before, it might be a good idea to quickly test to see if the dye used to color the blanket will run in the washer. Soak a colored portion of the blanket in cool water for a few minutes, then dab the blanket with a piece of plain white fabric or paper towel to see if the color bleeds. Wash the blanket by hand if there’s a substantial amount of color on the test cloth.Avoid washing a new or brightly colored blanket with other clothes.
 When machine washing blankets, always use cool water and choose the gentlest wash cycle. Washing machines are rough on clothes: that’s partially how they manage to get things so clean. The downside of this is that all the spinning, beating and agitating can stretch your blanket out of shape and cause it to come out looking worse than before. Similarly, hot water can shrink threads and cause dye to run. Be aware of this and protect your blanket from damage., Pour a small amount of mild detergent into the washer after it fills but before you put in the blanket. This way, the detergent will diffuse evenly throughout the water, creating a gentle washing solution and keeping you from having to pour the detergent directly onto the blanket. Most laundry soaps are astringent and can cause wear and fading to textiles in high concentration, so pick a detergent approved for delicates and go easy on it.A little goes a long way: a quarter cap full of detergent is plenty.
 Place the blanket into the washing machine, making sure that the weight and bulk of it is evenly distributed around the inside of the drum. Otherwise, not all surfaces of the blanket will get cleaned equally, and the motion generated during the wash cycle can throw the washer off balance. If the washer you’re using has a center agitator, coil the blanket loosely around the agitator as you lower it in., Let the blanket go through the process of washing. If the blanket is of a heavy-duty or synthetic material, it’s alright to let it finish a full wash cycle. However, you can also take the blanket out and drain the washing machine after 3-5 minutes; for delicate and natural fabrics like wool or down, there’s no need for the blanket to undergo a complete wash, rinse and spin cycle.The longer the blanket is in the washing machine, the higher the chance it will come out warped, stretched or damaged. The spin cycle in particular may be too forceful for certain fabrics.
Fabrics that are washing machine safe include cottons, which are preshrunk, and synthetic materials like polyester and nylon, which don't stretch out or shrink.

