 You should try to get your boyfriend in a romantic mood first, and lower the pressure with a few slower, warm up kisses first. Make these a few soft pecks after it's clear he's in the mood to kiss.Perhaps your boyfriend will start French kissing you without being asked if you seem receptive enough during the first kisses. The best approach is to wait a bit and see if it happens on its own. You will know he wants to kiss you when you make eye contact, and one or both of you moves closer to the other.
Tilt your head to the side, and part your lips. Gently draw one of your boyfriend’s lips between your own as you kiss so your lips interlock a bit. Don’t be afraid to tilt your head a bit as this will signal renewed interest.
You could say, "Let's go slow" to be clearer to your boyfriend, especially if he is inexperienced at kissing or you are.
You could also acknowledge your nervousness by saying something like, "Hey, I'm a little nervous. Are you too?" He may appreciate your honesty. Remember, he might be just as nervous as you are.
If he's a more experienced kisser, telling him something like, "I love kissing slowly at first" can help set the mood.;
, Because French kissing involves kissing with tongues, if you rub your tongue over your partner’s lips, it will give him the signal that you’re OK with French kissing.Do this lightly because it will be romantic to your partner and a bit teasing. That’s good. Sometimes your boyfriend might feel insecure and is looking to see if you’re all right with it.
You could say something like, "You have really nice lips" as you rub your tongue over them, looking him briefly in the eye.
Feel free then to gently push the tip of your tongue into your partner’s mouth. If your partner has any experience, he will probably then move his tongue deeper into your mouth.
 You could just come out and ask! Remember that he's probably nervous too.


If you're kissing slowly and gently at first, more nibbling than French kissing, you could take a small step back, look him deeply in the eyes, and say, "I'd love to French kiss you right now, but I'm nervous because I've never done it before. Could you show me how?"
Or you could say something like, "Want to try French kissing? I would love to try that with you."
If you're worried about bad breath, just make sure you pop a mint or brush your teeth or spray mouth freshener into your mouth before the kissing starts!

, If you’re really nervous because you’ve never French kissed before, it’s OK for you to tell him that. Find the right place and time, which is when you are both alone and comfortable with each other.


It might feel embarrassing at first, but he will probably appreciate your honesty, and it might excite him to think that he will be the first person to French kiss you. It's a good idea to have this conversation before you actually are kissing. Find a casual way to say it.
For example, while you're driving in a car or eating dinner together, you could say, "This is hard for me to say, but I've never French kissed before! Maybe you can show me how later." Don't make it overly serious. You could also start the conversation with a question by asking him if he knows how to French kiss.
This might entice him to show you how to French kiss. Remember that the best relationships are built upon a foundation of strong communication anyway. It's best to wait until you've been dating for a little bit before you have this conversation, though.
 What if your boyfriend is not ready for French kissing? That's OK. Everyone needs to go at his or her own pace.


Your boyfriend might just be nervous, so don't read too much into it if your boyfriend hasn't French kissed you unless you've been going out for months. In that case, you could ask why your boyfriend feels that way.
If the relationship is new, you could just let the French kissing happen naturally. Let your boyfriend take the lead on it, and if he's not ready work on building your bond and connection by sharing time together and great conversations, rather than forcing the kissing.

