 For most people, Twitter is a mix of professional interests and personal hobbies, but for others it is purely one or the other. As with all social media, you should be careful what you post, especially with photos, political beliefs, religious beliefs or potentially offensive material.;
, Create a profile that explains who you are, where you are, what you do and what interests or hobbies are. Try to make it a mix of personality and professionalism.


Upload a profile picture that also reflects a personality, but a professional demeanor. If you are networking for a personal creative business or blog, you may want to include your logo.
Set your account to "Public" instead of "Private," if you want people to follow you more easily. If your account is set to be private, you must go through an approval process before they can see your tweets and full content.It could also mean that you would get less followers.
 Show your professional personality with links to articles, pictures of something relevant to your professional life or thoughts about life and work. Before you begin following too many people, you should expect people will take a look at your profile to see if they want to follow you.
 Have a goal of following 5 new people every week, so that your Twitter feed does not become overwhelming. These ways are commonly used to find people on Twitter:


If you have favorite blogs, add your favorite bloggers on Twitter. They will most likely be set up under the same name as their blog, which you can search for in the search field at the top of the page. Also, search their blogs for lists of people they recommend that you follow on Twitter. Many bloggers try to suggest their friends, colleagues or peers to their readers.
Go to a Twitter directory, like twellow.com or wefollow.com to search for people with similar interests. Try being as specific as possible in the beginning, and search by area, interests, age and more. Go to their account, if it is public, to see if you like what they are tweeting about.
Pay attention to the hashtag "#FollowFriday," or "#ff." In January 2009, a blogger and Twitter user started this networking hashtag as a way to recommend your favorite Twitter users to your friends. On Fridays, see if people you follow post their recommendations, for example, "You must check out @sanjuantopics, @creativesarah and @bridgetreads #followfriday."

, You cannot expect to be the first to find an article, or even to state a topic the most eloquently. You can show who you are, and how discerning you are, by what you choose to retweet.
 Use the "@username" direct tweeting option to comment about someone's post or introduce people. Answer people who tweet directly to you, and thank people who are complimentary.


A big part of networking is speaking, and this is how you speak on Twitter. Start replying to friends' tweets to get the hang of it, and until you get the confidence to tweet directly to someone with a lot of followers.
 Also, don't be afraid to mention other Twitter accounts. Give a shout out to someone if you like what they are doing.
 After you have some followers, ask their advice or opinion on personal or professional topics. Try to avoid religious or political fervent posts, but don't be afraid to ask something that might get a few different opinions on a topic.
 On these platforms, you can have online conversations over 140 characters, which can help to encourage professional relationships. Do not try to sell yourself too strongly, just list your blog website in your profile and/or post your username occasionally.
 For many people, this means arranging to email or Skype with a user if you have similar professional interests. You may have the chance to arrange collaborative meetings, and Twitter can serve as an excellent icebreaker.
 Many professional events have their own hashtag, so click on the tag to see what other people are saying. Plan to meet people at the event so that you can network in person.

