 The effects of meth may last several hours to a day or so, depending on the use.After using methamphetamine the person will likely experience:


Euphoria (due to increased dopamine in the brain).Increase in alertness.Increased cortisol levels (stress hormone).Decreased anxiety.Increased confidence.Improved attention and concentration.Decreased appetite.Hypersexuality or an increase in libido.Increased energy.Hyperactivity – as evidenced by excessive talking and inability to sleep.
Higher doses of meth can cause: increased anxiety, restlessness, compulsive behaviors, and tremors (physical shaking). These symptoms are often called tweaking., Due to chemical changes in the brain, some psychological symptoms are also visible. These psychological signs may include the following symptoms and might indicate meth use:


Impaired judgment or inhibition.Hallucinations or delusions, such as seeing or hearing things which others do not.Aggressive behaviors upon unavailability of drug (i.e. picking an argument for no reason).Increased anxiety or depression.Paranoia or believing that somebody is out to get him.Social isolation.Insomnia., Social, occupational, and functional disturbances are very common among people who abuse meth.The school/college life, work life and/or social life of people who use meth is impaired. You can detect signs of these disturbances by doing the following:


Remain in touch with teachers, peers and close friends. They can help you to keep track of the person's recent activities.
Keep in touch with colleagues, if the person is employed. They can tell you how the person behaves while at work and can fill you in on their daily routine, e.g when they arrive at work, when they leave, etc.
Observe the legal, social and financial condition of the person who is suspected of being a meth abuser. Poor social functioning, financial trouble and frequent legal issues are commonly the result of meth abuse., This may show up as reduced cognition or deteriorated memory. Many brain cells are damaged as a result of continuous meth use. This damage is caused by the many caustic chemicals used in meth preparation, and can manifest itself in slower brain function and loss of memory. Look for:Attention issues.
Issues with working memory or solving problems.
Lowered decision-making skills.
 Withdrawal signs occur when a habitual abuser stops taking the drug.Most symptoms of withdrawal typically subside around seven to ten days after taking meth.Withdrawal symptoms from meth use are mostly psychological and not as physical as other drugs. They include:Anhedonia or decreased motivation.
Irritability, anxiety, or depression.
Lower frustration tolerance.
Low energy or fatigue.
Sleepiness.
Impaired social functioning.
Inability to concentrate.
Loss of sexual interest.
Possible suicidality or thoughts of harming one’s self.
Intense craving for the drug – may last up to five weeks.

