 Though there are medications made especially for babies with gas, it is generally a good idea to discuss them with your doctor, to make sure that they will be okay for your baby.Babies who need thyroid replacement medications should not take these medications.
Over-the-counter medications usually contain simethicone (St. Joseph Baby Infants’ Gas Relief, Infants’ Mylicon Gas Relief)
Read and follow the manufacturer’s instructions.
 Probiotics are supplements that are supposed to help people develop and maintain healthy communities of bacteria in their digestive tract. When the balance of bacteria is not right, it can lead to digestive problems, including gas. But the scientific evidence for giving it to babies is mixed and many doctors do not recommend it.Some studies have found that probiotics decrease colic in babies. If your baby is crying because of gas due to colic, the probiotics may help the colic and, by extension, the gas. But other studies have not found them to be helpful.
Your doctor will be able to give you recommendations based on the latest scientific evidence and your baby’s particular health needs.
 Herbal remedies and supplements are not quality-controlled by the government the way commercial medications are. This means that the doses in them may not be standardized or they may be contaminated with low amounts of harmful chemicals. For a small baby, even a little bit could be dangerous. However, if your doctor gives you the OK, you might try soothing your baby with:Herbal tea. Use decaffeinated tea so your baby won’t be awake all night.
Sugar water. While it may seem like sugar water couldn’t possibly be harmful, ask your doctor if giving it to your baby might interfere with breastfeeding or bottle-feeding. Use an eye-dropper to administer very small amounts.
Gripe water. Talk to your pediatrician about using this formula, which usually includes ingredients such as fennel, caraway, ginger, dill, chamomile, and peppermint. Avoid formulations that contain alcohol or sodium bicarbonate., A warm bath with a few drops of chamomile or lavender oil may help relax and soothe your baby.
 These symptoms usually indicate that the baby might be sick and in need of medical care. Symptoms to watch for include:

Fever
Stomach that is bloated, swollen, hard, or tender
Bloody stool or stool with mucus
Vomiting (especially forcefully, or with a green or dark color or blood)
Diarrhea
Reduced hunger
Limp skin
Pale skin
Inability to suck
A cry that sounds different from usual or is constant
Difficulty breathing or changes in the rate of breathing
Not being alert or being very sleepy
Becoming more unhappy when touched

