 Shorts should be neither too long nor too short. The hem of appropriately-cut shorts should fall just above the knee when you're standing up straight, and should be no more than an inch or two higher when you're seated.In some zones (read: hipster) short jean shorts, also known as jorts, are increasingly popular, while elsewhere extra-long baggy shorts that hang below the knee are stylish. If you're curious about whether or not you can pull off either of these styles, it's probably a safe bet to go traditional and leave the experiments to the trend-setters.
 Shorts should sit on your hips normally, like jeans or trousers. Always wear an appropriate belt when you wear shorts. Other than looking professional, shorts have a tendency to sag that you want to avoid. Keep your underwear under your shorts and make sure you've got a belt on.
 There's nothing wrong with wearing those old soccer shorts while you're sitting around the house watching the game, or keeping on the ratty old cargo shorts you've had since high school while you do the laundry. No shame. But even if you're in the middle of a heat wave, don't wear them out to work on Monday.If you work somewhere it would be appropriate to wear shorts, get the appropriate cut and and style and use the same judgment you'd use in your regular work attire. They should be clean, pressed, and professional.
 Khaki shorts come in many colors and look good on almost all men. Unless you live in the Bahamas, trying to rock cargo shorts, board shorts, or jean shorts past the age of your early 20s won't make you look younger, it'll make you look like you can't dress yourself. Khaki shorts pair well with casual styles and more professional looks, as well. It's a good investment and more recommended than other styles.


When in doubt, go for mute colors. Beige, gray, navy, and black shorts will always be in style. The bright pink pair you picked up for the yacht trip might spend a lot of time at the back of the closet.
If you wear cargo shorts, aim for the smallest possible pocket, in inverse proportion to your age. If you're in your 50s, that pocket needs to be incredibly small. If you're 15, you can get away with larger pockets.
 Wear shorts with low-top loafers and low-cut socks to get the right kind of stylish look. Wearing pulled-up white socks looks goofy, even if you're a German tourist, and high-top shoes have a tendency to make your legs look stubby and short. Unless you're on the basketball court, opt for low-tops.

