 Common goals include reducing weight or body fat percentage, increasing strength, improving sports performance, rehabbing an injury, etc. Next, some sort of initial testing should be conducted to establish benchmarks. Plan to re-test every 6-8 weeks to measure progress and determine if any adjustments need to be made to the program.;
, The major components of exercise include resistance training, cardiovascular training and flexibility training. Resistance training can challenge balance, endurance, strength and power. Resistance training not only impacts muscle but also the strength and health of bones, tendons, cartilage and ligaments. Resistance training includes exercises for core (spine and pelvis musculature), upper extremity (shoulder and elbow musculature) and lower extremity (hip, knee and ankle musculature). Cardiovascular training includes aerobic (with oxygen, lower intensity) and anaerobic (without oxygen, higher intensity) exercise. Flexibility training includes static, active and dynamic exercises.
 There is much more to working out than picking a body part to train or deciding between the bike or the elliptical. A yearly schedule is ideal. If this sounds intimidating, just consider that most people fail to accomplish their fitness goals because they don't understand the effort and commitment it takes to get there. It takes 6-12 months to accomplish most goals. Then a maintenance schedule needs to be set up. To have an impact, exercise needs to be part of everyday life like driving to work or brushing teeth. It absolutely needs to be planned out. It needs to become habitual. A yearly schedule is called a macro-cycle. This can be further broken into meso-cyles (monthly) and micro-cycles (weekly). A good way to set up the yearly schedule is in quarters: Jan-Mar, Apr-Jun, Jul-Sept and Oct-Dec. So, a year is consists of a workout cycle that is repeated 4 times. A quarter then consists of 3 different 1-month phases or goals. A month or phase has a unique weekly training schedule.
 Use an endurance, strength, power progression. Endurance builds the foundation for strength which in turn builds the foundation for power. Month 1 - resistance training: muscular endurance (2-3 days per week, total body, 2-3 sets, 12-20 reps); cardiovascular training: aerobic base (3 days per week, 20-30 minutes, mostly low intensity exercise); flexibility training: each workout, static stretching. Month 2 - resistance training: muscular size and strength (4 days per week, push/pull split, 3-4 sets, 6-12 reps); cardiovascular training: aerobic endurance (4 days per week, 20-40 minutes, low and medium intensity workouts); flexibility training: each workout, active stretching. Month 3 - resistance training: muscular power (4 days per week, upper/lower split, 4-5 sets, 1-6 reps; cardiovascular training: aerobic and anaerobic endurance (5 days per week, 20-60 minutes, low, medium and high intensity workouts), optional speed/power training; flexibility training: each workout, dynamic stretching.
 This is where most people who exercise will be blown away by the difference between what they are doing and what they should be doing. A workout session consists of 8 steps.


Specific stretching for known muscular imbalances, postural distortions and injuries.
Warm up.
3-4 Core exercises.
1-2 Balance exercises.
1-2 Reactive (plyometric) exercises.
6-10 Strength exercises (upper and/or lower body).
Cardiovascular training (aerobic and/or anaerobic).
Cool down and stretching. The 3-month cycle and this 8-step workout session is known as integrated training. This is a more comprehensive, safe and effective way to exercise. This approach will train all the systems and functions of the body. To get the most out of training, the body needs to function correctly. It takes much more than a few arm circles, toe touches, 6 sets of bench and 12 sets of curls to get to your goal. If all you have is a hammer in your toolbox, then everything will begin to look like a nail.
 With resistance training, set a rep goal and increase weight used for that repetition range. Another way to progress strength training is to increase the work performed in a given amount of time. With cardiovascular exercise set a minimum frequency, intensity (heart rate) and duration. First, increase duration, then increase frequency. After frequency, then increase intensity. Your body adapts to the demand you place on it. If all you do is sit in an office or watch TV, then your body will be in just good enough shape to do this. So, with regular exercise your body will change. But you must constantly make your body perform more than it did before if you want it to keep changing. As your body improves from a physiological and biomechanical standpoint, then your body will change on the outside too. The above described program has a progression built into it that will ensure that your body doesn't get used to doing too much of the same thing and stop changing.

