 Another way to practice giving throughout the holiday season is to give out thoughtful gifts to coworkers at the office. Rather than give out expensive gifts that are not personal, such as an expensive box of chocolates or gift cards, try to come up with gifts that will be meaningful to each person. You may make a list of coworkers you are buying for and come up with small, thoughtful gifts they will enjoy.For example, maybe you have a coworker who loves anime. You may then find an anime themed mug to give them as a gift during the holidays. Or you may get a poster of their favorite anime character as a gift that they can then put on their office wall.
 To show those you love how much they mean to you during the holidays, make a custom gift for each and every one of them. Making customs gifts can be a fun way to get creative and come up with one-of-a-kind presents. Make a list of loved ones and then come up with custom gifts to suit their tastes as well as their needs.For example, maybe you have a loved one who is often stressed and overworked. You may then make them custom bath bombs in calming scents or custom bath salts.
You could also make a custom photo collage for a more personal gift for a friend or make an hanging origami piece as decoration for a friend’s room.
 To celebrate the season of giving, hand out gifts to those you know well and those you only know in passing in your community. Be generous with your giving and prepare gifts for people in your community who are less fortunate or who do not have close family nearby. You may then package the gifts and go door to door handing them out as a way to spread good cheer to others.You may opt for edible gifts, such as homemade cookies. Keep in mind some people may have dietary restrictions so you may want to try to find out who does and who doesn’t before you hand out homemade food as gifts.
If you have a child at home, you may ask them if they want to help you hand out the gifts. Doing this together can teach them the value of giving to others less fortunate and giving to those in their community.
 Another way you can give a gift to others is to donate money to a worthy cause. Your monetary donation can then help others further themselves and have a better holiday season. You may donate money to a local homeless shelter, to a charity for refugees overseas, or to a sick children charity.


Another way you can maximize your donation is to offer to match any money raised by friends or family for a charity. For example, perhaps a friend is raising money for a homeless shelter. You may then encourage others to donate money by promising to match whatever amount is raised for the shelter within a certain timeframe.
 Though you may want to splurge on gifts for everyone on your list, you may want to consider your budget and how much you can spend. Budgeting your gifts based on your income can ensure you have enough money to get something for everyone on your list. Finding a personal gift that is inexpensive may be more meaningful than spending too much on a gift that is generic.For example, you may budget out $50 for the four people on your list. You may then go shopping with this budget and challenge yourself to find the most personal gifts within this price limit.
You could also go in on a gift with other family members or friends so you can all afford to get the person a big gift that they will love.

