 If you need to transfer money at a physical location, Western Union and MoneyGram are your two options. However, for both Western Union and MoneyGram, conducting a transfer at a physical location usually costs more than doing it online.


For example, as of January 2017, MoneyGram's fee for sending a $200 remittance to Mexico from the US is $9.99 vs. $4 for the same service online., Transferring money online can be the easiest and most convenient way to conduct a transfer. All four major transfer companies offer international transfer services from online portals. Choose which one is right for you.


Viamerica and Xoom are two newer companies that cater especially to the remittance market. While Viamerica has some of the best overall rates, they only cover a limited area. Xoom has an excellent network of pickup locations in foreign countries, but can be slightly more expensive.Generally, Western Union and MoneyGram offer both competitive rates and a wide network of pickup locations, although this will vary from country to country.
 While paying with a debit card will be the quickest way for the recipient to get their remittance, arriving in minutes,it also usually carries the highest fees, and often by a substantial margin.A direct transfer from your bank account will carry substantially lower fees, but the money can take days to arrive.


With either MoneyGram or Western Union, you can pay in cash or with a debit card in person, or with a debit card or direct transfer from your bank account online.
Xoom offers payment with a credit card, debit card, or bank account online.Viamerica only does direct transfers from your bank account, which takes a couple of days to confirm and set up.
 Although picking up cash at a physical location is common, you can also deposit the money in the recipient's bank account, and depending on location, on a debit card, mobile wallet, or delivered in person.Again, take into account possible delays and fees (including fees the recipient's bank make charge) when making your choice.


Mobile wallet service is available in Kenya, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, and Romania. The funds are usually available within a few minutes., When the recipient is picking up cash at a physical location, you will need to follow a certain procedure. After the transfer service has gotten the money from you, they will give you a code for accessing the funds on the other end. You will then contact the intended recipient and give them the code. When the funds arrive, they tell the cashier the code and receive the money.


As you might imagine, the code/cash pickup system has a unique set of security vulnerabilities if you don't know the recipient. Money transfer services like MoneyGram and Western Union are prone to scams. Make sure that you are only sending money to a person you trust.

