 When we have tons of things to do, organization helps lessen the overwhelm and creates some order out of chaos.Having a visual sense of what you need to do will serve as a reminder that you are capable of getting everything done. What's more, you are able to see how much room you have to be more flexible about what you do. This is helpful because it can be easy to slip into a mode of frantic activity, causing extra stress, even if time permits you to slow down a bit.


It can also help to order items on your to-do list by urgency. On the days that you can't get to everything despite your best efforts, you can still rest comfortably knowing that your time-sensitive responsibilities (like paying bills or caring for a pet) are covered.
 You don't have to be a designer to set up a nice space. Think about it: most of us already exercise design skills already from setting up our desktops, social media pages, etc.


Try to have a spring cleaning overhaul at least a few times throughout the year. Remember that, psychologically speaking, removing clutter and unused items is just as important as cleaning dirt and grime.Do the same with your digital devices. Deleting old emails and contacts provides us with the same feeling of open space that cleaning our living space does. Clearing space is a way to invite in new opportunities.
 Research tells us that after just a couple nights of shortened sleep, many people experience moodiness and diminished ability to regulate negative emotions--especially for young people.. If poor sleep habits strike down the positive outlook you aim for, everything becomes hard to deal with again.


If getting the recommended 7-8 hours of sleep does not fit your lifestyle, try to make time for power naps. These quick naps can go a surprisingly long way in giving you the energy you need for dealing with the rest of the day.
Try to go to bed and get up at the same time every day, even on the weekends.Turn off screens at least an hour before bed. Switch off the TV, shut down your laptop, turn off your tablet. Read a book or listen to soothing music to get your body in the mood for sleep., Life is dealt with more effectively when our basic need for nourishment is not a source of doubt or worry. Make sure that you are aware of the nutrients that you need and what sorts of foods your body needs to function smoothly. If you notice that you are often hungry (or on the other side of the spectrum, weighed down) throughout the day, consider revamping your diet.


Make a list of basic items to always have in stock. If you can stick to your list, it will never be too difficult to prepare a quick meal or healthy snack. By having reliable options, you will also avoid the over- and under-eating that normal come along with (and worsen) stress.
You don't need to be a culinary mastermind to eat well--just stable habits for when you go grocery shopping and prepare meals.
 A full life with a disparate group of peers, colleagues, and family members creates the need for open communication. When we are not afraid to have the difficult discussions that clarify our thoughts and feelings, dealing with others becomes a piece of cake.


Are there issues you'd like to bring up with others? Try not to push these aside out of fear of conflict. Oftentimes there are simple fixes that will help you work through differences productively.
For example, you might have a co-worker who always leaves you responsible for your least favorite task, filing papers. If you calmly let your co-worker know that filing papers is a major source of upset for you, you could work out a way to share the burden. Perhaps your co-worker simply forgets to file papers and doesn't mind taking on the task entirely. Either way, you'll feel empowered for making an adjustment that frees up more time for enjoyable activities.
When you approach others, use "I" statements that focus on feelings rather than "you" statements that frame things as fact. For example, you could say "When we have papers that don't get filed, I feel stressed out. I'd feel less overwhelmed if you would help me file things from time to time. What do you think?" This is not accusatory or judgmental, but it does convey your need clearly.

