 Fly rods are much more flexible than spinning rods. Your fly rod will not cast properly if you do not feel the rod bend and unbend in your hand. This is called “feeling the rod load” and can sometimes be a difficult concept for beginners to grasp. Another way to think of the “load” on your fly rod is as the amount of potential energy “loaded” into the flex of the rod and weight of the fly line.


Let some line out of your fly rod. Fly line is thicker and heavier than monofilament line, but it features a plastic sheathing to make it buoyant.As you let more line out of the rod, you add more load. The process is very similar to the length of a whip determining its potential energy load.
When done correctly, the torque of your cast combined with the flex in the fly rod will sail the heavier fly line out, carrying the fly with it. This means that your rod will not load if you do not let out the right amount of line.
The amount of line to let out will depend on the length of your rod and other factors such as weight. Consult your rod's manufacturer or an expert to find the perfect amount of line to let out for your specific setup. However, a good rule of thumb is to let out line equaling approximately three lengths of your rod.;
, Your thumb should be on top with four fingers wrapped around the rod. Do not grip too tightly. The casting motion requires fluid movement, so a firm but relaxed grip, the same as you would grip a golf club, is ideal.


Keeping the butt of the fly rod under your wrist and in line with your forearm helps you maintain a straight plane while casting as well., Begin with your fly line in front of you and cast it back. Anglers may have a personal preference between a sidearm, 45 degree, or overhead cast. Each is useful in its own situation, but start with the casting angle most comfortable to you while learning.Keep your wrist stiff and your elbow close to your side. The most important part of the backward and forward casting movements is that each is in a straight line.
Pull your fly rod back to a 10 o'clock position. Only bend your elbow.
 Once you see the line leave the surface, pause at the apex of your back-casting movement. This allows the momentum of that movement to travel all the way down the line.


Your amount of line and rod load will determine the exact amount of time you need to pause before beginning your forward cast. The ideal amount of time to wait is for the fly line to unfurl behind you almost entirely so that the leader is nearly extended at full the moment you begin your forward cast., Start your motion forward smoothly in a straight line toward your desired spot on the water surface. The movement should be relaxed but swift. Once again, you are transferring energy from the movement into the line.


As with your back cast, the most important aspect is making sure that you cast forward in a straight line, otherwise the fly line will wander and take your fly with it.
 The line will continue to transfer momentum from your movement, but keeping the rod tip upright will help the line carry out to its complete distance rather than falling short.


You will feel the rod “unload,” but again, do not bend your wrist.
As you see the line in flight, slightly turn your thumb down around 1” or 2.5cm.
Keep your hand where it is and let the line fly out of the rod.

