 Your baby is born with the innate instinct to feed. Barring anatomical abnormalities, you may be able to avoid painful breastfeeding by letting your baby direct the latch.Sit in a semi-reclining position and place your baby belly-down on your chest with her head close to your exposed breast.Allow your baby to orient herself to your nipple and self-latch., You can help guide your baby’s body and your own body into the most effective nursing position. This helps your baby to latch onto your nipple correctly.


Sit comfortably with your baby on your lap. Support your baby’s shoulders with your arm but do not direct her head so that they are able to self-latch.Point your nipple downward toward your baby’s nose so that she can latch properly and the nipple will be aimed for the roof of the baby’s mouth., If your nipple hurts as your baby starts to nurse, then adjust her body instead of detaching them from your breast. Detaching can cause your baby to become frustrated and to clamp down on your nipple, causing more damage.


Position your baby’s shoulders lower or higher to help adjust the angle of her head, as this may improve the latch.Try bringing your baby closer to your body so that her head dips down slightly. This allows her to bring your nipple further into the mouth and improve latch., A frustrated hungry baby is more likely to clamp down on your nipple than to latch onto it correctly. Look for feeding cues and feed your baby before she gets frustrated and over-hungry.


Soothe your fussy baby by allowing her to feed immediately when she shows signs of hunger., Your baby may be unable to latch properly due to having a tongue-tie. A small piece of skin tethers your baby’s tongue at the bottom of her mouth, which makes it impossible to move the tongue forward.


Check to see if your baby is able to extend her tongue past the bottom lip or can lift her tongue to the roof of the mouth when crying.A doctor can clip the small piece of skin tethering your baby’s tongue in order to help improve the latch. This is a simple procedure that your baby recovers from very quickly.