 Not all sands are the same. If you are using standard play sand then you can rake and siphon it without too many worries regarding tank pollution. If, however, you have a specialty planting sand you’ll need to be very careful when raking as it can release ammonia when disturbed. Read the instructions and warnings carefully on the package to find out if any special handling is necessary.You can also visit your local aquarium store and talk with an expert who will advise you regarding your sand options. Some options, such as coral sand, are quite beautiful but can be dangerous to particular species of fish.;
, If they come with a switch, turn it to the off position or simply unplug all of these devices. Your fish will be fine in the short period it will take you to complete a water change and for safety reasons it is important to not have electricity running into the tank as you handle the water.You can also take this as an opportunity to rinse out your filter pad or cartridge with cold water. You will want to do this once every two to four weeks., Dip your hand into the tank water and gently remove all decorations that you would like to clean. Wash these items in warm water scrubbing gently with your hands or a soft brush to remove all algae and debris. Place the clean decorations on a lint-free rag or into a clean bucket.There is no need to remove live plants for cleaning. It can possibly damage their roots.Cleaning decorations is a bit controversial and some argue that it is better to leave everything in the tank to preserve healthy bacteria., Place your siphon into the water and begin to drain the water directly into your sink or a bucket. You need to remove between 10-25% of the water depending on the dirtiness of the tank.You will want to complete this partial water change and cleaning process every one to two weeks.This dirty water does not need to be preserved and you can dispose of it immediately.
 Fill a clean bucket with tap water. Add drops of a water conditioner a wait a few minutes for it take full effect. The water conditioner will remove impurities and neutralize the chlorine in tap water making it safe for fish.Carefully read the instructions on your water conditioner bottle. The number of drops used varies as does the amount of time the water needs to sit.