 It is quite possible that your teen may be embarrassed about their hygiene, but is simply unsure how to fix it. Or, they may not realize that anything is wrong until you tell them otherwise. Either way, make sure to proceed cautiously and include praise about their appearance as well.For example, you might say, “You have such lovely hair. I just bought you a new shampoo that is supposed to bring out your highlights even more for summer. Why don’t you try it out and let me know if you like it?”
Do not laugh and avoid joking with them when you have this talk. If they have questions, be sure to praise them for asking.
 Talk with them about how they are doing with their friends. Ask about trends in hair care or style. Use this an entry point into discussing how they could be a trendsetter by being really in tune with the latest products and grooming techniques.Whatever you do, do not point out that your teen will, “Have no friends,” if they don’t follow your advice. This will be perceived as a threat and will get a negative reaction. Instead, you might say that “even more people” will be drawn to them if they practice good hygiene.
You could also point out that following good hygiene practices will make them a positive role model for their younger friends or siblings. You might say, “It would be great if you could be a model for your younger sister and take a shower every day. She really looks up to you.”
You can also make jokes about the situation, but in a positive way. For example, you could remark how your daughter will smell the best out of the entire school, especially with all of those smelly teen boys around.
 Don’t just speak in generalities or your teen will probably lose interest. Instead, draw upon your personal experience to relate cautionary tales of poor hygiene. You can also mention those cases where someone reaped rewards for taking care of themselves. It is best if these examples are persons who the teens knows directly.


For example, you might talk about a teen cousin who had to go to the dentist for a root canal after refusing to brush their teeth for years. Or, you could talk about how another cousin cleared up the acne from her face by following a strict face washing routine.
 This is probably the most important step of all. You must keep the lines of communication open. Give your teen a chance to pepper you with questions and treat all questions importantly. Try to answer what you can and be a good listener as they are explaining their concerns.


For example, your son might tell you that he’s concerned his facial hair will re-grow darker after shaving. You can discuss this with him and perhaps even do some internet research together.
Instead of just saying, “Do you have any questions?” you might ask, “Do you have any questions about proper hair care?”
You can also be more specific by asking things like, "How are you feeling about your skin lately? Are you having any problems?" Show that you are willing to help them problem-solve.

