 The small den, or the non-member den, is the best school-like den in animal jam. Other good ideas are the gingerbread house, mushroom hut, fantasy castle, and the princess castle.;
, What kind of school will yours be? Preschool? Elementary school? Middle school? High school? College? Pick one, to help with step 3.
 Say your den is out of shape for the type of school you picked. If you're a non-member jammer, get non-member school items like a globe and chalkboard.


For a preschool, place a sofa (for you, the teacher), a work or craft table with pillows surrounding it , bookshelves and couches for a reading center, windows (to look outside and discover), and a rug bordered by pillows (for rug time/learning time). You can also add wall decorations, like a map.
For elementary schools, use the preschool style, with desks and pillows for learning time.
For middle schools, use the elementary style, with big bookshelves and toy boxes for lockers.
For high school, use the middle school style with a bigger den.
College requires a big den and member-like items. You also need to be well-versed in college level information.
 If you're in your favorite dragon wings and headphones, your students will not take you seriously. For girls, try being a fox or arctic wolf, with a hat from Jamma Clothing Market, a designer skirt, or some elf bracelets. For boys, try being a fox or wolf, using a top hat, a tie, and some camouflage boots.
 Go to a crowded area, such as Jamaa township. Go to an unoccupied spot and start dancing, advertising that you need a class helper. For younger students, try two class helpers. Once you count down to 0, go to your den. Look at your helper's resume and background checks, then hire someone!

, Go back to Jamaa Township, and advertise for students. Make sure to include what kind of school you are doing. If you don't, you'll get kids from school levels you aren't teaching, and four year olds might not do well in college classes.
 Get a piece of paper and write down your day plans. Try making the events like a real school.
 Introduce yourself. Show everyone the calendar, tour the class, and start your day of learning!

, You can teach until the end of the day, or keep going for the rest of the year!

