 Slice off the tough ends of your garlic cloves. Peel the cloves. Dice or mince them. Place the garlic into a small bowl.To make garlic peeling easier, place the individual cloves in a bowl. Cover them with warm water and let them soak for several minutes before peeling.;
, Carefully remove the ginger’s peel with a paring knife. Hold your grater over a small container to catch the shavings. Rub the peeled ginger over the grater. Scrape the peelings into the bowl with the garlic.

You can use a vegetable peeler instead of a paring knife to remove the ginger peel.
 Put on rubber gloves to protect your hands. Use a paring knife to slice the pepper in half. Scrape away the seeds and veins. Cut off and discard the top with the stem. Make thin slices of the pepper’s body with a chef’s knife.If you’re making pork in the slow cooker, add the pepper slices to the same bowl with the garlic and ginger.
If you’re making meatballs, add the pepper slices to a small bowl separate from the garlic and ginger.
 Peel the carrots if they are not already peeled. Shred them using a standing grater or a food processor. Put the carrots in a medium-sized bowl.

Alternately, you can thinly slice the carrots.
 Thinly slice the cucumber. Peel your onion and thinly slice that as well. Cut your radishes into matchsticks. Add these sliced veggies to the bowl with the carrots.

The peels can remain on the cucumber and radishes.
 Pour vinegar and water into a medium saucepan. Mix in sugar and salt. Bring the mixture to a boil, then remove the saucepan from the heat.Optionally, add one tablespoon of agave nectar., Put the cucumber, carrot and radish slices into the saucepan. Stir the contents. Let the mixture stand for twenty minutes. Then drain the mixture.The vegetables should be completely submerged in the liquid while setting.
 Pour the mixture into a bowl. Put a lid on the bowl, or cover the bowl tightly with plastic wrap. Refrigerate the covered bowl for at least 30 minutes.If you’re pickling the vegetables ahead of time, you can refrigerate them for up to a week.
 Puncture the silver skin of the pork with a filet knife. Hold the skin with one hand as you cut it off with the knife.”Silver skin” is the thick membrane on the exterior of the pork, which is too tough and chewy to eat.
Failing to remove the membrane layer can result in your roast cooking unevenly., Slice up the pork into two- to three-inch chunks. Trim off and discard any excess fat as you come across it. Place the cubed meat into your crockpot., Use regular brown rice, not “minute” rice. Adding rice at this stage is optional. You can make the rice separately later, but simply adding it to your slow cooker can save you time.Substitute white or jasmine rice for the brown rice, if desired.
 Pour soy sauce, sesame oil and broth into the slow cooker. Add your garlic and grated ginger. Pour in fish sauce, if desired. Stir the ingredients.If you want the sauce to have a bit of sweetness, mix in a sprinkle of brown sugar.
Pour 1/4 cup of water over the top if your slow cooker tends to run hot.
 Set your crock pot to low heat. Cook for two hours. Turn the pork over once with a serving fork. Continue cooking for two to four more hours, or until the meat is tender. Turn off the slow cooker once finished., Remove the pork only from your crock pot. Put it on a clean work surface. Place two dinner forks back-to-back into the pork. Pull the forks opposite ways, breaking up and shredding the meat.Take off any pieces of gristle you may run into, and discard them.
 Preheat the oven to 400°F (204°C). Cover a baking sheet with foil. Spray the foil with a thin coating of non-stick cooking spray.Use an oven thermometer if you’re unsure of your oven’s temperature reliability.
 Clean your hands well. Add egg, breadcrumbs, and soy sauce to the pork. Use your hands to mix in the minced garlic, grated ginger and sliced pepper and onions.Remove any jewelry from your hands and put it aside in a safe place.
Wash your hands thoroughly, making sure to scrub underneath your nails.
 Form the meatballs using one tablespoon of the meat mixture for each meatball. Arrange them on your prepared baking sheet. Cook them in the preheated oven for twenty-five minutes.You should get about 30 meatballs.
Make sure to wash your hands well with soap and water after handling the raw meat and pepper mixture., Bring water to a boil in a saucepan over high heat. Add the rice. Cover the pot and reduce the heat to medium-low. Let it simmer for 45 minutes, or as long as the directions instruct. Turn off the heat and allow the rice to sit, covered, for fifteen minutes. Remove the lid and fluff the rice with a fork.You’ll need to cook the rice if you haven’t already made it in the slow cooker.
Don’t open the pot while the rice is simmering.
 Put 3/4 cup of rice into the bottom of each bowl. Give each bowl four meatballs, or 2.5 ounces of slow-cooked pork. Add 3/4 cup of pickled vegetables to each bowl.If you’re making this dish without meat, mix the grated ginger in with the rice. Add a few jalapeno slices to the top of each bowl.
 If you used the slow cooker, drizzle two tablespoons of its sauce over each bowl. For a creamy topping, mix together sriracha, mayonnaise and non-fat plain Greek yogurt. Drizzle this mixture over each bowl also.After adding the sauce, garnish the top of each bowl with a fresh herb, if desired. For example, add a sprig of cilantro.
Add a dash of soy sauce to the top of each bowl, if desired.
 You can store the bowls (covered) individually in the refrigerator. Alternately, mix it all together into one large, covered container. Reheat it in the oven or microwave, if desired.

Use the leftovers cold as filling for a sandwich! For example, try stuffing hoagie-style bread with your Banh Mi mixture.