 While bullying is more likely to happen behind closed doors in the absence of leaders, it is essential those leaders analyze the incidents happening in the workplace. Leaders should recognize bullying and measure the impact it has on the organization’s productivity and climate.


Make sure that your employees know that bullying will not be tolerated.;
, When a bullying situation comes to your attention by observation, rather than by having someone report the occurrence to you, ask the bully and the bullied to talk out their differences while you are present. The bully should ask forgiveness for his or her unprofessional behavior. If the person who was bullied accepts this apology, then both employees should past the incident.


Create a record in which you transcribe or write down the meeting between the two employees and record the bully’s apology, as well as the victim’s response.
However, if the bullying continues after this apology has been extended, it is important to implement further consequences.
 If the two employees are having a difficult time coming to a resolution on their own, sit with them and act as a mediator. Ask them both to express themselves, and to talk about how they think the situation should be resolved.


You do not necessarily need to keep a record of this discussion.
 When the bullying has reached an excessive limit, the victim should be encouraged to lodge a formal complaint. This complaint will result in a formal investigation and severe consequences.


Lodging a complaint requires the victim to tell his manager (in this case you), about the incident. The manager would then turn the situation over to HR.
Both the bully and the victim would be called in to HR for a meeting with the managers and representatives from HR. They would then both be asked about the situation.
A formal investigations allows for the bully to apply for an appeal process is he or she feels that the charges are unfair.
After listening to both sides and seeing evidence of the complaint, HR will decide the final action that should be taken (whether this be a pay cut for the bully, termination or some other consequence).
 Rumors are another form of bullying that can really affect an employee’s life. To control these rumors, actively listen to other staff members and ask for feedback from the employee who the rumors are about.Send out a general email to the entire company to remind them that rumors are not tolerated, and that there will be consequences if the rumors are not put to rest.
 As an employer, you should ask your managers and heads of department to help you manage workplace bullying. Work with them to create anti-bullying policies, and implement them.