 Procrastination tricks you into inaction and sabotages your success.Don't keep waiting for the right moment to start working towards your wish. The "right moment" doesn't really exist. The right moment won't come when you have enough money. The right moment won't come when you have enough skill. The right moment won't come when you get someone else's approval. The right moment is now. The sooner you start working, the sooner your wish will come true.
 Search the Internet for information about what you need to do to make your wish come true. This website is a great resource. Simply type what your wish is into the search bar to look for help.


For example, if you want to be an animator, you'll need to learn to draw and build a portfolio. Using the web, look for programs that have trained successful animators and that have internship programs with major animation companies. You can find specific application requirements through a program's website.
 Make a list of everything you'll need to do to achieve your goal as a loose timeline. You should be very detailed about the initial steps, but later steps can be left vague.


For example, do you want to be an astronaut? If you're still in high school, your first step will be applying to an accredited college that offers bachelor's degrees in various scientific disciplines. Details for this step should include a list of schools, their admissions requirements, and any important deadlines. Jot down later steps that may change over time as simply "pick a major" and "get my pilot's license" without specifics.The key is to be creative and put yourself in a position to realize your dreams. While you may never become a best-selling author, you definitely won't be unless you start writing. Remember the proverb: "A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.", No amount of preparation will make your wish come true unless you follow through. Make sure you stick to your outline and keep up with important deadlines. While your wish may involve some sort of waiting, you should fill that time by practicing your talent or educating yourself.
 During your journey towards fulfilling your wish, you should write down everything you do that puts you closer to achieving it. This will help you see your progress and help keep you motivated.


You can write your progress in a physical notebook or type it up on a computer. You may even choose to publish your progress online as a blog.
How often you update will depend on your goal. For instance, if you are a college student who wishes to be a neurosurgeon, you may choose to update weekly or monthly. You can write about what you've done during that time period that will help you get into medical school, such as "volunteered for 20 hours at a clinic" or "aced an exam." In contrast, if you're trying to get in shape, consider writing about your daily exercise routine. Just be sure to set a regular update schedule to help keep you on the right track.
Write about both your successes and setbacks. Being mindful of your achievements will help you to stay positive, while writing out what you still need to work on will help you plan for your next step.

