 If you’re removing the hook on your own, you need above all to keep the wound sterile and prevent infection. Before treating yourself, no matter what method, wash your hands with soap and water or a disinfecting solution. Wash the area around the wound, too, if you can.Wet your hands with running water and apply a liquid, bar, or powder soap. Work up a good lather with the soap and scrub for at least 20 seconds. Rinse with warm water., The retrograde technique is the easiest but least successful way to remove a fishhook. It works best with un-barbed or superficially embedded simple hooks, i.e. with a single barb at the end. Since the hook is near the skin’s surface, you won’t normally need an anesthetic for this procedure.With one hand, apply downward force to the shank of the hook, i.e. the mid-point of the curve. This should disengage the hook’s barb so that you can draw it backwards through the skin.
The force should be gentle. Your aim is to rotate the hook back only slightly.
 Once the barb is disengaged, slowly try to pull the hook backward through the skin along the path of entry. Ideally, it should slip out.


Do not continue to pull if you feel resistance. Stop and consider another method.
Pulling against resistance can tear or otherwise damage the skin and tissue.
 After you’ve removed the hook, always treat the area as you would any other puncture wound. This includes cleaning, dressing with antibiotics and bandages, and covering the wound.First, stop the bleeding. Then rinse the wound with clean water. If any dirt or debris remains, try to gently remove it with alcohol-sterilized tweezers. A little bit of hydrogen peroxide can also help to remove small amounts of debris with the foaming action
Apply antibiotic ointment to the wound, like Neosporin, and cover it with a loose-fitting bandage. The bandage will ensure the wound stays clean and free from bacteria.
Change the bandage once a day or whenever it gets wet or dirty.
Puncture wounds can cause a tetanus infection. For fishhook injuries, always call your doctor to make sure your tetanus inoculation is current. If not, you’ll need to get a booster shot within 48 hours.

