 It sounds great. But is it a good fit for you? Ask yourself these questions:


Do you like traveling to unfamiliar places?
Are you comfortable being away from friends and family for an extended period of time?
Would you enjoy exploring another culture?

If you answered “yes” to most of these questions, studying abroad may be a terrific choice for you. If you answered “no” to most, you may need more soul searching before you decide. Studying abroad is an exciting and unique opportunity to grow both as a student and as a person. However, it does come with some challenges like being out of your comfort zone and far away from people who you’re close to.;
, There are so many exciting places to choose from that it can be an overwhelming choice. You may want to first narrow down the kind of locale that interests you the most and make your decision from there. For instance, ask yourself: Would you prefer an urban or a rural setting? Do you want to go to an English-speaking location or where they speak a foreign language? Is it important that you be centrally located so that you can spend time on weekends traveling to neighboring cities?To assist you in finding the perfect place, it’s also a good idea to visit some of the study abroad websites to read from fellow student bloggers on what it’s like to visit there.
 You will need to plan at least 6 months, if not 9 months, in advance of your summer vacation. Most programs require that you apply 6 months prior. Having 9 months will give you time to research, find, and apply to a program at your leisure., Once you’ve decided where and when, it’s time to find a program. Since you’re thinking about studying abroad during the summer, then that helps to narrow your choices down somewhat. At this point, it’s important to talk directly with someone from the program you are interested in. From this person, you can learn more about what it offers, the cost and which amenities are or aren’t included such as onsite orientation, airport pickup, housing etc.
 Meet with your academic counselor to discuss with him or her how this program fits in with coursework for the next year and if it meets the same criteria for any of the classes you will be taking next year. If you’re still in high school or in college and your parents are involved in helping you with these kinds of decisions, talk with them about all the details of the program.