 Before you apply the Lip Tar, moisturize your lips so they are smooth and soft. Doing this will help the Lip Tar stay on your lips for a long period of time. You can moisturize your lips by applying clear lip balm. You can also apply a natural moisturizer like coconut oil to your lips.If your lips are very dry and you have dead skin on your lips, you may want to exfoliate them before you apply a moisturizer. This will make applying the Lip Tar much easier. You can exfoliate your lips by gently rubbing them with a damp clean washcloth. Or you can use a sugar scrub to exfoliate your lips.;
, To help prime your lips for the Lip Tar, apply a dab of your favorite concealer on your top and bottom lip. Blend the concealer in to create a neutral primer for your lips. Another option is to use lip liner on your lips as a primer. Apply lip liner in a similar shade to the Lip Tar shade you are going to use or use a nude colored lip liner.You can also use foundation on your lips as a primer if you do not have concealer or a lip liner pencil.
 For a more professional approach, invest in a lip primer. Apply the lip primer to your lips before you put on the Lip Tar. Put the lip primer on using a small lip brush or a clean finger, starting in the center of your lips and moving outward.You can find lip primer online or in cosmetic stores.
The company that produces Lip Tar, Obsessive Compulsive Cosmetics, also sells a lip primer made specifically for application before using Lip Tar.
 The lip brush should have a very small head and short bristles. Lip Tar is a thick product so it may stain the lip brush. Use a dark colored lip brush and use it for Lip Tar only so the product does not mix with your other makeup.In a pinch, you can use a clean finger to apply Lip Tar. However, using a lip brush will result in a more accurate and smooth application.
 Squeeze a small dot on the brush. One dot of the product should be enough to cover your top and bottom lip. Do not use too much product right off the bat as this can lead to feathering and bleeding of the color on your lips., Put the Lip Tar on your bottom lip, starting at the center of your lip. Blend the product outward to your lip line. Gentle brush the product on, making sure you get the product along your lip line., Once you are done with your bottom lip, apply the remainder of the product on the brush to your top lip. Start at the center of your top lip and move outward to your lip line.
 Press your lips together and let the Lip Tar set on your lips. This will take up to 30 minutes. Do any touch ups to your lips with the lip brush as needed and let them dry.The Lip Tar should stay on your lips for several hours at a time, with minimal touch ups.
 If you find the Lip Tar is not staying on your lips or you want the product to last longer, use powder to help it set. Using a clean finger or brush, apply a light dusting of setting powder over the Lip Tar. Then, use a Q-tip dipped in lotion to remove any powder around your lips or mouth.Try not to get the setting powder all over your face when you apply it. You just want to apply it to your lips to help set the Lip Tar.
 Lip Tar is designed to last for a long time on your lips, even when you eat or drink. If you notice the lip color is starting to rub off or fade, apply a very small amount with a brush on your lips for touch ups. Start with a dab of the product and apply it in small amounts. You do not need a lot of Lip Tar for touch ups and a little will go a long way.Try not to put too much product on your lips during touch ups. This can cause the product to feather or bleed.
 At the end of the day, remove the Lip Tar using an oil-based cleanser. The oil in the cleanser will help to remove the lip color, as it is made with hemp oil. You can use an oil-based makeup remover or a natural oil-based cleanser like coconut oil. Gently apply the oil-based cleanser to your lips with clean fingers.Do not rub or scrub your lips hard with the cleanser. The product should come off easily once you apply the oil-based cleanser.

