 Since it will require purging any refrigerant, and purchasing replacement refrigerant, some jurisdictions may require a license to do the work.
 Since the accumulator contains a desiccant to remove moisture from the refrigerant, if the system has been discharged and improperly recharged or needs recharging, changing the accumulator will help ensure the system works efficiently after recharging. It is also recommended the accumulator is replaced whenever a compressor is replaced as well., You can order a new accumulator from suppliers online, your local auto parts dealer, or from your vehicle manufacturer dealership parts store. Buy a replacement expansion valve (also known as an orifice tube) if you plan to replace it as well. The expansion valve is located in the refrigerant tubing at the bottom of the evaporator coils, and as with the accumulator, they can collect debris which impede their performance if the system has been compromised. Also, when changing the compressor, replacement of the expansion valve is usually a requirement for warranty coverage of the new compressor.
 It is better to have this done at a shop that has a refrigerant reclamation machine, but if the system is already discharged, this step can be skipped. Simply loosen the schrader valve on the low pressure (suction) charging fitting and listen for escaping refrigerant to determine if the system is still charged.
 This can usually be unplugged, but be careful, as there may be a clip that needs to be depressed or pried up to release it., Use the correct wrenches, and make sure the fittings do not allow the refrigerant lines to twist. You may to need two wrenches, one on the fitting and another on the compression nut that secures it to prevent damaging the refrigerant lines.
 You can now completely remove the couplings and lift the accumulator out of the engine compartment. Make sure to keep it upright, as refrigerant oil and other nasty liquids may be in the bottom of it.
 Be sure to use a wrench on both nuts, since one is soldered onto the line and allowing it to twist will damage it. After the coupling is completely loosened, you can pull the two pipes apart.
 You can grip this with a pair of needle nosed pliers to pull the expansion valve (again, also called the orifice tube) from the tube. Note that refrigerant oil may leak from the tube if any has accumulated in the evaporator coils.
, Check to see if the o ring in the refrigerant line coupling is still in good condition, then reattach the fittings that connect this pipe.
, You can either buy a new one, or remove the one from the old accumulator and reuse it. If reusing your old one, it is generally a good idea to use a new seal or o ring when reinstalling it.
 You should now be able to either charge the system with new refrigerant or have it done at a licensed auto repair shop. Continue reading for basic instructions if you plan to proceed yourself.
 Allow the pump to hold a vacuum for at least 90 minutes before recharging the system.
, Open the charging valve and allow the refrigerant to enter the system. This can be a very slow process depending on the ambient temperature, do not rush it.,