 Your cat might experience depression if it has been poisoned by marijuana.Common symptoms of feline depression include eating or sleeping too much, pacing with a nervous energy back and forth, and refusing to eat. Other telltale symptoms include:weight loss
disinterest in play where it used to play regularly
aggression toward other animals in the home
refusing to use the litter box
generally withdrawn and sullen behavior;
, Hypothermia is a condition defined by a low body temperature. To determine if your cat is suffering from hypothermia, look for shivering or tremors. You could also feel the cat’s belly, where there is less fur. If it feels cold, the cat might have hypothermia.Other signs of hypothermia include:coma
lethargy
slow, shallow breathing
temperature below normal (100 to 102.5 degrees Fahrenheit, or 38 to 39 degrees Celsius)

, A lack of coordination – clinically described as ataxia – produces an inability to fully control body movements.This might manifest in a number of ways. Your cat might, for instance:move with a wobbly gait
sway from side to side
lean forward
take unusually high steps

, In severe cases of feline ataxia, the inability to achieve proper coordination could cause your cat to experience dizziness. This, in turn, might lead your cat to throw up. Hypersalivation has also been linked to instances of cats throwing up., Drooling – or, in clinical terms, ptyalism or hypersalivation – is a common symptom associated with marijuana poisoning in cats. You might also see your cat pawing at its face or mouth. Additionally, your cat might lose its appetite or be unable to swallow., Cats who are experiencing marijuana poisoning might have diarrhea or urinary incontinence. If your cat is having accidents around the house and is unable to use its litterbox, it might be poisoned., Serious cases of marijuana poisoning could cause seizures. When seizures occur, your cat will collapse and go stiff, then violently shake and lose control of its body for a short duration (typically about 60-120 seconds). Your cat might void during the seizure., Bradycardia (a slow heart rate) and tachycardia (a fast heart rate) are both common in cases of marijuana poisoning in cats.Physical symptoms of both include fainting, fatigue, and shortness of breath. If you see your cat panting, for instance, or if it seems to be generally lethargic, it might have an irregular heartbeat linked to marijuana poisoning.