 No matter what you use to clean your 35mm slides, it’s important that the surface of the slide is free of sand or other grit. If the surface of the slide has abrasive substances on it, they will just get rubbed across the surface when you clean, no matter what sort of cloth or cleaning agent you use., If dirt or sand is present on the slide, turn it upside down so it falls off. If necessary, give the edge of the slide a few gentle taps to get the object to fall off. If a foreign object remains attached to the slides, use a bulb blower or compressed air to get it off the slide.The compressed air should be free of moisture and rated at 60 PSI or below. You could also turn your blow dryer to the cold air setting and use it to blow debris from your 35mm slides.In rare cases where the debris coating the slide is particularly tenacious, use a soft, clean brush (a paintbrush, for instance) to dust the surface., A microfiber cloth is a specially designed fabric made of synthetic polymers. The fibers in microfiber cloth are woven more closely together than those in regular cotton cloths, making the cloth more effective. To wipe the slide with the microfiber cloth, place it over the slide, then gently move the cloth about the surface of the slide in a circular motion., Antistatic cloths are actually just a variation of microfiber cloths. Unlike regular microfiber cloths, though, they are designed with conductive fibers that dissipate static charges. Apply the cloth to the slide and gently move it about in a circular motion., Liquid film cleaner is the least-recommended way to clean 35mm slides. There are a wide variety of liquid film cleaners available. Each has a unique set of instructions. Consult manufacturer instructions before using a liquid film cleaner. Generally, however, you’ll dab a clean cotton cloth with a bit of the liquid film cleaner, then wipe the slide clean.After using the liquid film cleaner, you might need to blow the slide off using compressed photographic gas.
Some liquid film cleaners dry instantly, while others need to be wiped away.
Never use a water-based cleaner or water to clean your 35mm slides.

