 Women have many options for where they'd like to deliver. For example, you could choose a hospital, birth center, or home birth. If your doctor or midwife feels that your pregnancy and labor are at risk for complications, you may be urged to labor at the hospital. If your pregnancy is low-risk, choose a location where you'll feel the most comfortable.If you're concerned you'll have complications during labor or would like pain management, you'll probably want to deliver at a hospital.;
, Choose someone that you feel comfortable with to be there for you during labor. This could be a spouse, partner, relative, or close friend. You could also hire a doula or someone trained in labor support to be there with you. Your support person should know your preferences for labor and delivery. If complications arise, they should be useful in communicating your desires to medical staff.If you choose a relative or friend, keep in mind that they will have to be able to attend your labor with short notice.
 Even the most basic birth plan should include how you'd prefer to deliver your baby. While you can list your first choice, it's also a good idea to mention scenarios in which you'd be alright with other delivery methods. For example, if a C-section is recommended because of a labor complication, you could say you would like:A second opinion
To remain conscious
To ensure that there are no other delivery options

, Decide what pain relief you'd like during labor, so you can inform your medical staff or support person. For example, if you'd like an epidural, your health care provider can talk with you about the benefits and drawbacks of a walking or standard epidural. If you'd like to avoid medication or if your labor progresses too quickly for an epidural, you could try:Breathing techniques
Hot therapy
Hypnosis
Meditation
Massage

, Understand that your birth plan lists your preferences about how labor should go. Your birth plan is not a contract guaranteeing specific services, so try to avoid using language that's demanding. If complications come up, your health care provider may need to intervene or give medical assistance that's not listed on your birth plan.Remember that your health care provider should make an effort to respect your preferences. But if your health or the health of your baby is compromised, the health care provider may need to give a different treatment.

