 This means pasta, potatoes, breads, sugar and white rice. If your diet is rich in Carbohydrates you'll never get a chance to attack your fat stores. Eat "clean" carbohydrates such as fresh fruit and brown or wild rice.;
, Alcohol has 7 calories per gram which is very calorie dense. Stick to water until you can see your abs at least.
 i.e animal fats and high fat dairy products. Get your fats from foods such as fresh fish and almonds. Trim the fat off your steak and remove the skin from your chicken.
 Eat plenty of fresh fish, nuts and seeds, low fat dairy products and lean cuts of meat.
 Eat green leafy vegetables such as spinach and silver beet and add two to three servings of broccoli and cauliflower a week too.
 It is the most important nutrient to the body, without enough of it you won't only will fail in your body fat reduction you'll be unhealthy and be far more susceptible to infections.
 If you want a trim waistline you’re going to have to do the miles. 30min three times a week isn’t going to cut it. If you want a body of a male stripper then you’re going to have to get you’re heart rate up for at least 45min 6 days a week. Unless you’re a freak of nature and you have a perfect 6 pack naturally and then in that case you probably have pencil thin legs. To get a rough idea of where your heart rate should be do this simple formula 220 - age + resting heart x 70%. It can get a whole more complicated than that with interval training, fartlek and cross training methods, etc.
 Get to the gym and put on some mass, you don't need much, too much is a turn off. Train 4 to 5 days a week allowing adequate time for recovery. Don't forget to train your legs! The ladies will be laughing at you if you have rippling muscle on your chest and biceps and you have chicken legs holding you up.
 If you look like a gorilla it won't matter how good your abs are. Also if you’re as white as a ghost the ladies are probably not going to be putting money in your g string. Get a wax and get a tan. Laser treatment can be expensive but it's the best for getting rid of hair permanently. Find a good fake tan that won’t leave you orange.
 If you stink, all the above won't matter, nothing turns the ladies off faster than body odour. Find a good cologne and antiperspirant. Even more importantly is bad breath, if you look like Brad Pitt and your breath stinks you've gone from a hero to a zero.
 If it's receding, shave it all off. Keep it clean and smelling good.
 Ladies notice and get put off by the smallest detail. Keep finger and toe nails short and clean and keep your ears and nostrils free from hair.
 If you have missing or stained teeth then get them sorted.
 Male strippers have a confidence that most woman love (even if they don’t admit it). There is a fine line between confidence and arrogance, cross the line to arrogance and you’re back to being a 1 out of 10.

