 From the front to the back, a list of what you have to memorize would look like:

slide
barrel bushing
barrel
firing pin
extractor
hammer stop

, The human mind is very good at associating things. This talent runs so deep, in fact, that it's possible to use that ability to memorize things. For this memory, you'll create an imaginary journey or walk-through that you'll associate with what you have to remember. Going on your imaginary journey or walk-through will bring up your memories.
 The associative method is very powerful, especially if you have a strong imagination. Throughout history, people have used some variation on the associative method (like imagining walking through mental houses, looking around an imaginary room or flipping through a pretend book) to organize memories.


Memories that are easy to split up and spatially organize are best suited for the associative method - things like the stanzas of a poem, components of a machine or the procedure for cooking eggs.
Memories that can't be divided up are less well-suited - like the basic idea of Abstract Expressionist painting, the history of the War of the Roses or remembering how to ask someone out.
 You'll use your second set of memories as a "key" for what you have to remember.


For this reason, if you have a list of discrete items that don't fit together in any way, it'll be harder to shape your second "key" memories. For our example, we'll simply imagine being a tiny little man walking around inside a 1911 slide.
 This can be as cool and interesting or simple and easy to remember as you want to make it. For our example, a tiny man walking through a 1911 slide might say:


"First we'll encounter the barrel bushing, and inside it, I can see the barrel poking out. Behind the barrel and the breech face as we walk further back I'll see a tiny hole through which I can see the firing pin, and to its left will be the extractor against the side of the slide; when I make it to the very back, I'll reach the hammer stop."

, A few times a day, concentrate and visualize going back through your walkthrough. The more that you practice, the easier it will be to remember.
 As you perform this visualization exercise, your mind will get better and better at shaping your "key" visualization, but that's not enough - you need to remember the individual components you fit into your key. Try "working backwards" - starting from a list of items, see if you can reproduce your original mental journey or "key".

