 Your doctor can evaluate the condition of your health, as well as your diet, risk factors, and current medications to determine if buying supplements is a safe decision for your particular circumstances.


Discuss your medical conditions with your doctor before taking supplements, because some ingredients in supplements may interfere with specific health concerns.Many doctors and pharmacists are not trained about supplements and natural products.Ask your healthcare practitioner something like, “How familiar are you with these natural supplements?” If they do not have extensive knowledge, ask for a referral to a dietitian or other professional who does.;
, When buying natural supplements, know the difference between pills, capsules, powders, teas, and the variety of other forms supplements may come in. The form of a supplement affects its absorption, so you must take your specific circumstances into account when deciding what's right for you. If necessary, consult with a doctor or pharmacist.
 There are a number of places you can find herbal supplements for sale. Shop around for the best quality and value. Use the Dietary Supplement Label Database on the National Institute of Health’s website to compare the ingredients in similar products.An Internet search will return a wide array of natural supplement shops online. Some specialize in specific supplements, others sell bulk product at wholesale prices, and others offer organic brands.
You may be able to find a number of local natural supplement stores. This is a convenient option if you're not sure exactly what you are looking for, and if you'd prefer to speak with someone face-to-face about your particular needs.
Chain retail, fitness supplement, and drug stores carry a selection of supplements.
 Once you have found the herbal supplements that you want to buy, examine the labels for the following before you make a purchase:The manufacturer's name and address should be printed on the label. That way, if you do encounter any difficulties with taking your supplements, you can go directly to the source with your questions and complaints.
Go over the complete ingredients list and, if there is something you don't understand, ask a doctor or pharmacist about it before buying supplements.
Look for a seal from the US Pharmacopeia (USP) or NSF International. This means that the supplement manufacturer should adhere to quality guidelines created by these regulatory organizations.
 Supplements can be made with natural ingredients or they can be synthesized in a laboratory. Synthetic products may be more likely to contain harmful additives or by-products. Look for supplements labeled “natural” and avoid those called “synthetic” – contact the manufacturer for this information if it is not listed on the bottle.For instance, vitamin E may be listed as d-alpha-tocopherol if natural and dl-alpha-tocopherol if synthetic.
 Supplements contain many ingredients other than the herb or vitamin they intend to, and not all of them are bad. Try to generally avoid those with added sugar, which may be listed as an ingredient ending in “-ose.” You may also want to avoid added cornstarch, yeast, soy, and whey.Many dyes will be listed in the ingredients as a color then a number, such as “yellow no. 5.” Other ways they may be listed are simply as “FD&C,” or “E” then a number like “E102.”

, Every so often a new fad supplement appears on the market, or lists itself as a “cure all” remedy. These are likely just marketing ploys, and just because many people are taking a supplement doesn’t mean it’s right for you. In general, it’s better to wait awhile after a new supplement appears on the market so the FDA can begin to collect safety data on it.Anyone can put a supplement on the market with minimal scientific evidence of its safety and efficacy – the FDA removes the product from the market if it’s unsafe.Give a product some time on the market before using it.

