 Diarrhea is the common symptom, although this can occur for a variety of reasons. The diarrhea related to coronavirus is often very liquid with a foul smell, and yellow-orange in appearance.The diarrhea is often accompanied by stomach cramps, which make the dog depressed and miserable, and its likely to lose interest in food.


Unlike with parvovirus, vomiting is rare.
The diarrhea usually persists for several days, and if the dog is supported through this period so that it doesn't become dehydrated, its immune system should fight off the infection and make a recovery.;
, A dog that is fighting two infections, such as parvovirus and coronavirus, is less able to cope and is less likely to recover. However, in itself coronavirus is not as serious as distemper or parvovirus and adult dogs often survive infection.


Indeed, it should also be noted that many adult dogs that are well test positive for coronavirus, which is a sign of previous infection but they made a full recovery, and are now immune to further coronavirus infection., The biggest danger is to very young puppies (under 12 weeks of age), who tend to be physically weak and lack a fully functional immune system. They are vulnerable to death from fluid loss causing dehydration and organ failure.


Indeed, young puppies are also at greatest risk of picking up other infections, especially if kept in insanitary conditions, which further reduces their ability to cope and decreases their chances of survival., It is a highly infectious virus which persists in the environment and can be picked up when a dog sniffs or licks infected feces. Thus, a dog does not need direct contact with another dog to acquire infection.


This also means that places where groups of dogs congregate, such as a kennels or day-care, have the potential to act as a source of infection unless scrupulous hygiene and cleaning is observed.Happily, the virus is readily destroyed by most disinfectants.Once a dog acquires infection, the virus replicates (reproduces) in the gut wall in the first two-thirds of the bowel. The incubation period between infection and clinical signs of illness can be just one to four days.
 Any dog that has diarrhea should be closely monitored to make sure they are drinking water regularly and not vomiting it back. Check regularly for dehydration by lifting the skin of the scruff away from the neck and then letting it go. The skin should snap immediately back into place. If it takes a second or two to slip back down, the dog is dehydrated and veterinary support is required.


However, if you have a young puppy diarrhea don't even wait, but seek the advice of your veterinarian since puppies can deteriorate alarmingly quickly.
 There is no specific treatment for coronavirus, so knowing exactly which bug is causing diarrhea or illness may not necessarily alter the therapy given.


If your funds are limited, there is an argument that the money is best spent giving the puppy supportive care, such as intravenous fluids against dehydration and medication. This should decrease stomach cramps and help the dog feel better more quickly.
 In cases where it's appropriate to put a name on the infectious agent, then the veterinarian can either use feces or blood. A sample of feces can be sent for electron microscopy to look for the presence of the coronavirus. This virus has a typical appearance with a "crown" or "corona" of spikes sticking out from the surface. Alternatively the vet may take blood samples. Different tests are available and the choice is up to the individual clinician and the facilities of the lab they deal with.


However, viruses are too small to see with a regular light microscope and it requires the advanced technology and magnification of an electron microscope to detect them. This means sending the sample away to a specialist lab for analysis. Virus isolation looks for the presence of the virus in the bloodstream, while antibody titres look for the defense response mounted by the body in the face of coronavirus infection. These tests can give vital clues that the dog has been in contact with coronavirus.
However, exposure does not necessarily mean illness. Think of vaccination and how a low level of the infectious agent is given in order to provoke an immune response. Just because virus is present in the body, doesn't automatically mean it is this that is making the dog ill.
The vet will make a decision about the significance of the finding based on how compelling the levels are (low or high) and the pet's physical symptoms and how seriously ill they are., Further testing can build up the bigger picture. For example, could the dog have more than one problem, such as infection with parvovirus plus coronavirus. Further testing of the blood or feces could also identify different infectious agents that produce similar symptoms but have a treatment option (such as giardia or campylobacter). Tests that come back negative can also help to rule coronavirus off the list of possibilities. Further testing will cost you more money, especially if you don't have pet insurance. That is why it is up to you to decide whether or not to move forward.

