 Some of the supplies you’ll need, like the crystal encrusted beads, the headpins, and the earwires with mirror beads, probably aren’t going to be lying around your home. Some craft stores will have everything you need, particularly any craft stores with large jewelry-making sections. If you’re unable to find these items in store, you can order everything you need online.
 Headpins are common in jewelry-making, and are used often in making earrings.The silver seed bead is a basic, small bead. By sliding it onto the headpin first, it will work as a little stopper to make sure that the bigger crystal beads stay on the headpin. Put one silver bead on each headpin., First, slide on the larger bead. This will be the base, or body, of the snowman. Then, slide the smaller bead, which will be the head. Your snowman has already taken shape, but you’re not done yet!, After you’ve threaded your crystal beads, you don’t need all of that excess space on the headpin. Now, you will need your pliers to create a loop with the wire. First, bend the wire into a right angle close to the top of your beads.Then, above where you created that fold in the wire, bend it so that it creates a loop. You can hold the wire above the fold with your pliers, and use your fingers to bend the wire around them.
Once you’ve created that loop, close it off by wrapping the wire around itself, where you created the original fold.
Once you’ve wrapped the wire several times and you’ve ensured that it’s secure, trim any excess wire with your wire cutters. Press the end of the wire down with the pliers so that it isn’t poking out.
 To do this, you will need to open up the small loop at the end of the earwire. It’s easiest to do this with your round nose pliers. Gently pull the loop of the earwire until it’s open enough to slide on the loop you created with your twisted headpin. Then, bend the loop of the earwire back, so that there are two closed loops that are connected. Take your time to make sure the loop of the earwire is completely closed and secure., Your earrings are almost finished, but there’s one little detail that can take them to the next level. Using a bit of red ribbon – or any color you like – you’re going to create little scarves around the snowmen's necks. Wrap the ribbon between the two crystal beads, and secure it with a knot. Then, trim the excess ribbon with your scissors. You can keep the ends of the scarves as long or short as you like.If your ribbon is wide, you may want to cut it into thinner strips so that the scarf isn’t too big for the tiny snowmen.
If your ribbon is fraying, paint a bit of clear nail polish along the tips.

