 In most jurisdictions, the local police will have an official motor vehicle accident reporting form. You should find out if such a form exists, and use it to make your report. Using the form will prompt you to provide a complete report with all the necessary information.For example, in Oregon, you must use the Oregon Traffic Accident and Insurance Report form if any vehicle sustained over $1,500 in damage or if any person was injured or killed. The report form is available online, from the police or at the DMV.
Most other jurisdictions have similar reporting requirements and report forms. Look for the one that applies in your area.;
, The official forms are used because they will encourage you to provide all the necessary information. If you fill in the form completely, you will have a report that provides the police and insurance companies all the information they will need.For example, the Oregon Traffic Accident and Insurance Report form has sections that ask for the parties’ identification, witnesses’ identification, description of the accident, weather conditions, road surface, description of damage, and others.
 While it is understandable that you may be emotional after being involved in an accident, you should complete the report as objectively as you can. Do not get emotional or include conclusions about the fault of the accident. If you believe the other driver was at fault, the facts that you report should show that. But any sentences you include that say, “The other driver caused the accident” will serve no purpose., The best witnesses are those who will be seen as impartial. If someone was riding with you in your car, that person can certainly provide a witness statement. But if you see someone walking down the street who witnessed the accident, that person will be more valuable because he or she has no connection to you and is more likely to be deemed fair and impartial.


Get the name and contact information for any witness who saw what happened. If possible, before you leave the scene, ask the witness(es), “Can you tell me what you saw?”, Most official accident report forms will prompt you to provide a description of the scene, in case any environmental factors may have caused the accident. You should provide this information as factually and as completely as possible. If you are using an official form, complete these sections fully. If you are writing your own accident report, include descriptions of the following:Location
Cross streets
Traffic
Weather conditions
Road surface (dry, wet, snowy, gravel)
Light conditions (daylight, dawn, dusk, darkness)
Visibility (foggy, overcast, smog, clear)

, Your state DMV or insurance agency probably has requirements about filing accident reports promptly. In most jurisdictions, an accident report should be filed within 3 days following the accident. Check with your insurance company, the DMV, or the local police about the filing requirements in your jurisdiction.


For example, in Oregon you must submit the completed report within 72 hours. You are instructed to make a copy for your own records, and then submit the original by mail to Accident Reporting Unit, DMV, 1905 Lana Ave NE, Salem OR 97314 or FAX to (503) 945- 5267, or deliver it to any DMV office.