 Otherwise, you're going to have trouble no matter how you try to get them on.


Tights are often sized according to weight and height. Check the packaging that comes with the tights to determine what size matches your weight and height range.
If you are uncomfortable when your tights are too tight, go ahead and move up one size. Your tights usually will fit well enough still to stay around your waist.
If you are taller than average or have longer-than-average legs, choose a size marked "tall."
If your measurements fall in between sizes, always choose the larger of the two.;
, Make sure you aren't wearing jewelry that could snag the material. You'll also want to buff any rough edges from your fingernails, toenails, hands and feet.
 To ensure you don't accidentally tear the tights, gently fold the cardboard in half so you can ease it out the top of your tights.
 Stretch enough to create some give in the tights before you start putting them on. Be careful not to pull too hard and risk tearing them.
 While sitting, be mindful to hold them with the front facing forward. You can check for tags inside the waist band that will signify the back.
 Starting on either the right or left side, hold the waist of the tights and gently bunch the leg, gathering the fabric until the inside of the toe is exposed.
 Put your whole foot inside and arrange the bottom of the tights' foot so that the seam at the toe runs across the tip of your toes. Make sure the foot of the tights fits nicely around your toe and heel.


Keep your thumbs inside, pointed downward and the nail-side against you to avoid senselessly snagging your tights.
You might need to stretch the opening a bit to make sure your foot slides inside without catching on the fabric. Pointing your toe will help prevent your toenail from snagging the tights.
If either the toe or heel of the tights is crooked, you'll want to make sure it's straightened or you'll have trouble with later steps.
 Gently stretch the material of the tights, and unroll it up your leg to above your knee, near your mid-thigh. Ease it on carefully and slowly so the fabric doesn't pull or rip.


If the fabric is twisted or bunched at the knees, straighten it before proceeding.
Repeat these steps to pull the tights up your other leg. Gather the waist and toe of the other leg to create an easy pathway for your foot. Point your toe and insert your foot, lining up the toe of the hose so that the seam runs across your toes. Gently pull the tights leg up over your calf and knee to your mid-thigh. Make sure the leg of your tights isn't bunched or twisted.
 Continue to pull up the tights further, until the waist band is positioned around your natural waistline. You'll have the best luck if you pull the material up on one side, then the other, before finishing with the hips and waist.


If there are areas left rumpled or baggy, or if the legs don’t seem to be long enough, roll the tights down to the knees again. Just sit down, gently stretch them out and roll them back up. Be careful not to yank them back up from the top or they will likely tear., Check for areas where the tights are bunched or places where your skin feels pinched. Your tights should feel snug, but not uncomfortable.


If you see a place where your tights are twisted, your best bet is to take them off and repeat the process more carefully.
Use the flats of your hands to adjust any wrinkles.
 If you're wearing patterned or seamed tights, you'll want to ensure that the design is placed appropriately on your legs. Try putting on a pair of rubber gloves to make small adjustments for a flawless finish instead of pinching the tights with your fingers and risking a tear.

