 In some cases, you may be able to do something to reduce the impact of your regret. Consider whether there is anything that you can do to move in the direction that you would like to go.For example, if you regret not taking a job that was offered to you a few years ago, consider whether that job is still an option for you now. Or, if you regret not finishing your degree, consider whether continuing your education is still an option.
You might even be able to minimize feelings of regret by making an apology to someone. For example, if you feel regret about not spending much time with your kids when they were growing up, consider telling them how you feel and offering a sincere apology for not being there.
Changing your situation or even making an apology may not always be an option. In these cases, you may need to find ways to let go of your regret and move on with your life. This can be quite difficult, but it is possible., Having regret can also be a benefit. You may be able to use what you learned from your regret to make better decisions in the future.Try to identify some concrete lessons that you learned from the things that you regret and think about how you can apply these lessons to future situations.
For example, if you made the mistake of overusing your credit cards when you were in college and ended up with a lot of debt, then you can use that knowledge and decide to be more cautious about using credit cards later on in life.
 You may have an idea of how you want your life to look now as a result of your decisions. You might even know someone who seems to have everything that you want and you can use this person as role model. Think about what this person does differently from you and how you can use their actions as a model.For example, if you wish that you had been more family-focused than work focused, find a role model who puts her family first and pay attention to what she does. You can use her behavior as a model for your own behavior going forward.
 Another great way to move forward from regret is to set goals for your future. By setting goals for yourself, you can give yourself something to work towards rather than constantly beating yourself up over past mistakes.Try to relate your goals to what you regret in some way. For example, if you regret not making more time for your hobbies because of your personal and professional obligations, then make a goal to dedicate one afternoon per week to your hobbies.
Make sure that the goals you set are realistic and manageable. For example, it might be overwhelming to set a goal to learn to speak French fluently by the end of the year. However, you could set the goal to take a French class or listen to language instruction CDs during your commute.

