 The fastest way to do this if you're not already in Croatia is by air from your own country. You can also travel by road from European countries.


You can fly to Split from the UK via Croatia Airlines, easyJet, Wizzair, etc., for example.;
, There are regular Croatia Airlines buses leaving from the airport that will take you to the bus terminal at the harbor. Expect this ride to be about 40 minutes (Solta is about 9 nautical miles from Split).
 You can catch a catamaran ferry. Or, take a car ferry, if you've hired a car. The car ferry operates during summer only.


The ferry leaves for Rogač every few hours during summer months and the ride takes around 30 minutes.
 A bus will wait for you at the point of ferry disembarkation, and will take you to other places on the island. The ride cost is 8 kunas (around $1.50).
 Rogač is your landing point, so it's a good place to begin exploring from. It is the island's main port and it has wonderful beaches, great restaurants and nice places to stay. It's also quiet because it doesn't have nightclubs or bars in the town, so if you're after peace and quiet, plan to stay a while.
 Nečujam is Šolta's largest bay. It has wind-shielded coves to explore at any time of the year. You can also fish in the coves if wished.


The coves are known as Piškera, Maslinica, Podkamenica, Šumpljivina and Tiha. The sheltered cove of Piškera was once the secret fishing place of the Emperor Diocletian.
If you're into diving, you may wish to inquire about diving to find ancient ruins at the bottom of the sea.
Visit the house in which two Croatian poets (Marko Marulić and Petar Hektorović) once lived. It is located near the local disco club Ćuvita.
 This village sits at the base of the island's highest peak (Vela Straža). It's a lovely village with well maintained examples of Mediterranean architecture.
 If you want a livelier stay, this town may suit you well, as it has plenty of bars (both in town and on the beachfront), restaurants and a marina. It also has lovely Mediterranean architecture.


You'll discover an 18th century fortress in this village.
 This town began in the 17th century around a deep bay. You can do plenty of sailing from here, and there are the usual restaurants, bars and accommodation choices. If you like sailing, you might like to stay on a sailing boat or mega yacht.
 These include honey, olives, olive oil (often infused with wild rosemary and garlic) and freshly caught fish dishes.
 You'll be far away from the hustle and bustle of mainland noise and traffic, and you can get away from everything during your visit to this island. A visit to this island is a good choice if you want to write, paint, sleep, stare at sunsets, fish and eat well!

