 Japanese companies run on tight schedules which are strictly adhered to. Call one to two hours beforehand to say you are on your way. If you will be late, call as far in advance as possible; giving less than a one hour notice is bad form.


The same goes for the ending of meetings. If it is scheduled to end by 4 o'clock, try your best to finish on time, leaving enough time to say goodbye. Show you will work to adhere to your agreed schedule.;
, Japanese business attire will look very familiar to U.S. and European businessmen. For men, the exact color of a suit depends on time of year; October through April, wear a dark suit (navy or black), and May through September, wear a grey suit. Under the suit, one should wear a white button down shirt and subdued tie, with no bright colors or patterns. For women, attire should match men in color. Avoid short skirts, low-cut tops, and tight clothing (that is the attire of an "office-girl"). Style is very important for women in Japan, so Prada, Channel, etc. is common in the workplace. Pantsuits are a good alternative to skirts.


For men, do not wear a black suit with a white shirt and black tie. That attire is exclusively for funerals in Japan, and should never be worn to any other occasion.
Be well groomed. If you are a man with long hair, there must be no loose hair, or hair covering any part of your face; a ponytail is acceptable. Personal grooming is not something to be witnessed by others.
 When you first greet your business associates, have enough business cards in your hand for everyone. Not giving someone a card would be rude, and if your hosts bring someone with them to the meeting, then they deserve your respect, even if it is a lowly personal assistant.


Hold your card in both hands, one on each side. Reach your arms forward and bow slightly (they should be able to see the top of your head), while offering your card, name out, to the highest ranking member of the company there. Then accept his card and repeat down the line by authority.
He will prompt his staff to introduce themselves, or he may introduce them himself. Introduce your staff the same way. They should also have their own business cards; make sure to treat each business card respectfully.
Accept one from everyone who offers. Do not hand them to your assistant. Also, never bend, tear, drop, or write on someone else's business card. Use it as an example of how you will treat the person. Don't crush them into your pocket.
 Note taking is how you show you are listening. You will see your Japanese counterparts taking many notes, which they will keep and file. You will be expected to remember everything your write down, so do not lose that pad. You can be sure they will keep every note on everything you say. Also, do not write on any other paper or documents during the meeting.


Be as honest as possible when speaking. They will keep all the notes they take and review them, so if you promise a certain price five years from now, they will expect you to remember. If you forget, they will have all their notes from that meeting ready and will expect you to honor your original statement. If you can't guarantee something, don't. Explain why you can't, instead, and apologize.
 It is always bad form in all contexts. This includes your own company and employees. If someone from your team messes up, apologize for them and insist they apologize as well. Here are a few Japanese customs to watch out for:


Allow your hosts to seat you. There is a specific way to seat everyone for Japanese business meetings. Do not take your own seat; if you do, get up and apologize.
Make eye contact. If someone is speaking to you, you should be looking at them. Similarly, it is rude to look away while speaking to someone, so finish your sentence before looking at someone else.
Don't get too close. Japanese people generally stand father apart when speaking. Normal speaking distance in America is very intimate for Japanese people, and will make them uncomfortable. Keep at least 10 feet (3.0 m) between you at all times unless they are the first to close the distance.
Do not offer a handshake. Let them be the first to do so. If they do not, bow, and do not mention it. Never pat a Japanese business man on the back.
Never ask personal questions of any kind; you may, however, ask about the company they work for. And again, never lose, damage, write on, hand off, or forget a Japanese business person's card.

