 If you notice that people are asking if you have bagged, pre-washed lettuce leaves instead of whole heads, modify your selection to include more bagged lettuce. When you sell items at a farmers market, these items should reflect what the local community wants.;
, Nobody wants to purchase wilted produce. If you are selling fragile items such as greens, place them in open tubs and surround them with ice cubes to ensure that they don't wilt in the hot sun.
 Shoppers attend farmers markets because they want to meet the farmer who grows their food and know exactly how the food is produced. If you are selling items at a farmers market that are pesticide-free, be sure to include that fact in a large banner or flyer handout on your table. Create a tabletop display and include photos of your farm to give customers a better idea of who you are.
 Although you may not always get to pick where your display is located, if you can do so, remember that a corner booth in the middle of the market is best. Pick a place far from your competition and stand as much as possible so people can see your enthusiasm about your products.
 Tasting is believing; if food is an item you sell at a farmers market, keep samples available. If you produce handmade crafts, hold a drawing for a free item. Sharing bargains leaves customers feeling good about your product.
 Never undercut your competition since doing so hurts everyone in the long run, by prohibiting each other from making a good living. Remember that handmade and fresh items have more intrinsic value than items that have been sitting on store shelves. If your product is unique or rare it should also fetch a higher price than similar mass-produced items.
 If you are the only local grass-raised beef producer in the county, be sure to include that in your banner and your handout materials. If you can create an aura of scarcity about your product, you will likely have more sales.
 The only way to grow and increase your sales is to be there every week without fail. If customers can expect to see your high quality items they will reward you by frequently buying your items.

