 The Akita Inu is one of the most susceptible breeds when it comes to bloat, a painful and often fatal twisting of the stomach.Bloat is more likely to occur when a dog eats too fast or exercises too soon after eating.
Signs of bloat include agitation, vomiting, refusing to drink, and swelling in the torso. If you suspect bloat, take your dog to an emergency veterinary clinic. Bloat can kill a dog in few hours., A full 65 percent of Akita Inu dogs experience thyroid problems, which can affect the dog's ability to fight off disease. Get your dog checked for autoimmune hypothyroidism if you notice any of the following:Seizures
Hyperactivity
Severe and sudden weight loss
Weakness
Severe and rapid weight gain
Sudden aggressive behavior
Skin problems

, Akita Inu dogs are susceptible to hip dysplasia and luxating patella. These are both joint problems of the leg. Predisposition to these conditions is hereditary, and they may be brought on by jumping from too great a height or gaining too much weight. Seek care if you note the following:Limping or favoring other legs
Yelping in pain whenever the dog makes a particular motion
Yelping when being picked up in a particular way
Running with an odd hopping motion

, While less common, there are other health conditions that can affect the Akita Inu. Take your dog to the vet if you note the following:Nosebleeds, easy bruising, and blood in the stood or urine can be a sign of Von Willebrand's disease.
A tilt to one side, balance problems, or walking in circles can be a sign of Vestibular Syndrome.
A rusty discoloration to the dogs coat can indicate it is getting too much sun, which can be harmful to the dogs internal organs.
Dry, scaly skin and hair loss on the head, neck, and back can be a sign of sebaceous adenitis.
 Even if you don't notice any health problems, your Akita Inu, like any dog, requires regular trips to the vet. Bring your dog at least once a year for a full checkup.When visiting the vet, make sure to ask about any unusual behaviors, whether the dog is up to date on its shots, whether it is a healthy weight, and if it needs any additional dental care.If you've seen any signs of the health problems described above, always be sure to mention this.
Expect to spend, on average, several hundred dollars a year on veterinary care, and budget appropriately.If the dog has severe health problems, and when the dog becomes older, costs will increase, so it's a good idea to have an emergency fund set aside as well, unless you have pet insurance.

