 Your computer most likely has rectangular holes, called USB ports, on the sides of its casing (for laptops) or behind the monitor, on the side of the keyboard, or on the CPU for a desktop. You'll insert your flash drive into a USB port.


USB ports have a piece of plastic in the top of their slots; you'll also notice that the USB end of your flash drive has a plastic segment. You'll need to insert the drive into your computer's USB port with the plastic segment side of the flash drive on the bottom.
If your flash drive won't fit into your computer's USB port, turn it over.
 This app's icon resembles a computer monitor. It should be on your desktop, though you can also open it from within the Start menu by clicking the Start icon in the bottom-left corner of the screen and then clicking My PC.


On some computers, My PC is called "My Computer" instead.
Windows may ask if you want to determine what to do with your USB flash drive. Clicking OK when prompted will allow you to select a Open folder to view files option which will open your flash drive's window.
 It's under the "Devices and drives" section in the middle of the window.


If your flash drive opened when you plugged it into your PC, skip this step.
 This folder is in the far-left pane of the My PC window.


If your flash drive's window opened when you plugged it into your PC, left-click Pictures.
 Doing so will open a second window to display your computer's "Pictures" folder, which is your computer's default picture storage area.


If your flash drive opened when you plugged it into your PC, skip this step.
 Once you let go of the mouse, your photo will "drop" into the flash drive window, which means it will copy from your computer into the drive.


Photos aren't moved from your computer to your flash drive by default; they're copied instead. If you want to move the photos off of your computer, you'll need to delete them from your computer after moving them to the flash drive window.
You can hold down Ctrl while clicking photos to select multiple photos, or you can click and drag your cursor across as many photos as you wish to copy.
 You can put as many photos on your flash drive as the flash drive will allow.


For example, a flash drive with 64 gigabytes' worth of space can store roughly 64 gigabytes' worth of photos.
 It's the icon below the "Devices and drives" heading.
 Doing so will ensure that, when you remove your USB flash drive, your files will remain uncorrupted.
 Your pictures are now on your flash drive. If you'd like to move the photos from your flash drive to another computer, you only need to plug your flash drive into a new computer and then drag the photos from your drive to the computer's Pictures folder.

