 The only formula to "being cool" is to have a variety of friends. When people like and respect you, they think you're cool. There are, of course, the bullies, jerks, and cruel cliques that tell themselves that they are cool by rejecting others. But you should ask yourself — if no one else in school really likes them, are they really cool? Or are they simply acting cool? More likely than not, the coolest kid you know is the one with tons of friends; the kind of kid that anyone would be happy to sit and talk to over lunch or between classes. If you want to be cool, this is the approach you need to adopt., You can have close friends, and even a best friend, but if you stick to one friend at all times you'll never meet anyone new. This doesn't mean that you should try and be everyone's best friend. But you should feel free to talk to anyone and everyone at your school. Give everyone a chance, even if it is only because they sit next to you at class. Think of it this way — when you see kids acting cool and ignoring other people, how cool would they be if they suddenly switched schools and lost their clique? Being cool is not about rejecting friends, it is about gaining them.


Simply asking someone "how's it going?" or waving hello to an old friend you may have lost touch with shows that you value people's friendship. People like to feel valued, and they will respond by valuing and respecting you.
 While there are plenty of Hollywood examples of cool people who are quiet, distant, and seemingly alone, in reality you can only be cool if people think you are cool. And people can only think that once they get to know you a bit. As a teenager, you spend 6-8 hours a day with the same people, and they will notice if you never take the time to talk to them. Wear a smile, sit down with people at lunch, and make small talk with your locket-mates and classmates. If people feel like they can come up to talk to you, they'll want to become your friend.
 A good, genuine compliment is one of the best ways to gain respect and admiration from your peers. Put downs, however, tend to push people away, even if they gain a quick laugh or surge in coolness. When you put people down, you create social walls, and that person will never end up thinking you're cool once you've hurt their feelings. Compliments, on the other hand, show people that you care and noticed their accomplishments, which in turn helps them tune into your successes.


When giving compliments, make sure they are genuine. Fake or half-hearted compliments make you look like a suck-up, and your coolness will tank.