 You don't need to buy expensive hair products, anything you can find at your local drug store or beauty supply store will work fine. Just look for products that claim to be straightening and/or moisturizing.;
, Use your towel to remove water from your hair by gently squeezing your hair in sections rather than harshly ruffling it dry. Patting your hair dry helps prevent excess frizz from occurring after showering.
 You should apply it when your hair is wet because it allows you to evenly spread the serum around your hair without creating clumps. Comb your hair with a wide-toothed comb after applying.


Products with Obliphica Berry, argon nut oil, Moroccan oil, or coconut oil are thought to help keep hair straight throughout the day. Products with silicone will also help to keep your hair straight.
 You want your hair to be as dry as possible when straightening. Not only will this allow your flat iron to work better, it will also prevent you hair from being shocked by the heat and breaking off.


Point the hair dryer downward with the flow of your hair while blow-drying. This downward motion away from your roots encourages your hair to dry straight.
Set your hair dryer on the lowest heat setting. If you have particularly frizzy hair, drying your hair on a lower heat setting for a longer period of time will prevent your hair from puffing up as you dry it.
 There will also be a numbered heat setting near the "on" switch that you can adjust to your desired heat level. The thicker and frizzier your hair, the higher the numbered setting should be. If your hair is particularly thin and brittle make sure to set your straightener to the lowest number to avoid damaging your hair.
 The number of sections will depend on the thickness of your hair. The key is to make sections one to two inches thick so that they can easily pass through the straightener.


Pin or clip the sections you are not using out of the way as you straighten each individual section.
An easy way to do this is to pin all of the sections that you are not using on the top of your head or behind your shoulders. Then take each individual section in front of your shoulder to straighten it.
 This will usually mean that your straightener will start about an inch from your scalp.
 Be sure not to clamp too firmly, as this will create a ridge in the top of the hair section where you start straightening. Additionally, be sure not to hold the flat iron in the same spot for too long, as doing so will also cause a ridge to form in your hair.
 Your motion should be a fluid and steady sweep from the roots to the ends. The most important part of this technique is that you don't hold the straightener in any one place for too long. Doing so can damage your hair and create undesirable folds.
 Depending on the thickness of your hair, you may only have to do this once, or you may have to run the straightener over a section of hair several times.


The strength of your flat iron will also determine how many times you will have to run over a particular section of hair.
The lower the heating setting on the flat iron, the more times you will have to run your straightener over a particular section of hair.
Don't be alarmed if you see steam rising from the flat iron. Steam occurs as a result of the hot ceramic making contact with any leftover moisture in your hair. If you start to smell burning hair, however, turn down the heat setting on the flat iron immediately.
 It is generally easiest to move around your head from one side to the other rather than taking random chunks so that you can easily separate the straightened chunks from the non-straightened ones. You may need to brush each section before straightening it if it got tangled while pinned.


If your hair is prone to frizz, apply a hair spray or setting serum to each section immediately after you straighten it.
Avoid getting any product on sections of hair that you have not straightened yet. Product can negatively interfere with the straightening process, causing damage to your hair or to your flat iron.
 Blow-dry your hair for another minute carefully to set your straightened hair. You can use a thick brush to guide your hair in a straight motion if you prefer.
 Anti-frizz serum that contains silicone is especially effective at keeping hair straight after flat ironing., If you live in a climate prone to random bouts of moisture, carry an umbrella with you in case it starts to rain or mist heavily. External moisture will cause your hair to become frizzy again.

