 As sad as it is to believe, some praisers are merely doing so to set you up for a request or favor in the future. They’ve played into the concept that “flattery will get you everywhere” and may be complimenting you to win approval or even forgiveness for some wrongdoing.If a person continually lays on the praise, be wary of any demands they may ask of you in the future. False flattery is actually a disguised form of emotional manipulation: the person is buttering you up to get their way. Distance yourself from the person, if possible. If not, avoid letting them get their way with you.
 Whether you’re delighted because you were recognized or secretly pissed because the person’s adoration is dishonest, take time to feel what you’re feeling. Don't ignore the way you are feeling, or this may begin to chip away at your self-esteem, especially if you do not do something to create boundaries with the person. Own your emotions, but don’t let them get to your head.An insincere compliment can bring up feelings of shame or self-doubt. Give yourself a time-out if needed to collect yourself. Take a few deep breaths to cool off. Remind yourself of your positive traits, or call up an authentic friend who will help you see the positives.
 If someone thought you’d fall prey to false flattery, they may see you as lacking self-esteem. They assumed that by merely throwing a disingenuous compliment your way, you’d give in to their demands or view them favorably. If you tend to rollover after false praise, you may need to work on your confidence.Boost your self-esteem by making the most of accomplishments and failures. Use accomplishments to help you acknowledge and affirm your abilities. Use failure to help you pinpoint weaknesses for future growth.
Stop comparing yourself to the people around you. This is a surefire way to make your confidence suffer. Know that you have something unique to offer the world that no one else can.Try something new. Developing and honing new skills can help you build self-efficacy and start to believe in your abilities. Go back to school and further your education. Or, ask your boss for some on-the-job training in a new area.
Try reading a confidence boosting audiobook if your self-esteem becomes a constant problem for you and you begin taking things too personally. One good option is The Six Pillars of Self-Esteem by Dr. Nathaniel Branden.

