 Poor social skills are a major symptom of small dog syndrome. Dogs who are overly coddled, or whose behavior is not corrected, never develop social skills. Pay attention to how your dog interacts with other dogs, whether in your home or when going out.A small dog may see himself as the boss. He may bully other dogs to get his way. He may, for example, chase other dogs away from the food bowl, or growl at dogs attempting to get on the couch with him.
Your dog may be very aggressive on walks. He may bark, lunge, or growl at passing dogs.;
, Small dogs are often ignored when they disobey rules, leading them to have poor impulse control in the home. Your dog may behave poorly in general due to the double standard for behavior many owners have for small dogs.Does your dog beg for food? While many dogs beg for food, dogs with small dog syndrome are particularly persistent. They may whine, bark, and stare until they get their way, despite being told to quiet down. In extreme cases, a small dog may start refusing his own food in favor of table scraps.
A small dog may have a general disregard for household rules. He may not listen when he's told to get down, get into things frequently, and have poor impulse control in general.
 How does your dog react to guests? A small dog may ignore guests who do not want to be jumped on or licked. A small dog may also be aggressive with guests. He may growl when guests come in, and may occasionally nip at people. Much like other problems, this stems from poor socialization and a lack of boundaries early on., Dogs with small dog syndrome may be particularly difficult to housebreak. Dogs generally pee to assert dominance and control in a home. As small dog syndrome can spoil a dog, urinating inside the home is a common symptom.Your dog will not just urinate in your home. Your dog will also pee when visiting the homes of friends or family members.
 Part of the reason small dog syndrome occurs is that small dogs are treated differently due to their size. Behaviors that would seem like a nuisance in larger breeds are ignored in small dogs as they're seen as less threatening.A small dog is not seen as a threat to people or other dogs, for the most part. If a large Labrador jumped on a guest, the dog would be told to get down. Its size may frighten someone. If a small terrier did the same thing, the behavior is less likely to be corrected. Small dogs are not seen as inherently threatening as larger breeds sometimes are.
This leads to behavioral problems overall. When a small dog feels he can get away with certain behaviors, he's less likely to respect owner authority in the home.
 Another factor contributing to small dog syndrome is that owners feel they must protect smaller breeds. You may, for example, pick your dog up quickly if you see a bigger dog on a walk. You may also not allow your dog to interact with larger breeds at all, even when larger dogs are well trained and generally friendly. This can lead to poor socialization, causing some of the problems associated with small dog syndrome. Small dog syndrome may cause excessive barking and aggression towards other dogs., You may be reinforcing the behavior if your dog has small dog syndrome. Early on especially, behaviors that lead to small dog syndrome are often inadvertently encouraged.A tiny dog may bark at a larger dog on a walk or a park. Instead of correcting the behavior, you may be inclined to try to calm your dog down. You may say something soothing like, "Shhh, it's okay." Your dog can interpret this as praise, and feel aggression and barking are correct behaviors in the future.
You may also be more inclined to let small dogs break household rules. A small dog jumping on someone may be seen as cute. A small dog hopping into your lap during dinner may also not be seen as a major issue. Therefore, the dog learns these behaviors are appropriate. The dog never learns to respect you as an authority figure in his home.
 Small dog syndrome should be treated, as it carries certain risks. The biggest risk is behavioral problems. Small dogs may be harder to train, and may not obey as easily, as they're not held to the same standard.Small dogs also may develop problems with nerves. If you constantly feel the need to protect your dog from danger, he may learn to see the world as a dangerous place. Your dog may become nervous easily, which can sometimes lead to trembling when startled.
There are some physical health problems associated with small dog syndrome. If you're carrying your dog around a lot to protect him, he may become overweight. This can lead to joint pain, as well as extra pressure on the organs.
 It can always be helpful to seek professional advice, especially if your dog's issues are becoming a real problem. A vet may be able to offer you some advice on how to reverse small dog syndrome.


You can wait until your dog's regular appointment to ask questions. Small dog syndrome can often be treated at home, and is not usually a medical risk right away.
However, excessive urination may be a symptom of other conditions. If your dog is urinating a lot, you may want to make a vet appointment early., If your dog has small dog syndrome, you will want to take steps to correct the problem. You want to avoid long term health and behavioral problems associated with small dog syndrome. To start, avoid picking your dog up too often.A dog needs to walk for exercise. Do not pick your dog up on walks, even when he becomes aggressive or difficult. You should only pick your dog up when it's necessary for your dog's safety. For example, if an aggressive dog is running at your dog, it's appropriate to pick your dog up.
Small dogs will also get spoiled when being carried all the time. Your dog may decide he or she is too good to walk, and start refusing to do so when taken out. Regular walking is necessary to a dog's well-being, so make sure your dog walks frequently.
 Small dogs should be held to the same standards of behavior as larger breeds. While your small dog's jumping or aggression may not be that much of a nuisance, ignoring the problem leads to many behavioral issues associated with small dog syndrome.Do not let small dogs get on the couch or on someone's lap without an invitation first. Correct behaviors like barking, growling, or aggression.
Never hand feed a small dog. While the occasional table scrap is okay for a treat, put the food in a dog's bowl. It's important your small dog can separate your food and eating area from his food and eating area.
 In addition to correcting negative behaviors, reward positive ones. Give your dog a treat if he stays off the couch when told. Give your dog verbal praise if he stops jumping on a guest when instructed. Eventually, your dog should begin to understand appropriate versus inappropriate behavior., Larger dogs who are socialized properly rarely pose a risk for small dogs. When a small dog becomes nervous around a larger breed, you want to correct that problem rather than inadvertently encouraging it by panicking yourself. When walking your small dog, start taking a bag of treats on walks.When you pass a larger dog, feed your dog treats. Talk to him in a soothing voice. Repeat this behavior every time you're passing a larger dog.
Your dog will learn to associate larger dogs with good, happy things rather than danger. This can ease some of the anxiety and aggression associated with small dog syndrome.
 You want to make sure a visit from a friend or family member does not undo your dog's progress. Let other people know the rules for your dog.


Explain basic rules. Inform guests not to let the dog jump on them, and not to let the dog up on the couch uninvited.
Let visitors know that table scraps are not okay for your dog unless they're placed in his bowl.
 A dog trainer can do wonders for a dog suffering from small dog syndrome. Seek out the aid of trainer in your area if your dog's issues are not improving.Go for a trainer that values positive reinforcement over punishing a dog. Punishment-based techniques have proven to be ineffective. Most trainers have a website that overviews their training process.
You can also read reviews of trainers online, or contact past clients. This can help you make sure a trainer's techniques are effective.
When meeting with potential trainers, make sure the trainer is friendly and listens to you. You do not want to hire a trainer who disregards client's concerns.

