 Keep track of any problems you have doing daily activities you are used to doing with ease.Pay attention if you:


Experience problems concentrating. Note if you have difficulty completing tasks in a reasonable time frame.
Lack short-term memory. You often may forget things that people just told you or events that recently happened.
Cannot concentrate or retain attention. You may not be able to pay attention for a long period of time without zoning out.
Feel scatter-brained or have difficulty organizing your life. You may forget appointments or meetings with colleagues or friends.
Struggle to find the right word or to maintain your stream of thought. Talking when prompted may be difficult for you.
Have blurry vision during daily activities. Even if you are wearing glasses or contacts, you struggle seeing clearly and distinctly.
 If anything has changed recently in your stress, sleep, or health patterns, it may be time to make an appointment with a physician. If your stress level has increased, this can cause chronic fatigue. Think about your daily life and if anything has changed substantially.
Think about any recent health problems you’ve had and how they may contribute to your fatigue.
Make a list of questions to ask a doctor if you decide to make an appointment. Think of questions to ask them as well as what information you need to have to help them answer your questions.
 CFS is more likely to occur in specific groups of people. If you are in these target groups, consider chronic fatigue as a potential diagnosis. Chronic fatigue can affect people of all ages. It is most common though in people in the 40s and 50s.
Women are generally diagnosed with chronic fatigue more than men. This may be due to their reporting it more rather than acquiring it more.
Being unable to manage stress can be a problem that contributes to chronic fatigue.
 If you've felt differently, changed your social life, daily, work, or school schedule because you're tired, it may be a sign of chronic fatigue. Consider if you feel more depressed recently than normal. Depression can be due to feeling tired and lacking sleep.
Think about your social life. Consider if you go out less than you used to because you are too tired.
Reflect on if you’ve changed your lifestyle in substantial ways. Think about the ways you’ve adapted your daily schedule if you’re feeling fatigued.
Realize if you’re missing work or school more often due to feelings of tiredness. Absences at work or school may increase with chronic fatigue.

