 Relationships will change, as will the circumstances of each individual partner. Adapting to changes does not necessarily mean that you are falling out of love. Take some time to consider what is going on in your life, as well as your partner's life, and how those changes may be impacting your dynamic.

Many relationships go through a "honeymoon period" where they are still getting to know their partner. When this ends and you start to feel more comfortable, the relationship may start to feel different. This does not necessarily mean you are falling out of love, though.Likewise, major life changes including changes at work or the loss of a loved one may impact the amount of stress in your relationship. These changes may make your dynamic more difficult short-term, but it does not mean that your relationship is doomed to fail.
If you are having a difficult time telling whether your relationship is being impacted by external forces or internal feelings, consider seeing a couple's therapist with your partner. They can assist you in better evaluating and expressing your feelings.;
, When couples are in love, they often show physical affection toward one another. Whether they are holding hands, cuddling, or just sitting so close they meet, they often want to engage in physical contact. When the love starts to diminish, however, you may find that you don’t have the same urge to show physical affection.


You may find that you recoil when your partner attempts to touch you. Their once welcome caresses are now no longer wanted by you. This is often a strong indicator.Keep in mind that often times, the ways in which you show affection and the amount of time you spend in physical contact with your partner will change over the course of the relationship. Changes in physical contact don't necessarily mean you have fallen out of love.
It is important to consider whether physical contact is changing because the relationship is changing, or because you and your partner genuinely do not like showing affection to one another anymore.
 If you’re falling out of love with your partner, you may find that you aren’t as intimate as you used to be. You may not want to engage because you feel guilty, or because you just don’t feel close to them anymore. You may also feel so disrespected and hurt by your partner— which could be why you have fallen out of love—that you don’t want to share that aspect of yourself with them.


You may also find that the quality of your intimacy has decreased. You may not enjoy the act as much anymore, or you just may not feel emotionally connected anymore, so you find that the passion is absent.Don't confuse different levels of intimacy with their absence. Take note that it is completely natural for intimacy to wax and wane throughout the course of a relationship. However, if you feel physically repulsed by your partner and have little or no desire to connect with them physically whether through hugging or sexual intercourse, this could be a warning sign of a deeper issue.
 It’s normal and natural to find others besides your partner attractive. If you notice that you seem to be on the prowl and notice others more than normal, you could be falling out of love. When people are committed to each other, they tend to stop themselves from looking elsewhere. When the love dies down, however, they are more open to noticing others around them.


You may also find that you don’t mind if you see your partner checking out others. What used to bother you before may not now because you don’t feel the same connection or sense of partnership you once did., Couples in love typically like to spend as much time as possible with each other. However, you may be at the point where being near your partner is anything but enjoyable. You may find yourself cancelling dates and finding alternate plans instead to avoid being with your partner.