 Knowing how often you plan to use the trailer and where you like to camp will help determine the type of trailer that can meet your needs.


If you only want to camp during summer, a lightweight, less expensive trailer with tent-style pop-out walls may be more appropriate than a 4-season camper trailer with heavy insulation and a higher price tag.;
,


For example, if your family is large, a fifth wheel trailer may be ideal. Many of the largest fifth wheels have a separate bunkhouse and bathroom away from the master bath, which gives children an area to call their own.
A couple with no children may prefer a standard trailer, which has fewer layout plans but is more lightweight and costs less.
Campers who prefer staying in isolated, rugged conditions may find that a small, all-terrain pop-up camping trailer is the ideal choice for housing 1 or 2 people during short trips.
 Understanding this number will help you choose a trailer that does not exceed your vehicle's weight allowance when fully loaded with gear and water.


A fifth wheel trailer with a typical gooseneck hitch can only be pulled with a 3/4-ton or 1-ton pickup, while a small popup trailer with a standard ball-hitch can be pulled by mid-sized station wagons or even sedans.
 If you plan on financing a new model, remember that RVs (like all vehicles) lose a significant share of their value after the first year on the road. Good deals can often be found on used, depreciated RVs at the end of summer when owners decide they don't enjoy camping as much as they thought they would.



Visit online RV communities and camping trailer review websites to learn what seasoned campers do and don't like about their trailers.
Find out which manufacturers have the best warranties and repair service by asking trailer owners how they were treated when mechanical failures occurred.
Check for recalls on appliances contained within the trailers you are interested in buying. Trailer manufacturers typically do not make the appliances contained in their trailers (such as stoves, refrigerators and water heaters); trailer appliances are sourced from appliance companies who are responsible for contacting consumers in the event of a recall notice. Always ensure that the trailer you are buying doesn't have appliances that are under recall warnings.
 Seeing a variety of trailers on the showroom floor will give you a good idea of typical trailer floor plans and extras such as slide-out rooms, entertainment centers and types of bathrooms. RV shows also save time by allowing you to talk with a variety of manufacturers in 1 setting.

