 If you have been released from prison under the terms of parole, there is always the possibility that you may someday be arrested for parole violation. Even if you believe you are complying with all the terms of your parole, you should be prepared for the possibility that your parole officer may see things differently. As a result, you could be arrested. If you do get arrested for a parole violation, you will likely be taken into custody, without bail. At that point, you will have no more opportunity to prepare, so you must do some things ahead of time, just in case. Your parole officer could have you arrested for any of the following, if they are conditions of your parole:failing to abide by a curfew
failing to appear at work
missing one or more counseling sessions
leaving the immediate jurisdiction
failing to check in with your parole officer on time;
, At this point, it is difficult to predict exactly what you may need for a parole violation hearing. If you are going to such a hearing, chances are that it has come as a surprise. Nevertheless, you should prepare a folder that will contain any paperwork that you have that is related to your release. You will need the written terms of your parole, any records that you have of positive reports from your parole officers, and anything else that will speak in your support.This folder should be self-contained and ready to go. You should have it in an easily accessible location.
 Part of your preparation for a possible parole violation hearing will be to notify a friend or family member that you may be calling. Just in case you get picked up, you will need to know who you plan to call and know two or even three ways to reach that person. This contact person should know where you keep your paperwork and other documentation related to your parole, along with any other notes or research that you may prepare.A good contact person would be a close friend, relative, or coworker. Approach such a person and ask, "Just in case I ever have a problem with my parole officer, can I call you to help get some papers or to help reach my attorney?"

, After you are released on parole, you probably hope or intend not to have any further legal problems. However, part of planning ahead will include consulting with an attorney. If you do get arrested for an alleged parole violation, you will want an attorney who is already familiar with you and the details of your parole. You may want to continue working with the attorney who represented you previously, or you could hire a new attorney. You will probably need to pay for an initial consultation with an attorney, but this will be money well spent if you get taken to a hearing. In many cases, the attorney will be allowed to attend the hearing with you and can speak on your behalf.You should provide your attorney with a copy of all the paperwork that you put in your emergency folder.
Make sure that you have your attorney’s 24-hour contact number, so you can reach him or her in case you get picked up.
The Supreme Court has not ruled that everyone is entitled to attorney representation for a parole violation hearing. Some states allow representation, some do not, and some require it. You should consult with an attorney to understand the law in your particular state., At a parole violation hearing, you will be allowed to present witnesses on your behalf.Although you cannot predict the specific issue that your parole officer may raise, you can still prepare one or more witnesses. You may want to line up your employer, one or more coworkers, or anyone else who might be able to speak to your good behavior since your release.When planning in advance, you obviously will not be able to let your witnesses know the date of a possible hearing. However, speak with the people whom you might call and make sure that they will be willing to speak on your behalf, assuming that they can be available.
You should plan for more witnesses than you actually need, in case one or more of them cannot attend.
You should give your attorney a list of the names and telephone numbers of your potential witnesses, so he or she can contact them to appear at the hearing.
 At a parole violation hearing, you may appear in front of a specially assigned judge or a designated parole hearing officer.Your own parole officer will also be in attendance, in the role of prosecutor. Finally, your attorney and witnesses are entitled to attend.The specific procedures for conducting the violation hearing will differ from state to state. To know exactly what to expect, you should consult with your attorney.
 In the first phase of the parole violation hearing, your parole officer is going to present his or her reasons for declaring you in violation. There may be one or more alleged parole violations. As the parole officer states each alleged violation, you or your attorney will have the opportunity to admit or deny the allegation.As you listen to the allegations against you, you should respond in a very limited fashion. At this stage of the hearing, you should only say, "Admit" or "Deny" to each allegation. You will have the opportunity to add further explanations later.
Your attorney (if you have one) should be able to advise you on your best strategy for responding to the allegations at this point. In general, if you admit that a violation occurred, but you believe you have a valid explanation for it, then you should probably respond "Denied." You will then have an opportunity to explain. If you simply "Admit" every allegation, the hearing officer may just move to the next phase of the hearing, without taking more testimony.
 After you admit or deny the general allegations, your parole officer will then have an opportunity to present whatever evidence he or she has to support the allegations. The parole officer may introduce documents, videos, witnesses, or anything else that might support the allegations of your violating parole.As at a trial, you or your attorney will be allowed to cross examine any witnesses. You may ask questions to challenge their statements or the veracity of their testimony.
 You have the option, after the parole officer finishes introducing evidence, to present your own case. This is not required. You have the right to remain silent and leave the burden of proof on the parole officer. However, if you outright deny that an alleged violation occurred, or if you can provide an explanation for an alleged parole violation, this is your opportunity to do so.For example, if your parole officer alleges that you left the jurisdiction without permission, but you did not, then this would be your opportunity to provide any evidence or witness testimony to show that you were always within the allowed jurisdiction.
As another example, if the parole violation charges you with missing curfew, but you believe you had a good reason for doing so, this would be your opportunity to explain the reason.
If you are charged with missing work, for example, you could explain that you were ill, that you had car trouble, or that something else prevented you from getting to work that day. Anything you say, however, must be supportable either with witnesses who knew of your whereabouts or any documentation (auto service receipts, for example) that might prove where you were.
 After listening to the parole officer’s case and any explanation or rebuttal that you provide, the hearing officer will consider the case and make a decision. The hearing officer needs to determine if the preponderance of the evidence supports that you did violate your parole, or not. However many allegations your parole officer may have presented at the beginning, only a single violation is necessary to find you in violation of your parole.The legal standard at this hearing is the “preponderance of the evidence.” In other terms, this means that the hearing officer has to decide that it is more likely than not that you were in violation. This hearing does not require a finding “beyond a reasonable doubt,” as in the initial criminal trial.
If the hearing officer decides that there was no violation, then you will be released and parole will not be revoked.
If the hearing officer decides that you did violate your parole, you will move on to the next phase of the hearing, known as the “adjustment phase.” This second phase of the hearing may occur immediately or at a second hearing date., If the hearing officer has advanced your hearing to the adjustment phase, the first step will be that your parole officer will present what is known as his adjustment statement. The adjustment statement contains information about your performance while out on parole. The parole officer will present evidence about any prior criminal activity on your part, any drug use, and your adherence or failure to comply with any special conditions of your parole.If the parole officer believes that your parole violation is a serious offense, he or she may be working to revoke your parole. For example, he or she may introduce evidence that, while you have been out on parole, you have continued selling and/or using drugs.
If the violation is less serious, the parole officer may introduce multiple dates that you failed to report to work or failed to meet with a mandated counselor.
 After receiving the parole officer’s evidence, the hearing officer will turn to you or your attorney to present your case. You will be allowed to present any documents, other evidence, or witness testimony that you believe support you.In the case of alleged drug use, you will need to respond with whatever evidence you may have. If you have evidence of clean drug tests, this would be the time to present it.
If the parole officer is alleging that you failed to meet certain appointments, you should explain your reasons for each incident. You may explain where you were each time and why you were unavailable. If any witnesses were with you, this would be the time to have them testify.
 The final stage of the hearing is your parole officer’s recommendation. He or she will recommend to the hearing officer how you should be treated as a result of the violation. This could include additional supervision, electronic monitoring, or whatever else the parole officer believes is appropriate. In the worst case, your parole officer could recommend that your parole should be revoked. This would result in your being returned to custody to serve out the remainder of your sentence. Depending on the severity of the parole violations, additional time could even be added to your sentence., At the end of the hearing, the hearing officer will forward a written report, along with all the evidence and his recommendation, to the Board of Pardons and Paroles. The Board will then consider the recommendation and will review the evidence. The Board will then issue its final ruling about possible revocation of your parole or any new conditions that will be imposed.If your parole is revoked, you will have an opportunity to appeal and request that the hearing be reopened. The procedure and timing for filing your appeal will vary, based on whether you are in state or federal prison. In the federal system, you will need to file your appeal on a form that you get from the hearing officials or at the prison. Your appeal will be due within 30 days.If you are in a state system, the procedures for an appeal will be generally the same, but timing and the form to use will vary. You will want to ask your attorney or inform a prison official that you wish to file a parole appeal, and ask for the paperwork. In Texas, for example, you have 45 days to file a "Motion to Reopen," in order to appeal the decision and present new evidence.