 The complaint and summons include details about the plaintiff's allegations as well as important dates and deadlines you need to know.


The summons gives you the name and contact information of the person who sued you, and also tells you how long you have to respond. Typically you must file an answer within 30 days or less of the date you receive the complaint, or the plaintiff may win by default.If the complaint includes any references to particular state laws, write them down so you can look them up later.
When you read over the complaint, look at the name and location of the court where you've been sued and make sure that court has jurisdiction over the case. If the court is far away from you, it may not have jurisdiction.Check the date when the plaintiff alleges the dog bite occurred. States only give injured people a certain period of time to sue for their injuries; however, that length of time varies greatly among states.
Look up the statute of limitations for personal injury in your state to find out how long the plaintiff had to file his or her lawsuit. You can find this out relatively quickly with an online search.;
, Dog bite laws vary greatly among states, so check your state's law to understand what defenses are recognized as well as the possible outcomes if the judge finds you responsible.


Some states have strict liability dog bite laws, which mean as the dog's owner you are responsible for any injuries caused if the dog bites someone, regardless of whether you were following all laws or took appropriate precautions.The legal website All Law has a summary of dog owner liability laws in each state available at http://www.alllaw.com/articles/nolo/personal-injury/one-bite-strict-liability-dog-bite.html.
You can do some research online, but you may want to visit your nearest public library – usually located in your county courthouse. Law librarians there are accustomed to helping people who are representing themselves in lawsuits, and will be able to point you to the law and resources you need.
In addition to dog bite laws, there may be other state laws or local ordinances that pertain to your case, such as leash laws or trespass laws.You'll have to have a good idea of how and where the incident happened before you can know for sure what laws will apply to your case. For this reason, legal research may be an ongoing effort as the case progresses and you find out more about the plaintiff's claims.
 Although it is possible to defend yourself in a dog bite lawsuit, particularly if you are sued in small claims court, an experienced civil defense attorney can save you time and stress preparing your case.


If you have homeowner's, renter's, or other personal liability insurance, you should call your insurance company and turn the matter over to them. The insurance company has attorneys who will coordinate your defense.
If you can't afford to hire an attorney to represent you through the entire case, you can always use one as a consultant. He or she will explain court procedures, advise you on your case, and tell you what you need to do, but you will be doing all the work and representing yourself at trial.
 Most courts have answer forms available online or at the clerk's office.


If you can't find a template or fill-in-the-blank form, ask the clerk for an answer filed in another personal injury case in the same court. You can use it as a guide to format your answer.
Generally, you should type your answer using a word-processing application set for 8.5 x 11 paper with one-inch margins all around. These settings are the default on most applications.The top third of your first page will contain the case's caption, which is the same for all documents filed in the case. You can copy the caption directly from the complaint., In your answer, you must either admit or deny each allegation set forth by the plaintiff in his or her complaint.


Throughout your answer, refer to yourself as "Defendant" and the person who sued you as "Plaintiff," rather than using names or writing in first person.
The body of your answer should follow the same format as the complaint, with numbered paragraphs – only instead of copying the allegation, you'll type your response.
You only have to type one word responses ("admit" or "deny"). There's a third option, in which you can state you don't have sufficient information to either admit or deny the allegation. If you use that answer, the court treats it the same as if you'd denied the allegation.Keep in mind that since the plaintiff has the burden of proof, denying an allegation doesn't necessarily mean you're saying it isn't true. Rather, you're forcing the plaintiff to meet his or her burden and prove it., Once you've finished responding to the allegations, you're ready to print and sign it.


Before you print your answer, look it over carefully to make sure you don't have any typos or other errors. You may want to view it through the "print preview" function so you can make sure your formatting is correct and your pages line up.
After you've signed your answer, you'll need to make at least two copies – one for your own records and one for the plaintiff – because the clerk will keep the originals for the court's files., Once you've completed your answer, take it to the clerk's office to file it with the court before the deadline listed on your summons.


Give the clerk both your originals and your copies. He or she will stamp them "filed" and then give the copies back to you.
You're responsible for having a copy of your answer served, or delivered to the plaintiff. You may do this by paying a private process serving company or the sheriff's department to hand it to the plaintiff in person, or by using certified mail with returned receipt requested.
Most people use certified mail to serve an answer since it's cheaper and easier than personal service. The clerk will have forms for you to use to complete and certify service., Depending on the allegations in the complaint, many aspects of your dog's life including its veterinary records and any obedience training may be relevant to your defense.


Whether your dog has ever bitten someone before may be important information, particularly in states such as New York and Texas that have laws protecting dog owners from liability the first time a dog bites someone.If you have a large dog, or one that shows signs of aggression, you may want to focus on what you've done to curb the dog's aggression or the measures you take to restrict or control the dog.This type of history can be particularly important to your case if your dog is a breed typically associated with aggression, such as a pit bull or a Rottweiler.
 Through the discovery process you and the plaintiff will have the opportunity to exchange information and evidence you each plan to use at trial.


You may have written discovery or depositions. If the plaintiff has filed in small claims court, you may not have a discovery process. If you do, it typically will be abbreviated and consist only of written discovery.
With written discovery, you and the plaintiff send each other questions to be answered under oath, or ask for copies certain documents or other evidence. Depositions, in contrast, are live interviews with a witness or the other party. A court reporter attends and makes a transcript of the deposition that will be available for your reference later.Learning more about the incident from the plaintiff can help you develop your defenses. For example, suppose your dog bites a postal service worker who is delivering a package to your home. In some states, you may be able to argue the postal worker assumed the risk because he or she passed several "Beware of Dog" signs on your property. This would reduce your liability., If other people were present when the incident occurred, you should evaluate what they saw and any other information they have about what happened.


Keep in mind that eye-witnesses may not necessarily be on your side – they may be testifying on the victim's behalf. However, you may want to bring other witnesses who didn't necessarily see the incident, but who spend time with your dog on a regular basis.
You typically can defend yourself by proving that the injured person provoked the dog. Any witnesses who observed the person teasing the dog can provide strong testimony in your favor.Keep in mind that provocation can be accidental or unintentional, such as stepping on the dog's tail., In some cases, a professional report on your dog's behavior and benefit may be useful in your defense.


You might consider asking people such as your dog's veterinarian, trainer, or others who work with your dog on a regular basis to testify on your dog's behalf and explain to the court that the dog normally is very well-behaved and not a threat to people., Through mediation, a neutral third party works with you and the plaintiff to come to a compromise and settle the claim.


Mediation is less formal than a trial, and more focused on finding a mutually agreeable resolution to the dispute than on finding a winner and a loser.Some courts require mediation before a civil case can go to trial. If mediation is required for you, the clerk will have information on the mediators you can use and when and where to attend.
There typically isn't a fee for mediation if it was required by the court, but there may be a fee otherwise, which varies greatly among jurisdictions and different mediators. Even so, mediation tends to be cheaper and less stressful than going to trial.During mediation, show concern toward the injured person and do your best to be empathetic, but avoid accepting blame. Emphasize your sympathy towards the person and your desire to move on from the incident without assessing blame.
 Before trial, create a comprehensive outline of your defense along with all evidence you intend to present or witnesses you plan to call.


Make sure you have at least two copies of any documents you want to present as evidence, so you have enough to go around for yourself, the plaintiff, and the judge.If you have witnesses, meet with them before trial and go over the questions you plan to ask them so they have a sense of what they'll be asked and you know what they're going to say. You should never ask a witness a question if you don't know what his or her answer will be.If you're representing yourself, you may want to go to court before your trial is scheduled – just to observe other cases and become more familiar with how the judge runs his or her courtroom.In addition to your evidence, your outline, and other notes, bring along some blank paper and a pen or pencil so you can take notes during the trial.
 You should plan to arrive at the courthouse at least 30 minutes before the time on your summons or notice of hearing, so you have time to go through security and find the correct courtroom.Typically a judge will hear several cases in one day, so take a seat in the gallery until the name of your case is called. When the judge calls your case, you and the plaintiff can stand and move to the tables at the front of the courtroom., Typically the court will allow the plaintiff to tell his or her side of the story first.Avoid interrupting the plaintiff while he or she is talking, or making facial expressions or noises that cause disruption. While it's understandable that the plaintiff may say things – about you or about your dog – that make you angry, it's important to respect the order of the courtroom and not speak out of turn.
Make a note of anything the plaintiff says with which you disagree so you can make a point of it when it is your turn. You may want to rearrange your outline based on the points the plaintiff emphasizes in his or her presentation.
You will have the opportunity to cross-examine any witnesses the plaintiff brings to testify on his or her behalf. Exercise caution when asking the plaintiff's witnesses questions, and remember to avoid asking a question if you have no idea what the witness's answer will be.
 After the plaintiff has finished, it will be your turn to introduce evidence or witnesses that show you aren't legally responsible for the plaintiff's injuries.The best way to defend yourself is to present your strongest points first, then move on. You don't have to tell the entire story in chronological order if it doesn't benefit your defense to do so.
For example, if the plaintiff was trespassing on your property when she was bitten by your dog, this is a defense regardless of your state's dog bite statute because you have no liability for any injuries she suffered if she was on your property illegally.Make your points quickly, but don't gloss over anything important. Stick to the facts, rather than attempting to appeal to the judge's emotions.Keep in mind that in this kind of case, any sympathy typically will extend to the injured person rather than the owner of the dog that caused the injuries.
 The judge may enter an order in your case immediately after all evidence is presented, or take the case under advisement and issue an order later.


If you don't receive a ruling the day of the trial, ask the clerk how long it will be before the decision will be issued, and whether you will be notified when an order is entered.Possible outcomes of a dog bite lawsuit vary widely, and largely depend on the circumstances of the bite, the type of dog you have, the dog's history, and other factors.If the judge rules for the plaintiff, you should consult an attorney as soon as possible if you want to challenge the ruling. The court provides a limited period of time for you to file an appeal or other post-judgment motions, and an attorney can review the case and advise you of your options.