 As a goalie, it is your job to keep the other team from scoring. But once you're in control of the ball, you have to reinstate the attack, or put the ball back in play. To do that, you have to be able to kick or throw the ball with precision.Practice kicking the ball with accuracy up to at least 40 yards. Have a teammate stand at various distances and see how accurate your kicks are. Alternate between kicking and throwing.Always look for a teammate who is free, and don't just kick the ball back on to the field without a target in mind.You don't always have to lob the ball. You can roll it on the ground, or throw it low. The main goal is to get it back to a teammate., You may not be running up and down the field like the rest of your teammates, but that doesn't mean you can neglect your footwork. You need to be able to defend from all angles, and quickly change direction as the situation demands.Stay on your toes during games and practices. Don't lean back on your heels or you'll find it harder to make sudden movements.Practice moving from side to side without crossing your feet. Keep your shoulders and hips in line with the shooter as you move., Communication is key for being a strong goalie. It's your job as a goalie to let the rest of your team know when you are under pressure, or if they need to increase their defense.Aside from giving directions on the field, encourage the rest of your team to play better. Use a vocal tone that is positive, but firm.You can see the entire field and track the ball at the same time. Use this perspective to your advantage, and keep your teammates aware of what is going on on field.Shout out unguarded opponents, or marks, so your teammates know who to guard., A goalie needs solid reflexes to stop the ball. It isn't enough to just stand in front of the net. You need to be aware of the ball and where it is going.Have a coach or teammate line up a few balls about 5 metres (5.5 yd) away from the goal. Place the same number of balls about 11 metres (12.0 yd) away from the goal, parallel to the first row of balls. Have the coach kick these balls low, so that they hit the balls in front of them. The balls should be unpredictable. It is your job as the goalie to prevent any of them from entering the net.Stand on the goal line and face the net. Have your coach give a signal before he kicks, and then quickly turn around and try to stop the ball., It is important to focus on the ball, but it is just as important to be able to read your opponent. Watch the way their body moves as they dribble towards you. Pay attention to their feet, and watch their eyes.The supporting foot of your opponent can sometimes be an indicator of the direction they plan on shooting.If you can, try to study your opponents by watching videos of them in other games. Pay attention to how they move and respond to certain situations.