 You don’t have get rid of tortilla chips completely on a low cholesterol diet. Choose healthy multigrain chips or natural chips with few ingredients. Look for chips that only contain corn, oil, and salt. Many tortilla chips have no cholesterol, so read the label.


Corn does not contain cholesterol, so any cholesterol in a chip comes from the fat used to fry the chip (often lard). Check the ingredients to find out what the chip was fried in — avocado oil, canola oil, flaxseed oil, olive oil, peanut oil are all oils that can actually help lower your cholesterol.
Instead of eating tortilla chips with cheese sauces, try fresh salsa, pico, or guacamole.;
, Many Mexican dishes contain high amounts of cheese, which can be full of cholesterol. When making Mexican food at home, leave out the cheese completely. Instead, top with fresh veggies.If you need some cheese, sprinkle a small amount of reduced-fat cheese on top of the dish.
 Cheese and full-fat sour cream are not the only toppings for a Mexican dish. So many fresh, cholesterol-free ingredients can be added to the top of tacos, fajitas, and taco salads. Try salsa, pico de gallo, cilantro, tomatoes, and jalapeños.Think outside of the box and add any veggie you like. Try black olives, cucumbers, carrots, bell peppers, onions, broccoli, spinach, roasted eggplant, roasted zucchini and squash, or anything else you enjoy.
 Beans without any added fat can be a tasty and a great addition to a Mexican dish. Cook dried black or pinto beans and add them to salads, tacos, or burritos. Beans can be a healthy source of fiber and protein. Beans can also help lower your cholesterol.Try making healthy refried beans by mashing beans and adding seasoning. Just make sure you skip the oils.
 To add flavor to your Mexican food, experiment with spices. Mexican food is known for its spices and rich flavors. Try jalapeños or habanero peppers if you like spicy foods. Try other spices, like cumin, chili powder, coriander, or garlic.Other spices common to Mexican dishes include oregano, cloves, cinnamon, and allspice.
 If just salsa isn’t enough for you, try getting your creamy texture and taste from guacamole instead of sour cream. Guacamole contains avocado, tomatoes, and spices, which can add a boost of flavor to your dish without added cholesterol.Try slicing up some avocado and put it into all of your dishes.
 Corn tortillas are much healthier than flour tortillas. Corn tortillas generally have lower fat and cholesterol contents, along with fewer added ingredients. Flour tortillas generally have more calories and fat, and they contain many more ingredients.Read the labels. Many flour tortillas have long lists of ingredients, which include hydrogenated oils, sugar, and other additives. Corn tortillas have fewer ingredients, with some having only corn and water.
You may also try whole wheat tortillas, but make sure to read the labels. While spinach, whole grain, tomato, or whole wheat tortillas may appear healthy, they may be full of hydrogenated  oils and unhealthy additives.
Hard or soft shells don't matter as long as you read the ingredients to make sure you get shells with minimal and healthy ingredients.
Consider making your own homemade tortillas. This way you can control what you put into them.

