 You will need a few different eye shadow colors to achieve a smoky eye look, so you may want to consider getting a special smoky eye palette. You will need:eye shadow primer
a black eyeshadow
a dark brown eye shadow
a cream color eye shadow
an all-over eye shadow brush
a blending brush
an eye liner brush
black eye liner
false lashes and/or black mascara;
, Primer helps to ensure that your eye shadow will last longer and that it will not run or melt off of your eyes as the day wears on. Apply eye shadow primer all over both of your eye lids.








You can apply primer with an all over eye shadow brush or just use your fingertips.
 The first layer of eye shadow that you will need to apply is a cream color. Apply this color over your entire eyelid, from your upper lash line to your brow bones. Make sure that the color looks even.








Use an all-over eye shadow brush to apple the eye shadow to your eyelids.Don’t worry if the edges look a little severe. You will be blending the color later on.
 Next, apply a layer of black eye shadow to your eyelids and creases. The black eye shadow should extend just above and beyond your creases.








Use an all-over brush to apply the black eye shadow to your eyelids and crease., To transition from the black to the cream color, sweep some dark brown eye shadow onto your creases, near the area where the black eye shadow stops.








Use a blending brush to apply eye shadow to your creases.Try using a back and forth sweeping motion, as if the blending brush is a windshield wiper. , Next, you will need to blend the edges of the colors you have applied to ease the transitions among these shades. Use your blending brush again and sweep cream color shadow along the edges of the other colors.]









Continue blending until the edges look soft.
 Use the all-over eye shadow brush again to go over your lids with the black eye shadow color once more. This will help to intensify the color.








Do not apply the color to your creases this time, just focus on deepening the black color on your eyelids.
 Since this is a smoky eye look, there is no need for a dramatic liner look as well. You can simply line your upper lash line with a small amount of black eye liner. Use a kohl eye liner or a liquid liner to create a thin line.Go slowly when you line your eyes. Use small strokes and keep the liner pencil or brush near the edge of your lash line.
To take attention away from your nose and make your eyes look wider, you can make the liner a bit thicker on the outer edges., Then, move the brush up and all the way through the tips of your lashes.
You can also curl your false or real eye lashes before applying mascara for some extra volume and definition., Next, apply a small amount of black eye liner to your lower lash line. This will help to define your eye even more. You can also line your water line if you like. Your water line is the part of your eyelid that is closest to your eyeball. Some women like to line this area, which is a technique known as tight lining.








If you decide to line your water line, use a clean cotton swab to dab away any excess moisture. Then, apply a kohl eye liner, since this kind of eye liner is formulated to stay on even if your eyes get a little wet., To give a smoky effect to the bottom part of your eye, you can apply some black eye shadow to the area just below your lower lash line. Use a liner brush to apply a thin line of black eye shadow to this area of your eye.








Remember to go slowly and use short strokes.
 To complete your look, use your blending brush to apply some cream color eyeshadow to the edges of the black eyeshadow you just applied. Blend until the edges look soft and smoky.








Since you are blending your lower lash line, try using an upside down windshield wiper motion.

