 You can:


Wet a washcloth in cold water and lay it out over your skin. Leave it on until your skin feels less itchy.
Apply an ice pack. If you use ice, wrap it in a towel so that you are not putting the ice directly onto your skin. Putting the ice directly onto your skin increases your risk of frostbite. If you don’t have an ice pack handy, you can use a package of frozen vegetables. Apply the ice for about 10 minutes before giving your skin a chance to warm up.
 This is an age-old remedy against itching. Fill a bath with water that is cool, but not uncomfortable. Then, following the manufacturer’s recommended amounts, add one of the following remedies and soak for several minutes or until you get relief from the itching:Baking soda
Uncooked oatmeal
Colloidal oatmeal (Aveeno and others)

, Hives can be a result of skin irritation due to clothing that is tight and holds sweat against your skin. Loose clothing will help your skin breathe and avoid hives due to overheating and irritation.Try not to wear scratchy fabrics, particularly wool. If you do wear wool, be careful not to have it lie directly on your skin. For example, if you wear a wool sweater, put a light shirt on underneath.
Similar to how sweating can irritate your hives, taking hot showers or baths may also irritate them.
 Some people break out in hives when they are under intense stress.Consider whether you have experienced any stressful events in your life such as ending or starting a new job, a death in the family, moving, or having problems in your close relationships. If this is the case, learning to manage stress may make your hives go away. You can try: Meditation. Meditation is a relaxation technique in which you clear your mind. You take a few quiet moments to close your eyes, relax, and release stress. Some people repeat a single word or phrase (a mantra) in their head while doing it.

Deep breathing. During this method, you concentrate on fully inflating your lungs. This forces you to relax and avoid the shallow breaths that people make when hyperventilating. Deep breathing can also help you to clear your mind.

Visualizing calming images. This is a relaxation technique in which you image a relaxing place. It can be a real or imaginary place. As you envision this location, you move about the landscape and think about how it feels, smells, and sounds.
Exercise. Getting regular exercise can help you relax, lift your mood, and improve your physical health. The Department of Health and Human Services recommends that people do at least 75 minutes of physical activity per week. This can include walking, running, biking, or playing sports. It is also recommended that people do strength training, like weight lifting, twice per week.Consult your doctor before beginning any exercise.

