 Caltrops, known to the ninja as "tetsu-bishi," were small metal objects with 4 sharp points that were thrown on the ground to slow down an enemy pursuing you.They were made so that regardless of how they landed on the ground, one of the sharp points would be facing up. A ninja would scatter them behind himself when being chased, and since almost everyone wore sandals back then, the sharp caltrops would pierce the feet of the enemy.


Caltrops could also be scattered around castle walls or camps to stop spies from invading the area.
The ninja sometimes covered the sharp points of caltrops with poison to make them lethal to their opponents.They could also be thrown at enemies, if necessary.
 "Ashiko" are spiked devices, usually made of steel, that the ninja wore on their feet to help them climb and scale things quickly and efficiently. "Ashiko" also helped the ninja easily navigate any terrain.


These spikes were most effective when strapped to the balls of the feet.Along with aiding the ninja in movement, "ashiko" were also used as weapons to deliver lethal kicks to an opponent.,"Shoku" were metal contraptions that the ninja slipped over their knuckles. They had 4 sharped spikes that protruded from the palm, and were used like an animal would use its claws to defend itself in close quarters. You could swipe an enemy in the face and use the backside to break their jaw. "Shoku" could also block and even break an opponent’s sword if used correctly.


"Shoku" (which means tiger claws) also helped the ninja climb trees and walls very quickly.
"Shoku" were often used in conjunction with the previously mentioned "ashiko" – the spiked claws that they attached to their feet.
 These were makeshift soles that were carved out of wood and strapped to the ninja’s feet. "Ashiaro" were carved to look like other types of footprints, like bear or dog footprints, to hide their tracks, prevent enemies from following them, and to walk in enemy territory.


Some "ashiaro" were even carved to look like a child’s footprints, which would cleverly fool an opponent.