 You should have some general idea about what kind of business you want to run. There are many franchising opportunities available. You can stop into your library and get a copy of the franchise opportunities handbook.There are many kinds of franchises, including the following:


restaurants
car repair
gyms;
, You might be interested in starting a franchise but not really know what that entails. For example, did you know that you must contribute to advertising? Did you know that you must have to pay royalties for using the franchise’s trademarks? You should have a firm grasp on the franchise business model before going any further.


The Federal Trade Commission has a handout on franchises that you should read: https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/documents/plain-language/pdf-0127_buying-a-franchise.pdf


, You should visit local outlets and ask the owners about their experience.For example, if you want to start a fast-food restaurant, then stop into the nearest outlet and ask if you can talk to the owner. Ask the owner the following questions:Have they encountered any problems?
Did they have the necessary skills and experience? What kind of experience did they have?
Would they purchase the franchise again if they had the chance?
Does the franchisor respond to problems in a timely and adequate manner?
Has the business plan and marketing been adequate? If not, have they made suggestions and how were those suggestions received by the franchisor?

, A franchise broker goes by many different names—“business coaches,” “sales consultants,” and “advisors” are some of the more common. They can help you analyze and pick an appropriate franchise. A franchise broker can also help you with the application process.Franchise brokers often advertise online and in business magazines.
Brokers aren’t free. They generally charge either a flat fee or a percentage of the purchase price as a commission.
 Before buying a franchise, you should ask yourself whether you have the skills and experience necessary to make it succeed. Like every other business, a franchise will require a huge commitment of time and emotional energy. Consider the following:Are you an effective manager, or do you have confidence that you can become one?
Do you have the finances to support yourself and your family in case the franchise isn’t immediately profitable?
How much money can you afford to lose? Some franchises fail.
Are you familiar with the industry and its regulations? Are you prepared to put in the time and energy to stay on top of these things?

, You need to thoroughly investigate the franchise. By law, a franchise must give you a Franchise Disclosure Document (FDD) at least 14 days before you sign a contract or spend any money on the franchise.The FDD contains extensive information which you must analyze. Accordingly, you should try to get it more than 14 days before you sign a contract. In fact, you should ask for it upfront when you first call.
Some franchisors might not want to hand over the FDD until you submit an application or attend a discovery day. You should always proceed with caution if a franchisor hesitates to share their FDD.
 Nowadays, many franchisors will request that you provide some information about yourself so that they can judge whether they want to proceed with you. You may be asked to complete a profile form. You won’t receive the FDD until the franchisor decides you are a good candidate.
 The first two items on the FDD will contain information about the franchisor’s background and the business background of the executives.Look for the following:


How established is the franchise? And how much business experience do the managers have?
Is it a new franchise? If you’ve never heard of it before, then pay close attention to the experience of the management team.
 The FDD should also identify any lawsuits the franchisor has been party to, as well as its bankruptcy history. You should show this information to your lawyer.A franchisor that has been sued numerous times might not live up to its obligations under the franchise agreement and other contracts.
You also should be told whether management has ever been sued, either criminally or in civil court. If management has been convicted of fraud, for example, then they probably are not trustworthy.
 The FDD should also provide detailed information on the costs of starting and running the franchise. Pay close attention to these costs and ask about any costs that aren’t listed:operating or business licenses
deposits
franchise fees
cost of inventory, signs, and equipment
leases
business insurance
trainings
employee salaries

, Franchises allow you to use well-known trademarks and proven business methods—which is great. However, they may also limit your ability to run your business—which might not be so great. Franchisors can limit the following, which you should carefully consider before signing up:limit the suppliers you can do business with
limit who you can services to and where you can sell
define the scope of your sales territory
prohibit you from selling goods through the Internet outside your territory

, The FDD should also explain the training and advertising that the franchise offers. The FDD might not provide comprehensive information, so be sure to ask questions of local franchisees or of the franchisor.Franchisees typically must contribute a percentage of their sales to national and regional advertising campaigns. You will want to see how much you must contribute and whether you have any say in the advertising.
The FDD should explain the cost of training new employees and whether training is ongoing.
 The FDD should also explain renewal terms and what you must do to qualify for renewal. The FDD should also explain your obligations after termination. For example, you might have to sign a non-compete clause, in which you agree not to work for a competitor for a certain amount of time.The FDD should also state whether the franchisor allows franchisees to transfer the franchise to a different owner. Some franchisors might require that you give the franchisor right of first refusal., The FDD contains a wealth of financial information which you must closely study. For example, the FDD should contain the following information:Rates of closure and turnover. If many outlets in your area of being sold or closing, then you might consider that a sign that you shouldn’t open a franchise.
A list of franchisees who have left the business.
The franchisor’s three most recent audited financial statements.
Information about potential income and sales. This information is not required as part of the FDD, but if they provide it they must have a reasonable basis for their predictions.
 As you read the FDD, you may not understand some of the information. You should schedule appointments with either a lawyer or an accountant, who can help you review the document.


To find a lawyer, you should contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral. You can find your nearest bar association here: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx. Request a referral to someone who specializes in franchises.
You can get referrals to a certified public accountant by contacting your state’s Society of Certified Public Accountants or by asking another business owner for referrals., A legitimate franchisor should never tell you something that can’t be supported by the FDD. If they paint a rosy picture of easy profits and minimal risk, then you should be skeptical.Double check anything the franchisor says against the information provided in the FDD. If there is a mismatch, then ask the franchisor to provide supporting documentation.
Also be sure to get oral promises in writing.
 The FDD should include a list of people who sold or left the franchise over the past year. You should call them up. A non-disclosure agreement might limit their ability to talk to you. However, try to get answers to the following from at least a few former owners:Why did they leave the franchise?
Did they have to file for bankruptcy?
Did the franchisor help them sell or transfer the franchise?
Did the franchisor terminate the relationship? If so, were franchisees given a chance to correct the problem?

, Find out where the franchisor is headquartered, and then check the Better Business Bureau for that city.You can read up on complaints filed against the business.
 Each state has an agency that accepts complaints about franchises. You should contact your agency and check whether complaints have been filed or whether the agency has taken legal action.To find the appropriate office, you should visit your state’s Attorney General’s website.
 The franchisor might be willing to finance the start-up costs of opening the franchise. They may either extend a loan directly or help you get a loan from a bank the franchisor has a relationship with.You want to check the terms of the loan—interest rate, repayment period, etc.
Also investigate how much of a down payment they require. Some franchisors might require 25% or more as a down payment.
 You can talk to banks or credit unions about whether they lend to franchisees. Their willingness to lend will often depend on which franchise you are opening. If the franchisor is established and profitable, then you are more likely to get a loan. To check about bank financing, pull together the following financial information:your credit score
personal financial information
tax returns
information about how you will make your down payment

, The Small Business Administration doesn’t make direct loans. However, they will guarantee a portion of a loan if you qualify. By guaranteeing the loan, they agree to pay a bank a portion of it should you default. About 10% of all SBA loans are given to franchisees, in amounts usually ranging from $250,000 to $500,000.You could possibly qualify for an SBA loan if the franchise is listed on the SBA’s Franchise Registry of Approved Brands: https://www.sba.gov/content/franchise-registry-approved-brands.
 If bank loans or franchise financing are not available, you have other options. You should talk about each with an accountant so that you understand the pros and cons.


For example, you could use money in a retirement account. You would set up a C corporation that will own the franchise and roll money over into the C corporation’s profit-sharing plan.This type of financing puts your retirement at risk, however.
Alternately, you could get a Home Equity Line of Credit or take out a second mortgage. By financing this way, you put in jeopardy ownership of your house.
 You should avoid any franchisor who tries to rush you into an agreement to purchase. Instead, you should take your time—this is your money on the line., Each application is different. Also, the application process will differ by franchise. Some well-known franchisors screen you very early in the process before giving you an application. Call the franchisor and ask about the process, then gather necessary information. By way of example, the Starbucks application requests the following information:information about your current businesses (if any)
the geographical area where you want to run the franchise
your education
your current experience in the food and beverage industry
two business references
your career and business history, including information on positions held and duties performed
financial information for the prior year
amount of your assets (cash, stock, real estate, etc.)
amount of your liabilities (loans, mortgages, other debts)
your criminal history
your ideas about how you would run a franchise and why you would make a good manager

, You are contemplating on entering a long-term business relationship with this franchisor, so it is important that you meet the people behind the logo that will be supporting you. Many franchisors host “discovery days” at their headquarters, and you may be invited to attend if you pass the screening. At your discovery day, you can tour the facilities and meet with members of the management team.This is your opportunity to get answers to all of your questions. Write down the answers and listen closely to what management says. Make sure the answer agrees with what you have received in the FDD.
You might not get the FDD until you attend your discovery day. This is not ideal. In that situation, don’t leave discovery day without a business card for someone you can call with questions.
Franchisors are also judging you and trying to decide if you will make a good candidate. Ask smart questions and don’t ask a question that has already been answered. Look attentive.
 Usually within a week of the discovery day, the franchisor will notify you of their desire to formally award you a franchise. Most candidates will inform a franchisor of their purchase decision within the following two weeks.
 Before signing the contract, you should review it with your lawyer. Because these contracts are complicated (and long), you definitely want professional help understanding it.Pay attention to how disputes will be resolved with the franchisor. For example, they may require arbitration at a distant location. If you agree to arbitrate disputes, you generally can’t bring a lawsuit.
 The more successful franchisors tend not to negotiate their contracts. They are so confident in their business methods that they adopt a “take it or leave it approach.” Nevertheless, if you don’t understand something in the contract, you need to send them a letter asking for clarification.For example, if the contract contradicts what is in the FDD, then ask the franchisor which provision is binding.
 It’s actually a bad sign if a franchisor is willing to negotiate major provisions of its contract. A franchisor should be confident in its business plan and business methods. However, you might have wriggle room to negotiate minor provisions. Consider asking if you could change any of the following:the training you and your staff receive
whether the franchisor will help with your grand opening
fee schedules and payments
the date you can launch
whether you can transfer the franchise
the definition of your territory and whether you can sell outside the territory
amount of time you have to fix problems before the franchisor finds you in default

, You may be asked to sign the franchise contract and then mail it back to the franchisor. Or you may meet and sign it in person. Either way, make sure that you get a signed copy of the agreement and keep it in a safe place.

