 You can repost virtually anything that is posted by someone else. Scroll through your feed to find the status, picture, link, or any other post that you want to share with others. The only posts you cannot repost are those from secret groups.


This will not preserve the original post's Likes and comments. If you want to repost something that someone else posted and keep all of the Likes and comments, you'll need to reply to the original post with a new comment.
 This is located underneath the post but above the Likes and comments.
 When you click the Share link a new window will appear. Use the drop-down menu at the top of the new window to choose where you want to repost the item. You can choose to share to your own timeline, a friend's timeline, in one of your groups, or in a private message.


If you select to share on a friend's timeline, you will be asked to enter in the name of the friend.
If you select to share with a group, you will be asked to enter the group's name.
If you select to share through a private message, you will be asked to enter recipients.
 When you repost something, you are given the opportunity to add a new message to the item. This message will appear on the top of the reposted item, with any original message appearing below.


You can tag people in the message by typing "@" followed by the person's name.
 By default, when a post is shared it will display who originally posted it. You can choose to remove this message by clicking the Remove link next to the original poster's name.
 You can use the drop-down menu at the bottom of the window to choose which of your friends can see your repost. You can choose it to be Public, visible to only your friends, visible only to you, or you can choose from your lists.
 Once you're happy with your sharing options, you can repost the post by clicking the Share button. The post will appear in the timeline or message that you designated.


Depending on the privacy settings of the original post, you may not be able to share it with everyone.

