 Undiagnosed learning disabilities like dyslexia can make an ordinarily well-behaved kid seem to have a bad attitude at times. A child with a learning disability might be a chronic underachiever at school, which can be mistaken for laziness. They might also refuse to participate in classroom activities that are difficult for them.If your child struggles with reading, writing, or math, discuss the problem with their teacher and ask the school to evaluate their abilities.
Problems with organization and memory can also indicate a learning disability.
 A child with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) might have a hard time listening and following directions. This can make them seem badly behaved, even if they don’t intend to be.


A child with ADHD may frequently neglect their homework and chores. , Conditions like depression, anxiety, and bipolar disorder are sometimes mistaken for an attitude problem in kids and teens. If your child has been acting out of character lately, consider whether their unusual behavior matches the symptoms of a mental illness.Unusually withdrawn behavior, extreme mood swings, and aggressiveness or defiance are a few behavioral red flags that could indicate a mental illness.
If you are worried about your child’s mental health, take them to the doctor. Don’t jump to conclusions about your child’s mental health. It is important to seek professional help for them if you suspect a problem.
 If your child is being bullied or abused at school or somewhere else, such trauma can contribute to a change in attitude. Children who are bullied may also suffer from isolation, anxiety, depression, or mistrust. Any of these variables could be playing a role in your child's emotional and/or behavioral functioning.You might sit your child down and talk to them about bullying. Say something to the effect of "When I was in school kids often picked on each other. Have you ever been picked on at school? Have you ever witnessed bullying?"
Consider your child’s relationships with siblings, family members, and friends as well. If they are experiencing stress sin on of these areas, then they are more likely to develop problems.

