 The most common way of checking the key signature of the song you are in is by observing the notation in the clef at the beginning of your music. This will either have a number of sharps (#), flats (♭), or nothing at all. This will help you identify the key.


When there are no flats or sharps in the starting clef of your song, your song is in C major. The relative minor of C major is A.
Major keys: G (one sharp), D (two sharps), A (three), E (four), B (five), F# (six), C# (seven), C♭ (seven flats), G♭ (six flats), D♭ (five), A♭ (four), E♭ (three), B♭ (two), F♭ (one).
Minor keys: E (one sharp), B (two sharps), F# (three), C# (four), G# (five), D# (six), E♭ (six flats), B♭ (five flats), F (four), C (three), G (two), D (one).;
, Some songs change key at various points throughout the song. You'll need to account for these key changes while soloing by key.Scan each line of your music and look for:


A double bar line. This could be located toward the beginning, middle, or end of any line of music in your song.
Natural signs (♮). These are like an eraser that deletes the sharps or flats in your key previously. Each natural sign removes one sharp or flat.
New accidentals. "Accidental" is the term used to describe any key change (#, ♭, ♮).These will indicate your new key., Playing your solo in the same key as your song is the simplest way of ensuring you rock your solo in a complementary key. However, you could also play in keys that are harmonic to the key of your song.Keys sharing the same number of sharps or flats, or keys different by only a single sharp or flat on the Circle of Fifths, generally share many tones, creating harmony.
 There are many different ways you can execute this. You can play the key in scales, you can break up chords and solo those notes, or you could even transition between the notes of harmonic keys, like the ones surrounding the key you're playing in on the Circle of Fifths.If you hit a note that's dissonant, don't panic. Hold the note for a moment, and then scale up or down with whole or half steps until the dissonance resolves. This way, your dissonant note will seem intentional.
 Soloing is a difficult skill that is often complicated by other factors, like nerves. The more you practice, the easier it will be for you to fall into the motions you've practiced time and again.There are many places you might play with your band to gain experience, including:


Community talent shows
Local venues
On the street, busking
School events and talent shows

