 Dealing with insensitive remarks from friends can be draining, especially if you do not agree with what your friends are saying. Try to find friends who are like-minded and who will listen to you discuss your feelings about the remarks. Maybe you have friends in another social circle who may be sympathetic to your perspective. Or maybe there is one friend in your friend group who feels similar to you.You may seek out like-minded friends so you can talk together and share your feelings. This could help you cope with the insensitive remarks and feel less alone in your point of view.
These friends might have a similar opinion of the remarks and wish to join you in speaking up. If you know that the person in question often dismisses your concerns or says you're just being sensitive, being approached by multiple people may show them that you are not the only one who is offended by their behavior. Approaching the person as a group will send the message that those types of remarks will not be tolerated in the friend group.
 You may also look to family members, coworkers, and other friends who can relate to your discomfort and anger at insensitive remarks. Confide in others who can relate to what you are dealing with so you feel less alone and so you can feel supported.Maybe you have a family member who has experienced insensitive remarks from those around them in the past. Or perhaps you have coworkers who are also dealing with insensitive remarks from friends.
Organizations may provide you with more information about how to go about addressing insensitive remarks. The Anti-Defamation League, for instance, can provide you with assistance in dealing with anti-semitism.
 If the insensitive remarks from friends are really bothering you and you are feeling anxious or stressed, you may seek advice from a mentor or a parent. This may a good option if your friends are young and you are not sure how to confront them. Talking to a mentor or parent can help you feel less upset and allow you to express your feelings without judgement. It can also give you the confidence to then confront your friends directly and express your feelings about their remarks.


For example, you may speak to your parents for advice on how to handle the situation. Or you may talk to your teachers, coaches, or other community members for guidance on how to deal with insensitive remarks from friends.

