 Your thesis (or argument) is the most important part of your paper. It should be 1-2 sentences long and directly answer the question posed in your assignment. A thesis should take a specific stance on the topic, and not just a vague summary.To write a thesis statement, try starting by posing a question about your subject. Once you have answered the question, turn this into a declarative statement. For example: "Due to his persecution of the Native people, Christopher Columbus should not be honored as a hero by history."
Make sure to place your thesis very early in your paper, usually in the introductory paragraph.
 An outline is key to making sure that your paper is organized and well-structured. Before you begin writing the actual paper, get an outline down on paper. Make sure it is thorough and detailed. Your outline should include your thesis statement, and indicate the subject for each of your body paragraphs.Include references to your sources in your outline. This way, you will not have to hunt for your citations during the writing process.
 Each paragraph in your paper should directly relate to your thesis. If the paragraph does not in some way support your argument, it does not belong in your paper. Each body paragraph should include a topic sentence and specific examples that support that topic sentence.Make sure to use transitions between each paragraph, so that your reader clearly understands when you are moving to a new topic.
Some examples of transition words are: "similarly", "on the other hand", or "meanwhile"., It may seem backward, but it's usually a good idea to write your introduction (but not your thesis) last. This way, you know exactly how your argument has developed throughout the essay and you can use the introduction to preview this development. Your introduction is important to get right because it lets your reader know your topic and what your stance on the matter is.Make sure that your introduction serves as a road map for the rest of your paper. It should clearly indicate to your reader where you are headed.
Try using an interesting anecdote or controversial quote to pique your reader's interest. Your introduction should be both informative and entertaining.
 Citations give credit to ideas or statistics or words that are not wholly your own. You must give credit to any idea or concept that you did not create. You also need to cite statistics and direct facts. If you are not sure whether you need to cite a piece of information, go ahead and include a reference, just to be on the safe side.Your assignment guidelines should indicate which citation style you should follow. Some common forms are APA, MLA, and Chicago. If you don't know which one to use, ask your instructor or a classmate.
Once you know which system to use, make sure to familiarize yourself with the rules for that specific style. Guides are available online.

