 Take a sleeping bag and pillow if you aren't going to have an available bed to sleep in. If you don't have a sleeping bag, you can just use pillows and blankets. And make sure to bring all of the necessities, like your toothbrush, PJ's, hairbrush and any other personal items you know you'll need.;
, Make sure to not just ask about you, but also ask if they need anything, like snacks, party favors or something .
 Bring a medium-sized (not huge) bag that can hold everything you'll need. Don't cram your stuff into a small bag, as it will likely spill out. An overnight bag or tote bag is perfect for a sleepover. You could also bring a small purse or makeup bag for the small stuff, such as makeup.
 This will help you remember the things you need. You can add check boxes to check off the stuff to keep it all organized. Tape it to the inside of one of your bags, a little journal or on the fridge.
 If you are bringing them make sure they are in a safe place.)
Facial masks to have a pamper party (optional)
iPod/MP3 Player (in case you get bored)
Camera (optional)
Clothes for the next day
Toothpaste and toothbrushes
Sleeping bag
Deodorant (You don't want to smell bad the next day)
Slippers or socks, so you won't have to walk around someone else's house in bare feet
Medicine, if you have asthma or a serious infection, tell the parents or guardian of the host.
Swimsuit (if you're swimming)
Extra set of clothes (in case of accidents, water fights, etc.)

,
Pajamas
Toothbrush and toothpaste
Sleeping bag and/or pillows (You may want to check with the host's parents or guardian)
Hairbrush and/or comb
Any medicine (You know best)
A list of Contact numbers and times they can call them

,
Sweets (check with the host's parents for children 8 and under)
Phone (great for keeping in touch)
A little bag or case filled with emergency hair stuff (i.e. headbands, barrettes) {In case you realize the next morning that you look like a ragged doll}






Toiletry bag to keep all hygiene stuff
Console for games
Some party food (check with host's parents) e.g. candy, potato chips
Swimsuit (if going swimming)
Deodorant (If they are old enough to wear it)
Hair bands and clips (if wanted)
Hairbrush/comb

, You wouldn't want them sneaking in any stuff like matches and lighters!

