 All you really need to make a Chinese paper lantern is colorful paper and some tools. Red is a traditional color, but any color will do:


Construction paper (8.5" x 11" or bigger)
Scissors
Pencil
Ruler
Stapler, tape, or glue;
, This will be the accent color of your lantern, with the full-size piece used as your main color. Cut use a ruler and scissors to make the sheet an inch shorter on the length and the width.









Save these strips for later -- they can make good handles.
 Fold the big, uncut construction paper in half horizontally, so that the two long edges meet. Use the hard edge of your ruler or your fingernail to make a nice even crease at the fold.
 If the construction paper was a hotdog bun, you'd be cutting from the bottom up. For perfect Chinese paper lanterns, use the ruler to ensure every cut goes equally high. While there is no perfect height to get to, usually longer cuts (3-5") look best.
 You don't want too much overlap. This smaller sheet becomes the form and shape of your lantern, so you want it to be large and well rounded. Staple or tape it together once you have your shape.









If in doubt, overlap the papers about a finger's width.
 You're doing the same thing you did with the smaller sheet, but, this time, you use the pre-made cylinder as a guide. Take the long edge of the lantern sheet and tape it around the entire top edge of the smaller sheet.









Because it is longer, the bottom edge should overhang.
Work slowly, getting the edges of the two papers lined up perfectly for the best lantern.
 You should already see your lantern forming before you've even taped it. Again, go slowly for the best, most precise results.
 Simply curl one of the strips from earlier in half and tape it to two places along the top of the lantern.
 You'll be able to see where the paper overlaps and glues or staples together. But you can create a nice accent and avoid the issue by using two strips of paper and some glue. Matching the interior color of the lantern with these trim pieces (like in the video) is extra slick looking.







