;
, In order to ensure that your cat can come and go with ease, position your cat flap 10–15 centimeter (3.9–5.9 in) / 4 - 6" from the floor. This is the average belly height of a cat.


Mark this height with a pencil in two places, so as to ensure a straight line.
 As is most commonly the case, you may choose to fit your cat flap in the middle of the door. If this is so, use the tape measure to mark the centre of the door and make a mark at this point. Using a ruler, draw a straight horizontal line that crosses the centre point that you marked.
 Cat flaps come with a paper template that shows you where you need to drill.


Position the bottom of the template on the pencil that you drew earlier. Make sure that the centre point on the template is in line with the centre point that you drew on the door. Use masking tape to stick the template in position.
 You will need to use a flat bit that is slightly wider than the blade of your jigsaw. Your instructions may suggest the necessary width. Before using your drill, remember your drill safety - see "Tips" below.
 Drill a hole in each corner of the template. The position of these holes will be clearly indicated. Once drilled, these holes will allow you to cut out the shape of the cat flap with the jigsaw.


Remove the template and blow out any sawdust.
 Using your ruler and pencil, draw four lines which connect the holes and outline the cat flap opening.
 For steady sawing, first make sure the door is closed. Before you pick up the jigsaw, remember that using any saw has its risks, so observe "Saw Safety" in "Tips" below. Now use the jigsaw to cut along your pencil outline, moving from one hole to the next.
 After you have turned your jigsaw off, push out the wood to reveal the hole.


You will need to smooth down the inside edges with a piece of sandpaper. Remove any excess sawdust and keep sanding until you are happy with the finish.
 Place the front of the cat flap over the hole and check that the flap moves in and out with ease.
 With the front of the cat flap in position make a mark through each of the screw holes located in the four corners of the cat flap.
 To drill the pilot holes, select a bit that is slightly narrower than the screws and insert it into the drill. Remember your drill safety.
 Drill on each of the four pencil marks until you reach the other side of the door.
 It's now time to fix the two sides of the cat flap together. Hold the front of the cat flap in position and gently ease the four screws into their holes.


Open the door. Pick up the back of the cat flap and place it over the protruding screws.
Position yourself with an arm either side of the door so you can attach the nuts to the screws. Carefully place a nut onto a screw. This will be fiddly. Hold the nut secure in one hand and with your other hand, use a screwdriver to tighten the screws. When the nut is as tight as you can make it, repeat this process with the other three screws.
 Test the cat flap to make sure it works. Show your cat and begin encouraging him to use it!

