 The idea of “love at first sight” is not very common; usually, it takes a long time for feelings of love to grow. If you think that you might be experiencing feelings of love for your special someone, think about how long you have known him/her.


Are you in a relationship, or is it just someone you like from a distance?
If you are in a relationship, how long have you been dating?
How long have you known this person in general?;
, Many people report observing certain physical reactions in themselves when they think about their love interest. These signs are connected to certain centers in your brain that are connected with relationships.Dilated pupils
Accelerated heartbeat
Nervous feelings
Sweaty palms
Flushed cheeks

, There are many questions that you can ask yourself when you think about your special someone. Answering these questions will help you to identify whether you truly love this person or if you are simply experiencing feelings of infatuation or lust.


“How well do I know him/her?”
“What would my life be like without him/her?”
“Is my attraction purely physical/sexual, or am I attracted to his/her personality, too?”“When do I think about this person? All of the time? Only when I want him/her?”
“Do I think about my future including him/her? What does that future look like?”
“What do I value in a committed relationship? Does this person fulfill those needs?”
“Do I feel supported and encouraged by him/her?”
“What would I sacrifice in order to make my relationship with him/her work? Would I be willing to sacrifice anything at all?”
“Am I genuinely happy when I'm around this person?”
“How do I feel when he/she is not around? Do I miss him/her? How much?”
“Do I feel jealous or possessive about this person?”, It is sometimes easy to get caught up in feelings of lust or infatuation over a person. Take time to consider whether your feelings for your special someone are romantic and whether you are truly interested in this person.


Are you physically attracted to him/her?
Do you want to be in a committed relationship with this person, or is a friendship all you want?
Are you only interested in physical intimacy, or is that just a bonus to your great relationship?
Do you think about him/her frequently?
Do you get “butterflies in your stomach” when you think about this person?
Is this someone you can imagine introducing to your family and friends as your significant other?

, Pinpointing the qualities about this person that you like will help you to determine if what you are feeling is truly love or simply infatuation or lust. If you have more physical attributes on your list, there is a good chance that you are not actually in love with this person and instead are lusting after him/her.


Personality traits
Physical traits
Positive attributes—are they genuine?
Negative attributes—are they endearing? Annoying?

, When you think about this person, do you think of an “us” or “we” that implies that you think of the two of you as being connected?Can you see a future with this person one year down the road? Five years? Fifteen years?Do you find yourself making decisions based on what is best for both of you?
How important are his/her dreams and ambitions to you?
Are you willing to fully support this person through the obstacles of life?, Flaws are part of a person's personality just as much as the positive qualities. You need to consider whether you completely accept your love interest for who he/she is or whether you find yourself wishing some aspects were different.


Oftentimes, part of realizing that you love someone includes becoming aware that that person's flaws do not bother you. You accept him/her, flaws and all, and you are willing to work together to overcome those flaws.
Simultaneously, you find yourself becoming a better person because of your significant other. He/She is accepting of your flaws, but you find yourself trying to become better for the sake of the relationship., When two people are involved, it is impossible for only one person to always get his/her way.


Do you find yourself making decisions that benefit your partner more than you?
Do you make concessions or sacrifices in order to make both of you happy?
How much are you willing to sacrifice for the relationship?
Do you consider this person to be worthy of your sacrifices?
Are these sacrifices an inconvenience, or are you making them because you genuinely want to do so?

, People often treat their significant others differently from their friends and family. Make observations to yourself about how you behave around this person.


Do you find yourself giving this person special treatment?
What are your emotions like? Happier? More positive? Glum? Sad?
Do you treat your special someone with respect?
Are you giddy?
Do you find yourself touching him/her more, like holding hands or hugging?
Do you want everyone to know that you are in love with him/her?, Once you have reached the decision that you are in love with your special someone, express those feelings to him/her. This gives you the opportunity to make sure that you and your partner are on the same page and to advance your relationship.


“I've recently realized that I'm in love with you, and I want you to know.”
“I love you. There are so many qualities about you that I treasure, and I want you to know how much I care about you.”
“You are very special to me. I've been waiting for the right time to say it: I love you.”
“You mean the world to me. I realized recently that I think about us together, and I make decisions based on both of us. I love you.”

, Sometimes, the significant other is not ready to return those feelings when you express them. You have to decide if the relationship is headed in the direction you want or whether your partner will never feel that way about you.


Even if your partner is not ready to return the “I love you” statement, he/she will likely still be genuinely interested in you. If you truly do love this person, then you owe it to him/her to stick around in the relationship. There may be reasons why he/she is not ready yet, such as negative previous relationships or being new to dating.
On the other hand, if you come to the realization that your significant other just does not feel the same way, then it would be best to end the relationship before experiencing any further heartbreak.
 Once you have expressed your feelings, it should be easy for you to remain committed to the relationship. Make sure that you continue to put forth effort in maintaining the relationship and showing your love.

