 Puppies will spend most (90%) of their time sleeping. The other 10% of their time will be spent eating. Don’t insist that your puppy wake up and play with you, or try to teach it tricks at this early stage. As the old saying goes, “Let sleeping dogs lie.”, Puppies are sensitive to heat and cold. Your whelping box should be about 85 degrees Fahrenheit (29.5 degrees Celsius). Use a heat lamp suspended above the whelping box to keep the whelping box toasty. Measure the temperature within the box using a thermometer.You might need to adjust the distance of the heat lamp from the whelping box in order to achieve the desired temperature. For instance, if it’s too cold, move the lamp closer to the whelping box. If it’s too hot in the whelping box, remove the heat lamp some distance away.
After a week, drop the temperature of the whelping box around 80-83 degrees Fahrenheit (26.5-28 degrees Celsius).
 In its first days and weeks of life, your puppy will need constant care from its mother while awake. These early experiences will help your puppy develop positive socialization skills and stay healthy., After two weeks, you should start taking a close look at particular grooming and hygiene issues that will need ongoing care. Specifically, you should find time to brush your dog’s teeth, trim its nails, and brush its coat.


Trim your pup’s nails weekly. Trimming the nails can be traumatic for adults, but if you begin trimming your puppy’s nails, it will learn that trimming is an easy process that they can expect regularly. Start trimming your puppy’s nails after it is two weeks old. You can use regular human nail trimming scissors to trim your puppy’s nails.Older dogs usually need specialty trimmers like guillotine trimmers to get their nails cut. Puppies have softer nails, though, and don’t need special trimmers.Puppy teeth start coming in after two weeks.
 If there are no immediate health issues, you don’t need to take your pup to the vet until it is six weeks old. At that point, it will be ready for several vaccinations, including distemper, Bordetella, parainfluenza, and measles.Over the course of the next few months, your puppy will need to receive additional shots and get regular checkups.
If you have any questions about how to raise your puppy, ask your doctor when you visit. For instance, you might ask, “What sort of food should I give my puppy?” or “When should I begin giving my puppy exercise?”

, Puppies form habits that can be very hard to break later in life. If you don’t want your adult dog to enter a certain area of the house, don’t allow them to enter it as puppies. If you don’t want your adult dog to jump up and beg at the dining table, don’t allow them to do it as puppies.If your puppy does something you don’t want it to, say, “No” sternly. Set your puppy in its crate or another area where you want it to run and play.
 If you have a single puppy and its only company is its mother, it will get lonely and bored without having another dog with an equal amount of energy. Contact friends who also have puppies so your pups can play together. Set up a playdate and let them romp in an enclosed space like the backyard.A variety of socialization experiences help your puppy develop a healthy temperament and a sense of self-confidence.
However, do not take your pup to the dog park – you don’t know what sorts of dogs your puppy might encounter there.
 After two weeks, your pup will start showing teeth. Start replacing one of your puppy’s meals with a bowl of milk replacer each day. Look for specialty puppy foods at your pet store and ensure that your puppy’s food is soft and mushy.You can soften food that you think is not soft enough by mixing it with a few spoonfuls of water.
After your pup is three weeks old, you can begin to feed it standard meals of puppy dog food.

