 If this is a new situation, there may be something that recently happened which has caused a change in your friend's behavior. Be aware that friendships change over time, but with a strong foundation they can endure the ups-and-downs, like any relationship.


Be willing to talk with your friend about a change in his behavior. Feel out about what's going on, as something may have happened recently that is weighing heavily on your friend's mind.
Think about whether this is just part of your friend's personality. Has he always been less likely to show emotion or be particularly caring? If this is simply how your friend normally is, think about if you have other friend who can give you what you need or if there are ways you can fulfill this need through self-care.
 If you're outgoing and talkative, and your friend is more quiet, you may have difficulty with understanding why she is acting that way. Accept that you and your friend are not the same person, and may respond differently to the same thing.Being different isn't a bad thing. Sometimes friends who have different ways of doing things help us to learn and grow.
 If you have had some problems off and on before, this may be a temporary problem. If it seems like the relationship is one-sided, think about whether this friendship is more helpful or harmful to your stress level.


It's okay to take "breaks" from your friendship. If things aren't going so well right now, do other things that you enjoy. Don't actively ignore your friend, but recognize that sometimes we all need space in a relationship.
If you have been friends for many years, you may easily get back into a groove with your friend. If you've been friends for a year or less, talk with your friend about the ups-and-downs that you're feeling in this relationship to see if change is possible.
 It's important that you don't depend on one friend or one person to make you feel good. That's too much to expect of one person. It is important to have other friends and family to support us and provide guidance.


First, try to work out any problems with your friend, but know that sometimes you may have look elsewhere to get your needs met.
Talk with other trusted friends and family about possible guidance.
It's important to have a sense of self in any friendship and be open to change.

