 It’s amazing how fast lack of sleep and/or nutrition can make people forgetful and cause them to feel stressed and overwhelmed, which easily leads to careless mistakes.


Try to go to bed and wake up around the same times each day, and eat regular, healthy meals around the same times each day.
Make some time for exercise – a few times each week for at least 20 minutes. A healthy body is a healthy mind., Mindfulness, or being mindful, is another way of saying that you are completely paying attention, you are completely present, with what you are doing at all times. This will help you to begin a new way of thinking and new approaches to making decisions.


Often it's the smaller things in life that trip us up- the things we don't think we need to pay attention to and that we think we already know. Staying mindful will help.
 When asking yourself how you can pay better attention to the important things in your life, ask yourself if your mind is cluttered with unimportant things – for example, gossip, social media posts, etc.


Ask yourself, “What does this really mean to me? How does this affect my life?" If you don’t have a good immediate answer for that, chances are it is unimportant, extra information that may be adding to your level of stress., Be mindful with all things that you do, even watching a movie or TV, eating a snack, or calling a friend.


For example, with watching a movie, you may ask yourself, "Am I making a sacrifice to watch this movie? Should I be doing something else? What will/will not happen as a result of me watching this movie? Does it matter, or can the other things wait?"
Relaxation is definitely important, but sometimes it can be difficult to really relax if there are other things we think we should be doing instead., Don’t let a mistake wear you down. There's no need to be a perfectionist. Don’t blame your mistake on others, make excuses, or beat yourself up. Everyone makes mistakes. It’s how you handle them that counts. Simply think about how you can solve the problem and move on.