 Inflatable rear-seat mattresses are available from a number of online and specialty retailers. Order or purchase one before your planned trip or to keep as an emergency precaution in your vehicle.Make sure to find one that fits your style of car. Most mattresses are sized to fit either subcompact and compact cars or SUVs and minivans. Find a mattress that best fits your personal set-up.
 When you are ready to use your air mattress, start by cleaning out your back seat. You will need the seat itself as well as the floor below to be clear so that the mattress can sit flat in your car.


Move items to the trunk that will not properly fit elsewhere.
 If you have a battery-powered air pump, this will inflate the mattress quickly. Such pumps are easily found at department as well as camping and outdoor stores. If no pump is available, you may have to manually inflate the mattress.


Find the air valve and either connect your pump or blow directly into the valve. Make sure all other air release valves are closed before you start inflating.
 Add pillows and blankets to your bed setup so that you are comfortable while you sleep. Many inflatable mattresses also come with inflatable travel pillows, but any pillow or blanket that keeps you comfortable will work.If possible, put a layer between you and the mattress. The tops of the mattresses tend to not be a soft fabric. Place a layer between you and the mattress for comfort.
If you do not have a pillow and blanket available, use towels, jackets, extra clothes, and whatever else you have available to cover yourself and keep yourself warm.
Roll a jacket or a shirt to act as a makeshift pillow if one is not readily available for you.
 Once your bed is made, you are ready to get some sleep. When you wake up, break down your bed by taking off all of the dressings, opening the air release valve and gently rolling the air out of the bed.Store your mattress in your trunk, under your seats, or wherever else you have room.
If you know that you will be using the mattress again within the next day or so, consider leaving it inflated so that it is ready to use again.

