 If you don’t want to bother with mascara ever again, you may want to invest in an eyelash growth serum. These products use peptides and other ingredients to help extend the growth phase of the lashes. However, prescription treatments are typically the only ones that work. Over-the-counter formulas usually just contain conditioning ingredients that may not necessarily help with growth. See a dermatologist to talk about your options.You won’t see overnight results from a lash growth serum. It may take 2 to 6 months to see any results.
In order to see results, you must apply the serum nightly. It’s also important to apply the serum right at the lashline. The hairs that make up the lashes are already dead, so applying it to them won’t make any difference.
Be aware that there are possible side effects associated with prescription lash growth serum. It has been known to discolor both the the lid and iris of the eye.
 Lashes may break and fall off if they’re not properly moisturized and conditioned. Natural oils, such as olive, coconut, castor, and jojoba, are believed to help moisturize and strengthen your lashes so they can grow longer. Apply some to your lashes every night as part of your skin care routine.When using a oil to condition your lashes for added length, consistency and patience are key. You won’t see results overnight. Condition your lashes every night, and give your lashes at least 2 to 3 months to respond.
To apply the oil to your lashes, you can dab a small amount on your fingertips and run them over your lashes. However, to ensure that all of your lashes are coated, it’s better to dip a clean spoolie into the oil and then run it through your lashes like you would with mascara.
Petroleum jelly can also work well as a lash conditioner to help your lashes grow longer. You can apply it to your lashes in the same way that you would an oil.
 Biotin is a vitamin that is thought to help strengthen weak, brittle hair, so it is often suggested for hair health. Taking a biotin supplement daily may help your lashes grow longer and thicker, but it can take several months to see any results.Biotin is water-soluble, so it passes out of your system fairly quickly. That means it’s unlikely that you could take too much of it. However, you should always speak to your doctor before starting any supplements to ensure that they’re safe for you to take with your other medications and to determine the proper dosage.
If you don’t want to take biotin supplements, you can incorporate certain foods in your diet that are high in the vitamin. Almonds, pecans, bananas, egg yolks, and whole grains all contain biotin.

