 Nothing is gained by panicking and whipping yourself into a state of fear or worry. This is a time to knuckle down and find yourself shelter, food and warmth as quickly as possible. It's also a time to conserve your strength and energy as much as possible.;
, Walk about and scout the area. You're looking for a place to sleep safely, foods you can eat, fresh water to drink and possibly ways to signal your presence, such as making rock piles forming the SOS letters.


See further How to attract attention when you need rescuing.
 You need water more than food and it must be clean or able to be made clean. For more information, check out: How to purify water, How to make water in the desert, How to sterilize water with sunlight, and How to desalinate water.
 Before you consider the need to begin foraging for food, take stock of any food you have brought with you. You're in the wilds, so perhaps you planned a picnic lunch, carried a set of energy bars or even better, have camping foods with you. Clearly, they'll have been packed and carried with your dietary needs in mind, so these are the perfect things to use first. However, since you don't know how long you'll be lost, immediately think about rationing them and about making them go further by adding food from the wild.


It is also a good idea to conserve the highest calorie foods the longest. For example, only eat very small portions of your energy bars and nuts/trail mix because these will give you the most nutritional and energy possible, while a package of crisps or candies are a lot less nutritious and energy providing.
If you have chocolate with you, eat it sparingly. It can help you to survive not only hunger but give you morale boosts if needed.
 The season will clearly impact the availability of plant foods, as will the location. A temperate winter, for example, will provide you with more options than one with below freezing temperatures and deep layers of snow.


If it's summer, look for teasel and wild grasses, along with the versatile cattail (reed mace) (Typha) if you are near a larger river, lake, or pond. Cattail rhizomes from safe waters can be eaten if scraped, and the heart can be eaten raw or boiled, while younger outer leaves can be eaten.If you're a pescatarian, you can also catch small fish (you can catch minnows by hand with some effort).






If it's spring, look for dandelion, plantains, mulberries, cattails, blackberries, and arborvitae (white cedar). Still catch fish if you're pescatarian.






If it's winter, look for bittercress, straggling dandelions and plantains, wild garlic and onion, and freshwater clams. Cattails can still be found.
If it's fall, go for fish, beech nuts, cattails, wood sorrel, blackberries, and freshwater clams. Poke weed may be useful for ink.
 Do this no matter how certain you are that you're never going to get lost. The whole point about being lost is that nobody ever expects it. However, it's actually a fun exercise anyway, and might even compel you to bring home some wild plants for eating anyway after a day's fun hike.


Consider doing a local course that offers plant identification for your area. You'll have fun learning and will meet people with interests similar to your own.
Know how to identify dangerous/toxic plants as much as the good ones. The more you know, the better your chances of long-term survival.
 This will vary from region to region, country to country, continent to continent, so you do need to identify the species wherever you are. That said, many places have the same edible weed plants, thanks to people transporting plants all over the world. Fruit trees often escape and grow wild in various places of the world, so if you know the fruit well, it'll be easy to identify. For the purposes of this article, it is assumed you're lost somewhere in North America and here are some of the plants you'll be likely to find:



Dandelions (Taraxacum officinale) and broadleaf plantains (Plantago major): Identifying dandelions and plantains is very easy. The classic yellow blossom alone is not enough to identify a dandelion securely, however.






To differentiate between the edible dandelion and the toxic false dandelion (cat's ear or Hypochaeris radicata), look at the stems and flower amount. A false dandelion will have a partially pleated stem, and when you pull it apart the stem is stringy. The stem is also a darker green on a false dandelion than a real one. A single false dandelion plant will often have more than one flower stem, while a real dandelion never has more than one flower stem. Do not try to differentiate by the leaves, because they look very similar. The image here shows the false dandelion, while the one higher up shows the true dandelion.
The broadleaf plantain test is simple: If you see a low-to-the-ground plant with visible veins running through the leaf vertically, pick it. Then pull it in half slowly. If a white vein sticks out, it's plantain. If this doesn't work, pick another and try quickly.



Beech nuts (from Fagus grandifolia): These are spiny nuts found on hardwood trees. If you partially scrape the bark off the young tree's trunk and try to stick your fingernail in the wood, a beech tree will be unscathed. A softwood tree with spiny nuts will be toxic.

Arbor-vitae (thuja or redcedars/whitcedars): Look for an evergreen with flat needles that look like there are chain links on them. Eat the bitter needles for vitamin C. Do not consume too much of this, as the volatile oil is toxic and overdosing is possible.Avoid using if pregnant.

Wild garlic (Allium vineale - invasive species where introduced, also known as crow garlic): This is a grass with round blades. The best way to identify it is to pick one blade and smell. A strong garlic smell will emanate from wild garlic. Wild garlic has many tiny bulbs, and if you are a risk-taker, you can try to "farm" wild garlic. You can pull it up using both hands wrapped around the bunch of grass.

Wild onion greens (Allium canadense): These basically look like onion greens from a supermarket. The onion bulb is single, but about the size of the circle made from your thumb and forefinger. You cannot pull up an onion; if you try you will simply break off the greens. You have to dig it with a stick or a knife if you have one. Using a blunt butter knife is a great survival tool: it's a good digging tool and can also be used for many other things.

Onion weed (Allium triquetrum): This "weed" species is also known as three-cornered leek. The bulb, stem and flowers are edible.Mock wild strawberries (Duchesnea indica): Also known as wood strawberries, these are small red seed-covered berries growing on short stalks from the ground in late spring. They are bland but nutritious.

Wild strawberries (Fragaria): The fruits are edible and tasty too.

Amaranth (Amaranthus): This is an edible weed and all of it is edible; it is best to boil the leaves to reduce the nitrate and oxalic acid levels but can be eaten raw if needed.Clover (Trifolium): Edible leaves, best cooked but can be eaten raw too.This plant is ubiquitous and is found on most continents.
 Just go near the water and look for fish. After about half an hour at the water, you will have hand-caught a fish or two if you know how to fish by hand. Be aware that this is easier in some places than others and can be potentially dangerous if you're near waves, near deep/cold water or the fish bite.


Read How to catch fish with your hands, How to catch trout with your bare hands and How to make a handmade fishing net for more details.
Steal leftovers from fisher-animals. Some birds and small mammals catch fish; you could follow them and try to steal some of their catch. Do not do this with large mammals such as bears, unless you fancy being their next lunch. Consider the amount of energy you'll expend doing this though; always weigh this into any food collecting.
 If you know which seafood is safe to collect from shorelines, you can supplement your diet using this. However, you must know the seafood type and also the safety of the waters. Risks include seafood poisoning, algal bloom toxicity, being stung or pierced by toxic creatures or being taken by a rogue wave. A lot of seafood must be cooked before eating; read up on this and learn well before trying anything. If you didn't read up before getting lost, err on the side of avoiding seafood unless someone with you is properly knowledgeable.


If you live where people still gather seafood from the shore regularly to supplement their diet, ask them to show you how to forage this way safely before you go on walks, hikes and camping trips. After a few trips with experienced hands, you should be very knowledgeable.






Don't neglect the potential of seaweed or kelp for a healthy meal. Many varieties are edible; again, learn about the ones in your local area.
 It's a really good idea to practice making shelters at home first or to do a local course with people are properly skilled at making wild shelters. There are many ways to make shelters, here are just a few:


Build a tepee-type structure with tree branches formed around a central sapling about thumb thickness.
Dig a deep, wide hole in sand (on a beach or sandy desert area maybe) and cover the top with tree branches and leaves at night when you sleep in the hole. Be careful though; if the walls collapse in, you could suffocate. Don't make it too deep.
Build a cup-shaped nest structure out of tree branches up in the crotch of two branches on a tree. This is important for when being off the ground ensures safety, such as over a swamp, to avoid prowling animals or to avoid flash flooding, etc. See How to build a swamp bed for more details.
 Here are a few suggestions for you to check out: How to build an A frame shelter, How to build a sturdy and warm shelter, How to build an emergency winter shelter, How to build a tarp shelter and How to make a shelter in the wilderness. There are many more possibilities in the outdoor shelter category.

