 Wall, ceiling, window, and floor elements should come first, if any of them are being changed. Take a trip to the paint store together and look at paint chips. Talk to the workers there about room painting and purchase enough paint to do the job right, plus rollers, pans, edging tape, and anything else that will be necessary for your plan. Acquire curtains, drapes, and other such background elements. They will be useful for visualizing how furnishings will look in the newly decorated room.
 Anything that can be pre-purchased should be purchased now. If new furniture is in order, make sure there is space to store it until it can be placed. Decorative items, including items that are currently in the room and will be re-used in the new room, can be kept together in boxes or bags. Do as much as possible as soon as possible to avoid letting the redecoration process drag on and become a source of stress.


The weekend before you plan to redecorate is an ideal time for this part of the process. Make a shopping day of it. Be sure to plan breaks so that you don't get tired. A few hours in the morning followed by a few hours in the afternoon is a good way to divide up the time, and it also allows you to divide up the trips by location or item size so that you don't get too overwhelmed.






Make any necessary modifications to the items you will be using. Picture frames and wooden furniture purchased on a Saturday can be painted and otherwise decorated on a Sunday. This is a great family project in and of itself, and a chance for everyone to show off their creative selves. Gluing seashells, glitter, or other theme-appropriate elements to some of the objects is a good way to personalize them. Leopard spots or clouds can be made by pressing a brush with black or white paint to a background of gold or sky blue paint, respectively. A flick of the thumb can spatter shiny metallic paint across a dark background for a bright, exciting effect. Drawer knobs can be replaced with a little work and simple hand tools. Have fun and try whatever suits your fancy.
 Clean the room thoroughly a few days before you plan to decorate it, including closet space and the space underneath the bed. Everything that does not have a clear place should be set aside, along with everything else that was set aside before cleaning began (see section 1, step 2 above). Make final decisions on what to sell, what to donate, what to store, and what to trash. Box up anything you will keep but not use, and move it to the garage or another storage space. Leave only furniture, clothes, and regularly-used books and toys in the bedroom.


Keep laundry up-to-date until the day of the redecoration. When that day comes, it will be easy to focus on redecorating since all the preparation was finished beforehand.






This period is also a good time to begin developing a regular schedule for cleaning the room, if one has not already been established.

