 This is play time so don’t take yourself too serious. It is good for you.If you want to decorate your face with dramatic make-up, paint your nails crazy colors, tease your hair four inches high, or try on every outfit you own, do it. There are no rights and wrongs to this mini-makeover. You are creating so anything goes.


Mix and match different shoes with pants, skirts and sweaters that you haven’t worn before.
Take photos of the ones you really like. You never know, you might be a designer for women’s and men’s clothing someday. You won’t know unless you explore.
Paint each fingernail and toenail a different color. If you like it, keep it that way. If you don’t, you can always use nail polish remover to start over.;
, Gather up a cast of characters including stuffed animals, or stray plastic army men and set up a scene. You get to make up the words that everyone says and the costumes, and direct the show. Create new songs for the sound track to your show or use your favorite tunes. It’s all up to you. It’s your show.Start your story by saying, “Once upon a time there was a girl who spent time in her room.”
If you get stuck say, “And now we are going to take a commercial break.” Use the break time to come up with other ideas by asking your stuffed animals for input.
If you’re comfortable with it, video your show and watch it. You may want to keep it or delete it. Either way, it will be fun.
 You might be in your room, but that doesn’t have to stop you from being active. This is your space so make the most of it. A little activity might be just what you need to shake off the stress you’ve been feeling.


If you enjoy a more relaxing type of exercise try yoga or meditation.If you want to get your heart rate up, put on some music and dance.Pretend you are a Zumba instructor and your stuffed animals are your students.
If it’s okay with your parents, bounce on your bed as long as it is safe.
 Many girls and women keep a journal and write in it every day.Others write poems or stories that may or may not get published. Stories, whether they are made up or are true, make life more entertaining. You might be fantastic at writing happy, funny, sad, or scary stories, but you won’t know unless you try.


You can keep your stories to yourself if you want them to be private.
If you want to share your stories, make sure you share them with someone you trust and who cares about you.
 Do you have a list of movies you’ve been meaning to watch? Even if you’ve seen your favorite movie 100 times, you may want to watch it again. There are benefits to watching movies, so turn on the TV or mobile device and stream away.After you watch a movie write down what you liked about it and what you didn’t. Next time you talk to a friend or family member you can discuss it.
You may want to binge watch a few episodes of a TV series you heard about.
 Magazines provide a glimpse into what is popular in the news, fashion, sports, and just about any subject. Pick magazines that cover your interests, and include some new ones that might expose you to new and exciting topics.


Try CosmoGirl, Seventeen, AstroGirl, etc. If you are interested in musical artists, sports figures or scientists, there are magazines available.
 Most growing girls need a lot of energy to get through the day. Sometimes it’s fun to set everything aside and take a good long nap. Without proper rest, you can’t expect yourself to be your best. The average person functions well on 7-8 hours of sleep a night.If you enjoy napping in your cozy bed, do it. Invite all your stuffed animal friends to join you.
Sleep is healing for your body, so get as much as you need.
 It can be a small improvement or complete make-over. Even moving your furniture around might be fun to create a new look. A change in your living area can be fun, healthy and energizing.


If you’ve got the paint and drop cloths and approval from your parents, paint your room. This takes planning so make sure to make a plan before you start.
Exchange old posters for new ones. This will give you something new to look at, which will make you feel like it’s a new room.
A new bedspread, or pillows can spruce up the room.
Open up your window coverings and let the natural light in, which is healthy and helps you to see your room in a different light., Most people don’t enjoy cleaning their room, but they enjoy having a clean room. Cleaning your room will result in a more organized, peaceful feeling.If you have a lot of disruptions and difficulties in your life, cleaning your room will sooth some of the struggle.


Focus on the fun feeling you will have once the room is clean.
Listen to music while you clean. It will distract you and make time pass quickly. Your room will be clean before you realize it.
If you clean your room without being asked, it will win you points with your parents.
 The fun comes when you get to donate them to a charity of your choice.Consider charities that help children. Your generosity will help someone have fun too.


If you haven’t worn something in a year, consider donating it.
Hang lavender-filled sachets in your closet to freshen it.
 If you hate taking time in the morning to pick out what you are going to wear that day, then lay out the outfits ahead of time. Start with one and get inspired. You may have created a new look earlier in the day and believe it is worthy to be seen at school.


Choosing outfits ahead of time will save you time and effort, and allow for more sleep in the morning.
You will know what items need to be washed to ensure you can complete your outfit idea.
 There are so many colleges in the world, and you will eventually need to choose one.That time will be here before you know it, so it would be fun to learn about the ones that might interest you. There are fun and interesting things to learn including: where they are located, what special programs they offer, and what the student population is like.


Attending college is one of the hardest, but most fun and memorable times of your life. Making a good choice is directly related to your success and happiness.
Scholarships and grants are available to pay for part or all of your college expense. Identifying financial support for college is possible., You can dream about what you want to be when you grow up, or actually learn what it takes.The more you know about various careers, the more informed you will be about pursuing the education and jobs that will lead you to your eventual goal.


If you want to be a doctor determine what classes you would need to take, how long it will take you to become one, and how your efforts will impact the world.
Call a person who performs the job that you would like and ask her a list of questions you’ve prepared. You can start the conversation by saying, “Hello, my name is _____ and I’m thinking about becoming a ________. Are there any words of wisdom you can give me?” This will start the conversation.
People spend approximately fifty years of their life working. It is crucial for you to find fun and fulfilling work., Owning real estate is a common goal for a lot of people.Wouldn’t it be fun to find out what it takes to buy your dream home? Explore areas where you might want to live. Determine what the average price of a home might be. How much money would you need to make the purchase?


Set a long-range goal to purchase a house. Once you know what it takes to buy one, you can focus your career and financial efforts toward that goal.
You will find that most people start with small properties. Make sure that you can not only afford the payments, but also be able to consistently live within the required budget. If you don’t have money to have any fun, then you need to consider a smaller property.
 It could be fun to use your alone time to study the achievements and personal qualities of women who have had great success in their lives. Wouldn’t it be fun to find a mentor or role model who could help and guide you?You don’t have to copy everything a person does; but instead look for the ways in which she struggled and failed and then bounced back to achieve success.
Tenacity, self-reliance and resourcefulness are qualities to admire and develop in yourself.Success can be fun.
 You might be spending the day in your room, but you’re going to be spending the next week at school. Organizing the week ahead will help manage the stress of upcoming tests, reports and projects. Seeing the demands of the week on paper alleviates some of the pressure and uncertainty you might be feeling. Schedule the time necessary for each item.


It’s a great feeling when you make it through the week feeling organized and accomplished, which nurtures your motivation to learn at school.Don’t forget to schedule some fun time for yourself. It’s important to have fun to maintain balance and a positive outlook about school.

