 Most of the time stores are having sales to get rid of clothes that are not selling or just to make way for the new clothes. Shopping for deals is good. Always be sure to check out your local thrift store, like Goodwill or Salvation Army. If you're a humanitarian, pay it forward and donate your nice-looking, unused clothes.;
, Remember to return them, unless they let you keep them.
 The cut of a piece of clothing is intrinsic to how good you'll look. If you know your body shape (pear, hourglass, ruler, etc.), dress based on the shape. For pear, highlight your top and minimize your bottom. For hourglass, highlight your waist, and it will emphasize your top and bottom. For ruler, you can wear just about anything in regards to bold patterns and statement pieces like maxi dresses and long, baggy sweaters.
 If you can't afford it or don't have the time, put on fingernail polish. Clear nail polish works well with white to make a gorgeous French manicure. Alternatively, the next time you go to the salon, get a simple manicure (instead of solar nails or acrylics) and pay close attention to the process and tools they use. Learn how to give yourself a professional manicure at home.
 When showering, use cool or cold water to wash your hair to make it shinier. Use shampoo and conditioner when washing your hair and shower once a day. Most people should not wash their hair every day or it will dry out. However, if your hair looks or feels dirty the day after you wash it, you may need to wash it every day. Mayonnaise wonderfully hydrates the hair. Use it as a hair masque once a month.
 Once again, shop the sales! If there are shoes you like and you know they will look good with at least three or five outfits, then they are worth getting, if possible. But if you see shoes that are cute and you don't think you will wear them, don't get them. It makes no sense getting shoes or purses that are cute and have them sit in your closet forever before you use them again. Purses are like little carrying cases for girls! A place where you can get a deal on purses is TJ Maxx.There they cost at least $200 lower. But if you hit a sale they will go down at least 10% or 30%.
 Wash your face and brush your teeth two times a day. Wash your hands after going to the bathroom, playing outside, and touching money. After putting makeup on you should wash your face too.
 Make sure the windows have no spider webs in them or dust. Mop and vacuum the floors and carpet. Dust the TV and the shelves. Keep your house organized and smelling fresh., Have you ever seen rich people wearing pearls? Well, you can make your own pearl-looking necklace or bracelet. Go to a bead store and look for these white round beads that look like pearls. Than bead them and wear them whenever you want. Big jewelry in? Not to rich people. More of the classic jewelry is in than the modern.
 And gift cards.
 Anyone can afford a happy, healthy smile. Not only will it make you look better, but it'll make you feel better inside.

