 Under normal circumstances, any statement that you made to your attorney while he or she was representing you is privileged, or completely confidential. Your attorney would typically not be able to tell anyone else anything that you said. However, when you sue your attorney for legal malpractice, the attorney is no longer bound by the privilege. The attorney can use anything you said in order to defend himself or herself against your claim.
 In addition to proving that your attorney was negligent in handling your criminal case, you also have to prove that you were innocent of the crime of which you were convicted. Since you were convicted of the crime, this obviously can be very difficult, if not impossible, to accomplish.


If you are in this situation, it is essential that you consult with an experienced legal malpractice attorney before proceeding with the filing of a lawsuit. That attorney can best advise you of your ability to win a legal malpractice claim against a criminal defense attorney.
 In order to win a legal malpractice claim, you must hire an attorney who is experienced in handling legal malpractice claims. Since you believe that your previous attorney negligently handled your case and caused you injury in some way, you may be reluctant to hire a new attorney. Therefore, you should get references and check out your attorney’s reputation and character through your state bar association.


In the state of California, lawyers can be board certified in legal malpractice law. If you are in California, you may wish to choose a certified attorney, as he or she is likely to have additional experience and training in this field.
 Even if you have presented enough proof that your attorney acted negligently in representing you, you still have to show that you suffered significant and actual damages as a result. You must have very specific evidence to support a damages claim.


For instance, if you believe that your attorney didn’t properly represent you in your divorce, you may claim that you lost a certain sum of money in marital assets to your ex-wife as a result. However, it may be very difficult to prove that if your attorney had acted otherwise, you would have received certain assets in the divorce.

