;
, For example, if you already have shorts in several washes, and they fit, try not to buy more, since you properly don't need them anymore, and buying more may just waste money because you're still growing and honestly people are not going to pay much attention to how often you wear a certain pair.
 For example, let's say, if a person prefers to buy most denim bottoms at brands like Hollister and American Eagle, or fashion tops (the kind of shirts that go out of style fast) at places like Forever 21, Wet Seal, and Ross, they would write them down.
 For example, jeans last for around 2-3 years during your teenage years, due to changes in height. Search for cheap prices.


Go easy on the amounts. You don't need ten basic items, for example.
Buy your basics first, then add in fun stuff for an awesome wardrobe. A few of each wash/color will be enough (light, medium, dark wash and neutral colors mostly for things like cardigans and camis). Basics: Jeans, shorts, capris, hoodies, jackets, camis, cardigans, shoes, t-shirts, etc.
 You can skip this step if you're already into makeup. Before you do anything with makeup check with your parents and see what you're allowed to wear.


Figuring out what your parents say you can wear will help when your shopping and also you won't waste money on things your parents later tell you that you can't wear. If you're just starting out, only get some basics to get a feel of how to use makeup. The basics are concealer, powder, blush & bronzer, mascara, lipbalm/lipgloss.
 Get an idea of how much you're willing to pay for what, where you buy what, and how often you buy what.



Buy mascara at drugstores (Walmart) because you throw them out every month. Do not do this if you're addicted to makeup, though.
 For example, people will not care very much if you buy cheap lipgloss.


You don't need lipstick, or any other lip product at the drugstore, as a teen.
 A few different shades are nice but you will want to buy more of other important things.
 Try buying most everyday used items at drugstore since you use it more often and will have to buy it a lot more. Buy most of these at the drugstore, to save money for more important things and to be able to afford them all:


Lip products
Eyeliner
Mascara
Setting powders (Rimmel and NYC are great)
Everyday blush & bronzer (Elf - Blush & Bronzer duo $3 works well and Nice - Sunny Bronzer $3)
Some eyeshadow
Brow gel (Elf - Brow gel $1 or Maybelline great lash clear mascara)
Brow pencil
Concealer (mac $20)
Foundation ($20-30)
Primers (a must have for young skin)
Special makeup. For example, Urban Decay naked palettes are amazing, but expensive. It is worth it.

Don't use up special makeup on a daily basis because it is expensive.


Accessories: Buy as much as you like, because they make up a good outfit. However, be smart and don't spend a lot on simple things like these. Forever 21 has several accessories priced perfect for almost any budget. Do consider paying more for a good quality purse. Check out Target and K-mart first, though.
 Hollister and similar stores have sales almost every season, which is a good time to stuck up on jeans, shorts, etc. On all things that are harder to buy on a regular basis.
 Your skin is young and delicate, so take care of it.

