 In the United Kingdom, if you intend to erect a new building, make a significant change to a building, or change the use of a building or tract of land, you will need to apply for a planning permission.Permissions are not needed if your property has "permitted development rights" (PDR). This type of permission is not controlled by local authorities, but by Parliament.PDRs usually apply to industrial development, outdoor signage, and demolition.;
, There are two primary types of planning applications. Each application covers a different type of project and requires a different level of detail.


Outline planning applications are for a high level permission about how a site or tract of land will be developed. The builders will have to return for further permissions as the plans evolve and are finalized.Full planning permissions are the full permits for a building or redevelopment project. The application requires the developer to submit all details of the proposed project. Once this permission is granted, the local authorities will no longer intervene as long as the project proceeds according to the approved plans., Planning permissions are governed by the Local Planning Authority (LPA). The UK government website allows you to search for the appropriate LPA by naming the place of interest or postcode.Once you locate the desired LPA, you will be directed to the homepage of the governing council and local procedures. Depending on the LPA, you may be able to file your objection to a planning application online. For example, for the Kent County Council, you can contact the case officer to discuss the application and then file your comments and objections through the website.It is important that you contact the correct LPA to lodge your objection. Verify the planning application number before you comment.
 You can't object on general grounds. You need to access the actual application for permission and review the plans.


Each LPA is required to maintain a public register of planning applications. This register is physically stored at the LPA office and is also available through the website of the LPA. There is no centralized database of planning applications. You have to deal directly with the local authorities. New planning applications are often published in the local newspaper as well.
The planning register must, at a minimum, include the application number, information about the developers, the planning application form, and all supporting drawings, plats, maps, elevations, tree surveys, and other engineering renditions., After you have conducted a preliminary review of the planning application, visit the site in order to match your perception of the development plan with the reality of the property. It is one thing to read a tree survey and another to see and photograph the forest that would be removed as part of the project.


Do not trespass. You can stay on the public right-of-way or ask the landowner for written permission.
 As you sort through the details of the planning application package, note your general objections and reference them to the plans. Note concerns about negative effects the project may have on the quality of life in residential areas including noise, smell, loss of greenspace, loss of sunlight, and traffic.


Application review can be done on your own or with a committee. It is a big job, an application can run hundreds of pages. However, you are not required to be part of an organized group to file an objection to a planning application.
 LPAs control the overall look and feel of their area and how it affects the quality of local life. An urban LPA is going to have different priorities than a rural LPA. If material planning considerations and local codes are not available on the LPA website, contact the authority in person or by phone.


Generally, LPAs do not consider loss of private views, changes to your property value, or your convenience in traffic and access to your property to be material planning considerations., You must maintain a professional tone. Regardless of your personal feelings about the type of development or the politics of the landowner or developer, you must limit your comments to the substance of the application plan.Include the application plan reference number on all correspondence.
Using your notes, work through the application plan and detail every objection that is a material planning consideration. Pick your battles and choose the parts of the project that would have the biggest effect on the area and your community. Common examples are "quality of life" objections.

Excessive tree or hedgerow removal can affect drainage, soil stability, wildlife habitat, hunting, atmosphere, and appearance of the area.
Noise and traffic can affect living conditions, tourism, and quality of life.
Concerns about pollution of native waterways from industry or agri-business and how that could affect water supplies, fishing, tourism, and wildlife.
Stress on infrastructure, including waste disposal, roads, parking, and schools.
Architecture that is out-of-character with existing historical structures and could negatively affect tourism and the charisma of the neighborhood.


Each objection must be matched to a material planning consideration and must be cross-referenced to the appropriate section(s) of the application plan. Be clear and concise. Aim for no more than one-half page per objection.
Address your letter to the LPA and the case officer. Include the application number. Identify yourself and your group. Include your postal contact information., Comments and objections must be filed within 21 days of the publication of the planning application in the registry. Late comments may be accepted, but you should aim for the deadline date.


Submit your comments either through the LPA's online comment page or by postal service. If you mail your objections, be sure to allow several days for delivery.
The contents of your objection will be available for public review. You cannot object privately or confidentially.
There is no cost to submit a comment or objection.
 You can add power and garner support for your objection by speaking at local government and council meetings. Contact the council for instructions on how to be put on the agenda.

