 With drop-shipping, you don't have to store anything nor you have to pack and ship a single product.
You don't pay upfront for inventory: You don't pay the drop-shipping company for an order until your customer pays you. You can easily select some products from the drop-shipping company website and test them by listing on eBay without any need to buy them in advance. If your product sells, you will then pay the drop-ship company to ship to your customer. If it does not sell, you have no product in your hand. You just lost eBay insertion fees.
Saves time: If you buy wholesale, you will spend a lot of time to arrange your products and store them. When something is sold, more time will be invested in printing packing slips and shipping labels, packing your items in shipping boxes as well as shipping your items.With drop-shipping, you will save all that time and you can concentrate on marketing and promoting your items on eBay.
No Order Minimums: Excellent drop-shipping companies will not charge a drop-ship fees for small orders.
Large variety of products: You can sell on eBay many products from different drop-shipping companies in different categories. You can sell electronics, baby items, clothing, games, etc..It doesn't matter because you will not be storing any of these products. This will not be available when buying wholesale.. You will also able to sell large and fragile items, such as furniture, without the hassle of trying to store, pack and ship each piece.
Easier listing over eBay: Drop-shipping companies websites are always loaded with professional pictures and descriptions of their products. This will help you to list items easier and faster on eBay.
Build your name and reputation: Some drop-shipping companies will ship your packages with labels from your company name . Your eBay store name can be put on all the packages drop-shipped to your customers.

Some companies will charge you a drop-shipping fee: You will pay this fee for each product shipped to your customer. This fee is to cover the process of packing and shipping individual items.
Occasional problems with shipping: some drop-shipping companies are slow in fulfilling your orders or the packaging of products is not that good. This might lead to unsatisfied customer, if he receives his package late or damaged. So whenever you are joining a new drop-shipping company, always do a simple test for them. Make an order for a product for yourself. let the product be shipped to your address. Now you can evaluate by yourself the timing and packaging. You can avoid all this hassle if you know some trustworthy and tested drop-shipping companies to start with.
Drop-shipping companies serve lot of sellers: Sometimes when you sell an item and you come back to order it, you will find it out of stock. This might carry the risk of unsatisfied customer. If this happens to you, try to handle it with your customer very fast. For example, you can write ”In rare occasions, we are out of stock of some items but the items are not yet removed from our eBay store. If this happens and you have already paid for the item, your money will be refunded in full immediately.”

