 This will eliminate one of your most time consuming morning rituals. However, those with oily skin might look best if they shower in the morning. Cosmetically, there is also a risk that you'll wake up to untamable hair. If neither of these are concerns for you, you still want to be careful to shower at least two hours before bed. One recent study suggests that showering later than that is likely to make falling asleep more difficult., Watch the weather forecast to see what attire would be appropriate. If, you're really ambitious, use the weekly forecast to pick out your clothes for the whole week. Set aside your clothes somewhere, possibly a separate rack, from which you can easily grab them in the morning. Iron in advance.


If you're neither a morning, nor a night person, you might be able to save yourself the trouble of ironing by leaving your outfit in the bathroom. When you shower, the steam will remove many of the wrinkles., Fill it with coffee and water so that you can perk yourself up in the morning with the flick of a switch. If your coffee machine is fully automated, you can even set it to begin brewing shortly after your alarm goes off. This will save time, and, if you're having trouble pulling yourself out of bed, the smell of coffee can give you the extra push you need., Eating out for lunch won't require any preparation. But if you want to be frugal, save time in the morning by packing your lunch the night before. Anyway, chances are, your culinary skills are better at 8:00 pm than 6:00 am. If you have leftovers, packing some away in a small container for lunch is an easy way to prepare.
 If you bring a bag to school or work, pack it the night before. If you plan to run errands, have your bag ready with shopping lists, library books, etc. If you are liable to need a coat, umbrella, hat, or other such accessory, keep it in a designated location. If possible, all of these items should be stored in the same location, preferably near the door so that you can grab them all as you leave.

