 Federal law strictly limits what a debt collector can do when collecting a debt. For example, federal law prevents the debt collector from doing the following:Calling you at unreasonable times. This will depend on your schedule. If you work at night, then a phone call at 3:00 pm when you are asleep could be unreasonable. Generally, the law assumes any call before 8:00 am or after 9:00 pm is unreasonable.
Threatening violence or using violence.
Threatening that you’ll be sent to jail because of the debt.
Using profane or obscene language.
Claiming that you owe more than you do. Also, a debt collector cannot add unauthorized interest, charges, or fees to the amount that you owe.
Claiming to be a lawyer when they are not.
Contacting third parties about the debt. Debt collectors are strictly limited in who they can talk to about your debt. They can talk to your lawyer, and they can ask other people if they know where you are. But they can’t discuss your debt with unauthorized people.;
, You should always write down the day and time of any phone call.You can use this information later at trial.


Also write down the substance of each conversation. If the debt collector threatens you or uses other abusive language (such as profanity or slurs), then you should record that information as well.
Note whether the debt collector identifies themselves as a debt collector when they call.
 You should tell the debt collector to stop calling you.If the debt collector ignores your request, then you have strong evidence of abuse.


You should probably send a letter. In the letter, you should state the dates the debt collector has contacted you. Also include a clear request: “Please stop all communication with me and with this address about this debt.”
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has sample letters that you can use at their website.Make sure to mail the letter certified mail, return receipt requested. This way you can show that the debt collector received your letter.
 You can sue for compensation for any injury that you have suffered as a result of the abusive debt collection. You can be compensated for the following:


Medical or mental health treatment. If the behavior was so abusive that you fell sick or needed counseling, then you can get compensated.Lost wages. The debt collector might have illegally called your boss to report the debt. If you lost your job as a consequence, you can be compensated for lost wages.Get a copy of your W-2 or tax returns which show how much you were paid.
 The federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) is the federal law prohibiting abusive, deceptive, and unfair collection practices. It covers debt incurred by consumers for personal, family, or household purposes. The federal definition of "debt collector" includes any person who regularly collects consumer debts for another person or who collects debts for themselves under a name other than their own. Therefore, people who collect their own debts or who do not regularly collect debts are not covered by the FDCPA. The FDCPA prohibits harassing or abusive practices, false or misleading representations, and unfair practices.


Federal law will preempt any state law that is inconsistent with it. However, if a state law is more protective than federal law, the state law will not be preempted.For example, a state law like California's Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (RFDCPA) is not preempted because it is more protective than the FDCPA. Unlike the FDCPA, the RFDCPA covers more than just collection agencies. It also covers original creditors. The RFDCPA prohibits similar actions that the FDCPA prohibits., The FDCPA allows you to get your attorneys’ fees paid by the debt collector if you win your lawsuit.In addition, many state laws have similar provisions (e.g., Texas). The Texas law, for example, also limits a defendant's ability to recoup attorneys' fees to circumstances where it is determined that you filed your case in bad faith or for the purpose of harassing., Small claims courts are designed for people representing themselves. You do not need a lawyer because the process is usually simplified. In fact, lawyers are prevented from appearing in some small claims cases.


However, if you have a strong case or if the law you are suing under allows you to recoup attorneys' fees, you should not go to small claims court and you should instead file in state or federal court.
In addition, small claims courts are not well versed in applying federal laws. Therefore, if you are going to file your lawsuit under the FDCPA, you should not file in small claims court.
 You need to meet with a lawyer before filing the lawsuit. A lawyer can answer any questions that you have and can advise you about building the strongest case possible. In addition, collectors will usually stop the abuse as soon as they hear you are being represented. Be sure to ask the lawyer whether your case should be filed under a state or federal statute. Although you could hire a lawyer to do everything for you, you can also pay the lawyer just for advice.


To find a lawyer, you can contact your state or local bar association and ask for a referral.
For more tips, see Find a Debt Relief Lawyer.
 In order to file suit in federal court, you will either need to sue under the FDCPA or you will have to have diversity jurisdiction. To have diversity jurisdiction, you and the debt collector will have to be residents of different states. If you have diversity jurisdiction, you can sue under your state's law and still be in federal court.


If you cannot get jurisdiction in federal court, or if your state's laws are more protective, you should file in state court. For example, if you live in California, you may want to sue under the RFDCPA in state court.
 You will start the lawsuit by filing a “complaint” with the court. The complaint identifies the parties to the lawsuit (you and the debt collector) and explains the factual circumstances of the dispute.You also tell the court how much you are suing for.


Most courts have “fill in the blank” complaint forms for you to use. Small claims courts especially should have these forms. Stop into the court clerk’s office and ask if a form is available.
If no form is available, then ask the clerk if there is a sample you can use as a guide for drafting your own. You may need to look in a book or CD of legal forms.
 You should either print neatly or enter the information on the form using a typewriter. Each court’s form will be different, but they will generally ask for the following information:your name and address
the debt collector’s name and address
the amount you are suing for
a description of the abusive practices
the harm you suffered
the law which authorizes your lawsuit
whether you want a jury or not

, After you finish the complaint, you should make several copies. Take the original and your copies to the court clerk and ask to file. The clerk should stamp your copies with the date.


Typically, you have to pay a filing fee. This amount will differ depending on the court. If you cannot afford the fee, then ask for a fee waiver form. The clerk should be able to give it to you.
 You need to send the debt collector notice that you filed the lawsuit. You can provide this notice by sending a copy of your complaint and a summons, which you get from the court clerk. You can generally make service in a variety of ways:


Have someone 18 or older (who is not part of the lawsuit) hand-deliver the complaint and summons to the debt collector.Have the sheriff hand-deliver it for a fee. You should be able to schedule service with your court clerk.
Hire a private process server to make hand delivery. You can find process servers online or in your phone book. Typically, they charge $45-75 per service.Mail the documents. In some courts you can send a copy of the complaint and summons by certified mail.Other methods. Ask the court clerk for all acceptable methods of service.
 Whoever makes service needs to complete a form proving that they made service. This will be called a Proof of Service, Affidavit of Service, or something similar. You can get the form from your court clerk and give it to the server.After making service, the server fills out the form and returns it to you. You then need to file it with the court.
Be sure to keep a copy for your records.
 The debt collector will likely answer your complaint within a certain time frame (usually within 30 days) after they are served. Their response may come in various forms, but most commonly the response will be a general answer or denial. When you get their response, analyze it to determine your course of action.


An answer contains admissions or denials to each one of your complaint claims. It will also include all of the defenses they are raising as well as the statement of facts as they perceive them.
A general denial is a simple, one sentence response, denying all of the allegations. It may also include affirmative defenses and a statement of facts as well., Once you receive the debt collector's response, a period of discovery will begin. During this period, you and the other party will have an opportunity collect facts, get witness statements, find out what the other side is going to say at trial, and get any other information that may be pertinent to the case. In general, you will be able to use the following tools to help you:


Informal investigations, which will include interviewing witnesses and gathering public documents.
Interrogatories, which are written questions that another party is required to answer. These statements are made under oath and can be used in court.
Depositions, which are formal interviews with witnesses or parties. The interviews are conducted under oath and can be used in court.
Requests for documents, which are formal requests sent to the other party asking them to produce private documents. These might include emails, text messages, or internal memos.
Subpoenas, which are court orders requiring someone to do something., The defendant will almost always file a motion for summary judgment as soon as the discovery phase is over. This motion will ask the court to decide the case in the defendant's favor, before a trial, because there is no genuine issue of material fact and they are entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. To defend against this motion, you will need to provide evidence and affidavits that tend to prove that there are disputed facts and that the law could go wither way.


A judge will view all assumption in your favor. Therefore, all you need to show is that there could be a potential factual or legal issue during the trial. If you can do this, a judge will deny their motion and you will move forward., If the case is still moving forward, now may be a good time to attempt a settlement. Going to trial can be a time-consuming and expensive proposition, and settling may get you the relief you want. You should try to speak with the other party about what you need in order to resolve the case. If you cannot come to an agreement, you may try mediation or arbitration.


During mediation, a neutral third party will work with you and the debt collector on finding common ground. In doing so, the mediator will try to foster an agreement.
During arbitration, a neutral third party will act as more of a judge. They may listen to both sides and examine the strength of each party's case. In addition, they may recommend a settlement based on what they hear.
 If you or the debt collector chose to have a jury, then your first order of business is to select the jury. Jury selection is called “voir dire.”During voir dire, the judge calls a panel of jurors to sit in the jury box. The judge then asks the prospective jurors basic personal questions.


For example, the judge will probably ask if the prospective juror knows either you or the debt collector. Jurors are also asked about their jobs and hobbies.
If you don’t think that one of the prospective jurors can be fair, then you should ask the judge to dismiss the juror. This is called a dismissal “for cause.”
You also will be given a certain number of “peremptory challenges.” With these, you can dismiss the juror without having to give the judge a reason. However, you can’t use peremptory challenges in a way that discriminates on the basis of race, ethnicity, or sex.You might want to use a peremptory challenge to exclude anyone who works in a financial institution (such as a bank) or for a credit card company. These people might be sympathetic to the debt collector.
Unless you or the debt collector dismisses a prospective juror, that juror becomes part of the jury.
 You will start the trial by making an opening statement. In small claims court, the judge might ask you to just dive in and start describing your case. However, if you have a jury, then you will probably make an opening statement.


Keep your statement brief. Jurors do not have long attention spans. If possible, limit your opening statement to fifteen minutes or less.
Tell the jury what evidence you will present. An opening statement is your chance to present a road map of what your evidence will be.You will present evidence of the collector’s abusive behavior. In your opening statement, you should mention this abuse: “As the evidence will show, the defendant threatened the plaintiff with going to prison. And as the evidence will further show, the defendant even called the plaintiff’s boss to talk about the debt.”

, As the person bringing the lawsuit, you can call witnesses first. You don’t have to call any witnesses. In a lawsuit for abusive debt collection, you might not have anyone to call.


However, if the debt collector called your boss, relatives, or friends, then you could have them testify as to the date and time of the conversation. Get them to repeat what the debt collector said to them. It is illegal for the debt collector to tell these people about your debt.
For tips on how to question witnesses, see Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself.
 You will probably want to testify. Specifically, you can testify about what the debt collector said and how it made you feel. To be an effective witness, remember these tips:Sit up straight and look at the lawyer who is asking you questions. When you answer, turn to the jury and make eye contact.
Stay calm. A rattled witness comes across as unbelievable. Don’t get into an argument with the debt collector’s lawyer. Instead, take a deep breath before answering a question. If you need a break, tell the judge.
Listen closely to the questions. You don’t want to answer a question that wasn’t asked.
Never guess at an answer. Simply say, “I’m sorry, I don’t know” or “I can’t remember.”

, The debt collector might also call witnesses. You can approach cross-examination in a couple of different ways.


You might not want to ask the witness any questions. For example, a witness might not have any damaging information. Instead, the debt collector might simply call a witness to establish basic facts about your debt, such as how much you owe. You don’t need to always ask a witness questions.
You could also try to “impeach” the witness. This means to undermine the witness’s credibility. You could do that by showing that the person is biased. For example, if the debt collector has an employee testify, you can highlight that the witness works for the debt collector.
 After all evidence has been presented, you can make a closing argument to the jury. The purpose of the closing argument is to tie together all of the evidence and tell the jury how the evidence supports your case.Remember to refer back to specific pieces of evidence. The jury might have forgotten the evidence they were shown early in the trial. Explain to the jury the significance of the evidence.
For example, you could say, “I showed you the phone log which listed all of the phone calls the defendant made. Do you remember how many calls he made? Twenty-eight. And about half of those were after 9:00 pm. That many phone calls, that late at night, is clearly abusive and against the law.”

, The judge will give the jury its instructions and then send them out of the courtroom to deliberate. If you do not have a jury, then the judge should announce the verdict after both sides make closing arguments.
 If you lost, you might want to file an appeal. You shouldn’t wait too long. Depending on the court, you need to file for an appeal shortly after judgment is entered—sometimes in as little as 10 days.There are pros and cons to bringing an appeal. If the judge made a mistake at trial, or if the jury got the case totally wrong, then you can win an appeal and get a new trial. An appeal might be the only way to get compensation for the abuse you have suffered.
There are also negatives. For one, you will need a lawyer to help you draft a legal brief. Appeals are technical, and you probably can’t learn the rules on your own. Also appeals can take up to a year to be resolved.
If you want to file an appeal, then ask the clerk for a Notice of Appeal form and fill it out.

