 Common household cleaners like, glass and wood cleaners, disinfecting wipes, all-purpose cleaners, toilet bowl cleaners, and laundry detergents, emit harmful vapors. Keep your puppy safe by storing these chemicals in high cabinets, i.e., at or above eye level. You can also store these chemicals in the garage. Try not to store them in low places, like under the sink.Alternatively, you can buy non-toxic household cleaners. Earth Easy, Seventh Generation, and Green Works provide safe alternatives.
You can also make your own non-toxic cleaners. Mix ½ cup of baking soda, 1 teaspoon of castile soap, and ½ teaspoon of hydrogen peroxide for a powerful disinfectant.
Many laundry detergents also contain chemicals that can be harmful to your pet, especially if you wash your pet’s bedding with these detergents. Buy detergents that are non-toxic and pet friendly like, Soap Nuts Laundry Liquid or Nellie’s All-Natural Laundry detergent.;
, Fertilizers, herbicides, and pesticides also contain chemicals than can harm your puppy if it comes into contact with them. Even if you don’t use grass fertilizers, your neighbors may.


Instead, corn gluten is a natural and non-toxic alternative to chemically based grass fertilizers.If your puppy wanders into a neighbor's yard, who uses these chemicals, make sure to rinse your puppy and its paws off with water.
 Many new home furnishings, clothes, bedding material, and wood products, like wood paneling, laminated wood flooring, and wood-veneer furniture, contain formaldehyde. Formaldehyde emissions (fumes) are very harmful for your puppy.Protect your puppy by washing his new bedding, including bedding that will be used by your puppy, before use. Also, wash new clothing before wearing it.
Before placing newly bought wood furniture inside your house, let it sit outdoors for a few days to “gas out.”
If you plan to buy a dog house for your puppy, buy solid wood dog houses.
 Buy hard rubber or nylon toys for your teething puppy to chew on. These toys are ideal because they are practically impossible to destroy. Buy the right size toys for your puppy to ensure that your puppy does not choke on them. Your puppy should not be able to fit the whole toy in its mouth; if it can, then it is too small.Avoid chew toys that have small, sharp metal pieces, long strips or fibers, cooked real bones, sheets of plastic film, thin, squeaky rubber toys, and toys with foam stuffing. All of these toys are either made with materials your puppy could choke on, or, if digested, cause damage to their digestive tracts.