 Country girls don't waste their lives inside watching TV and on the computer! They work hard, and they work for a reason. When they're not, they're outside with friends, being carefree, or simply lying in the sun, taking in some vitamin D!


A lot of country girls work on farms. This means bailing hay, milking cows, building fences, tending to livestock. You don't need to live on a farm to be country, but it certainly helps.
When not working, a country girl might simply like to take a hike, hang near a watering hole, or just be outside. Country girls are all pretty self-sufficient, which means that they learn to do things without much technology and without the help of others.
Lots of country girls go hunting, mudding, fishing, camping, horse riding, 4-wheeling, and most importantly, dancing! These are things that teens who live in the South do nearly every weekend.
 Country girls usually like watching and playing football, and often like horses. This doesn't mean they can't be girly though! Girlishness actually complements your country girl attitude. Country girls can also be very girly and, when accessorizing, get shiny and pink things, too.


Get involved with football. Country girls love their football, especially college football. Make sure you watch the games and know who your favorite team(s) is/are! If you don't have one, just go for your home team.
Learn to enjoy some traditional games. Cornhole, horseshoe pitch, and stock-car driving, to name a few, occupy a special place for a lot of country girls.
 Country girls are also hard workers not afraid to get dirty. Go outside and mow the lawn or help your dad on the car, etc.
 Have a lot of pets. Good country dogs are types of bloodhounds, coonhounds, retrievers, cattle dogs, and collies, to name a few. Basically any hound is great.


Don't just get an animal for the sake of having one. If you decide to get a pet, know that your responsibility is to take care of it and nurture it to adulthood, not abandon it as soon as it stops being cute and fluffy.
Dogs make a great hunting partner. If you're hunting turkey, grouse, duck, or quail, think about convincing your family to get a hunting dog to assist you. It's rewarding for the dog and gives you a hunting companion.
 Go to school and try to get good education. Learn all about the animal kingdom, too. Know the name of at least five mountains, lakes or farms. If you want to pursue a career off of being country, study biology, agriculture,(farming) zoology (animals), or marine biology.


Country girls might not know anything about operas or be "sophisticated," but that doesn't mean they are dumb. In fact, country girls know a lot of practical knowledge and are very connected to nature. Don't play shallow or dumb just because you think that's what country is — it isn't!
Part of the education of a country girl is knowing how things work. Whether it's fixing the carburetor, plant hybridization, or just knowing how to prepare a perfect fillet, being “country smart” is all about knowing what's around you and how it works.

