 Whether you're making your bed after getting up in the morning or after washing your sheets, the first thing to do is to clear the bed. Be sure to take off pillows, stuffed animals, comforter, e.t.c.









Take the duvet/blanket off, the top sheet and any pillows and set them aside (preferably not on the floor).
You can leave the fitted sheet (the one with the elasticated corners) on the bed.;
, If the fitted sheet is not already on the bed, you will need to put it on. Do this by tucking the elasticated ends of the sheet around the corners of the mattress.









Make sure the sheet is tucked tightly around the corners of the mattress - you may need to lift the mattress slightly to achieve this.
Make sure the fitted sheet sits smoothly on top of the mattress, without any creases or wrinkles.
 Next, take the top sheet and spread it over the bottom sheet. Remember that the side with the large hem should go at the top of the bed and the hem should be aligned with the head of the mattress.









If your sheets are patterned, the patterned side should face down (so you can see the pattern when the top of the sheet is folded back).
Make sure the top sheet is spread evenly over the mattress, with the same length of sheet hanging over both sides of the bed.
 The term "hospital corner" refers to a specific method of folding the end of the top sheet tightly under the mattress. It is the trickiest step in making a bed, but is also the part which will make your bed look neatest.









To make a hospital corner, tuck the end of the top sheet between the mattress and box springs at the foot of the bed. Don't just stuff it in though, make sure it is smooth and wrinkle free.
On one side, grab a piece of the top sheet approximately 16 inches (40.6 cm) away from the foot of the bed. Lift it up and fold this section of sheet over the top of the mattress, so it forms a 45 degree angle from the corner of the mattress.
Holding the folded piece of sheet in place on top of the mattress, tuck in any sheet hanging below the mattress on that side of the bed. Do this as neatly as possible for best results.
Now, let the folded piece of sheet on top of the mattress drop down. If you prefer looser sheets, you can stop here. But if you prefer to tuck your sheets tightly, you can tuck the hanging edge of sheet smoothly between mattress and box springs, all the way along the side of the bed.Repeat on the opposite side of the bed. For more detailed step-by-step instructions and pictures on how to make hospital corners, see this article.
 Once the top sheets is tucked in place, you can lay your blankets, duvet or comforter on top.









Make sure the duvet is spread evenly over the bed, with the same amount of overhang on each side of the bed.
The top edge of the duvet/comforter/blanket should be about 6 inches (15.2 cm) away from the edge of the top sheet at the head of the bed.
 Take the edge of the top sheet at the head of the bed and neatly fold it back over the top edge of the duvet, blanket or comforter. Notice how you can see the pattern on the inside of the sheet now?









If you're using a blanket or thin comforter, you can fold the blanket and sheet back together, so the hem of the sheet is no longer visible. Duvets are usually a little too thick to fold.
If you like, you can tuck the edges of the folded blanket and sheet underneath the mattress for a very neat and tightly-made bed. This is how they do it in the military!, Grab your pillows and give them a good fluffing before you place them of the bed. To fluff a pillow, grab it on either side and squeeze the sides together before releasing - kind of like playing an accordion!









Smooth out the pillow cases then lay each pillow flat at the head of the bed, to fill the space between the folded over duvet and the headboard.
If you have more than two pillows (on a queen bed) stack the extra two pillows directly on top of the bottom ones.
 Now your bed is almost complete!









To finish it off, take any decorative cushions or pillows you might have and place them in an upright position at the head of the bed, leaning against the sleeping pillows for support.
If you have an additional blanket, quilt or throw blanket that you like to keep on your bed for aesthetic purposes (or in case it gets cold!), fold it neatly in half and lay it evenly over the bottom half of the bed.
 Making your bed every morning is a simple but beneficial habit.









Just by taking two minutes to make your bed every morning, your bedroom will look neater and feel more peaceful. And just imagine how good it will feel to slip between the crisp sheets of a well-made bed each night!
It may be hard to believe, but making your bed everyday will actually boost your happiness levels!, People are often unsure about how frequently they should wash their sheets. The answer? Once every 1 to 2 weeks.









Although every 1 to 2 weeks is preferable, you could probably leave up to a month between washes, at a stretch. But if you notice an unpleasant odor hanging around your bedroom, you'll know why.
Duvets, comforters, blankets, or anything that doesn't come in direct contact with your body can be washed approximately every three months., Anyone who uses a duvet knows that duvet covers can be a nightmare to put on. However, there is one trick you can use to simplify the process:









Turn your duvet cover inside out, then reach your arms inside to grab one of the corners in each hand (like a sock puppet). Now, through the duvet cover, grab the top corners of the duvet firmly - one corner in each hand.
Holding tightly to the corners, shake the duvet until the duvet cover turns itself right-side out. Then just tuck the bottom corners of the duvet inside and snap or button the cover shut.
Other than that, the best advice is just to be patient and to enlist the help of a family member or friend!

, If you don't have one already, it's a good idea to purchase a mattress pad. Just make sure it's the appropriate size for your bed.









The mattress pad goes on over the mattress, but under the fitted sheet. It protects the mattress from becoming dirty, while also adding an extra layer of comfort to the bed.

