 Glassware can get really elaborate and fancy, but a well-stocked bar cart should have a variety of short glasses and a variety of tall glasses.Short glasses include shot glasses and lowballs. The essential taller glasses are pint glasses, highballs and martini glasses.Six to eight of each is ideal for a basic set up.


If you’re serving wine, you’ll need to have wine glasses on hand. At minimum you should have one type that will hold any wine you plan to serve. However, most bartenders believe reds and whites should have different glasses. That choice is up to you.
 One of each is the minimum requirement for a basic set up. If you’re having a big party or plan to make lots of different kinds of cocktails, you should have two or three of each stocked on the cart. Many cocktail shakers come equipped with a strainer device on the top, but it’s wise to have a separate strainer around., Jiggers are small glasses used to measure different amounts of liquor. Some people like to mix drinks by eyeballing the liquor as they pour, but this isn’t recommended. Jiggers allow you to measure exactly. Bar spoons have thin handles that are long enough to reach the bottom of a shaker. You will use these constantly to stir, mix and layer cocktails.If you are a bartender for someone else, or if you're setting up someone else's bar cart, you definitely need to include several jiggers.
Jiggers and bar spoons take up relatively little space, so try to keep at least six to eight of each stocked in the cart.
 It’s important to have these items on hand, although they tend to be the most easily forgotten ones! If you’re serving wine, at least one quality corkscrew is absolutely necessary. The paring knife and cutting board are mostly for keeping up with garnishes, so at minimum have one of each.If your bar cart doesn’t come equipped with a mini fridge (most don’t), then an ice bucket is imperative. If you serve a lot of wine, spend a little extra money and invest in a good corkscrew that can pull corks quickly without breaking them.

