 To start a kettlebell swing, spread your legs and plant your feet firmly on the ground. You may want to move your feet a little or rock back and forth to place your weight correctly.Make sure your weight is firmly in the heels and balls of your feet, and that as you are standing your feet are aligned directly under your shoulders and hips. Your toes should be pointed straight ahead in front of you.
Straighten your back and drop your shoulder blades down your back, keeping your shoulders neutral.
 Squat down and wrap your fingers around the handle of the kettlebell. Your palms should be facing you. Wrap your thumbs loosely around the handle as well – don't leave them sticking out.Once you have a good grip on the kettlebell handle, stand tall, retracting your shoulder blades. Make sure your arms are loose at your sides.
Shift your weight to your heels and bend your knees slightly, lowering your rear end down and back toward the wall, as though you are going into a squat. Your back should be straight, shoulders neutral.
 When you're ready to start the kettlebell swing, drive through your heels and push your hips forward at the same time you straighten your legs. Your arms work like a pendulum, with the weight of the kettlebell pulling your arms up and forward. Keep your arms straight and fully extended and aim to get the kettlebell to about chest height.For this motion, you should feel a line of energy running up from your heels all the way up your legs to your hips. Your entire lower body and core will be engaged.
When you are upright, contract your glutes and snap your hips. Contract your core as well to keep control of the weight.
This will pull you forward, but try to avoid rocking on your feet as you swing. Keep your feet firm.
 When the kettlebell reaches the desired height, shift your weight onto your heels. Rather than trying to bring the kettlebell back, let the weight return of its own accord.Bend your knees and, in a smooth continuous motion, allow the kettlebell to lower as your hips flex back.


This is counter to many exercises you may have done, in which you must control the negative movement as well. All you need to focus on is absorbing the shock and getting your body ready to swing the kettlebell back out again.
Allow the kettlebell to swing back through your legs, taking care to keep your feet and hips planted firmly, your shoulders neutral, your back straight.
 With the kettlebell between your legs, you're ready for the next repetition. Feel the energy coming through your heels and up your legs, and explode forward from your hips to propel the kettlebell back out.Focus on controlling the kettlebell with your arms and maintaining your grip, but keep in mind that your arms are doing the least work in this exercise. All the force is coming from your lower body, your hips, and your core.
Try to shift your weight through the swing without moving your feet or stepping out of position, keeping your back and shoulders in the same position with every rep.
 Once you've mastered your technique and form, when you go to do the kettlebell swing your focus should be on maintaining continuous motion, rather than pausing or stopping after each swing.It can help to think of doing this exercise for a period of time, rather than doing a certain number of swings or a certain number of repetitions.
Set a timer and do the kettlebell swing for 30 seconds, or for 60 seconds. Gradually increase your time as you get stronger, but don't worry about how many times the kettlebell is swinging – think of the entire exercise as one action, not a series of actions.

