 As well as the regular blood & sperm tests, have an ultra-sound. If there are any problems with conditions like Fibroids (which are quite common) you'll need to know how severe they are & how that might affect your chances with IVF. It could quite simply mean, you'll need more attempts, which will affect you budgeting.;
, Often chromosomal issues go untested & unchecked whilst couples have several IVF attempts at fertility treatment. Because despite his 'troops' looking great under the microscope, there's a problem that can't so easily be see. A simple test could literally saves £1000's in treatment expenses.
 This is a new & exciting development in IVF. Embryologists know that around half the fertilized embryos that they re-implant won't survive because of chromosomal problems. The difficultly for them, is that despite newly fertilised embryos looking good in the lab, there's no way of knowing how good they actually are. Selecting fertilised embryos isn't exactly guesswork but it is 'best-guess' work. Or at least it was until the 24Sure test. This actually looks at 24 key chromosomes (the basic human building blocks) of newly fertilised embryos to determine if any are missing or damaged. So far it looks like this test could possibly improve IVF success rates by 65%!

, 'Control the controllable' as they say: Eat a great diet, exercise, stop smoking, stop drinking, stop smoking the funny stuff! & get more sleep. It may sound a little boring, but if you are over-indulging in any of these areas, it could stop IVF from working

, For women, NEW research shows that drinking more than 5 cups of coffee a day has a negative effective on you're chances of getting pregnant with IVF. So hold back on those free refills!

, The ideal situation is around 8-15 eggs at 16mm-22m in size. If you only have 3 then you need to consider this - should you freeze them & go for another 2-3 stimulation cycles before fertilizing a good number of eggs in one go? This should increase you chances of success.
 Also if you're going to freeze some eggs for a later cycle - always use the vitrification freezing technique - it increases your chances of success.
 Unexplained infertility affects thousands of couples every year. Sometimes it's just nature's way of saying - you're getting a bit old for this! Between the ages of 43-45 it's probably time to at least consider using donor eggs. Donors will be matched to you major physical characteristics, which helps bonding with your new child.
 Why? Because you'll probably need them! Some even offer refund guarantees. These allow women to try IVF three times. So even if it's not successful, you still have enough money to try IVF with donor eggs. As we said at the beginning - it's a numbers game! The very best of luck!

