 Many people think that all bonds are basically the same and therefore diversification is not as important as with stocks. Nothing could be further from the truth. There is a wide variety of bonds, ranging from government T-bills to municipal (muni), corporate or even zero-coupon bonds. You will want to diversify by investing in each of these categories as well as within any single bond type. There are two main strategies for diversification in the bond market.


The ladder strategy involves dividing an investment into various bonds that mature at regular intervals. An example is six months, one year, 18 months and two years. In this example, a bond matures every six months. The advantages are consistent returns and liquidity. Another benefit is that since these maturities are "staggered" (or "laddered"), the chances are slim that all the bonds would be called at the same time.
The barbell strategy consists of dividing a bond investment into very short-term and very long-term maturities. The advantage is that one portion of the portfolio should return high yields, while the other portion would involve very low risk and be relatively easy to liquefy.;
, In general terms, muni bonds work really well using the barbell strategy. However, just as in the stock market, the ultimate choice is yours. You should go with a bond type that you have confidence in.
 Muni bonds have a low risk of being called and are therefore good choices for your long- term bonds.
 Your short-term bonds will allow you to take advantage of the changes in interest rates. They provide peace of mind should you need to liquidate in an emergency.
 Do not make the mistake of thinking you can just forget about them. Once they have aged to half of full maturity, re-evaluate them. Based upon the prevalent interest rates on long-term bonds, the early-withdrawal penalty might be offset or even surpassed by a really good rate on another long-term bond. Consider selling and reinvesting your long-term holdings.
 Your longest bonds should be ten years, and re-evaluate this position in about five years.
