 You will probably be discharged with prescribed pain medication. Your physician may also recommend using ice packs over the area to reduce pain, tenderness, and swelling. Use a towel between the ice and skin to prevent cold injury and don’t use for more than fifteen minutes., Women who have participated in an exercise program to improve mobility in their shoulder and chest muscles report greater mobility and less pain one year after the surgery than those women who did not.Your physical therapist can design an exercise program you can perform at home to improve your outcomes.
 Although they are simple exercises, they will still help to improve the mobility in your arm.However, if there is a risk of flap necrosis or skin separation, your physician may want you to delay any movement and exercise until the risk is over. Some of these exercises include:Use the arm on the same side as the surgery to perform your daily living activities, such as combing your hair, getting dressed and eating.
Lie down with your arm elevated above your heart for 45 minutes three to five times a day to help reduce the swelling in your arm after surgery.
Each time you are elevating your hand and arm are above the level of your heart, exercise your hand and arm by pumping your hand 15-25 times, then bending and straightening the elbow 15 to 25 times. This helps to pump the lymph fluid out of your arm.
Practice deep breathing exercises frequently for the first two weeks. This helps your lungs to fully expand and reduces the risk of developing pneumonia.
 Both your surgeon and your oncologist are likely to schedule a number of follow-up appointments to evaluate your recovery and your treatment. Make sure you attend all of these appointments since your doctors can make changes to your treatment plan based on these exams.


Bring a notebook with you to take notes, and always take your medications or a medication list to each appointment.
 Your physician and physical therapist will design your exercise program to meet your needs and stay within your limitations. General guidelines include:Some tightness in the chest and armpit area is normal and will gradually recede.
Burning, tingling, and soreness on the back of the arm may increase in the first two weeks after surgery. Exercises will help reduce the swelling and irritation to the nerves.
You might find it helpful to do your exercises after a warm shower when your muscles are more relaxed.
Do the movements and exercises slowly. Don’t push, bounce, or otherwise overstretch the area you exercise.
Breath deeply while exercising.
Do your exercises twice a day.

