 Once you have chosen an organization, it is time to decide how much you can donate. Take some time to think about what you can afford to give. If you are making a monetary donation, take a look at your budget. Make sure that you can afford the amount you choose to give.The same principle applies if you are donating material goods. It's great to donate gently used clothing, toys, and household goods. Just make sure that your own family members are done needing those items.
 Once you have decided what you can afford to give, spend some time organizing your donation materials. For example, if you have decided to donate food, take a few minutes to go through your pantry and look for canned or dry-goods that have a long shelf life. Make sure that the items are not expired.Contact your local food bank to ask for specific guidelines. For example, food banks generally do not except homemade goods or any items in glass containers.
If you are donating to a shelter, make sure to keep personal care items separate from food. You can collect items such as soap, toothpaste, and toilet paper.
 Maybe you are not in a position to donate money or materials. You can still help people in need. Consider becoming a volunteer and donating your time.Use the same process to decide which organization to give your time to. Consider your priorities and what types of resources you have to give.
For example, if you enjoy working with kids, you could consider volunteering for a mentoring program such as The Boys and Girls Clubs of America.
 Once you have all of your resources gathered, call or e-mail the organization you wish to donate to. The business office will be able to tell you the procedure for making a donation. For example, many food pantries only accept donations on certain days and at specific times.Many organizations offer a pick-up service. Ask for more information about this, particularly if you are donating several items, or a large item such as a piece of furniture.
If you want to become a volunteer, ask if there is an orientation session or training program that you need to complete.

