 If you want to do a girlish, innocent look, you can emulate the appearance of a childlike porcelain doll, which will read as girly to many. To start, apply primer, which you can find at most makeup stores or drug stores. Primer will give your face a pale undertone, much like a young girl's.To start, spread one thin layer of primer over your full face. Then, massage it into your face with your fingertips. Wash your hands beforehand to avoid getting bacteria on your face.From here, wait for the primer to dry. This should take a few minutes. Then, apply a second layer in strategic portions of your face to bring out certain features. Apply a dot of primer on the middle of your forehead, on both cheeks, and on the tip of your nose. Again, massage it in with your fingertips.;
, From here, you can add a cream-based foundation. Choose a shade slightly lighter than your regular skin tone, as you're trying to create a girlish appearance. For best effects, apply your first layer using a foundation brush. If you do not have a foundation brush, simply apply using your fingertips. Apply all over your face.For best effects, use a circular motion with your fingers or brush as you apply.
Apply some makeup to your neck. This will make the makeup look slightly less jarring, as it's somewhat lighter than your regular skin.
 Once you've applied the cream, you can move on to a powder-based foundation. Once again, choose a shade that's somewhat lighter than your regular skin. You should use a brush or a sponge to apply powder.Use a soft dabbing motion as you apply the foundation, covering most of your face. You should also apply some foundation on your neck.
 If you want to have a girly, innocent look, you'll need to draw on your eyebrows. If your eyebrows are particularly thick, consider plucking them first so they're thin and have a slightly rounded arch.


Use a brow pencil in a darker shade, like brown or black. Draw a line from the bottom corner of your eyebrow straight across to the other side.From here, draw a straight line through your inner eyebrow. Start drawing at the top arch of your eyebrow.Repeat with the other eyebrow.
 Once you're done with your eyebrows, apply some eyeshadow. Choose a light, girlish shade. Pastel shades of pink and purple would work well here. Using a small eyeshadow brush, gently color your eyelids with your chosen shade of eyeshadow., You should also apply some light eyeliner and mascara to bring out your eyes. Large eyes may make you appear more innocent.


Liquid liners tend to work best for an innocent look. Choose a dark shade, like brown or black. On the top of your eyelid, draw a line from the middle of your eyelid to the corner of your eye. Then, move to the bottom of your eye. Draw a line running from the bottom lash and keep going until you meet the first line you drew. Repeat with the other eye.You can consider using fake eyelashes. You can buy these at the store and then follow manufacturer's instructions to apply. You can also apply mascara, moving slowly to elongate each eyelash. Make sure to apply mascara to the bottom lashes as well., You should apply a heavy amount of bright pink or bright red blush. Take a large makeup brush and dab it generously in the blush. Then, smile and apply the blush to the apples of your cheeks., Lastly, you should add some lipstick. As with the eyeshadow, you want to choose a girlish shade. Go for bright or pastel pinks or a pastel shade of red or purple. Apply a heavy amount of lipstick, as this helps highlight the girlish look.