 If someone invites themselves over frequently, don’t expect them to magically go away without you saying something. If you’re uncomfortable with the frequent drop-ins or unexpected visits, it’s up to you to put a stop to it. Especially if you’ve been silent, your friend may think you’re happy to see them when they drop over. It’s time to confront the behavior and make some changes.


Choose when to have the discussion. You may want to write an email, make a phone call, or talk to the person face-to-face. It’s up to you how you want to discuss it.
 Subtlety may not be the best approach in dealing with a friend who’s constantly over. If you say, “I’m really busy right now” or, “I have to rush off to something” and your friend doesn’t seem to get the hint, it’s likely you need to be more clear and direct.If you’re feeling crowded by someone, let them know in a clear and direct way.


For example, say, “I need more time to myself, so I won’t be able to hang out as much for a while. Let’s plan to get together once a week from now on.” Be sure to make this discussion about you and your needs, not about them and not wanting them around.
 There’s no need to argue or show anger toward someone who doesn’t realize they are intruding. Don’t wait until you can’t take it anymore and explode on the unsuspecting person. You can be polite and courteous yet still get your point across. Start with a positive statement then state your needs.For example, you can say, “I enjoy seeing you, but having you over all the time takes a toll on my body. Perhaps we can find time to meet in other places besides my home.”

, Whether you don’t want your friend coming over to your home at all or whether you’d like the visits shortened or less frequent, set some limits and be clear about your desires and expectations. If the person is showing up once each week, ask them to come once a month. If the person comes over and then stays for hours, shorten visits to one hour or less. Talk about your expectations.For example, you can say, “I like speaking with you, but I need our visits to be shorter. There are things I like and need to do that I can’t do while you’re over.”

, If this person causes you more headache than harmony, it might be time to evaluate your friendship. Think about whether you want to continue being friends with this person or whether it may be time to say goodbye. Some people are toxic and can negatively affect your life. If this person helps you out and is there for you, you may want to continue being friends. Yet, if they are not and instead take more than they give, you may want to reconsider the friendship.Why do you continue to be friends with this person? Are they responsive to any of your requests?
If you’ve had enough of this person and want to discontinue the friendship, say, “I’ve asked you many times not to show up unannounced and without asking. This friendship is not good for me and it’s best we say goodbye.”

