 A cat with ruptured eardrums may shake its head from side to side or tilt it constantly. It may also try to rub its head on furniture or the floor due to the irritation and pain in its ears., Lift the cat’s ear flaps to check for any discharge in its ear. The discharge may have a foul smell. There may also be redness and swelling around its outer ear due to ruptured eardrums.Be very careful when you check the cat’s outer ear area. Do not put any objects or items down the cat’s inner ear when examining it. Only look at the outer ear as best you can.
 Cats with ruptured eardrums may scratch at their ears, face, or head to try to address the irritation in their ears. If the cat has scratches or surface wounds in these areas, it may be because there is an issue with its eardrums., Cats who have medical issues tend to stop eating due to a general feeling of unwellness. Notice if the cat has not eaten its cat food or any treats in 24 hours. If it has no appetite as well as other symptoms, it may have a medical issue., If you suspect the cat has a ruptured eardrum, bring it to the vet right away. Ear issues that go undiagnosed and untreated will only get worse. Even if you are not 100% sure the cat has a ruptured eardrum, you should still bring it to the vet for a check up, especially if it is not eating., The vet will examine the cat for symptoms like head tilting, pain when its ears are touched, and scratches or wounds on its ears and face. They will also closely examine the cat’s ears, looking for discharge and swelling of the ear canal. The vet may sedate the cat to do a thorough ear exam.They may put a special dye into the cat’s ear canal to determine if its eardrum is ruptured. They may also look for tiny air bubbles to appear in the cat’s ear canal when it breathes, which is a sign of a ruptured eardrum.
 The vet may do special tests like a myringotomy on the cat’s ears. In a myringotomy, a sterile sample of fluid from the cat’s ear is taken and analyzed. The cat will be sedated or under anesthesia for this test.The vet may also do skull X-rays of the cat as well as CT and MRI scans. These tests will help the vet better identify if the cat has ruptured eardrums.
 In most cases, the vet will flush the cat’s ears to help treat the ruptured eardrums. They will use a flushing solution to try to remove bacteria and germs in the cat’s eardrums. The cat will be under sedation or anesthesia during the ear flushing., The vet may also recommend oral antibiotics or antifungal medication. They will instruct you on the proper dosage of the medication for the cat. You may also refer to how to give a cat medication to help make the process easier.If the cat is a lot of pain, the vet may recommend steroids. They will explain the proper dosage for the cat.
 If the cat’s condition is severe, it may require surgery. The surgery can help to repair the damaged eardrums. The vet will outline the surgical procedure as well as the risks of the procedure.Surgery on the cat can be expensive so speak to the vet about the best course of action before you choose this option.

