 Instead, observe your opponents viewing their cards. You can often learn a little about their hand by their reaction. This underscores the importance that you exercise caution not to show any expression or emotion when viewing your cards. If you show an excited reaction, you have tipped your hand and the other players will learn something your tendencies and the strength of you hand. It is very important that you control your expressions; it is best to seem stoic and disinterested while in a hand.;
, It is extremely important before the flop to recognize position. The player on the dealer button is in the best position and each position to the right of button is the next best position. The closer you are to the button, the wider the variety of hole cards that can be played profitably. Additionally, the button is the position from which it is most effective to launch pre-flop bluffs - large raises against limpers (bettors who only call the bet) will narrow the field and set up a post-flop bluff when a single opponent misses.
 This is another opportunity for them to tip their hand strength. It is often easier to extract information on the flop as players are more guarded when viewing their hole cards (pre-flop), but are less likely to be aware of your gaze when everyone is clamoring to see the flop.
 The most common method of obfuscation is to make a small bet or check and wait for an opponent to raise or open the betting, and counter with a large (re-)raise. This is particularly effective against extremely tight players when they are playing marginal hands.
, In a typical home game, players with marginally good hands will be likely to call even large bets, and it is likely they would be miles ahead of you after the flop.
 The closer you are to the button, the more effective you bluff can be. Since the button acts last after the flop, this player has a definite advantage of seeing each player act and can measure whether a bluff will be effective. Be aware that the "trap" strategy may be in use by one of your opponents - don't be afraid to fold if your bluff is raised.

