 Conceiving may be an ongoing process for you, so when a friend or family member conceives on the first try, you may feel envious, angry, bitter, or resentful. Know that you cannot will your envy away, even if you don’t like it. You’re not a bad person for feeling the way you do. In fact, it’s normal to be sad, upset, or jealous when someone else gets something you want and do not have.Find an outlet for your feelings. This might be writing in a journal or talking about your frustrations with a friend. You may want to express yourself through art or through music if words aren’t how you like to express yourself.;
, You might think that you’re envious of your friend who is pregnant. Yet, your envy has very little to do with them. Your envy has everything to do with the fact that you want a baby, and fear that you may not have one. While your friend may trigger these feelings, the envy has more to do with your desires and fears than your friend.It is okay to let yourself be envious or angry for a little while at first before transitioning to a more understanding place. After you give yourself a chance to feel these feelings, try to let your friend off the hook and don’t resent them. Instead, recognize where your feelings come from and go from there.
Think about your desires and fears and write them down. Be honest with yourself and remind yourself that these are things that drive your envy, not your friends.
 You might feel devastated (“Why you and not me?”) and happy for your friend at the same time. Having mixed emotions can be confusing and difficult. You want to be happy and support your friend, yet you feel sad for your own situation. It can be especially difficult hearing about an unplanned pregnancy. Give yourself a heavy dose of compassion and let yourself feel whatever emotions come up.Say to yourself, “I’m happy for them but sad for me.”

, When you’re trying to conceive, even the thought of attending a baby shower or christening may fill you with sadness. You may pull away from people with children or pregnant friends and family. While it’s important to acknowledge your pain and struggles, also consider how your actions may affect your relationships. You may not want to pull away permanently from friends and family, yet you may want to or need to take a break.For example, while it may be difficult to attend a baby shower, consider mailing a gift or a card.
If you need some time away from certain friends, say, “Conceiving has been difficult for me, and so while I am happy for you, please understand that seeing you pregnant fills me with sadness. I want to support you, but I need some time away for now.”

, When you’re struggling with baby envy, you may choose to change who is close to you. For example, it may be painful to keep some friends close or you may want to distance yourself from a nagging mother who wants grandchildren. You may choose to be closer to some friends and not others during this time, and that’s okay. Make sure to ask your support network for what you need. Do you need to talk or cry? Do you need to be distracted with something fun? Do you need help researching options?
Whatever you do, maintain some friendships and find people who support you and bring you comfort.
Say, “This is a difficult time for me, and I hope I can lean on you for support.”

, If you’re putting all of your effort into conceiving, you may be neglecting your relationship with your partner. Make sure your relationship stays a priority without focusing all of your effort onto conceiving. Problems with conceiving can often take a toll on a romantic relationship, so make sure you continue to spend time together.Make sure you are spending time talking about things other than conceiving and doing things that you two find fun. Your partner can support you through these difficult times and knows the situation better than most other people.

Say to your partner, “Even though we are struggling to conceive, it’s important for us to stay strong as a couple. Let’s spend as much time as we can enjoying our twosome for now.”
Once you conceive and have a baby, time with your partner may become slim. Enjoy the time you have together.
 If you feel envious of others conceiving, you might feel alone or isolated in your struggles. Meeting with other people who are having similar experiences can be helpful. You can ask for advice, share your struggles and triumphs, talk about your feelings and how you’re coping, and ask for resources and help.Find a local support group by asking your OB/GYN, physician, or mental health clinic. You can also join an online community support group.
 Problems with fertility can affect your romantic relationship, relationship with yourself and your body, and your relationships with friends and family. If you’re feeling alone, fearful, envious, and are having difficulty managing your emotions on your own, it might be time to reach out to a therapist. A therapist can help you cope with stress and talk about your feelings in a safe, nonjudgmental way.Ask your healthcare professionals for a recommendation for a therapist specializing in fertility problems. You can also call a mental health clinic or a friend or family member for a recommendation.
 When you’re feeling at your worst, practicing gratitude can help. Instead of focusing on what you don’t have, give thanks for what you do have. After each pang of jealousy, think of something you are grateful for in your life. Get in the habit of writing a gratitude list each day, even if it’s small.Start a gratitude journal, draw a picture, or take a photo of something you’re thankful for each day. Start your journal entry with, “Today I am grateful for my loving partner.”
Visual prompts can be very helpful for staying grateful. Post your list somewhere visible, or set a reminder on your phone to go off a couple of times per day and remind you of something you are grateful for.
 If you start to feel envious or sad, don’t suppress those feelings. Recognizing how much you want a child can feel like a burden, especially if you have to wait. Instead of feeling envious, turn your feelings to excitement and hope. Make a baby blanket or write a letter to your child for when they turn a certain age.Channel those feelings into something positive that can help you feel loving toward your future child.

Record a video with your partner to your future child. Let them know that you love them and cannot wait to meet them.
 Whether you choose to volunteer at an after-school program or to take your friend’s baby while they get some time alone, hang out with some babies or children while you wait. It can be nice to indulge some baby snuggles or practice some parenting skills while helping someone else out.Reach out to friends with children and offer to babysit here and there if it is comfortable for you.
Keep in mind that if being around children is too emotional for you, then you don’t have to do it. Another option might be to get involved with a cause that helps children and families, but where you won’t be directly interacting with children.
 Your envy may be great if you feel like you’re more deserving of a child or would make a better parent. It might feel totally unfair to you that someone who didn’t want a baby got pregnant while you’ve been trying for over a year. It’s normal to feel this way and to feel like it’s unfair.If someone gets pregnant and you don’t, this does not mean that you are inferior or somehow less deserving.When you start thinking or feeling, “This isn’t fair!” it can make the envy deeper. Just because it doesn’t feel fair doesn’t mean you won’t conceive.

