 This is dependent on the type of skateboarding that you do. There are different needs for street, sidewalk and skate park boarding, and you should try out a few wheels at your local skate shop to see what you like within those categories.


Think about where you skate, how often you skate, and if you prefer doing tricks or cruising around town.
Bigger or heavier riders usually prefer slightly bigger wheels.
While some skaters contend that different dyes change wheel properties, your color choice is almost completely cosmetic.;
, Today, all wheels are made from polyurethane, and higher a durometer number means that the wheel is made of a harder plastic. For example, a 95A wheel is much harder than an 80A one. Though rare, some companies produce "B" scale wheels. A B wheel is 20 points harder than it's "A" counterpart: thus an 80B wheel is as hard as a 100A wheel.
If you skate a bit of everything, consider getting a wheel around 90A-97A.
Soft wheels (75A-85A) absorb the impact of pebbles, sticks, and cracks for better cruising on roads.
Hard wheels (95A+) have more pop for jumps, grinds, and tricks.
 Always measured in millimeters, the diameter of a wheel is anywhere between 50mm for street boards to 75mm for longboards. Larger wheels cover more ground per rotation, and are thus faster. Small wheels sit lower to the ground are are less heavy.


Few companies list the width of a wheel, but in general wider wheels provide more balance, speed, and a smoother ride.
A good all-purpose wheel is anywhere from 52-60 mm.
Remember that the larger the wheel, the faster you'll go.
 For technical skating and tricks, you want responsive wheels that are easy to get off the ground. This prevents your wheels from catching on lips or grinds and makes it easy to perform ollies and flip-tricks.



Durometer -- 97A and above

Diameter-- 48-52mm
Note: Super small (48mm) and super hard (101A, 85B) wheels require good technique to handle, and are generally for experienced or professional riders.
 On ramps and half-pipes you'll want a lot of speed but don't have to worry about hitting sticks or pebbles. Harder wheels will give you good control for tricks and mobility.



Durometer -- 90A-97A

Diameter-- 55-60mm
Note: You can get bigger wheels to get more speed once you get comfortable.
 Bigger wheels are faster, and soft wheels absorb vibrations that make your ride uncomfortable or difficult. Most larger wheels are also wider as well, giving you increased stability.



Durometer--75A-85A, and 78A is generally considered standard.

Diameter-- 64-75mm , A good "starter wheel" is usually 52-55mm, 99A -- well balanced for most terrains. Most wheels today say what they are designed for on the package, so make sure you read the box. , Place the skateboard on it's side, then loosen the nut in the center of the wheel until it comes off.


Make sure your wrench fits snugly on the nut to avoid damaging it.
 Lodging a screwdriver or other long metal tool in the center of the bearing, slowly add downward force to the bearing until it slides out.


Depending on how old they are, the bearings may not come out immediately.
If your wheels have been spinning poorly or making noise, you may need new bearings.
 Slide the bearings back on the axle the way they came off. If they are dirty or sticky, use a rag to clean them off before moving on.
 Push them so that the bearings slides smoothly into the center of the wheel.
 You want to tighten the nut just enough so that the wheel has a little "play," meaning it can wiggle back and forth a small amount. Tighten the rest of the nuts over you new wheels, and you're ready to start skating again.
 Skateboard wheels wear out differently depending on how often and where you ride them, but they generally need to be replaced every three to four months with regular use. If you do a lot of bumpy street riding or are a heavier rider you may need to replace your wheels more frequently. Some signs you need new wheels are:


Wheel diameter decreasing
Uneven or flat spots while riding
Slow or bumpy riding
Loose or noisy wheel bearings , Despite some confusing lingo and competing number systems, skateboard wheels are generally easy to pick out. Why? Because manufacturers have started developing wheels for various scenarios, and they almost always list their purpose on the side of the box. If you unsure, see if the box contains any "suggested" uses for the wheels before buying.
 Skateboard terminology, especially when it comes to building a board, can get complicated. To buy new wheels, however, you only need to know a few key words:



Bearings: These sit inside your wheels and allow it to spin around the axle. They are sold separately and you can reuse old bearings with new wheels.

Durometer: A rating system that determines a wheel's hardness.

Street Skating: a style of skateboarding that emphasizes tricks and short jumps in city environments.

Vert Skating: boarding in a specially designed skatepark with large ramps and half-pipes, and features for tricks.

Longboards: extra long, extra wide boards meant for commuting and going down hills.

