 Within those styles, you can find variations. Capris pants, for example, generally have a shorter leg. Drawstring typically use a string, rather than elastic, to secure the waist. Pick a general style to start with and begin evaluating the aspects you like and dislike.


Picking a style should not be considered a definitive choice. This is just a starting point. You may choose a style of yoga pants similar to what you are already used to seeing or using. As you evaluate the characteristics, you should allow your choice to change as you become better acquainted with the pros and cons of each pair.;
, Yoga pants generally come in two lengths, full length or capris. Capris pants end at your calf muscle. Full-length stop at your ankle. Full-length pants that are tight may bunch at the ankle if only a little too long. Capris pants typically do not bunch but may be too tight on your thigh if not stretchy enough.
 This comfort is created when the fabric used incorporates stretchy threads or knits. Most fabrics have a natural 2-way stretch. Pants with a 4-way stretch will be more comfortable. However, if you prefer baggy or loose fitting yoga pants, a 2-ways stretch may work just fine.
 Some sit higher on your waist than others. Some incorporate a drawstring while others use elastic bands. Perform a range of motions while trying on a new pair of yoga pants. You should be able to sit on the ground and lean forward to touch your toes or ankles without excessive strain at the waistline.


Some waists will rise during use. You can avoid this problem the pants as high as they will go (i.e., tight to the crotch area) and assess the waistline there. If the waist is too high, either purchase a different pair or fold the top down to overlap waist.
Drawstring knots can be uncomfortable during many yoga positions. Elastic waists are generally preferred for that reason.
 Synthetic fabrics, such as polyester, tend to breathe better than cotton fabrics but may pill faster. Cotton fabrics will absorb moisture, but they will help keep your body warmer during less intense yoga classes.


Over time, all fabrics will wear with friction. The formation of pills--tiny knots of loose fibers--occurs in both cotton and synthetic fabrics. However, pilling is typically more pronounced in synthetic fabrics since small plastic fibers can anchor pills more than cotton fibers.
 You can find a variety of colors and patterns for your yoga pants.Depending on the amount of sweating and fabric you choose, you may need to consider sweat patches. Light colored cotton and poly-cotton (e.g., heather colors) clothes tend to show sweat spots so darker cotton and poly-cotton fabrics may be preferable.With Synthetic materials, you can pick about any color you'd be comfortable with.

