 Knowing a statistic may not be able to completely save you when your plane leaves the runway. But when you recognize that flying in an airplane is really safe, you can allow yourself to feel more comfortable on your flight as well as on your way to the airport. The fact of the matter is that flying is really, really safe. By far, it’s the safest mode of transportation.


When flying in a developed country, your chances of dying in a plane crash are 1 in 30 million.;
, There are a multitude of other experiences in life that you likely never think twice about. It turns out that they are more dangerous than flying in an airplane. These dangers aren’t meant to make you feel anxious about them. Instead, they’re meant to show you how unfounded your worries about flying really are! Learn these statistics, write them down, and repeat them to yourself when you start to worry about what will happen on your next flight.


Your chances of being killed in an automobile accident are 1 in 5,000. That means that the most dangerous part of your flight is your drive to the airport. Once you've made the drive to the airport, pat yourself on the back. You've just made it through the most dangerous part of your flight.
You have a higher chance of dying of food poisoning than in a plane crash, at 1 in 3 million.
You also have a better chance of dying of a snake bite, getting hit by lighting, dying of scalding of hot water or falling off your bed. If you’re left-handed, it’s riskier to use right-handed equipment than it is to die in a plane crash.
You are more likely to die falling while walking onto the airplane itself.
 A large part of being scared is not knowing what will happen next. Why is the plane going so fast? Why do my ears feel funny? Why does the wing look weird? Why are we being asked to keep our seat belts on? When presented with an unusual circumstance, your first instinct is to assume the worst. To minimize this, learn everything you can about flying and how a plane works. The more you know, the less uncertainly there will be for you to worry about. Here are some things you should know:


The plane needs to reach a certain speed so that it can take off. That's why you may feel like the plane is going so fast. Once the plane lifts off the ground, you won't notice the aircraft's speed so much.
Your ears pop when the plane moves up or down because of a change in air pressure.
Certain parts of the wing are supposed to move during the flight. That's perfectly normal.
 Turbulence occurs when a plane flies through an area of low pressure to high pressure, which will make you feel a "bump" in the ride. Turbulence is just like driving on a rocky road.


On the rare occasion that turbulence causes injuries, it's usually because passengers weren’t wearing seat belts or were hurt by falling overhead luggage. Think of it; you never heard of a pilot being hurt in turbulence. That's because pilots always wear seat belts.
 You can also learn about the inner-workings of a plane to demystify the process that has you so scared. Studies show that 73% of people who are afraid of flying fear mechanical problems that can occur during a flight. So, the more you know about how a plane works, the more at ease you'll feel throughout the process., instead of asking yourself, "Why is the plane doing that? Is that normal?" Here are some things you need to know.Four forces are at work to get the plane to fly: gravity, drag, lift, and thrust. These forces are destined to make your flight feel as natural and easy as walking. As one pilot said, "Planes are the happiest in the air." You can read up on the science behind these forces if you want to take your knowledge to the next level.
Jet engines are much simpler than the engines you'll find in a car or even in a lawnmower. In the extremely unlikely event that something goes wrong with one of the plane's engines, the plane will function just fine with its remaining engines.
 You can also curb any fears that a plane door can open during the flight. Once you reach 30,000 feet (9,144.0 m), there will be about 20,000 pounds of pressure holding the door shut, so that would be a tall order., Airplanes go through a ton of repair and upkeep procedures. For every hour that a plane flies in the air, it goes through 11 hours of maintenance. This means that, if your flight is three hours long, the plane has gone through 33 hours of maintenance to make sure everything is working smoothly!

, How do you start to feel anxious? Do your palms sweat? Do your fingers tingle? By recognizing what signs you feel first, you will be able to start management exercises earlier to control your feelings of anxiety.
 Many people who are scared of flying are scared because they feel that they are not in control. People with this phobia might feel like they will never get into a car accident because they are in control. They are in the driver's seat. This is why they can accept the risk of driving in a car over flying. Someone else is doing the driving, up in the sky, so the lack of control is often one of the scariest things about flying.


Many people experience anxiety because of perceived control (or lack thereof) over a stressful situation.
 Integrate anxiety-reducing exercises into your everyday life. When you practice these exercises when you are not anxious, you will have tools ready to help you when you are anxious. Then you will feel more able to gain control and calm yourself. Try yoga or meditation to reduce anxiety in your life.,It is important to remember that your fear and anxiety can take several months to overcome and gain complete control.
 Start with noticing what muscle group is tight or stiff. Shoulders are a good example. Often when we are nervous or anxious, we move our shoulders up toward our neck and tighten those muscles.Take a deep breath and let your shoulders sink. Feel the muscles relax. Now try this with other muscle groups such as your face or your legs.
 Think of a place that makes you happy or comfortable. Imagine you are in that place. What do you see? Smell? Feel? Focus on each detail about the place you choose.There are several guided imagery tapes that you can purchase or even download to help you practice.
 Place one hand on your abdomen. Take in a deep breath through your nose. Take in all the air you can. You should feel our abdomen rise, not your chest. Exhale through your mouth, counting to 10 slowly. Contract your abdomen to push out all the air.Do this exercise 4-5 times to help you relax.
Keep in mind that breathing exercises may not provide adequate relief. Several recent research studies found no measurable benefit. , Think about something else you're excited about, or at least something that will take your mind off of your fears. What will you make for dinner? If you could go anywhere, where would you go? What would you do there? , There are classes that can help you overcome your fear of flying. You may need to pay for one of these courses, but they do exist. There are two kinds of courses: those you attend in person and those you do at your own pace using videos, written materials and counseling sessions. Classes you attend help you get accustomed to flying by exposure to an airport and a flight with your class leader. The desensitization gained by taking this flight may not last, however, unless you maintain it by flying frequently.


You can look into such group therapy classes in your area.Classes done at your own pace leave you in control of the process. And, since you retain the course materials, you can reinforce your learning by going through the materials periodically.
Some courses offer weekly group phone counseling sessions at no additional cost.
Some classes put you in a flight simulator. This mimics the experience of flying without leaving the ground.
 Face your fear head-on by taking flying lessons. There are countless stories of people who've feared something all their lives only to meet it face-to-face one day. Then they discover that the object of their fear was nothing to be afraid of. One way to conquer a phobia is to immerse yourself in what you know is a safe situation. In this case, you’re in the presence of a trained professional.


With the guidance of a patient instructor, you might find that flying isn't so scary after all. Though this is an extreme approach, it could be your way to easing your anxiety.
 If you want to stay calm on the subject, don’t obsess over plane crashes that are reported in the news. These stories will not make you feel better. Instead they will only add to your anxiety about an unlikely event occurring. If you are already are struggling with anxiety about flying, avoid the temptation to indulge your fears.


The same goes for watching Flight or other movies about plane crashes or scary flights.
 Though you have limited control once you get into the passenger seat in your plane, there are some things you can do in advance to ease your worries.Choose a direct flight to your destination. This is a no-brainer. The less time in the air, the better.
 The passengers who sit here tend to have the smoothest flights. The area over the wing is more stable and less susceptible to extra movement.
 Choose a seat that will make you feel less trapped. Choose an aisle seat or even splurge on an exit row.
 If there's a way to avoid puddle jumpers or smaller planes. When you look for flights, you’ll find information about the aircraft that will be used. If you can select a larger plane, do it. The bigger the plane, the smoother your flight will be.
 If you're afraid of flying at night, choose a daytime flight. Sometimes you can feel better because you'll be able to look out the windows and see everything around you. You may feel more anxiety in the dark because you'll feel like you're facing the unknown.
 You can even check out an online site called Turbulence Forecast about which parts of the country have the least turbulence. If you have to plan for a connecting flight, see if you can choose paths that are likely to give you less trouble.
 Some people recommend you even visit the airport when you don't plan to fly. Just hang out in the terminals and get used to how things are there. This may sound extreme, but it's another way to slowly get comfortable with the flight at hand.
 Get to the airport early so you have time to experience the terminal, go through security, and find your gate. Being late, or just not having time to mentally prepare for what's ahead, is bound to make you feel more anxious when it's time to take your seat. Get used to the terminal, the people who are arriving and leaving the airport, and the general atmosphere at the airport. The more you get used to it, the better you'll feel when the time comes to board your flight.
 When you get on the plane, say hi to the flight attendants or even to the pilot. See them dressed in their uniforms, doing their jobs. Pilots receive special training, just as a doctor does, and they are people you should respect and trust. If you practice having faith in these people, and understand that they have your best interests in mind and are competent, then you'll feel better about the trip.Your pilots will have several hundred hours of experience in the air. They'll need to log 1,500 flight hours just to apply to work at a major airline., Many people start ordering a lifetime supply of wine or Bloody Marys as soon as the flight attendants make a first pass. But this is not a good long-term solution for easing your anxiety about flying. Alcohol can actually make you feel more anxious about having less control. This may especially be the case if you’re worried about having to evacuate the plane.


Getting too drunk to worry can just make you feel terrible, especially after the effects of the alcohol wear off.
If you really need to calm your nerves, try just one glass of wine or a beer.
 Distract yourself with a snack that takes a while to eat, or just with your favorite treat.
 You may be too distracted to do your chemistry homework, but you may have enough brainpower to read about the latest scandal in Hollywood.
 Some people recommend that you show up to the plane after having woken up early. Then it's more likely that you will be able to catch some shut eye during your flight. What better way to pass the time than to be asleep?

, Slowly inhale through your nose. Then exhale gently, counting to ten until you let all the air out of your lungs. Repeat as many times as necessary., If you're feeling anxious, especially during takeoff or landing, squeeze your armrest as hard as you can. At the same time, tense your stomach muscles, and hold this position for 10 seconds.
 Snap it when you feel anxious. This little jolt of pain will help bring you back to reality.
 If you find as many ways to distract yourself as possible, then you'll be better off when the time to fly comes. Bring magazines or download episodes of your favorite television show you've been meaning to catch up on and watch them on your computer. You might try playing a game on your computer. You can also bring work from the office or school work.


Find whatever works for you. Look at your time in the air as a time to do some of the things you've wanted or needed to do, instead of just several hours of unmitigated anxiety.

