 Your vitamin E oil will last longer if you keep it in the refrigerator because it will be protected from light and kept cool.Make sure that the cap is on tight before you place the oil in the fridge.


Warm the bottle in your hands before use. Before using the oil, take a minute to warm up the bottle in your hands. You may also want to mix it by turning it upside down and right-side up a few times.
 Some people may have a reaction to the oil, so it is a good idea to test some on a small area of your skin before you use it on a larger area.


To test the oil, apply 1-2 drops to the inside of your wrist and then massage it in. Wait 24 hours and then check your wrist to see how it looks. If there is any redness, dryness, itching or swelling, do not use the oil. If the area looks and feels normal, then you can use the oil.
 This oil goes a long way, so you should not need much to moisturize your face, hair, or other areas of your body. Start with a dime sized amount in the palm of your hand and then add more if needed.


Keep in mind that even though the vitamin E oil is non-comedogenic oil, it may clog your pores if you use too much.
Stop using the oil if it causes breakouts. Some people may experience breakouts even though the oil is non-comedogenic.
 Before you apply vitamin E oil to your face, make sure that you wash your face and remove any makeup that you were wearing. The vitamin E oil will be more effective and less likely to clog your pores if you apply it to clean skin.
 Vitamin E oil may help to reduce the appearance of old scars.If you are trying to reduce the size or the look of a scar, use a Q-tip or a cotton ball to apply the oil directly onto the scar. Consult your physician or dermatologist to determine how often you should treat.


Do not apply vitamin E oil to broken skin or a fresh wound.
 You can use vitamin E oil on your hair to add a lustrous shine or massage it into your scalp. If you are using the Vitamin E oil on your scalp, work it into the entire scalp, addressing the roots of your hair. Pour a small amount of oil into the palm of your hand, dip your fingers in the oil, and then work it into your scalp.
