 “Sustainability” is a concept that seeks to find long-term, enduring solutions to interrelated environmental, economic, and social concerns. The biggest environmental problems in Thailand include air and water pollution, overfishing, water scarcity, use of plastic (especially plastic bags), and waste issues. Seek a resort that aims to address these specific environmental concerns., Sustainability in Thailand also has to do with economics. Some economic factors that can contribute to the sustainability of a Thai resort include the sourcing of products from local merchants, putting money back into the local economy, and paying employees a living wage plus health benefits. Seek a resort that makes efforts toward economic sustainability., Finally, true sustainability also seeks to address socio-cultural concerns. This can include things like employee treatment (e.g., employees being allowed to observe religious holidays), the percentage of resort workers that come from the area, and how involved the resort is with the local community. Look for a resort that tries to address local socio-cultural concerns., Start by visiting travel-booking sites, such as TripAdvisor or Travelocity. Using the search function, type in “sustainable resorts Thailand.” This will pull up numerous Thai hotels and resorts that use the key word “sustainable” in their description, and/or have these words mentioned in reviews. This is great place to begin looking for a sustainable resort in Thailand.Try using a few different search terms, such as “green resorts Thailand” or “Thai eco-friendly resorts.”
If you will be visiting a specific Thai city, you can narrow your search to just this location.
 Many of these travel sites, including Travelocity and TripAdvisor, use rating systems and customer reviews. Reviews can sometimes offer insight into the experience of a given resort. Once you have created a search for “sustainable resorts Thailand,” begin combing through some reviews.Look for specifics about how they handle waste (garbage, recycling, compost), what they are doing to reduce water usage, where they source their water.
Look for details on where they source their food and other products.
Try to find a resort that both reflects and gives back to the local community.
Some options include the Bangkok Tree House, FaaSai Resort and Spa, and Soneva Kiri., Once you have some leads about potential sustainable resorts in Thailand, you need to dig a little deeper. Begin your investigation by reading over a resort’s website. If they claim to be sustainable, look for evidence to back up that claim.


What efforts or initiatives have they taken to make address the environmental, economic, and social issues facing Thailand?
How do they handle garbage and recycling? Do they compost?
What are they doing to reduce water usage and water waste? Where is their drinking water sourced?
How much plastic do they use? How are they working to reduce the use of disposable plastic items and plastic bags?
How does the resort contribute to the local economy? Do they use locally sourced food and support small-scale local fishermen?
What percentage of their employees come from the local area? Do they hire indigenous Thai people?
What is their involvement with the local community?

, There is really no better way to get information about a resort than to speak to someone directly. Sending a very specific email or making a call with some questions ready is the most effective way to determine whether or not a resort is right for you. If it is small resort, try to speak directly to the owner. If it is a resort chain, try to speak to the general manager. Great questions to ask include:


What do you do to reduce waste?
What chemicals are used to clean the rooms and as the resort as a whole?
How much do you pay your employees? Do you offer healthcare?
What percentage of your employee come from the area?
Where do you source your resorts paper materials?
Can you describe your involvement with the local community? How do you give back?
You might say, “I notice that you market yourself as a sustainable resort. Could you tell a bit more about this? I’m curious what steps you have taken to address the environmental, economic, and social concerns facing Thailand.”

, Many sustainable resorts will be working together with sustainable organizations. For example, check to see if a resort has been certified by LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) or if they are working with a green consultant like Carbonfund.org to reduce their environmental impact. Look for collaborations for non-profit organizations, as well as involvement with the local community.