 Think of something that you like, and it could be anything. If you don't know what to make a theme out of, play games or play music. Wait until you get inspiration. Now, you're ready to move on!;
, Look up a picture that you like. Make it close or exactly your screen size. For example: Rosalina Super Mario Galaxy HD wallpaper 1366 x 768. Look it up on Google; it is where you'll get most of your results.


Right-click the picture and select "Set as Desktop Background". Just wait a few seconds, and you'll have yourself a new background.
You can also set screenshots from games or movies as your background, or even make it yourself. It's not recommended that you make yourself one unless you're a very talented artist. If you did the latter two, just right-click the icon of your picture, and click "Set as Desktop Background". Once again, you'll get a new background!

, Download a .cur file. then, go to Control Panel.
 After that, move your cursor to the left border and click "Change mouse pointers".
 Next, find your cursor file(s). After that, click "OK".
 Now, click "Apply".
 Now your cursor should appear as the cursor you set as "Normal".
 Just go to DeviantArt, search something for your theme (example: Super Mario Galaxy icons), then download them. They may be in a .rar format, and if they are, download WinRAR to extract them. The icons must be in a .ico format to work. Here's how to change an icon:


Right-click the file you want to have the icon.
Click on "Properties", which is at the very bottom of the list.
Click on the "Customize" tab up at the top.
Click on "Change Icon...".
Locate your icon.
Click "OK".
Click "Apply".
Repeat until all the desired files are customized.
 Ad-Aware is free, though, but you can buy things for it to make it better, like email protection.
 Also, scan weekly or even more often than that.
 It usually installs viruses or is a virus. Also, don't download things which you don't know what they are, because they may be viruses or web crawlers.
