 Go to Settings, scroll to the very bottom, and tap "About phone". Scroll down again, until you find "Software info", located between Hardware info and Legal info, and tap.


You can access settings three different ways: 1. Pull down the notifications bar and tap the tiny cog located across from the the time and date at the top. 2. Tap the launcher icon and scroll through your apps until you find settings. 3. Tap the launcher icon and then tap the magnifying glass at the top of the page. Type "settings" into the search bar, and open the correct app from the results (be sure to open "Settings", not "Google settings").;
, It is the very first result at the top of the screen, so tap it rapidly 5-6 times. Continue to tap until you leave Software info and a small circle appears in the middle of the screen, the background being your home screen wallpaper. Tap on this circle.
 A lollipop should appear. Tap on this a few times, watching the color change each time. Make sure you tap enough times to go through all the colors. You can keep playing with the lollipop, or continue to unlock the game.
 A pale circle should spread across the surface, and the phone should vibrate slightly in your hand. If this does not happen, tap a few more times, then try again.


A cityscape should appear if you are successful, with the buildings in scrolling motion. Tap on this to begin the game.
 An Android bot will appear as the bird, and you play the game just like Flappy Bird. The lollipops replace the pipes. Tap the bird to make it fly, and try to get it through the two lollipops successfully, racking up as many points as you can. If you hit a lollipop, the game will freeze and the score count will turn red. Simply tap on the screen to try again.
 When you want to get out of the game, tap on the square on the home buttons. You can swipe on the game, labeled "Settings" to clear it, or pin it so you can come back to it at any time with ease.


Note that if you choose to pin it, the app running in the background has the capability to make your phone go slower and may use up RAM.

