 The most essential ingredients in crafting tools are sticks. To craft sticks, you will need to collect wood from any tree. Then, using your mini crafting box (found in the inventory), craft wooden planks from the collected wood. Place the wooden planks vertically in the mini crafting box and collect the sticks.;
, Axes are used to cut down trees much faster than if you use your hands. To craft an axe, you will need two sticks and three pieces of a material (wooden planks, cobblestone, iron ingots, gold ingots, or diamonds).
 The pickaxe is used to mine and collect materials you need for tools, building, etc. To craft a pickaxe you need will two sticks and three pieces of a material (wooden planks, cobblestone, iron ingots, gold ingots, or diamonds). To crafts sticks, see step 1.
 The shovel is used to collect dirt, grass, sand, etc. This is much faster than digging with your hands. To craft a shovel you need two sticks and one piece of a material (wood, cobblestone, iron ingots, gold ingots, or diamonds). To make sticks, see step 1.
 The hoe is used to turn grass into farmland for planting seeds. To craft a hoe you need two sticks and two pieces of a material (wooden planks, cobblestone, iron ingots, gold ingots, or diamonds). To make sticks, see step 1.
 Swords are used for killing mobs and destroying certain blocks. To craft a sword you will need one stick and two pieces of a material (wooden planks, cobblestone, iron ingots, gold ingots, or diamond). To craft sticks, see step 1.
 Bows are used to attack mobs by shooting arrows. To craft a bow, you will need three sticks and three pieces of string. To craft sticks see step 1. String is acquired from killing spiders or breaking cobwebs, and is also found in dungeons.
 Arrows are used as ammunition for the bow. To craft a stack of four arrows you will need one flint, one stick and one feather. Flint is occasionally dropped when you mine gravel. To craft sticks see step 1. Feathers are dropped by chickens when you kill them. To craft the arrows, put the flint on the middle top square, the stick directly below it and the feather goes in the bottom middle square.
 Flint and steel is used to start fires and it can help you get to the Nether later on in the game. To craft flint and steel you will need an iron ingot and flint. You will have to mine for both. You get iron ingots from smelting iron ore, and flint is occasionally dropped when you mine gravel.
 Buckets are used to carry lava, milk, and water. To craft a bucket you will need three iron ingots. You get iron ingots by smelting iron ore.
 Compasses are used to direct the players' to their spawn point. To craft a compass you will need four iron ingots and one piece of redstone dust. You must mine for both.
 Clocks are used to tell the time of day. To craft a clock you need four gold ingots and one piece of redstone dust.
 Fishing rods are used to catch fish. To craft a fishing rod you will need three sticks and two pieces of string. To craft sticks see step 1. You can get the string by killing spiders and breaking cobwebs, and it is also sometimes found in dungeons.
 Shears are used to collect wool, leaves, vines and tall grass. To craft shears you need two iron ingots. You get iron ingots by smelting iron ore.
 Maps are used to navigate areas by walking around them whilst holding the map. To craft a map, surround a compass with 8 pieces of paper.

