 They usually have gentler ingredients which will allow your hair to retain its shape. Generally, any product with "sulfate" in the ingredients should be avoided. DevaCurl and Shea Moisture are two good brands, but there are many more out there.
 Conditioner replaces lost oils in your hair and restores a healthy pH balance, which is essential for beautiful hair. This is doubly true for curly hair, as healthy hair is less likely to get frizzy or out of control.


Look for conditioners that contain protein.Leave-in conditioners, which you don't wash out, are particularly useful for curly hair.
 Shampoo strips your hair of oil and minerals along with dirt and grime, leaving your hair brittle and dry. This can lead to flat, unattractive curls if you aren't careful.


Try using shampoo every other day, instead of every time you get in the shower.
 Your hair wants to be naturally curly, and, though occasional straightening is okay, overdoing it will damage you hair. This makes it more prone to frizz and damage, leading it further out of control. Some people would kill for curls like yours, so enjoy them instead of trying to get rid of them.
 Use a curling iron to get the best curls you can for special occasions. You can take your natural curls and elevate them into bouncy, movie-quality locks that are impossible for naturally straight-haired people to get right., The more you touch it, the more the curls will come apart and break. Try to keep your hands off it for best results, as touching your hair introduces dirt and oils that weigh down your hair and flatten your curls.
 Curly hair cannot be cut the same way as straight hair. You stylist needs to know how to work with your curls to get the best head of hair possible. Bring in pictures of hairstyles you would like to emulate, and don't be afraid to switch stylists if you are unhappy with the cut., Lightly comb your hair, then wrap it up in a towel while you sleep. This will help it retain its shape the next morning and keep your beautiful curls intact.

