 Your best chance to survive the shooting is to get out of the area as fast as possible.Only rule this out if the only escape routes would put you in sight of the shooter.;
, Prepare in advance by identifying all exits from the rooms where you spend the most time. This includes emergency exits, fire escapes, and windows. Ideally, plan at least two escape routes out of the school or workplace, in case the shooter is blocking one of them.Don't rule out second story windows, or windows that you would have to break. You can survive cuts from broken glass, or a broken leg from a fall.
98% of shooters act alone. If you can avoid the area where you hear gunfire, you are usually safe.
 Don't freeze up or waste time debating your options. Find an escape route, and start running. If you hear gunshots in the distance, you can likely get out of the area before the shooter arrives.


If you have shoes that prevent you from running, take them off.
 If you've determined that it's best to run, then forget your wallet, your purse, or your cell phone. Though your first instinct may be to take your possessions with you, none of them are as important as your life.
 Do not slow yourself down with evasive maneuvers, such as running in a zig-zag or bending over as you run.Run as fast as you can, directly to safety. These tactics only matter if the shooter is aiming directly at you, and using a weapon with a low rate of fire. Getting away fast is usually the better option.


The one exception is a situation where you are forced to run within sight of the shooter, in an area with plenty of cover between you and the exit. In this case, running from obstacle to obstacle may be your best chance. See the section on hiding for advice on finding cover that will stop a bullet.
 As you're running, encourage others to run. If someone looks disoriented or too scared to move, grab that person and drag him with you. Tell the people that running is crucial to their survival. If you're running in a bigger group, it'll be harder to target you individually, and you'll have strength in numbers if you do run up against the shooter.
 If you happen to see a sharp object, or a blunt object you can carry while running, grab it. Do not waste time looking for one of these when you could be running. This is only for a last case scenario when you are unable to escape the shooters.
 Get as close as you can without being noticed. Grab the barrel with 1 hand and cover the ejection port with the other (try to to keep the muzzle pointed in a safe direction). The shooter will pull the trigger and the gun will fire, but only once because the hand covering the ejection port will cause a malfunction and the weapon will not cycle another round. That weapon is now a useless hunk of metal until the shooter can clear and cycle another round in manually (perfect opportunity for you to take the weapon away and subdue the shooter).

