 Wash the carrots, celery, and apples. Peel the onion, carrots, and apples. Next, cut the onion, carrots, celery, and apples into 2-inch (5.08-centimeter) dice.

If you want extra texture, leave the apples unpeeled.;
, If you have not yet done so, remove the silver skin from two pieces of pork tenderloin, or ask a butcher to do it for you. Next, cut the tenderloin into 2-inch (5.08-centimeter) cubes., Place the pork tenderloin on a sheet tray, and season all sides with salt and pepper; how much you use is up to you. Next, coat the tenderloin with flour; this will help it brown better., Choose a pot that is big enough to hold all of your ingredients, then pour 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of extra-virgin olive oil into it. Tilt the pot around until the oil evenly coats the bottom, then place the pot on the stove. Turn the burner up to high, and let the oil heat up., Once the oil starts to ripple and smoke, add the pork into the pot. Sear it until it is brown on all sides, about 7 to 8 minutes. When the meat is seared, transfer it to a plate, and set it aside. You will finish cooking the meat later.

There will be lots of brown bits of meat and oil in the bottom of the pot. Don't worry about this.
 Pour 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of extra-virgin olive oil into the pot, then add the onion, carrots, celery, bay leaf, and thyme. Add some more salt and pepper according to your taste. Cook the vegetables for 6 to 8 minutes, stirring occasionally, or until they start to turn tender., You are ready for the next step when the vegetables turn tender., At some point during the cooking process, you might have noticed little brown bits getting stuck to the bottom and sides of your pot. Use a wooden spoon to scrape these off, and into the vegetable-and-apple mixture. Keep doing this until your spoon runs smoothly across the bottom and sides of the pot., Pour in the chicken stock first, then add the seared pork tenderloin. Let the mixture come to a boil, then reduce the heat to low. Let the stew simmer until it starts to thicken, about 8 to 10 minutes.How much chicken stock you use is up to you. The less you use, the thicker the stew will be; the more you use, the thinner the stew will be.
 If you'd like, you can line the bottom of the serving bowls with chunks of crusty bread, then ladle the stew over it.