 A bowl of oatmeal is a tried and true standard, especially in winter months. Because it's so versatile, you can use anything you like to flavor it, meaning oatmeal never has to be boring.Quick oatmeal is just as healthy as steel-cut oats, which take longer to prepare. This means you can feel free to use the quicker variety, although you may want to stay away from the microwaveable instant variety, which typically includes added sugar and sodium.
If you want to sweeten your oatmeal, use honey or a little maple syrup, both of which are healthier sweeteners than refined sugar. You also might try spices, such as cinnamon and nutmeg. You can add fresh or dried fruits, such as bananas, blueberries, or strawberries. Nuts also mix well with oatmeal for breakfast, especially almonds, which add a healthy protein boost.
If you prefer a bowl of cold cereal, you can add a healthy dash of oats by mixing in old-fashioned or quick oats, or buying a cold cereal made with oat bran or oat flour.;
, If you don't feel like a bowl of oatmeal, or you can't handle a hot breakfast during the warmer months, you can still get your morning dose of oatmeal by adding a dash of oatmeal to your favorite bread or muffin recipe.If you're not baking yourself, you typically can find oat bread and muffins at grocery stores or bakeries.
If you're making your own, look for recipes that include various fruits and nuts if you want to add a dash of flavor or variety.
 Oatmeal mixes well in plain yogurt or a fruit smoothie to add filling fiber to these quicker breakfast options. If you mix your oatmeal into yogurt the night before and put the mixture in the fridge, the yogurt will soften the oats overnight

, You can use oat flour to make pancakes the same way you normally would. Substitute oat flour for other flours, or look online for specific oatmeal pancake recipes to find something you might like.Oatmeal pancakes can be a good alternative if you don't enjoy a bowl of oatmeal on its own.
Just as with regular pancakes, you can easily add fruits and spices to sweeten oatmeal pancakes or add flavor.

