 If your claustrophobic anxiety is severe, or if you’d like to explore methods of eradicating this response, it may help to speak to a therapist. Some types of treatment, including exposure therapy, should only be performed under the guidance of a professional psychologist or psychiatrist. A psychiatrist may also be able to help you explore anti-anxiety medication options.Perform an internet search to locate a psychologist or psychiatrist in your area. Many will work for a sliding scale, or even offer a free consultation.
Contact your insurance company to find options that will be covered for you.
 Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is a method that involves confronting the specific thoughts, feelings, and triggers that are causing anxiety responses. Often this is done through gradual exposure to various fears and triggers. This is done with the help of a licensed professional.CBT is a gradual therapeutic process that would entail meeting with a professional on a regular basis (usually once a week) for an extended period of time (often six months to one year).
During each session, you may be exposed to one or more of your triggers. Sometimes this will mean simply focusing on that fear. Other times, it may mean an active physical encounter (such as entering an elevator).
You will talk through your feelings, and your therapist can offer anxiety-reduction methods (similar to those discussed above) to help you cope.
Often you'll be given homework assignments (such as focusing on your fear and journaling your thoughts and experiences) between sessions.
 This method involves overexposing an individual to specific fears and triggers, until these fears are not longer powerful.Flooding involves being intensely exposed to a trigger, potentially for a long period of time, until the anxiety attack passes.
Flooding therapy contends that when an individual experiences exposure and works through the anxiety, the fear becomes less powerful.
This method may be repeated a number of times until the individual no longer experiences panic in the triggering situation.
 Drug therapy can be an effective option for severe cases of claustrophobia. A combination of anti-anxiety, anti-depression, and tranquilizer medications can be used to help individuals face triggering situations. Discuss this option with your doctor or psychiatrist.As a general rule, phobias that occur frequently should be addressed with behavioral treatments, although medication may supplement this. If you only experience claustrophobia in rare situations, such as when you get on a plane, medication can be an easier way to minimize the effects.

