 Sometimes you can’t avoid the person. In order to limit the time you are around the person, you have to be prepared and act quickly. Know what you will say before you need to say it.Don’t hesitate or waver in what you are saying because it will allow the person an opening to extend the conversation.


Have excuses ready. Always have somewhere you’re going or something important and time-sensitive you have to do in mind.
For example, you could say, “It’s great to see you, but I have to finish that big report!”
If you need to, tell the person directly that you don’t want to engage in conversation.
You might try saying, “I’m not trying to be rude. But I need some quiet time right now to think. Let’s talk later.”

, Limit your interactions with them by keeping them as short as possible. The less time you are around them, the less time they have to engage you in conversation.Keep your responses to one or two words and don’t bring up topics that may prompt lengthy answers.
For example, if you see the person and they ask you how you are doing, keep walking while you smile and reply, “Well and busy!”
Ask close-ended questions. Questions that require answers like ‘yes’ or ‘no’ keep a conversation short. Start talking again as soon as they give their answer so that they don’t have time to continue.
For example, if you ask “How are you?” as soon as they respond “Fine” start telling them what a hurry you are in.
 This is one indirect, but effective way to limit your interaction.It can help you avoid the person talking too long or about something you don’t want to discuss. Use your posture and mannerisms to indicate that the interaction will be brief.


If possible, try to continue walking while you are talking to the person. If you see them coming towards you before they see you then pick up your pace as if you are in a hurry, then speed past with a quick smile and hello.
If you can’t leave the area, try to look busy or engaged in something else. For example, continue looking at your electronic device or your watch as you talk to them.
Turn your body slightly away from them. When you face someone or lean towards them, you seem more engaged in the conversation.
 You can politely excuse yourself by commenting on something the person has said and then immediately saying you need to leave. Making a remark about them makes you seem interested in them and caring. It softens your exit.


Using the word ‘need’ implies that you have no choice, which also makes your exit nicer.For example, you might say, “I hope your karaoke night goes well! I’ll have to hear more about it later, though. I need to get to my appointment.”
Do this while acting genuinely friendly and regretful.

