 Straight-across bangs may bring back nightmares of bad childhood haircuts, but that isn’t an issue with clip-in bangs! Just about anyone can rock blunt bangs, but they work especially well on narrow faces. Look for blunt bangs that fall just above your eyebrows to widen your features.If you can’t find blunt bangs that fall just above your eyebrows, you can take a chance and cut them to the right length. At least you don’t have to go through the awkward growing out process if you mess them up!;
, Long and layered or textured bangs are a solid choice for someone with a wider face. Look for layered bangs that have sides that fall to your striking cheekbones. This type of bangs will accentuate your already lovely features and make them appear narrower. Consider this contouring without the effort of actually using makeup., Finding the right color bangs is a really important part of creating the (very convincing) illusion that you’ve grown them overnight. Typically, bangs come in about eleven shades. Yeah, that may not seem like a lot, but you should be able to find a close match—unless you have an unusual or unnatural hair color. If your bangs are made of human hair, you could dye them to match your current hair color. Purple bangs would make purple hair look even more magical.
It’s also an option to dye your hair to match your bangs if you think you will be wearing them often. For instance, if you’ve always dreamed of being a blonde, but aren’t sure you could work it, buy blonde bangs. Hold them up your face and learn if it’s a total mistake before making the jump.
 Not everyone, of course, has the same hair texture, so you need to consider what type of bangs would best match the texture of your hair. Soft and wispy bangs are the perfect choice for curly hair because they wouldn’t take away from your natural, bouncing curls. Arched or mini bangs are a great choice for those with straight hair because it gives you an easy-to-achieve look for hair that can often be hard to style., It won’t make-or-break your look if you choose one over the other. Human and synthetic hair both have their advantages and disadvantages. For example, human hair is usually easier to style and can be used with heated styling tools. On the down side, it needs to be styled often. Synthetic hair won’t get as frizzy and will maintain a style, but it may not look as natural. Just make sure the synthetic hair doesn’t look extremely fake before purchasing it.