 By pretending to be happy all the time, you are likely avoiding important issues with people and things going on in your life. You may have a tough decision to make, or be really struggling through a difficult situation.While it's okay to say you're doing "fine," there are times when you don't have to smile and pretend everything is fine. You are human. You have good days, bad days, and so-so days.
This is not an excuse to act angry, mean, or rude, but rather you don't have to put on a fake smile all day. It's important that sometimes you confront your feelings rather than ignore them.
 You may feel that society is giving you the message that "being fake" is normal, healthy, and expected, and that everyone should want and value the same things. But there are many downsides to this way of thinking. Here are a few to consider:


Pretending to know more, or be better at something than you really are, will often end badly. Particularly if you are pretending to have more skills for a job or project than you do.
Faking it to fill some void, or feeling like you're not good enough, is an issue of self-esteem. Faking self-confidence can be harmful in the long run to your mental and physical health.Being fake doesn't necessarily get you more, or better things, in life. It is like lying — a temporary fix to a persistently deeper issue., We all want to be the best, the most popular, well-liked, and most successful. The reality is that no one is perfect, even the people that you look up to. The popular people, the outgoing and bubbly people, the highest paid people, they all have problems.


While having someone to admire is important, think about what challenges they may have faced, and the fact that no one was born with a perfect life.
The people who "you wish you could be" all worked and struggled. If they say it just came "naturally," they are likely lying. Life is often about trial and error, in hopes of you reaching your better, happier, smarter, and more beautiful self.
 If you feel like you're pretending to enjoy things that you don't, you don't have to. When we do the activities that we like, we are happier and more sincere about what we do.


By pretending to like something that you don't, people may notice, and wonder why you're acting that way. Pretending out of politeness is different from pretending in order to fool others and yourself. If you are trying to fool yourself into liking something, that likely will not last.
It's okay to have a different opinion or interest in something. You can still have a good time even if you have differences with other people.