 It must be a place where you can feel okay about the puppy making a mess, chewing and possibly occasionally urinating or defecating. This means ensuring that the floor is easy-to-clean and fast to dry. For example, industrial/commercial strength carpet, removable carpet squares, tiles (perhaps with washable rugs on top), wooden floorboards which are varnished, etc. Foam jigsaw floor tiles can be used, provided you replace them readily if chewed.


An enclosed porch space can work well. Use trellis fencing or baby fences/gates to enclose it in and lay down easy-to-clean carpet squares.;
, Before adding anything to the playroom, go around and check it with a puppy's eye view. This means looking for anything that might snag the puppy as it runs around and hurls itself against the sides of the room, etc., such as nails, hooks or sharp edges. Fix any such items if found. Also look for anything hanging, such as blind or curtain cords, light cords, and similar, and ensure that these are put well out of the way.


Remove any indoor plants that are not safe for the puppy.
 Choose furniture options and put into the playroom; you may need to rearrange things a bit until they're in the best position for allowing the puppy to get around the room with ease. Some ideas include:


A small stand with slide runs that allow the puppy to run up and down the slides.
Large and small tunnels (cardboard rolls or tent tunnels)
Small stools or child's chair for you to sit on when in the room with the puppy
Steps up to a stand
A small boardwalk
A little den or house to hide inside
A small exercise trampoline
A large litter tray.
 Puppies need toys that allow them to chew, chase, throw, carry and cherish. As such, include a variety of different textures and types of toys, trying to meet this wide range of needs. Some of the things that the puppy can play with include:


A boot tray with lots of small balls in it.
Balls, chew toys, tug toys, Kongs, etc.
Children's toys suitable for dogs
A cuddly toy.
 A few soft furnishings are a nice addition, such as a soft puppy bed or blankets folded inside a box. A pillow or two can be another thing for the puppy to rest on or bounce over.
 Keep this area constant, so that the puppy knows where to feed and get water. The same goes for keeping the litter tray area constant too.
 As your puppy grows, change the items in the room to match the puppy's changes in size and maturity. This might include higher or more challenging exercising items, new and more complex toys and rearrangements in the shape or style of the room.


It's a good idea to introduce new toys regularly, to keep your puppy interested and curious. Discard of broken or dirty toys as needed.

