 Alternative treatments are believed by some to help soothe or limit the effects of indigestion. Use these treatments in conjunction with your doctor’s orders.Many alternative treatments are not proven clinically and could cause negative interactions with prescription medications or existing medical conditions.
Always ask your doctor before starting any home remedy to avoid any medical complications.
 You should talk with your doctor before using peppermint. Peppermint can help soothe some types of indigestion by calming your stomach muscles and improving bile flow, it can also cause relaxation of the sphincter between the esophagus and the stomach, which can lead to worsening reflux. Using enteric-coated peppermint as opposed to a peppermint tea will avoid the relaxation of the sphincter.
 Chamomile has been used to treat indigestion and other stomach ailments.There is insufficient scientific evidence to say that chamomile will cure indigestion, but it may help relieve some people’s symptoms.You can make a chamomile tea by steeping two to three teaspoons of dried chamomile in one cup of boiling water. Strain the tea after it has steeped for 10 minutes. You can drink this tea up to three to four times per day between meals.People with ragweed or daisy allergies may have an allergic reaction to chamomile. Chamomile may also function like estrogen in the body, so women who have a history of hormone-sensitive cancers should use it with caution. Talk to your doctor before using chamomile., Artichoke leaf extract is believed to work by stimulating bile flow, which helps improve your digestion. You can purchase commercial artichoke leaf extract preparations. Take two 320mg caplets per day.Artichoke leaf extract could cause gas or allergic reactions in some people. People who have allergies to marigolds, daisies, or ragweed are more likely to experience an allergic reaction., Iberogast is an herbal combination preparation that is generally safe to use in treating indigestion.It contains a proprietary blend of extracts of bitter candytuft, peppermint, caraway, licorice, celandine, caraway, angelica root, balm leaf, chamomile, and milk thistle., Stress can trigger the onset of indigestion. Removing stress from your life can help to stop indigestion before it starts, or lessen the effects of it.Ask your doctor about relaxation techniques.
Practice progressive muscle relaxation.
Guided imagery may help you as well.
 Probiotics encourage the growth of the healthy, helpful bacteria in your GI system. Medications, illnesses, and other factors can throw off the balance of bacteria in your stomach and intestines. Taking probiotics may help restore that balance, possibly easing your indigestion. There are different strains of probiotics that are good for different ailments, so talk to your doctor about which kind might be right for you.