 Communicate with your partner about your desires, your turn-offs, and how you are feeling. Revisit this conversation often, as feelings, preferences, and life can change. Remember that couples frequently fight about sex, so it is important to keep communication open and clear to avoid resentment and frustration building up.You may feel uncomfortable or vulnerable having a conversation with your partner about your sexuality, but try anyway. You could say, “Even though I have sex with you, I still feel kind of weird talking about having sex with you. But I want to talk with you about our sex life as a couple and how we can make it better.”
Tell your partner what you like about your sex life and what turns you on. Talk about what you would like to change, or what puts you in the mood. You could say, “I really like it when we have sex in the shower and I would like to do that more often. I like it when we use toys. I wish we could have sex at least twice a week.” Ask your partner what they like or would change about your sex life.
 You both may find it very sexy to show your partner what you enjoy. Demonstrate how you masturbate to your partner, or place your partner’s hands on your body and show them what to do.If you or your partner don’t really know what you enjoy, experiment on yourselves or on each other. Masturbation is an important component of your sexual knowledge and health.
 Whether you are discussing sex or actually in the middle of it, create an environment where you are both open to acknowledging when one of you isn’t enjoying something. Sex makes us vulnerable, so it can be hard to handle criticism, but being too sensitive to receive it will create tension with your partner.


If your partner says, “I don’t really like it when you touch me like that,” say, “I’m sorry. Can you show me what you like?”
Don’t take it personally. Even after many years, you will still have things to learn about each other.
 Discuss sexual consent with your partner. For an open, healthy sexual relationship, both of you need to understand what consent means for each other, and agree that consent can be withdrawn at any time.For example, say you and your partner decide to have sex and you’re getting ready with some foreplay. All of the sudden, your partner says, “You know what, I don’t think I’m in the mood tonight.” Immediately stop what you are doing and say, “Okay.” See if they want to talk about it. Do not argue with them or try to coerce them into continuing.
It is still important to have consent even if you have been sexual partners for many years. Feelings and preferences aren’t constant, and it is important not to assume a sexual act is okay, even if you have been doing it for years. Always ask, “Is it okay if I do this?” or “Do you want me to do this?” and make sure your partner verbally agrees.