 This may seem like an unnecessary step, but it will make it easier to apply paint to the frames and door-stops. Plus, it will enable you to do a better job painting the doors themselves.

Often, you can simply remove the pin from the hinge without unscrewing anything.
It helps to work with a second person so that one can support the door while the other connects and disconnects the hinges.;
, Use a solution of trisodium phosphate (TSP), available at your local hardware store, in warm water according to the package directions. Allow the door to dry thoroughly after washing and before you apply paint.,

You can, if you're cautious, also lay the door on a drop cloth on the floor.
You can still paint a paneled door while it is hanging, but you run the risk of drips, particularly out of the corners of the panels.
 This usually involves removing two screws. Set it aside and,

If you plan to replace the doorknob with a different knob at this point, now is the best time time to cut or fill in the cutouts for the latch.
Sand off any old drips if anybody less cautious than you applied a previous coat of paint.
Use an appropriate putty to fill any holes.
 It may be needed if the new color is very different from the old color, or if the door has any stains or marks that washing did not remove. Primer may also help paint cover and stick to a surface that was not previously painted. Use the same sequence to prime the door that you will use to paint it., If you are using latex paint, you should use a brush for the entire job. Either way, make sure you use the right brushing techniques for a smooth finish.

Use paints with a bit of gloss on doors and door trim. Semi-gloss will do. The reason is that semi-gloss or glossier paint can be washed, and doors often accumulate fingerprints.


It is likely that small brush strokes will remain in the paint, so brush the paint in the direction of any existing grain texture. If there is no such texture, run brush strokes the "long way," which is to say up and down for most of the door, side-to-side for the horizontal

, Since these can sometimes occur a few minutes after you have applied the paint, so keep checking your work until the paint begins to dry., Then turn the door over to paint the other side.,