 You need to start off this braid with tangle free hair. Brush out the length of your hair. This braid will not work if you have snags in your hair as you move through the steps., You need to decide how thick you want your French rope braid to be. If your beginning section is larger, then each section of the French braid portion of your braid will be thicker. Gather a small section of hair at the crown of your head.You can do this as a side braid as well. Just pick a section of hair on the side of you head that you want to braid. The braid follows the same path as the middle braid., Like with the traditional rope braid, you will only need two sections of hair for this braid. Divide the section in your hand in two down the middle. Twist the two strands counterclockwise around your fingers. Make sure you keep the twists tight as you twirl them. Cross the twisted strands clockwise over each other, holding the strands lightly so they don't unravel.









For a French rope, you'll twist the hair as you go, so don't worry if you only have the base of the strand twisted for now. That is the part that is incorporated into the braid, so as long as that portion is twisted, your braid will look great.If you want a less twisty French braided portion, you can leave the strands untwist and just cross them over one another., Once you have crossed the two initial strands, grab the section of hair directly beside the right section. It should incorporate all the hair from the side of your head to where your twisted strand sits. Incorporate the new hair into the strand, twisting it into the other hair. Repeat on the left side. Both strands should have an equal amount of new hair incorporated into the strand so the braid will stay even.








If you want a smaller, tighter french braid, make sure you grab smaller sections as you move down your hair. This will take a little longer but will give you a closer weave to the braid., Cross the now thicker sections of hair clockwise over one another, just as you did with your first two pieces of hair. Incorporate more hair into the strands, twisting as you did before. Repeat until you have run out of hair at the sides of your head.








If you want a half French rope braid, you can choose at what length that you want the braid stop. Once you've decided a length, tie the two strands together with an elastic band., Once you get to the nape of your neck, you need to start a traditional rope braid. Keep the sections of your hair twisted, crossing them clockwise as you finish the lower area of your braid. If they are not as tight of twists as you would like, twist them a little more before you finish the braid. Close off the end with an elastic band.








You can make this into a bun at the bottom as well. Once you have braided the ends, twist the braid into a bun. Secure it with bobby pins.