 Before you start your game, you will have the ability to apply modifications to your starting disease. These modifications will help your disease survive and will allow you to combat the Cure easier. By this point in the game, you should have access to almost all of the options, allowing you to pick the best ones suited to Black Plague Brutal Mode.


DNA Gene - Catalytic Switch. This gene gives you a bonus DNA from popping blue cure bubbles, which is essential for fighting the Cure later on.
Travel Gene - Aquacyte or Suppression. Aquacyte is highly recommended because it helps make infecting island nations like Greenland and Madagascar easier. Suppression is good for getting across closed land borders.
Evolution Gene - Ionised Helix (Optional). This gene will give you DNA back when you devolve, but you shouldn't be devolving during this mode anyway. Do NOT pick any genes that make your disease easier to cure.
Mutation Gene - Genetic Mimic. This gene makes your disease harder to cure, which is essential for this mode.
Environment Gene - Extremophila. This gives your disease a boost across all environment types.;
, There is a lot of debate over which country is the best to start in, but India seems to be one of the most successful starting locations thanks to the population size, warm climate, and close proximity to China.


Other good starting locations include Egypt, Saudi Arabia, China, and Central Africa.
 You want your virus to spread as quickly and innocuously as possible before you start turning up the heat. To do this, start collecting DNA. When you have enough to start modifying your disease, focus on the following upgrades, in this order:


Rodent 1
Livestock 1
Bird 1
Rodent 2
Livestock 2
Bird 2
Extreme Zoonosis - This is only available when you evolve each of the transmission types up to 2. It allows the disease to quickly spread between species.
 Once you have transmission locked down, it's time to shore up your disease's defenses. Focus on the following resistances, in this order:


Cold 1
Drug Resistance 1
Cold 2
Drug Resistance 2

, Now that your disease is spreading and defending itself, you can start making its presence known. Symptoms will help spread the disease, and you should see your numbers start to skyrocket. Once symptoms start appearing, work on the Cure will increase, so the clock starts ticking now! Focus on the following symptoms first:


Pneumonic Plague
Coughing
Skin Lesions - There's a good chance that this will mutate on its own.
Sneezing
Pulmonary Oedema
Pneumonia

, Once you've got symptoms evolved and the disease is spreading, there's not much to do at this point but wait for the Cure to progress. Make sure to keep popping DNA bubbles so that you're ready to make changes to the disease as necessary.


Once the Cure hits 25%, evolve Genetic Reshuffle 1 and Drug Resistance 3.
 At this point in the game, you are just focused on fighting the Cure. Each time you perform a genetic reshuffle, the Cure progress takes a hit. Once the Cure progress hits 75% the first time, evolve Hardened Reshuffle 1.


When the Cure hits 75% again, evolve Hardened Reshuffle 2.
When the cure hits 75% again, evolve Genetic Reshuffle 2.
When the cure hits 75% again, evolve Genetic Reshuffle 3.
Make sure you keep popping DNA and Cure bubbles.
 Your disease should have infected nearly everyone on the planet at this point, so you can move in for the kill. Spend your DNA on the rest of the symptoms in any order that you choose. The Cure should be failing at this point thanks to everyone dying, so you shouldn't have to worry about fighting it anymore.
 There is a lot of random luck involved with Plague Inc., and no one strategy will work every time. That said, this strategy has been known to work well for players on their first try to on multiple attempts in a row. Keep at it, and you'll soon conquer the world with your black plague!