 Each panel will need to be identified and marked clearly, to make sure you don't install the wrong panel in the wrong location–an easy mistake if you're working quickly. Identify each wall panel per the instruction sheet that comes with the shower kit and label each panel using a piece of masking tape, writing “Panel A” or “Panel 1," depending on the instructions included.


Identify the panel that will be installed over the shower controls and fixtures and set it aside. Use your measurements of the fixtures on the wall where you're installing the shower and use these measurements to mark and cut the holes for the water control fixtures.
Cutting the holes will be easier if you lay the panel across a couple of saw horses for this procedure. Support the panel with a couple of 2 x 4’s or a sheet of plywood so the panel does not bend excessively and break. Cut holes slowly with your hole saw.
 For some kits, the panels need to be installed in a particular order to make the seals plumb and make the unit more waterproof. It's best to pre-assemble the walls to make sure everything fits, running through the process once before you attach it with adhesive or wall screws. Read the instructions closely to find out whether or not this is true of your kit.


Test fit the panels in the order determined to make sure they fit together properly. Some panel kits are manufactured to fit spaces of a specific size, while others are designed to fit within a dimensional “range.” The kit will specify the dimensions that will accommodate your particular kit.
 Shower pans are manufactured with either a grooved lip or a slightly offset lip around the pan where it makes contact with the walls. These are sometimes called "exact fit" or "variable fit" panels, and the process will vary slightly depending on what you've got.


Exact-fit panels will slide or snap together. Do this in the order specified in the directions that are included with the kit.
Variable-fit panels allow you to adjust the coverage along the long wall of your shower area. These panels may have a gap up to several inches between two panels, and are “joined” or covered by a formed vertical cap piece or a molded vertical soap dish type of unit that overlaps the two panels to cover the gap. Once in place and sealed, it appears to be a single panel.
 Make sure they are completely clean and dry on the surfaces that will contact the walls. When you're ready to apply panel adhesive and permanently install the shower panels, you'll basically repeat the steps followed to test-fit the panels, but this time, you will applying them permanently.


Some kits will require only screws or nails into pre-drilled holes; others will require panel adhesive that is safe for plastic or fiberglass. Some will require both. Refer to your instructions that came with your kit.
 Carefully lay the first panel to be installed face down on a firm, flat surface. Squeeze a bead of shower and tub adhesive on all surfaces that will come in contact with the walls of the shower area.


If the panel has a large surface area that comes in contact, or if the entire panel comes in contact with the shower wall area, make the bead in the shape of an “X” from corner to corner on the back of the panel.
Next, make another bead in the shape of a “+” from top to bottom and right edge to left edge through the middle of the “X” you just made, and a bead along the entire perimeter of the back of the panel, about 2 inches (5.1 cm) in from the edges of the panels to keep any excess from oozing out when you apply the panels.
Apply some adhesive to the shower pan where the panel will make contact. Be sure to squeeze a continuous bead along the pan lip so it forms a watertight seal.
 Make sure the bottom of the panel fits properly where it joins the shower pan. Use a dry towel to smooth the surface starting at the bottom and working up.


Apply adhesive to the other panels. Repeat as above, then press the remaining panels into place in the order used in the test fitting. Be sure to follow the order provided with the shower kit.
Remove any excess adhesive that has oozed out from pressing the panels in place before the adhesive has a chance to dry. Use the recommended solvent or water as noted in the “cleanup” portion on the adhesive tube. After several hours (when adhesive is dry) caulk all seams and joints for a watertight seal.
 Some shower kits will use screws or nails in addition to adhesive to secure panels. The holes for screws or nails should be pre-drilled into the panels along the outer edges. Once adhesive is applied and you are ready to permanently mount the panels, simply screw or nail through the pre-drilled holes to attach.


Do not completely tighten screws or pound nails in all the way until all panels are in place. This allows you to adjust the panels before fully securing them to the walls.
 Some kits will include molded corner, or seam tower pieces like molded soap dish or shelf towers. You'll attach these with shower and tub adhesive, as directed.

