 Although the aspergillosis is most common form of respiratory trouble in African Greys, it is not the only potential problem. African Greys can also experience bacterial respiratory infections (like psittacosis) and respiratory viruses (like infectious bronchitis virus ). Additionally, respiratory symptoms could be indicative of food allergies.Some signs that something is wrong can include:

Open mouth breathing
Ruffled feathers
Tail bobbing up and down when breathing
Rapid breathing
A change in breathing sounds
Wheezing or clicking when inhaling

, Parrots are known for hiding any pain or illness for as long as possible, and unfortunately, respiratory problems in African Grey parrots can be quite serious. If you notice one or more of these symptoms (or if symptoms persist for more than one day), get your parrot to the vet right away.

If you are not sure about particular symptom, you can always call your vet and ask.
If possible, visit an aviary vet, or a vet who specializes in exotic birds.
 Many respiratory infections are bacterial, and as such, require the use of antibiotics to treat them. Even in cases of viral infections (such as infectious bronchitis virus ), your vet may encourage the use of antibiotics to treat or prevent secondary infections.Antibiotics can be administered to parrots by way injection in your vet's office, or liquid antibiotics can be added to your parrot's water at home.
Follow all instructions provided by your vet.
 Depending on the source of your parrot’s respiratory problems, they may also experience some digestive discomfort. Speak to your vet about whether or not you should alter your parrot’s diet as they recover. You may want to stick to a mild pellet diet and avoid fresh produce until your parrot’s digestive problems (such as diarrhea) are resolved.Make sure your parrot also has access to plenty of water.
 As your parrot is recovering, they will need plenty of rest. During this period, provide your parrot with 10-12 hours of darkness per night to allow for adequate sleep., Some respiratory infections are preventable. You can best protect your African Grey parrot from certain infections (like infectious bronchitis virus) by making sure their vaccinations are all up to date.If you are not sure about the status of your pet's vaccinations, call your vet and find out.
 A clean, well-ventilated cage can reduce the instance of respiratory infections. Furthermore, poor diet, over-crowding, lack of exercise, and stress can weaken your parrot’s immune system.To keep your parrot in good health, be sure to:

Clean the cage regularly
Provide out-of-cage-time daily
Ensure regular exercise by providing toys
Provide a healthy diet

Avoid over-crowding your birds

