 Unplug the appliance or turn off the main power source to the house to stop the electrical flow to the victim first.If it is not immediately possible to shut off the power, stand on a dry surface—such as a rubber doormat or a pile of papers or books—and use a dry wooden object—such as a broom handle—to push the person away from the electrical source.Do not use anything wet or made of metal.;
, Once the person is no longer in contact with the electrical current, try not to move him or her unless completely necessary., The victim may be unconscious or otherwise unresponsive to touch or when spoken to. If the person is not breathing, perform rescue breathing and CPR., Electrical burns can have an effect on the electrical activity of the heart.Call 911 or another emergency response number, especially if the person is unresponsive or if the burn is from a high-voltage wire or from a lightning strike.If the heart has stopped, you will need to administer CPR.
Even if the victim is conscious, you should call 911 if he or she has severe burns, a fast heartbeat, heart arrhythmia/cardiac arrest, a seizure, problems walking or keeping balance, trouble seeing or hearing, red or reddish black urine, confusion, muscle pain and contractions, or difficulty breathing.Be aware that the person may also have kidney damage or damage to the nervous system or bones.



Cover the burns with a dry, sterile gauze bandage.For severe burns, do not attempt to remove pieces of clothing that have stuck to the skin. However, you can cut away loose clothing near the area of the burn, especially if the clothing encircles the area and can become problematic if the area swells.
Do not use a blanket or towel to cover the burns because the loose fibers can stick to the burn surface.Do not attempt to cool the burns with water or ice.
Do not apply grease or oil to the burns.
 He may be cold, have clammy skin, a pale appearance, and/or a rapid pulse. Track any of these symptoms to tell the emergency responders when they arrive.
 Try to prevent the injured person from becoming chilled, which can worsen the shock symptoms. If using a blanket, keep it off the affected areas while waiting for paramedics to arrive., Depending on the severity of the shock and the burns, the ER doctor and nursing team will have a wide variety of possible tests and treatment options.


They will likely order blood and urine tests to check for damage to your muscles, heart, and other organs.An ECG (or EKG) will record the electrical activity in your heart to ensure that the shock hasn’t caused any arrhythmia.For serious burns, medical staff may take a scintigraphy, which helps find dead tissue that may need to be removed., The doctor is likely to prescribe medication for pain management as burns can be painful while healing. You will likely receive a prescription for antibiotic creams or ointments as well to apply as directed when changing bandages on the affected area., The prescribed treatment will likely include antibiotics in order to keep the burns from becoming infected. However, you should still watch for signs of infection and see your doctor immediately if you believe the wound has gotten infected. Your doctor will prescribe a more aggressive antibiotic if this is the case. Potential signs include:Change in color of the burnt area or surrounding skin
Purplish discoloration, particularly if swelling is also present
Change in thickness of the burn (the burn suddenly extends deep into the skin)
Greenish discharge or pus
Fever

, Any time the bandages become wet or soiled, change them. Clean the burn (using clean or gloved hands) with water and a mild soap, apply more antibiotic ointment (if instructed to do so by your doctor), and rewrap with a new, sterile piece of nonstick gauze.
 For severe third-degree burns, doctors may recommend a number of surgical options depending upon the size and location of the burn. Some of these options include:Debridement or the removal of dead or highly damaged tissue to prevent infection, inflammation, and to improve healing time
Skin grafts or flaps, which is the process for replacing lost skin with healthy skin from other sites to help assist in healing and prevent infection.
Escharotomy, which is an incision made in dead tissue to the fat layers below and can improve blood flow as well as relieving pain from pressure caused by swelling.
Fasciotomy, or the release of pressure caused by swollen muscles associated with the burn, which can help decrease damage to nerves, tissue, or organs.
 Potential muscle and joint damage associated with severe burns can lead to decreased function. By seeing a physical therapist, you can rebuild strength in the affected areas, increasing mobility and decreasing pain associated with certain movements.