 A list is below:


Magic guardians help people control powers. If someone comes to you with a problem she can't control, help her/him.
Rebel guardians help anyone in need. Help in anyway you can.
Dream guardians help people with their dreams. If someone needs comforting of a nightmare, comfort them.
Life guardians help people survive. If someone is in danger of dying, call 911 and try CPR. (CPR is not a good idea if you are not licensed!)
Animal guardians help animals. If an animal is injured or needs your help, do it! Also, volunteer at an animal shelter. Try to help save endangered animals.
Plant guardians help plants. Water plants and start a garden! Help others with their gardens too.
Season guardians guard seasons. Appreciate the beauty of all seasons and help others see the joy in all seasons!
Space guardians help space. Know a lot about space and help your science teacher prepare space lessons if they are okay with it!
Ocean guardians help aquatic problems. Help clean up the beaches and save endangered ocean animals! Also, love swimming.
 A list is once again below:


Magic guardians have all kinds of powers. Try looking at the other ones to see how to do them.
Rebel guardians have powers of the yin and yang. Be yin on some days and yang on others. Also, help a lot when you are yin and help a tiny bit less when you are yang.
Dream guardians can control dreams. Sneak into your siblings or parents room and pretend to give him/her a dream.
Life guardians can raise people from the dead. Spend a lot of time in graveyards and make sure someone you know can see you. When they ask what you were doing, say, "Helping,"
Animal guardians have the power to talk to animals. Learn the signals and sounds of each animal you can and talk to people's pets. Talk to animals at the zoo.
Plant guardians have the power to speak to plants. Pretend to talk to the plants in a plant language.
Season guardians can control weather. Have the weather tie to your emotions. For example, if it is raining, be sad. If it is snowing, be angry. If it's a thunderstorm, be enraged.
Space guardians can control the universe. Always be busy writing down plans about the universe and drawing out plots on controlling it. If someone asks what you are doing, go ahead and show them.
Ocean guardians can control water. Learn to make optical illusions with water.
 A list is below:


Magic guardians will spend time around magic. Watch other friends who are doing this too learn their magic.
Rebel guardians spend time around yin things on yin days and yang things on yang days. On yin days, spend time around beautiful forests, playgrounds, and sparkly things. On yang days, spend time in the dark, away from noise, and dark things.
Dream guardians spend time around dreaming people. Become nocturnal in the summer vacation and always stay nearby dreaming family members. Pretend to give them dreams.
Life guardians spend time around graveyards to raise people to life. Spend time there.
Animal guardians spend time around animals, of course. Spend a lot of time with a pet or if you see animals in the park, watch them.
Plant guardians spend time around plants. Spend a lot of time with the flowering flora.
Season guardians spend time in outside in every season. Spend a lot of time outdoors.
Space guardians spend their time in the universe, but since you can't, spend time outdoors in the night stargazing.
Ocean guardians spend their time around bodies of water. Whenever you can, visit a lake or ocean.
 Remember to still be yourself:


Magic guardians are mysterious. Learn to be mysterious.
Rebel guardians change with the yin and yang.
Dream guardians are very nighttime, so always act like it is night. Even in the morning.
Life guardians love the earth. Start becoming concerned about saving the environment.
Animal guardians are animal fans. Learn everything you can about animals and try to save endangered animals!
Plant guardians are plant fans. Learn a lot about plants.
Season guardians love all seasons. Learn about weather and how it works.
Space guardians are big about the universe. Learn about space.
Ocean guardians love water. Learn ocean facts and spend extra time in the shower!

, No matter what type, all guardians guard one specific person, even the rebels. Be protective of them, but never become way too protective! Just enough so they still feel free. Always be ready to defend this person.

