 You might choose to use the kind of flat cloth diaper that you fold and prepare yourself to get the desired shape, or you might use the pre-fitted cloth diapers, which already look like a diaper but can be rewashed and reused.;
, Use the method provided in How to Fold a Cloth Diaper ahead of time, so you don't have to do this when you have a wiggly baby in front of you later. Babies love to wiggle and roll around on the changing table, so if you're ready to go with your diaper, you'll be able to keep them safer.
 You can do this on a changing mat on the floor and not have to worry about watching the child wiggle around as much, or you can use a diaper-changing table or even a bed or couch, depending on the size of the child.
 Lay a waterproof changing pad (such as those reusable pads included with most diaper bags) or Goodnites Underpads on the changing surface to prepare a mess-free changing environment.
 In addition to the diaper and the baby, you may need a secondary pair of rubber pants, one or two extra cloth diaper pins, a bottle of baby powder, a tube of diaper rash cream or similar, some cleaning cloths or baby wipes, and a fresh change of clothes. Place them all in the diaper changing-area so you can grab the items one-handed without leaving the baby alone.


Set up an easy-to-reach spot on the changing area where you can temporarily stash dirty items like the old diaper and any dirty clothing, before you clean them up properly after the change.
 If you smell urine or poop in the diaper, or the diaper is sagging noticeably, it might be time for a change.


Infants don't notice (and most don't care) when you feel around the top of the diaper to take a peek. You can usually also feel whether the diaper is full from the outside, with your hand.
 Lay them down on the pad so that their rear end is in the pad's center.
 Remove clothes that have become dirty. Work bottom to top, removing any pants and folding up any shirts/dresses if needed.


If the child is wearing a onesie, you will need to roll that clothing up until it is out of the way of the diaper-area. Use the Ankle Hold Technique as described to hold up the child’s leg while you pull the onesie up and out of the way.
 Rubber pants help protect the child's clothes from getting soaked. They can rip rather easily at the leg seems if removed too harshly, so be gentle.


Let the rubber pant turn inside out as you pull it off the child. This can help you wash/dry them more easily, and you can flip them back the regular way around next time you use them.
 If the diaper doesn't use pins, look for a Velcro fastening or a pair of snaps along the child's waistline near the sides or near the front of the diaper. Undo the pins or snaps, or loosen the Velcro tabs. Just don't take the old diaper off just yet.
 Lay the front of the diaper back on the changing surface so the diaper is flat.


For boys, you may want to leave the diaper loosely in place until the last minute, to prevent any spray if they urinate at the wrong time.
 You can use a wet, clean cloth if you prefer, or baby wipes.


You can also use a clean and dry area of the old diaper to help absorb any leftover mess, but use a clean cloth to do a final cleanup for sanitary reasons.
Use two warm, wet washcloths if you would like to be more environmentally-friendly. Use the first washcloth to wipe off the most mess, and then use a second washcloth to finish cleaning the baby's bottom. Be sure the cloths are laundered well before next use.

Make sure to keep baby’s genital area covered with a cloth, as many babies will urinate into the air when exposed to the cooler air in the room. Clean your baby's front and back, making sure you get any mess that's hiding between folds of skin. For baby girls, make sure you wipe front to back to avoid infection.
 Raise the child's legs by holding their ankles to remove the diaper from the table, and swap out the old diaper for a new one. Place the new one underneath the child at the same time you take out the old diaper out, and lower the child's legs back to the surface. (You can always readjust the diaper's position later to re-center the diaper, if necessary.)


Position it so that the center of the back of the diaper is about on center with the child's bottom, so that the back of the diaper will reach no higher than the child’s waistline.
After pulling the child's legs up, you may want to fold up the old diaper so the front of the diaper is holding onto any poop that may be inside the diaper. That way, you can put one hand underneath the bundled diaper, lift and drag the diaper away. Just be careful you don't drop any mess out.
For those who choose to use prefold diapers that have a Velcro or snap closing system, you may need to keep your hand outstretched inside the diaper until the child has been laid back down onto the surface, so the diaper doesn't fold back onto itself under the baby.
 Apply some diaper rash cream on their skin and/or place some powder down onto their cloth diaper and over their bottom to prepare the area, if they're prone to diaper rash.
 Hold the diaper firmly as you move it around and place it properly. Lay the dry diaper temporarily on the child’s waist so that you can obtain the new pins or get ready to fix the new diaper up again.
 The amount of diaper you flare back out at the bottom will depend on the child’s weight and width of their waistline.


Only flare out and work with one side of the child's diaper at a time. You can repeat this for the other side later.
 Grab any two pins that aren't in use yet and secure the diaper, reversing the pin's removal from the preparatory steps above. Insert the pin into the diaper and close the pin. Do not push each pin through all the layers of the inner diaper, so you don't risk sticking yourself and your baby. Be sure to insert the end of the pins away from the child’s navel/belly button.


Snap the diaper pins closed from both sides. Diaper pins are created with an open section in the pin-head. Push the pin around and into the head of the pin’s opening, and push inwards so the pin-head is covering this end of the pin.
 If the rubber pants weren't wet when you removed them (or can be dried with a towel or paper towel easily), you can reuse the same pants. Otherwise, use another pair of rubber pants and add the older ones to the pile of clothing that needs to be washed.
 Replacing their pants and socks before folding back down their shirt. If the child was wearing a onesie and it's still dry, lower it down and re-snap the garment in place.
 If there are other people who can help you, have them help watch your child and keep them busy.
 Put the pile of wet clothes and dirty diaper in your hamper or diaper pail. Stow away any extra pins, the diaper rash cream, and baby powder.


Dispose of any poop by cleaning the cloth diaper inside a toilet. Then roll the diaper carefully up into a ball, and bring this diaper to the laundering station for washing.

