 Young children can do things that are amazing and frustrating at the same time. You should make sure that you are in control of your emotions when you are practicing gentle discipline.Losing control of your emotions can scare young children and make it hard for them to connect with you.


Check your emotions and see how you are feeling. Ask yourself, “How does this make me feel?
Wait until you are calm before you discipline a child. Avoid any type of discipline if you are angry, stressed, tired, or anxious.
Take a walk or leave the room if you need to and can do so without leaving the young children alone.
If you are somewhere that you can’t leave, like a moving vehicle, then take a mental time out.
Take a few deep breaths to calm yourself by inhaling and exhaling slowly and deeply a few times.
 A key part of practicing gentle discipline is showing children respect.Your act of gentle discipline should come from a place of love, and not from a stance of shame or anger. You can do this and connect with children if you make an effort to avoid doing or saying things that could embarrass them or make them feel bad about themselves.


Use positive language and encouragement. For example, you might tell a young child, “I’m proud of how you calmed yourself down just now.”
Avoid calling children ‘bad,’ ‘mean,’ or other negative things that might harm their developing self-esteem.
Remember to separate the children from their actions. You can try saying things like, “I love you, but I don’t like what you did.”
Discipline should never involve a parent personally attacking a child with shame, guilt, or anger.
If you have more than one child, do not compare one child with their siblings as an attempt to correct their misbehavior, or an attempt to motivate or threaten them.
 It can be confusing for a child when they don’t know how they should behave or what will happen when they misbehave. Think consequences through carefully before executing them. Determine if you are trying to teach, correct, guide, or punish your child. Identify what it is you are trying to accomplish with your child when she misbehaves.


Reflect before you execute your gentle discipline, instead of reacting quickly within the moment. Allowing for these factors will help you become a more effective parent.
Consider natural consequences. For example, if your child throws their plate of food on the floor, a natural consequence is that they will have to wait to eat and will have to eat what’s available.
Make sure the consequences are age or developmentally appropriate. For instance, it may not be appropriate to make a toddler clean up a major mess.
 By encouraging your child to think and reflect about their behavior, it allows them to learn and understand their behavior, the consequences that are involved, and to think about what they could have done and will do differently in the future. Encourage this type of reflection by asking them open ended questions.

For example, “Josh, can you think about and tell me why throwing the ball at another person without their approval is wrong?” or “Josh, do you think you can give me an example of what we should do next time to be safe?”

, One of the keys to effective discipline of any kind is that it is consistent.This is because it allows young children to know what to expect. It keeps discipline from seeming arbitrary to the child. When you are practicing gentle discipline you also need to be consistent with your consequences and responses to inappropriate behavior.


Your response to a child’s behavior should be immediate. For instance, you should address back-talking when it occurs, not later when you get home.
Some behaviors are unacceptable in any setting or situation. For example, name-calling or acts of physical aggression should always have an immediate consequence.
When possible, establish consistent expectations between different caregivers. For example, make sure you and the child’s other caregivers all agree that yelling is not okay.
 Listening to children and showing them that you understand how they feel about a situation can help you practice gentle discipline. This helps children feel respected and teaches them how to identify and handle difficult emotions appropriately.Ask them how they feel about the situation. For example, you could say, “How did that make you feel inside?”
Tell the child that you understand how they feel and how difficult it can be to feel that way. For example, you might say, “I know how disappointed you are that we can’t go. It can be hard when you feel this way.”
Offer suggestions for ways that they can appropriately express their feelings. You could tell them, “When I’m disappointed, I think of something happy or funny.”

