  Do not forget to place a bowl underneath the egg separator in order to catch the falling egg whites.  Each time you separate an egg, place the egg yolks in a small mixing bowl.  If you do not have an egg separator, the eggs can still be separated by gently tossing the egg back and forth between the two halves of eggshell until the entire egg white is on one side. 


It is suggested that an egg separator be used to avoid accidentally cracking the yolk and wasting eggs that can no longer be used for the recipe.  Egg separators are fairly inexpensive (To purchase an egg separator, visit amazon.com).;
,  If you are making the walnut filling, they will be used later in the recipe.  Otherwise, you can make a nice omelet out of them in the morning for a healthy breakfast after splurging on this irresistible dessert!

,  Be sure to not beat too aggressively or for an extended period of time; otherwise, air pockets will inflate the egg yolks.  To start, try simply completing 10 full rotations of your wrist with preferred beating utensil or until you can plainly see that the yolks have burst and blended, but still have a thick texture.
  Combine the egg yolks and sour cream into one mixture by folding and whipping the contents of the bowl with the same fork or whisk with which you began.
  Make sure that the butter is soft, not melted or frozen.  Soft butter will be easier to combine with the flour than the frozen butter, but it should definitely not be melted.  You will want to use an electric mixer, cleaning out the whisks with a spatula when they get too clogged.  This process will be done when all the butter and flour is combined.


Keep in mind that both flour and butter are solids in this mixture and the end product of this step will be clumpy. See the picture above as a visual guide.
  To combine these ingredients, it is now time to abandon all the utensils.  DO NOT use a fork, a whisk, or an electric mixer.
  Using your hands is crucial to increasing the volume of the dough and emulsifying all the ingredients.
  You are going to wrap the dough in the wax paper, so make sure the sheet is large enough to fold over the dough; you do not want any of the dough to be exposed.
  There is no special way to do this; just make sure that the entire dough clump is enclosed.  The purpose of the wax paper is to retain the moisture in the dough and assure that it does not get hard as a rock as it is setting in the refrigerator.
,  The walnuts should not be a powder.  Chopping the walnuts with a Cuisine Art or a Pampered Chef will be easier and faster than using a knife.  If you use a Cuisine Art, make sure you only pulse a couple times; otherwise, the walnuts will be ground too small.
,,  You can leave the fork you used to mix together the ingredients propped against the side of the bowl.  You will need it later; saving it for later will keep post-clean up to a minimum.
  Just allow enough time to for the walnuts to absorb the egg whites.


Leaving the walnut filling in the refrigerator for more or less than ten minutes will not jeopardize the end result of the cookie. Ten minutes is recommended, but not necessary.
,  Do not just start with one.  You will be disappointed when you have to stop rolling dough to prepare another baking sheet.  Kiffles are small, but you might need to bake some of them and come back to baking the rest later; it is highly possible that you will run out of baking sheets, unless you work in an industrial kitchen.
,  Make sure to cover your entire workspace with a thin film of flour.  You will have to continuously powder the counter during this part of the process to avoid sticky dough.  Sprinkle the rolling pin as well.
  Between rolling out the wedges, put the wrapped dough wedges back into the refrigerator.
  Spread the flour around the ball as thin as possible with your hands as needed.  Now, the counter, the rolling pin, and the dough you are working with should all have a thin coat of flour to prevent sticking.
  Now, the dough is ready to be rolled.
  There is a strategy to this too:  Try to flatten the dough into a rectangular shape, moving the rolling pin back and forth/side-to-side.
  Be extremely wary of the thickness of the dough as you roll it out.  It is not necessary to get out your ruler, but getting the dough to about 1/8-inch thickness would be ideal.
,  Each square should be approximately the same size as a Post It note.
,,,


Pinch together the two corners to make sure that they will not come apart in the oven.  The walnut filling rises on its own; with the two corners of the dough wrapped around the walnut filling, the walnut filling will not expand upward as much.
  The kiffles are done when the walnut filling, as well as the dough, starts to harden/brown at the ends.
).
,