 Look around your home and determine what appears to be in need of repair. Notice things like chipped or peeling paint, loose or warped boards, leaky pipes, or frayed wiring. You should also check out your appliances and make sure they are in working order. , Once you have noticed maintenance issues, make a list them from most to least important. Keep in mind the age, location, and condition of your home. Older homes or homes located in regions with inclement weather generally need more maintenance. Prioritizing your projects will help you get an idea of what things need immediate attention and what you can put off until later.Things like leaky pipes, frayed wiring, or damage to your roof should be dealt with immediately since they can lead to significant home damage if left untreated.
 Once you have an idea of what needs to be done, use an online home renovation estimator to get a rough estimate of what each maintenance project will cost. Websites like HomeAdvisor will give you a general estimate of what your project may cost. Getting a rough estimate will give you a frame of reference for when you meet with a professional.Looking for an online estimate is a good place to begin your search but you should still consult a professional before buying any materials or beginning repairs.
 Hiring an interior decorator for a few hours at the beginning of a maintenance project will help you find the right materials for your project. They will help you match colors, styles, and themes, helping you narrow down your materials. Because an interior designer will help you make the right choice the first time, they may also help you save some money in the end.An interior designer is particularly useful for finding the right paints, wallpapers, tiles, and fixtures.
 Contact multiple local contractors and get estimates on what your project will cost. A contractor will come, evaluate your home maintenance issue, and then give you an estimate of what they think it may cost. It is important to keep in mind that the contractor’s quote is simply an estimate and that the finished work may be more expensive.You will want to get estimates from multiple contractors before you begin any project.

