 Looks are important, but not nearly as important as being who you are. Learn to be less concerned with how you come off to other people and more concerned with having fun, joking around, talking about your interests, and doing what you want to do. If you can make anybody laugh, that's a great start.


Don't be ashamed to let people see what makes you unique. If you're into birdwatching, cool. But if you want to hide that you're into birdwatching, then you're not being cool at all.
Don't hide where you came from. If you're from the South and have a Southern drawl, don't try to hide it because you live up North. People will appreciate that you're different.
Don't act too cool to care. If you really care who wins the baseball game that night, show it. Don't act like nothing matters to you just to be cool.
Always be yourself. You can try to improve parts of your personality, but being authentic means not being afraid to be who you are.;
, If you want to be a really cool guy, then you have to know how to charm everyone in your presence. A charming person walks confidently into a room and can talk to anyone he passes with ease, humor, and a smile on his face. You should be able to flatter an eighty-year-old woman or crack up an eight-year-old boy; to be truly charming, you need the magic touch that lets you make everyone feel at ease in your presence.


To charm a person, show more of an interest in him than in talking about yourself. Ask about a person's interests or feelings and nod intently and make eye contact to show that you actually care.
To be charming, remember a person's name when you meet him, and always use it the next time you see him.
Laugh easily. Charming people are always laughing or making other people laugh. Don't be afraid to gently tease a person who is receptive to it.
 Being witty is a part of being cool. If you want to be a really cool guy, then you have to be able to make people laugh, to speak on your toes, and to maintain a light and winning banter with almost anyone who calms your way. To be witty, you also have to be sharp, and to offer incisive and clever comments at the right moment.


If someone says something funny, don't just laugh -- answer back with a funny comment of your own.
Watch other witty people you admire, from comedians to your funny uncle, to see if you can pick up on their tricks.
You'll need perfect timing to be witty. Deliver your jokes when everyone is listening and loudly enough for everyone to hear. If you make a joke too quietly or when someone else is talking, it won't be cool if you try it again.
 Don't be fooled by the movies. Cool guys don't pose in the parking lot on their motorcycle until they're surrounded by women. Call up people, make plans, take risks, and make friends that you can trust and respect. If you're social and hang out with a lot of people, then you'll look cool because you have a variety of friends.


Accept invitations. Don't turn people down just because you don't think it will be "cool" to show up somewhere.
Don't always be social. Though it's great to hang out with others, give yourself some time to do your own thing and develop your personality.
Be friendly -- to everyone. Don't only be social and nice to the cool kids -- truly cool people are cool with everyone.
 You could be amazingly good looking, but girls won't notice you if you speak timidly or have slouched posture. Hold your head up and your chest out, and look everyone in the eye. Work on your self esteem to get rid of any problems you may have with insecurity. This is not an overnight process, but you won't gain respect from others until you respect yourself.


Walk tall with your head high, showing that you're proud of who you are.
Speak clearly and slowly enough so that everyone hears what you have to say.
Make eye contact when you talk to people. This shows that you're comfortable with yourself.
Don't be afraid to laugh at yourself. This shows that you're even more confident. You don't have to be self-deprecating to be able to laugh at yourself sometime.
 Who wants to hear someone talk about himself all the time? Find out what your friends are interested in or working on and ask them about it. This will earn you a reputation as someone who is caring and considerate.


When you talk to someone, ask, "How are you?" This shows that you actually care about the person.
Ask a person about his interests. People love talking about their interests, and will think you're cool for caring enough to ask.
 You don't have to give everyone a thumbs up or grin like a fool to be positive. Being positive just means being upbeat, looking for the good in things, and talking about the things that make you happy instead of bringing people down. Nobody likes a person who is negative and constantly complaining, so you should avoid doing so when you can. Instead, focus on the positive things, and you'll see how quickly people think you're cool.


Every time you hear yourself saying something negative, say three positive things to counter what you've just said.
It's okay to complain or be negative once in a while if you're really feeling upset or annoyed. Just don't make it a habit.
If someone else is being negative, you can also make that person feel better by making him see the good side of things and by making him laugh. People will appreciate your ability to make them feel better. That's very cool.
 You may think it's cool to make fun of people who are less cool than you, or calling people "losers" because they don't meet your standards of coolness. However, putting people down doesn't make you look better -- instead, it makes you look insecure and desperate to make other people look bad so people see you in a more favorable light.


Instead of putting people down, you can tease or playfully poke fun at your friends. They'll tease you back and you'll both have fun, instead of entering a storm cloud of negativity.

