 Select a healthy, go-to distraction that requires your full attention. When you are hit with a wave of pain, pull out that item and concentrate on it until you feel the pain ebbing. In a workplace setting, a suitable distraction could be a good book, your iPad, some music and headphones, or even adult coloring., Picture your pain as an object in your mind, then open a box and place it inside. You can even visualize locking it up if that helps. Other pain management visualizations include placing your pain behind a wall or imagining your pain as a light bulb that you turn off or dim., The goal here is to calm your mind and focus on a single sense, such as sight, hearing, smell, or feeling. Put all of your attention toward analyzing the sounds that you are hearing in your office and disregard everything else. You may find that your brain is so focused on this other task that the pain becomes secondary or nonexistent.Another option is to do a “body scan” where you consider each part of your body in turn until you identify the pain sources. Then, you concentrate on sending all of your healing energy to those spots., Close your eyes, put in some headphones with soothing music or nature sounds, and visualize yourself at a calming location. It should be somewhere specific to your interests, such as the beach or the mountains. Do this for a few minutes minimum at least three times a week. This is a great way to cut down on pain right before a stressful event, like an important meeting.If you are uncertain how to begin, a therapist can guide you through the imagery process by providing verbal cues.
 This is an experimental pain relief method, but increasing numbers of people swear by it. Get a portable green light machine (available for purchase online or through a medical or therapy supply store) and place it in your workspace, several feet away from your face. Then, turn and face your body towards it for about 45 minutes, four times a week.This might be a good way to spend at least a few of your workplace lunches. Or, you can turn on the green light while you are reading or working on paperwork.
Light therapy has been used to treat a variety of ailments, including seasonal affective disorder (SAD). The light waves enter your eyes and stimulate your nervous and endocrine system to release positive chemicals into your bloodstream.