 You can massage the muscles of your feet and toes to help relieve toe cramps. As you massage your feet and toes, pay special attention to the arches of your feet and the muscles between your toes that run along the top of your foot.If you feel a knot in one of the muscles in your feet or toes, use your thumb to apply pressure to the knot for three to five seconds and then release.
Repeat the massage two to three times or until the cramp goes away.
You can use a massage roller to roll over with your foot. This can be in the form of simple wooden rollers to using a water bottle. You can place the water bottle in the freezer and roll over it, providing ice relief at the same time.;
, Performing a simple toe stretch followed by some toe wiggling may also help to get rid of your toe cramps. Stretching and wiggling your toes can help to relax the muscles that are causing your toes to cramp.To do a toe stretch, sit on the floor or on your bed with your legs out in front of you.
Then, flex your toes forward and hold for a few seconds. Then, pull them back and hold for a few more seconds.
Next, spread your toes out as far as they will stretch. Try to spread out your toes enough so that they are not touching each other.
Then, repeat the process of bending your toes forward and back. Spread your toes again and then start to wiggle your toes. Keep wiggling your toes until the cramp goes away.
Sometimes stretching the calf muscles can also ease off the tightness in the foot and toes. Simply stand facing a wall, positioning one foot in front of the other — the affected foot should be the back foot. Lean forward in a lunge, feeling a stretch in the calf of the back leg. Hold this position for 30 seconds. Repeat four to five times.
 If you find it hard or ineffective to stretch and wiggle your toes, then you may need a more powerful stretch. You can use your hands to help you stretch your toes and get rid of toe cramps.To stretch your toes with your hands, sit down with the cramping foot crossed over your other knee. Then, grab your toes and pull them back slightly so that you feel a stretch.
Hold this stretch for three to five seconds and then release. Repeat this stretch until the cramp is gone.
 You may also find it helpful to soak your toes in a warm bath or foot tub. The heat will relax the muscles in your feet and toes and help to increase blood flow. You can also add Epsom salts to the foot bath for some added relaxation.To use warm water to get rid of toe cramps, pour yourself a warm bath or fill a foot tub with warm water.
If using a bath, then add about one to two cups of Epsom salts to the bath. If using a foot tub, then add a couple of tablespoons of Epsom salts to the tub.
Immerse your feet in the bath or soak them in the foot tub for about 15–20 minutes to relax the cramps away.
 Staying active can help to prevent foot and toe cramps and it may also help to relieve them. If you get a cramp in your toes, try going for a quick walk to relieve the cramp.Try to incorporate a few short walks into your daily routine to help prevent and treat toe cramps throughout the day.

