 Avoid shopping online for a swimsuit because you cannot try before you buy unless you buy well ahead time and make sure it fits. Find a store with knowledgeable and helpful staff who want to help you find a flattering bathing suit.;
, To find a quality, well-made swimsuit try to shop at an outlet store or one that is known for quality clothing. You get what you pay for and this isn't the time to scrimp. If you can, get a Miracle Suit or similar swimsuit with built-in shapewear. This is like Spanx: Swimsuit Edition.
 One-piece halters with ruching are your best bet for covering up that tummy.
 Black and other dark colors are more slimming. Remember not to wear horizontal stripes which make the body look wider. Instead, choose vertical stripes. Avoid most prints if possible.
 Regular tanning won't really do much to make you look slimmer, but getting fake shadows and highlights can create the illusion of a slimmer figure. Go to a quality salon and get a custom contour spray tan.


If you choose to go to a salon and get a professional spray tan, ask the technician for a skin patch test to make sure the color is what you will be happy with and won't turn your skin orange.
Only try this at home if you are skilled in using self-tanner and use the right tools, like sponges.
 Good posture will rearrange a lot of the fat on your body and make you look much thinner.
 Put on a fun colorful or a subtle stylish straw or cowboy hat. Straw hats work particularly well because they let your body's heat escape from the top of your head keeping you cooler.
 Wearing pretty matching jewelry that isn't overstated or something fun with a beach type theme with shells or seahorses and starfish would put the finishing touch to your look. Add a pair of stylish flip flop type sandals that don't allow sand to get trapped around your feet. They come in a wide variety of colors and styles sure to match the rest of your sure to please outfit. You're sure to be ready for anything at the beach this season with your new swimwear and a great style that's all you.
 It can be easier to get in shape than you think, especially if you only have a little weight to lose. Give exercise a try to you might find you prefer the real results to tricks and temporary solutions.
 A simple diet change can dramatically shave off pounds, as long as it's balanced, healthy, and paired with activity. Summer is a great time to start!


A simple fix is to reduce your salt intake, as this can cause your body to retain more water.

