 The subject of abuse is tough for children and adults to discuss, so it's important to do so in an environment that feels safe. Wait for a time when you and your child don't have anywhere you need to be, and pick a place that feels comfortable, like the family kitchen or den. Let your child know that you want to ask him or her some questions and that no matter what the answer is, he or she won't be in trouble.Do not bring up the subject of abuse in front of anyone you don't trust completely. Don't bring it up in front of anyone you might suspect of abuse, including members of the child's immediate family.
It's important to be entirely nonjudgmental and reassuring throughout the discussion. Do not be dismissive or try to lighten things up, or express anger - even if it's anger at the situation and not your child.
 When your child is feeling comfortable, bring up the subject in a gentle but direct way. Ask whether anyone has touched your child in a way that's not appropriate. Use the words you and your child usually use to describe parts of the body that aren't supposed to be touched by other people.


If your child says yes, encourage him or her to tell you more. Keep asking questions in a nonjudgmental way.
Note that sometimes sexual molestation doesn't leave a negative impression on the child. Using words like "did someone hurt you" or "did someone touch you in a bad way" might not resonate with the child. Be more specific., For example, you could say that you've noticed your child seems afraid when you go to after-school care, or when a certain person comes to visit. If your child has been acting secretive, shy or aggressive, ask why. Name specific behaviours and ask your child to tell you what has been provoking them.
 Sometimes an abuser will make the child promise to keep what happened a secret, perhaps even threatening the child to keep quiet. If your child tells you he or she has been told to keep a secret, let him or her know that adults aren't supposed to tell children to keep secrets. Explain to your child that sometimes it's OK to tell a secret and that he or she won't get in trouble for telling., Above all, it's important to help your child feel safe and unjudged when he or she talks to you. Tell your child that no matter what, you want to help and keep him or her safe from harm. If you have a trusting relationship with your child, he or she will be more likely to come to you if abuse does occur.

