 Discuss some of your other options that exist for the other nearby Walt Disney World parks or local attractions in the area. With other major possibilities being the Epcot, the Disney (Hollywood/MGM) Studios, and Disney's Animal Kingdom and the mess of water parks and other activities that Disney sponsors, decide if this park is your best choice.
 The address to the Magic Kingdom is located at 3111 World Dr, Lake Buena Vista, FL 32830.. The cost to park your car at the Magic Kingdom will run you about $17 for cars and upwards from there (depending on complexity of vehicle). Depending on how far into the lots it took you to get to park, you could be located in either the Aladdin, Cruella, Hook, Jafar, Mulan, Peter Pan, Rapunzel, Scar, Simba, Ursula, Woody, or Zurg parking lots that are located on campus. ,, The parking lot for the Magic Kingdom is at the Ticket and Transportation Center (nicknamed by Disney enthusiasts as the TTC). The ride is about 10 minutes(by boat) and about 5-8 minutes (by monorail).
, You'll see Main Street USA directly in front of you.
 The Magic Kingdom is formed into about 6 lands around one central hub area/monument called Cinderella's Castle. These lands include Tomorrowland, Fantasyland, Liberty Square, Frontierland and Adventureland., The train makes one complete trip in 20 minutes, but gives you a general idea of what to expect and where to go and can pick you up and bring you elsewhere most of the time, so your feet don't walk miles around and back, many times. They have three trains that are authentic steam engines found by Disney from Mexico but were completely overhauled.
, Main Street USA is a long walkway that contains shops and a few desert-type bakeries. There aren't any real rides or shows in this section. However, when the parade comes through in Walt Disney World, it's nice to know; the parade marches down Main Street USA on it's way to it's exit/entrance gate nearby the Railroad.
 Walt decided to pay tribute to the famous Disney park contributors to thank them for all their hard work. He gave all these contributors a decal on a window. Some of them are rather hilarious (some don't just say the name but they take a humorous approach) and others are harder to spot. See how many you can spot and try to determine which designer they belong to. In the Magic Kingdom, there's a book out there that describes who's on these windows, but it hasn't been updated recently, so there could be more.
 Although the Emporium here (just at the one corner nearest the train station) supplies some really great souvenirs, there are others here such as the Plaza Ice Cream Shop where you can pick up an ice cream that isn't served from a cart.


If you'd like, you can pick up monogrammed Mickey ears at the Chapeau, or stop by Crystal Arts, Kodak Camera Center (for camera supplies), or Disney Clothiers for even more great souvenirs. But you have to judge what you'll need from this street in terms of souvenirs.
 Although with babies you can get a "Babies First Haircut with a certificate to remember this special moment (as Disney says, "Magical Moment") you yourself can get ones from here too.
 These legendary performers have straw hats, colorful striped vests, bowties, spats and taps. They sing four-part harmony for a short while and can sometime interact with guests if they aren't singing.
 Disney's Magic Kingdom provides horse-drawn trolleys, an omnibus (at times), a jitney or a horseless carriage. Sometimes their fire engine runs and takes some passengers with them. Most of them take you from the entrance near the Fire Station to the hub area located near Cinderella Castle at the center of the park.
 Although this is a place to stop and spend a few minutes, watch a few minutes of an old time movie such as Steamboat Willie which tends to never close.
 Storytellers depicts Walt as he would have looked in 1923 standing with Mickey as he was seen in the 1930s. This statue is engraved by two plaques on either side of the statue at ground level.
 Cinderella's Castle is at the hub of the park and will take you from the Hub to Fantasyland.
, You'll find several great places such as Tony's Town Square and the Plaza Restaurant to satisfy most eating needs. For quick service, there's Casey's Corner and the Main Street Confectionary and Bakery (Bakery features Starbucks Coffee).
, Tomorrowland contains a futuristic view of what life might be like for most Americans.
 "Buzz Lightyear's Space Ranger Spin" is a fun ride where you get to compete with the person sitting next to you! You shoot at the "Z" targets throughout the ride.
 The Carousel of Progress was once an exhibit at the 1964 World's Fair in New York, NYand was one of Walt's own ideas that he instilled in it's creators/builders.
 The Astro Orbitor will give you a "spin" that you will likely never forget (though this spin is perfectly safe, since you ride a "spaceship").
 This very slow moving ride can take a little while, but moves super slow and is nice and cool as it rides past and along the edge of some buildings. At one point, you can see inside of Space Mountain (and when the lights are turned on in Space Mountain, you can see part of it's track layout.)

,, Anyone who's driven a car can drive these things, but there is a height restriction to reach the pedal, so if you are a kid, ask your parents to help you.
 This is an interactive show that even involves the audience at certain points, and is sure to make you laugh.
 This is an attraction that is nice if you have Stitch lovers in your party, and it has multiple stages, so plan ahead to spend a few minutes here if you want to do it.
,, Don't ride Dumbo, if the wait line is long. Dumbo is very popular with the young and young-at-heart crowd. However, due to the 2012 addition of a second Dumbo next door, that line may be shortened quite a bit, but sometimes still does grow to long lengths that are only half as long.

You may receive a pager while you wait that will let you know when it's time to ride. If you do, allow your kids to blow off steam in the play area that is located in the area where you wait.
 This ride is relatively new, and has been known to have long waits. If you want to avoid that, consider getting to the ride first thing when the park opens, and the line may not be as long.
 The Barnstormer can be found near the railroad depot for Fantasyland.
,, The It's a Small World ride is a staple of many family's vacation plans to the Magic Kingdom.
, It's neat to be able to see the town and areas that were once shown in the movie, up close.
,, Not only will you learn some interesting facts about the presidency, but seeing some of these audio animatronics that look life-like of each of our last presidents is very amazing to all who visit.


Also take note of the official presidential seal in the waiting room. Don't try to climb over the railing to get close to the seal. It's closely-guarded and police will come and get you if you try to climb over the barricade and try to take a picture with it (escorting you completely out of the building).
, "Arrrgggh, matey! Ahoy lads!"

, It's nice and cool inside and you can take a long load off your feet for a little while. The show lasts about 10-15 minutes (depending on how long you must wait to exit standing in line).
 Jungle cruise is a cruise along the Walt-Disney World river featuring several audio animatronic animals and even some audio animatronic Native American Indians join in the "party". This is a good start for a cool, misty ride (especially if it's windy and rainy (though each boat is covered in a top on top of you)).
 Don't worry if you don't get to experience the thrill; it's much like Dumbo, but you fly on carpet-looking instruments.
 Not only do you have to walk up many, many stairs, but also with no elevator to take you to the top, and on top of that, there's little to see and do once you reach the top!

, Your heart will be pounding from the thrill you'll receive here, and you'll be ready for more action. Splash Mountain is good on those days when it's hot and humid, but the lines tend to be crazy long by Noon, so get here first thing if you'd like to ride.


This ride always closes down the moment any lightning or thunder is observed in this region of the state. However, they do send down "test cars" as a just-in-case measure, to check when the area is safe and still keeps the car motors running smoothly. You should see empty cars while this ride is underway during a thunderstorm.
, Reach to go through it from the Main Street end of the hub in the park. It is quite immense when you walk through it. Most people try to get a feel for it's size, so be one of those visitors and try it out.,, Especially in the holiday season(including different ones for Halloween and Christmas - (hence HalloWishes and Holiday Wishes), Wishes is very interesting and makes you want to feel like a kid again. Almost any place in the Magic Kingdom is a good place to watch Wishes, however, Main Street USA facing Cinderella Castle is by far the best (and most-popular) area to watch it (so be there bright and early before people catch on to your viewing spot). Try to get to your chosen viewing spot at least half an hour to an hour in advance, as viewing spots everywhere tend to fill up quickly.
, Though the monorail is quick and will get you past the hot sticky feeling when your feet are tired on the boat, but no matter what time of day the same two options are still available.

