

Because mental health counseling covers a range of areas (like marriage and family counseling, psychotherapy, or substance abuse treatment) you will need to decide exactly which area or areas you want to specialize in.Some careers require additional training or experience in that area before you can begin practicing.
Think about things like what setting you want to work in (a hospital, clinic, treatment center, etc.) and the types of clients you want to help.
Take some time researching the area you are interested in to determine what the requirements are, how much you will make, and where you can practice (for example, private practice, in a counseling center, etc.)

, There are many different ways you can begin your counseling career. You may want to start your own independent practice, join an existing practice, work for a non-profit organization, or even a government agency.Think about the pros and cons of starting your career in each setting.


Keep in mind that you will likely be paid during your post-licensing practicum or at least during your externship, even if it is just a stipend. During these experiences, you will also have a chance to experience different types of populations and figure out what population you want to work with.
If benefits and security are important to you, you may want to join a practice or work for an agency.
Consider joining an existing practice to gain experience and then opening your own practice.
Research all of your options on sites the U.S. Department of Labor.
Think about issues like liability and the opportunity to select your own clients rather than have them assigned to you.


The final thing you need to do to become a licensed mental health counselor is to apply for a job (and get it) or open your own practice.

Use the relationships and connections you made during graduate school and your residency to find out about job opportunities in your area.
Search job boards and sites like LinkedIn to learn about mental health counseling positions that are available.
When you get a job, then you can keep your position and get a pay bump after you are fully licensed, or you can leave to start your own practice. However, keep in mind that you cannot open a private practice in any state until you are fully licensed.
Remember that you might not get the first position you apply for. Don’t let it discourage you, just keep submitting your resume to agencies and centers and you will obtain a position.

