 Most machines have a setting which can be set by the operator to tighten the claw once in X amount of tries with a bit of randomization. Effectively, this means that the claw will be "loose" most of the time, but will tighten once in every X amount of turns (on an average––not necessarily every nth turn), so people only win every so often.


There are also alternative, tricky programming for some machines. On such machines, there is a dual strength setting that causes them to grip with full strength initially and loosen after some time, giving the impression that the toy was caught but managed to slip. This effectively makes the machine more like a slot gambling machine rather than one depending on skill!;
, Some older machines have claws with fixed strength from turn to turn. This is because these machines have claws with strengths that are fixed with a screw by opening the machine. In the case of such an older machine, skill can make quite a difference.
 Don't play a machine that only has a right and forward button, when you've pressed and released each button once the claw will drop without you getting the chance to adjust. Look for one with a joystick and a "drop" button.
 When selecting the toy you think you can get, put aside the toy you really want but is trapped. There are ways to enhance the chances you'll get something from the machine:


Close in on a toy that is on top of the pile. If it has an arm or tail trapped under another toy, it won't come up, so avoid that one. The claw is strong enough to lift a toy, but not to un-wedge one.
Consider the shape of the toy. Avoid choosing round toys as the claw will probably slip on the toy. Choose toys with features that allow the claw to have a better grip, like a doll with large pigtails.
Pay attention to how far the claw-track reaches––toys against the glass are a no-go.
 Stand in front of the machine to do left-right, but stand beside the machine to do forward-back. The mirror that's in most machines screws up depth perception.
, Some claws drift left or right, some rotate and change the position of the prongs.
 You probably didn't get it.


If the prongs didn't close or let go of the animal without lifting it, stop immediately because the machine is broken or rigged.
If the claw grabbed the toy, then dropped it, try again.
If it missed entirely, adjust and don't forget to compensate for drift and rotation.
 That said, also know when to quit. If it's the toy you're after, you can probably get a very similar, better-made toy for 5-10 dollars at a box store or the mall. If you have spent two dollars, seriously evaluate whether it's worth it and whether the machine works. If you're after the thrill of the win, consider downloading an app for a game of skill and playing to win online without mounting cash losses.

