 There are a number of non-lethal bug vacuums on the market. They work by using suction to suck the bug—in this case a bee—into a chamber. Once the bug is in the chamber, you can close it off, remove it, and then release the bee outside. While this is a fairly effective method, remember that you’ll be going on the offensive, which will raise your chances of getting stung.
 Make sure you’ve read your manual, have fresh batteries, and know how to work your bug vacuum. Make sure the release chamber is loaded and is flush with the rest of the gun—you don’t want your bee escaping and stinging you!Practice capturing a small piece of paper or a fly.
Make sure you’re comfortable locking the chamber and taking it out. With most non-lethal bug vacuums, you shut the chamber and then turn off the suction. Know how to do this.
Practice removing the capture chamber so that you can release the bee without getting stung.
 Since you'll be required to get up close and personal with the bee, you'll have to cover yourself as best as you can to avoid getting stung. The more skin you cover, the less chances you'll have of getting stung if the bee decides to go after you.


Find a sweat shirt or hoodie. Hoodie's are great because the hood will cover your neck, head, and your arms. Try to pick one that is relatively thick.
Put on some long pants. You want to make sure your legs are covered, too.
Wear goggles or glasses, if you’re extra nervous.
Make sure to wear thick clothes. Bees often have no trouble stinging through clothing, so pick clothes that will protect you the best., After you’re dressed appropriately, approach the bee and use the suction to capture it. Since you’ve practiced, this should work like a charm. Most non-lethal bug vacuum guns have just enough power to capture the bee without hurting it. Remember, though, don’t get brave. Only approach the bee if you’re confident your gun will capture it., Take the capture chamber out of the gun and wait a couple minutes for the bee to settle down. The key here is that you need to wait until the bee is standing still for a minute. After a few minutes, take it outside, sit it on a table, and crack the opening just a little bit. Walk away a few feet and wait until the bee leaves.