 Anorexia causes people to restrict food to an unhealthy level and to try to lose as much weight as possible. You might notice that someone with anorexia is underweight yet is still trying to lose more weight. Some other symptoms to watch for include:Having a BMI that is less than 18.5.
Having an intense fear of weight gain.
Incessantly reducing caloric intake (such as an intake of 300-500 kcal per day).
Engaging in compulsive physical activity.
Refusing to maintain a healthy weight.
Denying that he is underweight.
Binging and purging by self-induced vomiting and laxative abuse.
Relying on weight loss and food restriction for self-esteem.
Being suicidal.
Withdrawing from social interaction and failure to fulfill academic or career potential.
 Bulimia is characterized by a pattern of binge-eating and purging. People who are bulimic will eat a large amount of food and then purge it using laxatives, vomiting, or by engaging in excessive exercise. Unlike people with anorexia, people with bulimia may be at a normal weight or even a little overweight. Some symptoms to watch for include:BMI in the normal or overweight range between 18.5 and 30.
Basing sense of self-worth on body weight and shape.
A persistent sore throat.
Swollen cheeks caused by swollen glands in the neck.
Weakened tooth enamel.
Acid reflux.
Dehydration and/or electrolyte imbalance.
Upset stomach from laxative use.
Having a significantly elevated risk for mortality due to complications of the disorder and suicidal tendencies.
Reducing social-life activities.
 Binge-eating disorder is a common problem in the United States. This eating disorder is characterized by eating large amounts of food in one sitting. However, people who have binge-eating disorder do not purge like people with bulimia do, so they are usually overweight or obese. Some things to watch for with binge-eating disorder include:Eating large amounts of food quickly.
Eating more than a reasonable amount of food in one sitting, such as an entire large pizza or a large bag of chips.
Eating an amount that makes the person feel uncomfortably full or even sick.
Sneaking food and eating in secret.
Trying to diet but often losing no weight.
Feeling stressed, guilty, or ashamed about binges.
 If you suspect that a man you know has an eating disorder, encourage him to seek help. Encourage the person to speak with a doctor. He may be referred to a mental health professional such as a therapist.Registered dieticians also have a central role in any successful treatment program for eating disorders.


Try saying something like, “I have noticed some things about your eating habits and preoccupation with your weight that are making me concerned. I care about you and I want to help. Would you consider talking to a doctor about this?”
There are also in-patient rehabilitation centers that deal specifically with eating disorders. You may consider helping the person find more information on these treatment centers.
If you think that you may have an eating disorder, then seek help for yourself. Talk with a trusted friend or family member about the problem and ask for help getting treatment. You may also call your family doctor and set up an appointment to discuss what has been going on.

