 You already know you’re in a bad mood, and there’s a good chance your kids will do something to upset you. Before it happens, plan out how you’ll respond. Deciding now, before you are angry, allows you to respond in an appropriate way.


Write down a list of possible responses to what will most likely occur, and refer back to the list when you are upset. Adhering to your pre-committed choices can increase your chances of not taking your mood out on your kids.;
, When you are stressed, you are more likely to snap off on others or become angry more easily. If you are noticing yourself becoming more frustrated, overwhelmed, anxious, or increasingly annoyed at your children, it may be a sign that you need to take a breather and practice self-care.


Excess stress may be identified by crying spells, having headaches or other pain, withdrawing from friends and family, and having trouble sleeping.Talk to your doctor if you are overcome by chronic stress and need help managing it.
 When your kids are screaming and you feel like you’re going to implode, try a stress-reduction activity instead of acting out. Taking a few moments to concentrate on calming down can prevent you from acting in a way that makes you feel guilty and bad. It can also stop your kids from becoming more upset, which can escalate your situation and mood even further.


Breathing deep, listening to music, taking a walk outside, meditating, and exercising are just a few ways you can attempt to keep your stress levels down and not further contribute to your mood., Get honest with yourself and figure out what is contributing to your bad mood. Are you tired, hungry, lonely, sad? If so, determine why and take time to honor your feelings. Instead of resisting what you are feeling, sometimes, taking a closer look and trying to address the matter is the best way to resolve your irritation.See if you can change your circumstances. For instance, if you are a single parent who hardly ever gets time for yourself, maybe you can see if the other parent could watch the kids sometimes. Or, maybe ask a grandparent, other relative, or hire a babysitter for when you need a break.
Work smarter, not harder. You may be in a bad mood because you are taking on too much by yourself. Start learning to delegate work or household tasks to others. See if your coworker can pitch in on that big project. Teach your children to help out with some of the chores depending on their age and abilities.
 When you feel yourself start to get irritated with your children, tell yourself you’ll only be upset for a certain amount of time. However, once you make a commitment to this time, you must honor it. Giving your mood a little bit of freedom, but still reigning it in, may be just what you need to snap out of it.


Tell your children, “I’m really upset, but I’m going to go wash the dishes now and when I’m done, I won’t be angry anymore.” Saying this gives your children reassurance and lets them know you need your space.