 Pet food labels list ingredients by weight in decreasing order. Although cats can have some vegetables, they haven't evolved to tolerate vegetarian or vegan diets.For this reason, you should make sure the first three ingredients are always meat (includes poultry, lamb, and fish) or meat meal.Avoid any foods whose top three ingredients include grains (such as corn or wheat) and/or gluten.Meat is animal flesh, muscle, esophagi, hearts, and lungs. Meal is finely ground dehydrated tissue. Meat weighs more because of its water and fat contents. However, meat meal is higher in minerals and protein.Meat and meat meal are especially crucial for diabetic cats. If you buy food containing gravy or any grains, they should appear toward the end of the ingredient list. No more than 10 percent of your cat's calories should come from carbohydrates., Nutrients are more important than the ingredients. Cats need a variety of nutrients to survive. These include amino acids, vitamins (especially B vitamins), water, and fiber. Make sure the food contains more amino acids and B vitamins than fiber and other carbohydrates. Nutrient requirements change throughout a cat's life. Check with your vet for specific recommendations.The amino acid taurine is one of the most essential nutrients for cats' vision and heart health. They literally need it to stay alive. While taurine doesn't have to be among the first three ingredients, the farther up in the list of ingredients it appears, the better., Cats' daily caloric needs vary depending on their weight or stage of life. Often, calories are listed as kilocalories or “kcal.” This means the same thing as “calories” on human food labels. This information is usually listed on the back of the package below the feeding instructions. In the U.S., manufacturers must include the calories per kilogram of net weight in kilograms followed by a “translation” of the number of calories per can.An example of this information might look like this: “Calorie Content (Calculated) 853 kcal/kg 73 kcal/can.”
The calorie content of the food must be balanced with its nutrient content. However, manufacturers in the U.S. are not required to list a breakdown of percentages of each nutrient per calorie. If you can't find an itemized list, contact the manufacturer for more information.