 In order for you to become a Combat Ranger, you must be using Rena as your character and should be level 15 or higher to have the Ranger quest available in your Quest Log.


After completing the Ranger quest, you will be given 3 advance class choices, one will be Combat Ranger.
You can find your Quest Log at the bottom right-hand side of the screen.;
, After accepting the Ranger Quest in your Quest Log, go straight to Underground Waterway and kill 7 Mice, but this should be done under Very Hard mode; otherwise, killing Mickey won't be counted.


This can be done in a party.
If a party member kills a Mickey, that too will be counted.
 All you need to do is clear the dungeon in any difficulty mode you want. There's no need for you to have a higher dungeon run grade. As long as you have successfully finished clearing this dungeon, this part of the quest will be completed.
 Look for Hoffman in Elder Village; he's the Village's Equipment NPC, which can be found at the top right of the map.
 He will give you the third test.
 After talking to Hoffman, head back to the Suburbs of Wally's Castle and clear the dungeon again, but this time, under Hard mode.


You can invite your friends for a party raid or join randomly with other players.
 This will allow you to complete your Ranger chain quest and become a full-fledge ranger.
 To start your Combat Ranger quest, talk with Luichel in the Elder Village. You can find Luichel at the western side of the map, near the portal that leads to the field.
 Luichel will give you three tasks to complete before she changes you into a Combat Ranger. Fortunately, all the quests is done in one map: Wally's Castle.
 Kill at least 8 Little Soldiers and 8 Big Soldiers.
 You must have a B rank or higher as your overall score.You can invite your higher-level friends or guild members to help you in completing this part of the quest.


After completing the quest, return to Luichel or simply hit “Complete” using your Quest Log.
 There are instances that you’ll finished the Combat Ranger quest but your class won’t change. In order to fix this, simply log off then log in to have the server register the changes.


Alternatively, you can use the portal that leads you to the field then enter the town again.
Sometimes the server is too busy, especially during peak hours, to register your progress, hence the bug.
 Your character will do an open windmill attack that will throw your enemy into the air. This is a great combo for PvP and juggling enemies if followed by another set of attacks with good timing.


To execute this skill, tap the Up arrow key twice to double jump and then press Z to make your character drop hard. This will cause over 200% physical damage. Follow those keys with another Z to make Rena do a windmill to inflict over 100% physical damage (Up, Up, Z, Z).
 Rena can do Dash attack, but as a Combat Ranger, your character can inflict more damage using the same move.


To execute this, tap the arrow key toward your enemy to run and then press Z three times to slide and kick you enemy. You’ll inflict three hits with more than 130% physical damage each (Right, Right or Left, Left. Z, Z, Z).
 Players often use this in PvP mode. Rena leaps into the air and then kicks three times, sending the enemy back.


To execute this combo, simply run toward your enemy and then jump before tapping Z three times (Right, Right or Left, Left to run. Up. Z, Z, Z).
You should tap the keys quickly. This might be difficult since you have to jump after the dash, leaving your character vulnerable. Keep on practicing until you learn the perfect timing for this combo.
Each kick gives more than 100% to 160% physical damage to your enemy.

