 For this mobile you will need silk flowers, thick ribbon, straight pins, and a straw or styrofoam wreath. A 12 inch wreath will be a good size, and you'll need several bouquets of flowers.
 Start by attaching the ribbon to the inside of your wreath with two straight pins (push the pins into the wreath). Then, wrap your wreath in the ribbon until it is fully covered. If you have lots of ribbon to spare you may want to wrap it tightly so that the ribbon continually overlaps. This will prevent your wreath from showing through. Then, secure the end of the ribbon inside your wreath with two more straight pins.It's easier to wrap your wreath if you leave the packaging on. Styrofoam wreaths don't always have packaging, but straw wreaths generally do. This will keep the straw from falling out of the wreath.
 Take your flowers and cut off any excess leaves, stems, or parts of the flower that you don't like. The flowers will need to be relatively flat, and you want each bloom to be an individual, meaning you don't want to leave the flowers connected to one another. You can use different colored flowers here, but one flower would look pretty as well.
 Hold your wreath and place each flower on the outside of the wreath, securing it with pins. Make sure you place the pin as far inside the flower as you can so it doesn't show. Cover the entire wreath with flowers. You can use glue here instead to attach your flowers, but pinning is easier and will provide a more secure hold for the flower.You don't want to place the flower on the wreath as if you were hanging it from a door. Instead, imagine your wreath is flat on the ground. You want to place your flowers on the side of the wreath, that is more perpendicular to the ground, rather than the top of the wreath that is parallel with your ground. Place your flowers around the wreath as if you are creating a crown.
 Take two ribbons and attach them to the wreath as you did in the previous section, on the 12, 3, 6, and 9 points of a clock. Because your mobile doesn't have anything hanging from it, your ribbons will need to be much longer. Cut your ribbons four to five feet each so that when you hang them the mobile will hang down about two to two and a half feet from the ceiling.It may be better to start off with longer ribbon, because you can always cut it if it's too long. If you cut your ribbon too short, you will have to cut another length of ribbon to make it longer.
 Hang the ribbons from a hook attached to your ceiling and position your mobile so that the wreath is parallel with the ceiling. If you find it is too long you can always trim the ribbon and reattach it to your wreath.


This wreath is a simple, yet elegant mobile. You can make it more exciting by adding different types of flowers, or you can keep it elegant by using a white or off white flower with a solid color ribbon.

