 If your skin is starting to peel, it's a good idea to immediately jump in a cold shower or bath. The cold water will soothe your skin, and it will also prevent your skin from peeling so fast by cooling it down.Pat your skin in order to dry it with a clean and soft towel. If you rub the skin with the towel, you could make the peeling worse. You could also just put a washcloth in cold water, and apply it to the skin, doing so very gently.
You could cool the skin by putting ice in a cloth, and placing the cloth on the skin. The goal is to reduce the heat. This will make your skin feel better. At all costs, avoid scratching at peeling skin, as you will make it worse and could even cause permanent damage to your skin by scarring it.;
, Find a moisturizer that is designed to help with sunburn or peeling skin. A good choice is a lotion that contains Aloe Vera.



Aloe vera is made from natural cactus extract and is supposed to soothe the skin. You can also buy pure Aloe Vera gel. Either way, applying it to the damaged area should bring you some quick relief.The right lotion should slow the peeling and also reduce inflammation of the skin. Aloe Vera is also known to stop itching of the skin.
 Even when you don’t have peeling skin, drinking a lot of water is one of the best things you can do for your skin. Water matters even more when your skin is damaged. Your body needs the water to heal.


It’s a good idea to drink as many as 8 to 10 glasses of water a day if your skin is peeling. If you can drink that many glasses of water when your skin has no damage, that’s good for your skin too.Good hydration is essential for healthy skin. Water is going to help your body repair peeling skin. It’s basically a fuel for your body.
 Sometimes peeling skin is caused by a medical condition like eczema or psoriasis. These are common reasons the skin might peel.

See a dermatologist for such conditions in extreme cases. But you could also try purchasing cortisone cream across the counter. Exposing skin with Psoriasis to minor sunlight can help the condition.Allergic reactions can cause eczema, so try a different laundry detergent and check your diet. You could see an allergist. Take lukewarm, not hot baths. Try applying hydrocortisone cream and calamine lotion.Athlete's foot can cause peeling skin. To treat it, you should wash and dry your feet thoroughly twice a day. Change your socks every day, as well as your shoes. Sprinkle the feet with anti-fungal powder.