 Maybe you have a collection of plastic spoons already cluttering up the junk drawer––if so, they might be just the ticket. Otherwise, plastic spoons can be purchased from dollar stores, supermarkets and stores stocking outdoor barbecue/catering gear. It is recommended that you stick to plain white for the first project, as white tends to work with almost any décor and can be shifted around the house if needed. If you have your heart set on a particular color though, be sure that all the spoons match in hue.


Choose spoons all in the same size unless you're absolutely clear how to interweave different sizes of spoons. If you do use different sizes, plan a pattern in advance to avoid the end result looking haphazard.;
, For this project, you'll only want to use the actual spoon head or scoop, while discarding the handle. To neatly remove the spoon head from the handle, place the spoon on a flat surface suitable for cutting into (self-heal craft mats are an ideal surface). Using the Exacto knife to cleanly dislodge the spoon handle from the spoon. Slide the knife neatly across the base of the handle, aiming for an even removal. It may take a few goes before you develop a rhythm that works––just discard any spoons that break unevenly.
 Consider using a large container to keep the spoon heads in one place for quick access. And don’t throw away the handles––you may decide that you'd like to use them to garnish or enhance the shade or lamp stand later.
 What shade will you use? There are two basic options, the first being an existing shade in need of updating, the second being a repurposed plastic bottle turned into a shade. In this article, the plastic bottle version is prepared as follows:









Clean out and dry a plastic bottle of a size suitable to form a light shade. Generally a larger plastic bottle is more suitable (see next). Keep the lid on the bottle for the moment.
Using the Exacto knife, cut out the base of the plastic bottle. This is the part of the shade that will hang downward. Insert the globe into the bottle to ensure that it fits without touching the sides anywhere. If it doesn't fit, find a larger plastic bottle.
If you choose to use an existing light shade or lampshade instead, ensure that it is clean. A clean surface is important for good adhesion of the spoons. You can simply wipe over the shade with a damp cloth but if you need to remove stains, mild dish soap and warm water should do the trick. Allow to dry completely before proceeding.
 Using the spoon heads, you can aim for a neat interlocking, shell-like pattern that allows the spoons to rest evenly a little over each other or you could try having the spoon heads face outward. For best results, lay out the spoons first to ensure you like the pattern, then trial a temporary pattern on the shade itself using tape or poster tack to hold the pieces in place. Don't be afraid to try different patterns and directions to create interesting effects––this trial will reassure you that the pattern looks good. For the trial:









Lay the first layer or row of spoons around the bottom of the bottle. Then pile the next spoon (tip first) over the first layer of the previously affixed spoon heads.
Use a small amount of tape or poster tack to temporarily adhere each spoon to the shade. Add enough spoon heads until you're satisfied that you have a suitable pattern ready to go.
 Once you're happy with the pattern you've tested, fire up the hot glue gun. Work evenly around the plastic bottle (or existing shade) to adhere the spoon heads:









Use a clean dab of glue on the top of the spoon (closest to the handle). Hold firmly against the bottle shade for a few seconds until you are confident the spoon has adhered. On the other hand, if you're gluing the spoons to face outward, add the glue to the back of the spoon at the point where it will attach to the bottle.
Continue working around the entire bottle until it is completely covered and you cannot see anything underneath the spoon heads. They should all sit around the bottle evenly. It's important to make adjustments as you go because once the glue has dried, the spoon heads are there for good.
At this stage, should you wish to bedazzle the light shade, you can do so by adding costume gems, rhinestones, etc. in a neat pattern on the spoons. It's recommended that you don't overdo this!

, To hide the bottle neck area where the electrical cord will be placed, make a circlet of spoons around the neck. This means placing glue into the middle inside of each spoon and attaching the next one until a neat circle has formed. You don't have to make this circle as tight as the bottle's neck itself; it just has to hide the bottle neck from anyone viewing the lamp from beneath.









If you're using an existing shade, the circlet may or may not be necessary. Judge it by whatever shape the shade is.
 It might be helpful to keep the bottle lid and pierce a hole through it to hold the electrical cord neatly in place. Whether or not this is a useful aspect will depend on the size of the bottle neck, the size of the cord, etc. Judge it by the sizes and need for steadiness of your particular materials.
 Switch on the light and enjoy the ambiance created as the light shines through the spoons.








