 Provide official transcripts showing all your degrees and college credits to a Florida school district office. If you attended more than one university, get official transcripts from each school attended. If you have any non-degree certificates from your university or a community college, include those in your submission.Official transcripts can be provided by your school, often for free and occasionally at a small charge. Call the registrar’s office or the records office at your past schools to get specific instructions on how to order official transcripts.
Include the original copy of your credential evaluation report if you have an international degree. The report should state the equivalency of a U.S. degree and have descriptive course titles and semester-hour units for your schoolwork., Provide copies of valid teaching certificate(s) received from any other U.S. states or territories if applicable. Check whether your state accepts Florida's Professional Educator's Certificate if applicable. If it does, then Florida will reciprocate and accept your state's certificate as well.


If your credentials are through the National Board of Professional Teaching Standards, you may instead submit your credentials issued by them in the same manner that you would a state education certificate.
Mail your application package to Florida's Bureau of Educator Certification in the state's Department of Education.
 Though not required to move your teaching credentials from another state to Florida, a portfolio supplemented by strong references may be necessary when applying for any above-entry-level teaching positions. Include samplings of material such as lesson plans, assignments, and evaluations from past teaching positions that best highlight your experience.Ensure that all the material in your portfolio is your original work, and that you have the rights to reproduce and distribute such material for this purpose. Check with your current employer to see if they have any restrictions on content created by their teachers.

