 Generally, antidepressants are not recommended for use during pregnancy. Exceptions can be made when the risks posed by depression outweigh the risks of medication treatment during pregnancy.Some people may stay on antidepressants if there is a history of severe and/or recurrent depression, a history of mental illness (such as bipolar disorder), or a history of suicidal thoughts.Talk to your provider and discuss whether medications is safe for you during pregnancy. Do you feel like you can safely come off from your medications now and function well? If not, then you should discuss what risks your particular medication may pose to your pregnancy.
Be aware that there are risks to the baby if depression goes untreated, which include an increased risk of irritability, less activity and alertness, and fewer facial expressions when compared to babies born to moms without depression. Some evidence also links depression to changes in how the baby grows and to shorter pregnancy lengths.;
, If you are prescribed medication during pregnancy it’s likely within a certain class of antidepressant medications, known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs. These include the medications citalopram (Celexa), fluoxetine (Prozac) and sertraline (Zoloft). Serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as duloxetine (Cymbalta) and venlafaxine (Effexor XR) may also be prescribed.Other medications that may be prescribed include Bupropion (Wellbutrin) and tricyclic antidepressants. It should be noted that these are not considered first line treatment and may only be prescribed with caution for women who have not responded favorably to SSRIs or SNRIs. Bupropion may be linked with an increased risk of the fetus being born with heart defects., Some antidepressant medications should be avoided during pregnancy. These include the SSRI paroxetine (Paxil) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), including phenelzine (Nardil) and tranylcypromine (Parnate). These medications are associated with risks including fetal heart defects and limited fetal growth., Talk to your provider about medication use. Most medications are taken in pill form once or twice daily. It’s advised to take medications at the same time each day. You may be directed to take medication with food.


Do not miss a dose. If you do miss a dose, take it as soon as possible. If your dose is closer to your next dose than your previous dose, then skip the dose and take your next scheduled dose.Your provider may have specific recommendations for you in taking medications. Use as directed.
 The best way to know if you can safely take antidepressant medication is to consult with your prescriber. Tell your provider that you are planning to become pregnant or are pregnant and discuss your medication options. You may stay on your current medication or begin taking a different medication. You may start to slowly wean off of your medication. Consult with your pharmacist or provider.Read any information that comes with your medication to understand the risks.
If you make changes in medication, always do so under the supervision of a trained professional.
 You may choose to switch medications prior to becoming pregnant. Risks of switching medications include failed treatment or relapse of depression. Prior to making a medication switch, speak with your provider to weigh the potential costs and benefits.There may be a medication more suitable for pregnancy than one you currently take. When weighing risks, discuss your options thoroughly with your provider. Ask, “What potential risks are associated with switching medication? How will this affect my depression? What known risks could affect the developing fetus?”

, When taking medication, it’s important to schedule follow-up appointments to monitor use and effectiveness. An individualized plan is always best.This is especially true while pregnant. Note any changes you experience related to medication use during pregnancy. Discuss any side-effects or changes in effectiveness with your provider.


Note any concerns you have about medication while pregnant.
 While it is true that there are risks, it is also risky to avoid antidepressants if you've been prescribed them, and both you and your developing fetus will benefit from keeping you as mentally healthy as possible during your pregnancy.


Overall risks remain low, yet a complete understanding of fetal risks remains unknown. Some possible links include certain malformations and risks to the developing fetus, such as miscarriage, heart problems such as congenital heart disease, and lung problems such as pulmonary hypertension., Some newborns may experience discontinuation symptoms once born. This means that the baby may experience a type of withdrawal from antidepressant medication, including jitters, irritability, or poor feeding.It should be noted that tapering doses (or decreasing medication) in the last trimester is not associated with a decrease in symptoms, and is not recommended for women who may be at risk for postpartum depression.
 You may risk a relapse in depression if you stop using antidepressants while pregnant. Other symptoms associated with stopping the use of SSRIs include nausea and vomiting, chills, fatigue, anxiety, and irritability.You may wish to weigh your risk of postpartum depression once your pregnancy is over.


Do not discontinue use without the supervision of your provider. He or she may recommend tapering your medication, which means slowly coming off of medication over time with decreased doses. Suddenly stopping medication can lead to unwanted side-effects., Aside from using medication, make sure you practice healthy coping strategies to cope with everyday stress. Engage in meaningful friendships, do appropriate exercise, use relaxation methods (such as deep breathing and muscle relaxation), and avoid unnecessary stressors. Avoid people who stress you out and learn the value of saying “no” and setting limits.Do not turn to alcohol or drugs as a way to cope. There is no safe time during pregnancy to consume alcohol.Alcohol can lead to problems such as miscarriage, low birth, weight, premature birth, and fetal alcohol syndrome.