 Can you demonstrate that you meet the VA criteria for your length of service in active duty, the reserves or the national guard, or alternatively show that you are the spouse of a deceased service member who died on duty or due to a service disability? Compare your circumstances against this table of specific conditions on length of service, and area served to confirm your entitlement.Some examples of veterans and their spouses using a VA mortgage might be: an officer just returned from active duty, the wife of a serving officer who needs a family home, or an ex officer who left active service decades ago.
You can use the online ebenefits service to request further information.If you do not have online access you can contact the VA Eligibility Center on 1-888-768-2132.
 Veterans can borrow up to $417,000 without a down payment in most areas of the USA. Loan limits vary by county, since the value of a house depends in part on its location.However, if you live in a high cost area many properties might rise above that cost ceiling so the VA have made some high cost property areas exceptions.
This VA guide to high cost counties lists the areas where you can still apply even if a property is above the $417,000 ceiling. , The VA do not require a down payment, but you must prove you can cover the payments, document your credit, savings, and employment. t is your responsibility to make sure that you have a satisfactory credit history and sufficient income to meet the terms of the loan. To be confident that you can make the necessary monthly mortgage payments the VA advice is that you should not have a total debt to credit ratio of over 41%.
Request a Certificate of Eligibility (COE). This is a document issued by the VA to confirm your right to receive VA Benefits. You can obtain one via the ebenefits service or from your local VA office., You can choose to use a mortgage broker or search directly for individual lenders that suit your needs. Ask friends and family for recommendations as this may be a useful pointer to reputable lenders.


You can try using an online mortgage finding website. This will search all available products for you. You can also try providers who work specifically to Veteran’s needs.