 You may feel more comfortable finding support with people who have the same or similar type of cancer as you. Talking with others with the same type of cancer can be helpful and cathartic. It may also feel good not having to explain your experience to those around you and simply know they can relate to what you are going through.For example, if you have breast cancer, you may look for breast cancer support groups. If you have lung cancer, you may opt for a hotline that focuses on lung cancer survivors.
If you are a caretaker of someone living with cancer, you may look for a support community of caretakers looking after people with the same cancer.
 You may also prefer to lean on a community of people that are in the same age range as you. You may search for cancer support groups that focus on young adults or the elderly. Or you may opt for a buddy program that pairs individuals with those that are the same age.Keep in mind that though you may share the same age as those in your support community, this does not mean you will get along or connect right away. You may still have to work to connect with others, but it may be easier if you can relate to each other in age.
 If your family background, faith, or culture is very important to you, you may look for a community that shares these values. You may opt for a support group that focuses on your family background, faith, or culture so you can be more comfortable in the group. Having individuals who share your culture in your support network can allow you to feel more understood and accepted.For example, you may look for a support group that focuses on Muslim women living with cancer or Jewish young adults living with cancer. You may check your local community center or your place of worship for information on cancer support groups.
 You should also consider which type of community will suit your personality and your level of comfort around others. There are many options out there for connecting with those living with cancer and you should find the option that works best for you.For example, if you are more introverted or not interested in face to face contact, you may opt for an online support group or a social media group. If you are more extroverted, you may go for an in person support group or do a wellness retreat with other cancer survivors.

