 Consider putting the camp-half blood logo on them. There are also Camp Half-Blood T-shirts that you can buy from Amazon. Although they look like the actual shirts from the books, these can be expensive.;
, is going to be. The map shows you everything in the camp. Make sure your house/the place you're having camp is going to be big enough! You can look at a map of Camp Half-Blood online for reference.
 Make a schedule of what you're going to do. (i.e 11:00 A.M.: Arts and crafts, 11:30 A.M. combat training, 12:00 Noon, Mess Hall Lunch)

, Currently, Rachel Elizabeth Dare is the camp oracle. If you have a redhead friend, ask them to be the oracle. If you don't, make a fake oracle by typing up confusing poems (that has meaning under the confusion) and that can lead to tasks and accomplishments.
, They aren't real characters. Plus, this is your Camp Half-Blood. Maybe you could create your own characters!

, Replace it with something fun. Such as, free time, rock climbing, or making your own weapons!

, Make sure the quizzes are good quizzes that give you answers.
 Cabin inspection, dishes, etc. Plus, it's good for your house too!

, Select the cabin leaders by who ever is the first person to be claimed for said cabin, is the cabin leader, until someone who has done more quests than them.
 Take three (don't have to be large) sticks, hot glue gun, and a flag. Glue the sticks together like a T with an extra line close the the bottom (leave a space at the bottom). then, take the flag (or bandana) and either


Sew the top over the top of the top stick (make a loop over the stick and sew) and at the bottom,cut a hole in the bottom (big enough for the stick to fit through) and do the same thing as you did to the top.
, If you don't want the camp to end that late, then the campfire is optional (especially if you're not old enough to start a fire.) You could always use a virtual fire!

, One day, cabins this, this, and this (or to make it simple, assign cabins to "team blue" and "team red and say team blue/red) will be the monsters today.
 Obviously, DO NOT USE REAL SWORDS, BOWS AND ARROWS, SPEARS, ETC. Use fake swords (you can find them in a Halloween store for about a buck or so), use fake bows and arrows (you can make yourself just Google it or wikiHow search it), and DON'T USE SPEARS, DULLED, FAKE OR NOT! THEY STILL HURT!

, You can either make it out of wood, or just Google "how to make fake armor". I use plastic breastplates.
 Or, you could just pick a place with a tree at the entrance

, Keep your campers entertained, be creative, and maybe even just improvise sometimes. I had an Aphrodite cabin beauty pageant, an Apollo cabin karaoke competition, Ares arm wrestling competition, Athena cabin chess match, Poseidon cabin "breath holding" competition, etc.

