 Other studies suggest that raising your vitamin D levels can lower blood pressure, decrease the chances of having a heart attack or stroke, and reduce the risk of diabetes, autoimmune diseases, rheumatoid arthritis, and multiple sclerosis., It’s important to make a concerted effort to bring up vitamin D levels in your body because deficiencies have been linked to a wide variety of chronic illness. Low levels of vitamin D have been linked to type 1 diabetes, chronic muscle and bone pain, and several types of cancer, including breast, colon, prostate, ovarian, esophageal, and lymphatic cancers.About 40-75% of people are vitamin D-deficient, largely because it’s not abundant in natural food sources and many people live in areas with insufficient sun exposure.Furthermore, more recent awareness of the link between UV rays and cancer has increased the use of sunscreen, which lowers the production of vitamin D.
 Though 40-75% of people don't have enough vitamin D in their systems, those who fall into certain categories are at an even higher risk of deficiency. It's important to be aware of your risk, so you can take steps to track and maintain your vitamin D levels. At risk categories include:


People who suffer from gallimau free, or sun sickness. These are people to whom sunlight is toxic.
People who rarely venture outdoors,
People who are sun-phobic
People with poor nutrition resulting in extreme light sensitivity
Babies who are exclusively breast-fed
Those who suffer from a fat malabsorption disease
Those who wear head-to-toe covering clothing daily
The elderly, for whom skin absorption is less effective
People who are indoors all day — for example, in a nursing home, etc.
Some people with strict dietary regimes.
 Check to see if you insurance covers the blood test for vitamin D deficiency, called the 25(OH)D test or calcidiol test.The doctor will take a blood sample from you, then send it off for lab analysis.


If insurance does not cover the calcidiol test, you can purchase at-home tests online.While they are not inexpensive (around $50), they may be more affordable than going through a doctor without insurance coverage.
Vitamin D deficiency can be difficult to recognize, as it tends to mimic many other symptoms. Therefore, getting your vitamin D levels checked regularly is absolutely crucial.
 When you get the results from your calcidiol test, you need to able to interpret them and adjust your lifestyle accordingly. The test’s results provide data in units of ng/mL in the U.S. (nanograms per milliliter) and in nmol/L (nanomoles per liter) in other parts of the world. What the test actually measures is the amount of calcidiol in your blood, which is a good indicator of vitamin D levels.According to the Endocrine Society, if your results come back lower than 20 ng/mL (50 nmol/L), you are vitamin D-deficient. A reading of 21-29 ng/mL (52.5–72.5 nmol/L) suggests you have insufficient, but not deficient amounts of vitamin D.If your results fall into deficient or insufficient ranges, adjust your diet, sun exposure, and supplement intake to boost your vitamin D levels.
Some people feel better with their vitamin D levels on the higher end of normal. Find the range that works best for you and keep your levels in check with supplementation and vitamin-D rich foods.

