 You can find many online reviews of background check services online. Websites like the Wall Street Journal and Business News Daily periodically use and report on employment background check companies, for instance.Try consulting consumer advocacy groups like Consumer Affairs or Better Business Bureau to find reviews and ratings of individual companies, as well.Beware of scams. Some prominent services like Intelius have gotten large number of consumer complaints for fraudulent practices in the past.Be sure to do your research and find a company a good professional reputation.
 The law varies when it comes to background checks. In many cases, you will have to comply with standards set by the Equal Employment Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, and the Fair Credit Reporting Act. In other cases, you are pretty much free to do a background check by any legal means.


If you are doing a background check on a potential roommate or romantic partner, for example, you don’t need to worry about complying with the Fair Credit Reporting Act or other federal guidelines. Just about any legal method will do.A landlord or employer conducing searches has to meet specific requirements, however. You can’t use information to discriminate on the basis of color, ethnicity, sex, religion, or disability, for example. You’ll also need to get the applicant’s consent before conducting the check and meet record-keeping requirements.As an employer or landlord, you have to tell the applicant beforehand that you might use this information in your decision. This notice has to be in writing and a separate form – it cannot be part of the employment application.The law on background checks can be complicated. Talk to an employment lawyer if you need to meet these requirements, for the best advice. Failing to comply can lead to fines or potential lawsuits.
 Some individual records cannot be included in background searches and a potential employer must get your permission prior to obtaining them. Be aware of what these are so that you do not violate federal or state privacy laws.For instance, the federal “Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act” keeps educational records like transcripts, financial and disciplinary records, and recommendations confidential. Schools cannot release these without signed permission from the individual.Military service records are protected under the federal Privacy Act. In most cases, an inquiry not authorized by the service person must be approved by the Freedom of Information Act.Medical records, too, are off-limits. Employers must get express permission from the patient or an authorized representative for access., One of the most important legal requirements is that a background check agency be listed as a Consumer Reporting Agency. According to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, you must use such an agency as an employer or landlord to do background checks, as they have to maintain certain levels of record keeping and offer conflict resolution.A Consumer Reporting Agency is expected to comply with all of the legal requirements of background searches. For example, they cannot include information about bankruptcies more than 10 years old, civil suits, civil judgments, or arrest records more than 7 years old, or paid tax liens more than 7 years old.