 Whether you are an extrovert or an introvert, make sure to signal that you are engaged and that you are open to interacting with people. This will make it easier for others to approach you and they will be more likely to share their most interesting characteristics and ideas with you when they are at ease.


You don’t need to fake it. Fake smiles do not have the same effect as genuine smiles.You do not need to smile constantly, but you should be aware of what you’re expressions and demeanor convey. If you enjoy your company or the situation that you are in, make a point to show it with a smile.;
, If an acquaintance needs help moving, volunteer to help. If a co-worker has to catch a flight, offer to drive them to the airport. Appreciative people will feel more open and are more likely to share their interests with you. They may also get curious about your passions.
 Make choices that put you in contact with people that you do not already know well. The more you interact with people, the easier it will be to find friends with shared interests. You will not find everyone interesting, but you may be surprised by who shares your hobbies and passions.


Avoid over-sharing and complaining. It takes time for people to know and trust each other. If you share intimate stories or personal problems with strangers, they will feel overwhelmed. Try to start with something simple, like a joke about your surroundings or a polite introduction. For instance, if you are in an elevator with someone, ask "don't you just hate elevator music?" If they are interested, they will respond with a joke or comment. If they don't respond, respect their space and leave them alone.
Check your current friendships to make sure that they are not hindering your efforts to meet new people. You may find that adjusting the time you spend with current friends can open opportunities to meet new people.
 Recognize that people can be interesting in unexpected ways. Consider what interests you and what characteristics make a person interesting to you. If you know what type of person you want to meet, you can recognize them more easily. Additionally, you will be able to notice compelling characteristics in people who do not fit that image.


Don’t expect everyone to have the same interests as you. Try to appreciate others’ hobbies even if you do not share them. Cooking may not excite you, but you can still respect the passion that an acquaintance has for cuisine.
Ask questions. When you find a person with similar interests, make a point to keep them talking. Express your ideas, but don’t dominate the conversation. Use questions that encourage the person to share more: Why do you say that? Did something specific influence your thinking about this? What is the best aspect of this? What challenges did you face in accomplishing that? You are more likely to meet interesting people if you let them share their interests with you.

