 E-liquids have a base of propylene glycol (PG) and/or vegetable glycerin (VG) with added flavoring and, of course, nicotine. In some cases, e-liquids do contain a bit of both glycerin types.E-liquids have varying ratios of the two bases but having an understanding of their qualities will help you choose brands that cater best to the experience you wish to have.
PG is commonly used as a base for most e-liquids, but might cause discomfort for consumers who are allergic, which VG based e-liquid products offer a great alternative to.;
, They are the more natural way to get your nicotine fix because it is not chemically produced and is a 100% derivative from vegetable oils.


Its thicker nature means more satisfying and thicker vapor than PG-based alternatives, but also means more frequent maintenance and cleaning of the device.Its sweeter aftertaste also slightly alters the flavor profile of most flavorings added to it.
 If you are indecisive about whether or not about the ratio of PG/VG you’d like to go with, choose a mix of the two: 50/50 PG/VG or 60/40 PG/VG.Pick an e-liquid with a ratio of 80/20 PG/VG or 100%PG if you want your vapor to have more flavor and a stronger hit.
If you want less hit and more vapor, choose an e-liquid with an 80/20 VG/PG ratio or 100% VG.
 This evaluation is dependent on how much of a smoker you were before deciding to use e-cigarettes. This is important because heavier nicotine will be needed to satisfy strong cravings, a trait that will level out over time.


Heavier smokers will need to replicate a cigarette more so their nicotine needs can be anywhere from 24 mg on up.To curb mild cravings, moderate smokers will need anything from 12-18 mg of nicotine in their e-liquids.Light smokers can fall between 3-6 mg as far as e-liquid nicotine needs., Use the trial sizes that companies typically offer to find out if your preference is spicy over fruity or fruity over sweet. Experimenting to find the flavors you like is a never ending process so have fun with it.

