 Before securing your ID, you'll want to make sure you've removed it from iTunes completely.


Click the Store menu in iTunes and select "View My Apple ID".
Click the "Deauthorize All" button. This will remove your Apple ID from any device that it is signed into.
Click the "Manage Devices" button and remove all of your devices. This will stop automatic downloads.
Turn off auto-renew for any subscriptions, such as iTunes Radio., Delete your Apple ID from your iOS devices before changing all of the information. This will allow you to sign in with a new Apple ID.


Open the Settings app and tap "iTunes & App Store."
Tap your Apple ID at the top of the screen and then tap "Sign Out."

, If you don't want to completely delete your account, you can remove all of your personal information from it and let it lie dormant. This will allow you to continue accessing your old purchases and iCloud data. Log into the account management page with your Apple ID information.
 Use the Edit buttons to change your name, address, and birthday. You can enter fake information to replace them. This will remove your personal information from your Apple ID.
 Find the "Payment" section of the ID Management site and remove your payment details. You won't be able to remove your payment information if you have an unpaid balance or have recently changed regions.
 If you want to be able to use your Apple ID email to create a new Apple ID later, you'll want to change the email associated with the account to something else. You can create a free email address through Yahoo!, Gmail, or any other webmail service and use it as your new Apple ID email. This will allow you to use your old email to create a new Apple ID later if you want.
 Your Apple ID now no longer contains any personal information or payment details, and you can safely let the account lie dormant. You'll still be able to use it if you need to access your old purchases, but you won't be able to make new purchases with it unless you add your real information back.

