 The perfect climate for going outside is when there's packed snow, little or no wind, and temperatures around 20 °F (−7 °C).;
, If you don't have a phone handy, you can just walk over to your friend's house. Make sure you get permission from your parents and your friend's parents too.
  This would include:


Warm winter coat
Snow pants
Hat/scarf
Winter boots
Gloves.
 If your friends don't have something they may need, then lend something to them, or even give it to them.
 Now you can finally get to doing fun stuff! Fun activities could include:


Building an igloo or snow fort
Building a snowman
Making snow angels
Having a snowball fight
Sledding (This is perfect if you live on a hill or one near you that is open to the public)
Building a giant snow slide
Catching snowflakes on your tongue during a snowfall.
 Everyone loves to have a shelter where they can be protected from the wind! You'll want to gather up friends and build snow bricks and place them in a circle. If you want to go the easy route, make a big snow pile and dig into it. Get your friends to help too.
 Make a huge ball of snow, one slightly smaller, and the last small. Stack them up and add stuff like old scarves, hats, a carrot and coal for eyes, buttons, and a mouth, and if you want, a pipe.
 Get on the ground, and spread out your arms and legs and back in over and over again. Get up and look at your creation.
 Get sleds and put 1/4 of a sled into snow, and build some foundation around it. This way, when you have a snowball fight, you have shields. Make sure to throw the snowballs lightly and don't make them really packed.
 Get a sled, go to a hill, and sled! You can even build some ramps in the middle of the hill to make it more fun! You can also challenge your friends to surf down on the sled, go on backward, or go with multiple people! Just be careful.
 Though it may take up to 6 hours a day of making a pile of snow, shaping it, and letting it freeze overnight seems like a lot of effort, it's worth it. You can also build Ramos into it and do fun and crazy poses down it.
 Though it seems old-fashioned and boring, challenge your friends to see who can catch the most after one minute.
 If you want to make it more indulgent, use warm milk instead of water. You can also use crazy flavored cocoa powder.
 Especially if you built a snow slide and want to wait until the next morning to ride it.

