 You may find an obvious leak in a pipe or fixture on the floor above the damaged ceiling, but it may also be more difficult to pinpoint.If you don’t locate the source of the moisture prior to doing the repair, the problem will just keep coming back.
Wear gloves, safety glasses and a dust mask while looking for and repairing the leak. Depending on how long the leak has gone unrepaired, there could be mold present.
If there is an extensive amount of mold, hire a professional to remove it safely.;
, If the stain is from a long since repaired leak and the damage is only aesthetic, you may be able to remove the stain with a little elbow grease.


Use a one to one water and bleach mixture to try to blot the stain away. Be sure to wear safety glasses and gloves when you apply it.If that doesn't work, wait until it dries completely and simply primer and paint the stain to match your ceiling. As long as the drywall is intact and the leak is repaired, you're done!, Depending on the extent of the damage, you may just need to cut out a bit of drywall or you may need to remove entire portions.If you only need to remove a small portion of the ceiling, use a keyhole saw or similar tool to remove the affected area.
If the damage is extensive, you may need to use the claw end of a hammer or a crowbar to remove all of the damaged material.
Ensure all stained drywall is removed and that any material remaining is dry and not sagging.
Clean the area with household cleaner to ensure mildew and mold does not develop., Now that all of the damaged material is removed, it’s time to replace it with new drywall. Cut a portion of drywall that is the same approximate size as the area you cut out of the ceiling.
If the hole you are patching is small, simply place the newly cut drywall into the hole, then use drywall joint compound to fill the gap and serve as glue to keep it in place. Use a putty knife to ensure it is flat and even.
If the hole is larger, you may need help holding the replacement drywall in place while you use the joint compound to fill the gap and set.
Allow the drywall joint compound to dry thoroughly, then use fine sand paper to ensure it is flat and even.
 You will need to use a coat of primer on the drywall first, followed by a paint that matches the ceiling color.Many hardware stores can match the color for you if you provide them with a sample.
Repainting the entire ceiling will ensure the color matches throughout.
Adding a layer of shellac before you primer can help seal the repair.