 Look around. See the nature or landscape around you. Are you among trees? Perhaps you're sitting on a hill of grass? Whether you're near the sea, feeling a warm wind over your skin or watching the sky as the clouds roll by, there is bound to be plenty of material to inspire your poem.;
, For example, if you chose to write about the hot weather you're experiencing, you'd maybe list out such descriptive words as "smoltering" "sizzling" "heated" "extreme" "invisible fire" and the like, describe the topic of your poem.


Make a web for all the descriptive words that branch from your poem's topic.
 What do you see first in your poem's topic? For example, if you are writing about the frequent heat, perhaps first write something like: "smoltering the atmosphere into invisible flame," or "melting away the air." Write this down to begin with.
 Add an ending to the first line, for example, "sizzling as it cooks the ground." It'd end up like: "smoltering the atmosphere into invisible flame, sizzling as it cooks the ground."

, For example, add onto the two lines, "smoltering the atmosphere into invisible flame, sizzling as it cooks the ground." Does your topic affect your emotions? Does it affect the land? What about the emotions of the people who live around it? For example, you could write, "this heat fires up the hearts of our citizens, burning our anger and sweat."

, Write about how you've overcome the heat effects perhaps, or the efforts you must go through to overcome them. For example, you could write about the heat as, "I must chill my house to freeze the burning fire, chilling it of it's capabilities to burn."

, This is not how it affects them. For example, you could write, "the people smolder the heat with their freezing hearts, glazing the glaring sun with our own layers of ice."

, This explains how it all adds up. For example, you could write, "the fire sizzles and burns through our hearts, yet we overcome it for the chill that is waiting beyond it's heat."

, Fix any descriptive errors. If anything seems too descriptive, fix it. Even it out.
 If so, explain it. You need to metaphorically understand your poem as well! Examine the poem for metaphors.


Metaphors can come anywhere. "The heat burns our dignity," can be a metaphor for being put down by the heat emotion-wise.
Other people may take the metaphors as they see it. Don't be offended if other people read your metaphors "incorrectly" from your perspective. Once you release that poem into the world, it becomes what others wish to make of it. That's the beauty of art, creativity and not insisting on technical accuracy. A poem is organic, it lives on in its own way.

