 Before doing any work on your vehicle, you should always make sure to put on the appropriate safety gear. Because there is a risk of sparks when working with an automotive battery, wear safety glasses or another form of eye protection before attempting to disconnect it. You may also want to wear gloves to protect your hands from the heat of the engine bay as well as from pinches and cuts.Always wear eye protection when working on your vehicle, especially when dealing with electrical components.
Gloves can protect your hands from pinches, scrapes and the heat of the engine bay.
 You can usually find the battery for your vehicle under the hood in the engine compartment, but some automakers opt to put their batteries in the trunk to save space or improve weight distribution. When a battery is in the trunk of a vehicle, it is often under a carpeted piece of wood separating it from the trunk compartment and may be located alongside your spare tire.If you are having difficult locating your battery, refer to your owner’s manual to help you find it.
There may be a protective cover over your battery in the engine bay that you may need to remove in order to find it.
 You can identify the negative terminal by following the thick black cable connecting it to the body of the car or by looking for the letters “NEG” or the symbol (-) above one of the two battery terminals. Using a wrench or pair of pliers, loosen the nut holding the black ground cable to the negative terminal on the battery. You will not need to remove the nut completely, just loosen it enough to be able to slide the cable off of the terminal. The alarm, as well as everything else electronic in the vehicle, should shut off immediately.Tuck the ground cable alongside the battery to ensure it can’t accidentally come back into contact with the negative terminal.
You will not need to remove the positive cable from the battery.
 Some aftermarket car alarms come equipped with a small backup battery that will keep the alarm functioning after the battery for your car has been disconnected. These batteries are not designed to power the alarm, horns and lights for long. Their primary role is to keep the alarm in working condition while you work on your vehicle so you don’t have to reset anything when reconnecting your primary vehicle battery. Refer to the user manual for the alarm system, or owner’s manual for the vehicle for factory installed backup batteries, to locate and disconnect the backup battery as well.Most factory alarms do not come equipped with a backup battery.
If you are unable to locate the backup battery, it will eventually die if disconnected from the primary battery for too long.
 Depending on the vehicle, the amount of time required for the computer to reset can vary widely. You may want to leave the vehicle disconnected for up to an hour to ensure the alarm and the vehicle’s ECU (Electronic Control Unit) have both been forced to reset due to a lack of power. Forcing your vehicle’s computer to reset will also result in losing your radio station pre-sets and having to reset the clock in your vehicle.
 After waiting an hour or so, reconnect the ground cable to the negative terminal on the battery. Tighten the nut that secures the cable to the terminal and check it to make sure it can’t jiggle loose. If the cable were to become disconnected while you were driving, it would shut the car off. The alarm should not go off when you reconnect the battery. If it does, you will need to have your vehicle repaired by a professional.Ensure the battery cables are secure and replace any covers you may have removed to gain access to the battery.
Start the car to make sure there are no further issues.

