 Ringworm is often visibly apparent, as it usually results in red, scaly patches or rounded bumps on the skin. Even before there are visible signs, however, an infected patch of skin will become very itchy. Actual rings of reddened, raised, and scaly skin may develop, though ringworm may be present without these rings.Neither athlete’s foot nor jock itch lead to the formation of actual rings. Rather, these infections will lead to itchy, red, and scaly patches.
Avoid scratching or otherwise irritating ringworm infections, as this may spread the infection and can also lead to bacterial superinfection.
 Ringworm on the scalp usually appears initially as a small round bump that may look like a pimple; however, the spot will quickly become flaky, irritated, red, and/or scaly.Hair may even fall out. Additionally, watch for lightening of the color of the nails, or increased brittleness, as these symptoms may also indicate a ringworm infection.
 Children are especially likely to be exposed to ringworm, and are less likely to acknowledge initial symptoms as signs of an infection that needs to be addressed. Further, schools are sites at which outbreaks of ringworm commonly occur. As such, watch out for signs of infection in kids and get children treated as quickly as possible.Factors that increase the risk of ringworm infection in children also include more frequent use of communal showers, participation in contact sports, and suppressed immune systems. These all also contribute to the rapid spread of ringworm among children.
 Regardless of the site or intensity of an infection or the age of the person infected, act immediately to treat the infection and prevent its spread.In particular, ensure any children that are infected or at risk of infection are washing frequently.
 Many cases of ringworm, particularly athlete’s foot and jock itch, can be treated with non-prescription medications. There are various lotions, creams, gels, sprays and powders you can apply to affected areas every day. These medications should clear your infection within to to four weeks.Look for a medication that includes clotrimazole, miconazole, terbinafine, or ketoconazole.
Follow the specific instructions on the packaging of whichever over-the-counter medication you acquire. Usually, you’ll want to cover the visible infection and the area immediately surround the infection.
Note that creams, lotions, and powders will not rid a case of ringworm on the scalp.
 If your ringworm infection worsens or persists beyond a few weeks, see a doctor. Ringworm on the scalp is especially likely to persist without prescription medications, which are often prescribed as oral medications that will need to be taken for one to three months.Your doctor may check your liver function with a blood test before starting the oral medications. Some antifungal medications can have adverse affects on the liver, especially in those with liver disease.
There are several antifungal prescription medications, including griseofulvin, terbinafine, itraconazole, and fluconazole.

