 One way to save money on housekeeping costs as a hotel owner is to create a schedule for your staff. Calculate the labor needed for each working day by considering how many guests are in the hotel and how much time it takes for each room to be serviced. Have a clear day by day schedule so you know how much staff you need and do not over staff when you don’t need to.Having a staffing schedule can also help you calculate your labor costs. You can calculate labor costs by taking the employees required to service a room and dividing the amount by the number of rooms that can be serviced at a specific time.
You should also factor in insurance and employee benefits to determine how much you will be spending on staff. If the amount seems higher than other costs, you may consider how you can reduce your staffing costs without sacrificing the quality of the hotel.
 Keep an eye on how often your staff works and if they are starting to work over their standard work hours. Notice if your staff seems to be working too many overtime hours, which then drives the cost of labor up. Look over the staffing schedule and notice if there are staff you can cut or hours you can reduce so staff does not work overtime.If you know you will need a lot of staff for busier times of the year, such as the holiday season, you may plan ahead so you have enough staff to cover the hours without having them work any overtime.
 You should also ensure there is a long list of secondary tasks that staff members can do if they are less guests in the hotel or less maintenance of the rooms that need to be done. Create a list of tasks for days that are slow so your staff are always busy and never idle. This will ensure the hotel is still maintained and you are being cost effective.For example, you may make a list of tasks like, “clean the common area, clean the back kitchen, organize the supply closets” so your staff always has something to do while they are working.
 To maximize your staff and keep them engaged in their work, you should try training them in a variety of tasks or roles. Perhaps you train maids in stocking the supply closet and in maintaining the rooms. Or maybe you have a supervisor take on the manager role when the regular manager is unavailable.Though it may take some effort upfront to cross train your staff, doing so will benefit everyone in the long term. Often employees are more engaged in their job if they are given the chance to learn a variety of skills and assume different responsibilities.

