 If you can, start this technique at preschool, as that's the best window of opportunity, although it's not too late to start at early school age either. Ages 6 months to four years are the optimal time for learning a second language., Though this step is optional, consistency is important. If you decide to speak only one language at home (for example, your native language in a country with a different language), resolve to stick with this. It will not hamper your child if you speak your native language if you start early and stick to it. Some families also choose to have the mother speak the mother's native language, and the father speak the father's language; whatever works best for you is fine but it remains important that your child can see consistency.


Note that the method outlined in this article is unsuitable for trilingual families (where the mother speaks one language, the father another, and your child is learning yet another one at school).
 Much like in other activities, your child will learn more effortlessly if it is turned into a game and it's fun.When your child is comfortable, talk about a "school game", or a "letter game" you could play. (Avoid saying "learning" or "translation" as they sound like a task to avoid.) Gauge your child's reaction and don't force it.


Make it short without forcing. Play it for a short period or leave the game in plain sight and wait till your child initiates.
 Once you get your child's self-initiated cooperation, work out a game plan. Follow the steps below, and don't rush. Once the process is natural you'll find yourself improvising more and more.

First few sessions: play around with letters with no particular reason in mind. This will familiarize your child and create the feel of a non-threatening environment.






Next ask for a short favorite word. Propose one from a favorite movie or TV show if you need to give help.






Work that name. Think how you can "work" that name. It (or one similar in sound) should be suitable to follow for the next steps. Arrange the letters and read it aloud, one-by-one a little faster every time.
 Smile and tell your child that here comes the "tricky part." Your child need to close his eyes. Children will be intrigued and delighted to play along. (You'll be surprised just how many times this works.)


Tell him no peeking. Now take away the front letter.






Allow your child to look and say once more "This is very tricky." (Tell them what you did by repeating the word and that you removed the front letter.)
Now ask them to "read" aloud. Try it and you'll be surprised because with a little encouragement they'll do it.
 Let your child feel proud of her effort and achievement. Repetition is the easiest, most rewarding reinforcement.


Now repeat same as above with back letter.
Do one or two more words per session. Repeat with playful variations.
 Once you both get into some kind of habit where you both accept rules of the game (your child will come up with some rules too, so be ready to accommodate one or two), it's time to start the translation game. This needs a little planning too; again, the words chosen should be easy and suitable.


Think up a word that would appeal to your child which could be rearranged into a word in your language.
 Once you've found a good word, follow these steps:


After the front and back game, rearrange as before, while he closes his eyes. Tell him that it's now even trickier!
Read out the word aloud. Tell your child that it's in your language and ask him what he thinks it means. Then tell him. Don't tell him that it's a translation to begin with; only do this after the process has become very natural.
 Reinforce this process with more positive experiences.


Let her choose from your selection. Let your child watch videos in the two different languages. This way she will request one language or other, just to exercise her freedom of choice. You can pick up the main character and talk about its different names in the two languages.






Play a letter block game on this name too.






Find a playmate who speaks the second language to come over and play often.It will do both children good, and it makes it a lot more fun.
 There's no excuse: your child is inventive, that's how she or he learns. So don't lag behind. Be inventive in getting the new words from your child's new experiences.
 Sit down regularly with your growing child and continue reading these books with him or her.


Many families find that they can immerse their children in another language over summer vacation. So if they are in school in one language, you can take our send them to somewhere where they get the other language on their vacation.

