 Think of a theme in your life that feels important or a theme that speaks to your interests. For example, maybe you love awards shows and want to use an award show theme for the party, complete with an envelope that contains the gender that is opened at the end of the party. Or maybe you love a specific animal and want to have it as the theme of the party.If you are a sports fan, you may do a “gender bowl reveal” theme, based on the idea of a Super Bowl themed party. Go for decorations that mimic Super Bowl decorations, but with rubber ducks, babies, and clouds instead of team names, logos, and colors.;
, You can also choose a specific season, such as the season when you will be giving birth, and use it as a theme for the party. For example, if your due date is right after Easter, you may have an Easter themed party with the gender reveal done through the opening of Easter eggs.You could also do a winter/Christmas themed party where the gender reveal is done through gift boxes being unwrapped if your due date is in December. Or you may choose a summer theme for the party if your due date is during the summer months.
 As part of the theme of the party, create a gender reveal object that will reveal the gender to your guests. One popular option is to fill a box with balloons that are pink for a girl or blue for a boy. Then, you can open the box in front of your guests to reveal the gender of your baby.Another option is to use a pinata as the gender reveal object, where you have guests hit the pinata until the candy falls out. The candy will then be blue or pink based on the sex of your baby.
If you are looking for a fun, easy option, get a can of silly string in blue or pink and spray your guests with it to reveal the gender of your baby.
 Another popular gender reveal option is to have food that contains blue or pink color inside. You may make your own cupcakes with pink or blue frosting inside, or get a local bakery to make you gender reveal cupcakes. You could also fill a cake with a specific color based on the gender of your baby or make cookies that have a colored filling.You may decide to make another food part of the gender reveal, such as your favorite donuts or your favorite macarons from a local shop. Or you may turn a traditional family recipe into a gender reveal by dying the inside blue or pink based on your baby’s gender.
 If you’re feeling creative, you can make your own custom gender reveal object for the party. This could be a t-shirt that you make with your handprints in blue or pink that you put on at the end of the party. Or maybe you decorate a baby onesie in a particular color to then show your guests., Sit down and write down the people you plan to invite to the gender reveal party. If you are planning the party on behalf of the mom-to-be, make sure you include her when making the guest list. You may put a cap on how many people you can invite if you plan to keep the party small and intimate. Or you may allow for a long guest list if you are planning to have a big bash to reveal the baby’s gender.You may start by focusing on individuals that are must invites, such as close family of the mother and the father of the baby. You may then add on close friends and then only add on acquaintances if there is enough space on the guest list.
 Once you have the guest list, create the invitations for the party. You may create your own invitations or get them done professionally. You may also opt for email invites or paper invites you send in the mail. If you have a lot of guests, you may go for evites to save money and paper.In the invitation, you may include a brief explanation of what a gender reveal party is, as some guests may have never been to one before. For example, you may write: “This is a gender reveal party, where we will all find out the gender of the baby together.”
Try to send out the invitations at least two to three weeks before the party date to give your guests enough time to RSVP.
 As part of the preparations for the party, have a few gender reveal games and activities planned. One popular game is to divide the party into two teams, one team for each gender, and have them wear t-shirts or pins to support their team before the big gender reveal at the end of the party. Another option is to have a chart where people guess if the baby is a boy or a girl.


Another option is to ask guests to show up dressed in blue or pink based on their prediction of the sex of the baby. You can then tally how many people show up in each color and determine how close everyone was with their guest once the gender is revealed.
 Go for decorations that really drive your chosen theme home. For example, you may choose all Easter decorations in pastel shades for the balloons and streamers for the party. Or you may go for Christmas decorations for a holiday gender reveal theme.You may go all out and get decorations like centerpieces for the tables, themed cutlery, posters or images for the wall, a banner, and fresh flowers.
 Setting up for the party can be a big undertaking, especially if you are planning the party on your own. Get friends and family to help you set up the decorations on the day of the party so everything goes smoothly. You may delegate certain tasks to each person on the day of the party so the decorations get done before the party starts.You may find it helpful to make a list of tasks for the party and then delegate them out to others that way.
 Make sure everything is ready for the party by doing a walk through of the party location. Check that the refreshments are all there as well as the party favors. Confirm all the decorations are up and there is enough seating for all the expected guests.You should also make sure the gender reveal item is set up and ready to go before the party begins. If you are using a pinata for the gender reveal, for example, check that it is secure for the gender reveal portion of the party.
You may want to have a camera handy to capture the gender reveal during the party. You may also suggest that guests film the reveal on their phones during the party and use a specific hashtag when they post the images on social media.

