 This includes the linens that are stained and threadbare because there is always something that can be salvaged and resewn, reused, revamped, with a little imagination and experience. Always look for designs and embellishments in particular, that are worth salvaging. The sorts of linens that are great to hang on to include:





 Even simple framing can work well for favourite doilies

Embroidered, crocheted, tatted, etc., doilies, mats, tablecloths, napkins/serviettes, tea cosies, toaster covers, table runners, etc. Anything embroidered has many opportunities for reuse!
Old tea towels, both used and unused. Many people admit to having a tea towel that had such a pretty design that it was impossible to ever make use of it!
Vintage and collectible linens. These will always have continued value in their own right but if you make a decision to honour the original maker's work, you can also do a lot with these items when reinventing them.
Everyday items, including towels, hand towels, face washers, etc., can be found new uses when their old use expires.;
, Old linens can make delightful gift wraps, especially when they feature a beautiful design and embellishments such as lace or ribbon. Finish off by tying the gift together with gorgeous grosgrain, velvet or satin ribbon, or any other leftover item suitable for tying it together.

Wrap wine bottles in embroidered cloths.
Wrap delicate and easily stained items in linen.
Sew the linen into a distinctive gift bag.
 Linens can be ideal for use on a variety of paper craft projects, especially to use up stained items. Simply cut out the prettier elements such as embroidery or embellished parts of stained linens, and put them to good reuse.

Add linens to handmade cards.
Use various types of fancy scissor cuts (pinking shears) to make the edges of the linen more exciting.
Use linens to make gift tags. Let the linen help decide the shape of the tag. For example, if you are cutting out an animal motif from a linen, follow the shape of the animal for the tag.
Turn linens into bookmarks. Find suitable parts of linen to cut into a bookmark size. Cover in plastic contact if wished, for added protection. Attach ribbon or braiding to finish off the bookmark.
 This can be a spectacular medium for reinventing your linen collection into something that is both practical and beautiful at the same time.

Don't forget to reinvent old but beloved designs from pillow cases, sheets, quilt covers, and other bedding that is no longer used.
Curtains and tablecloths can also be used to make quilt pieces.
 As with the quilt, old linens can reinvent into amazing new cushions or pillows. Just be sure to match colours and patterns with careful attention to the details. Other embellishments can be added too; consider using items from your old button collection, or from stored lace, ribbons, and braids., Focusing on the decorative features of old linens, adding them to clothing items can be a way of giving new life to an old garment. Either sew the linen on, or use fusible webbing (a quilter's item), to add the linen to clothing.

Make a baby's bib using an old linen.
 There are two possible methods here for reinventing your linens:

Add linens as an embellishment to a new towel. Select the decorative elements, cut to size and stitch onto the towel.
Turn the old linen into a guest towel in its own right. Measure the linen against a guest towel and cut to size. Stitch down the edges to prevent fraying and add any embellishments if needed. Drying your hands on linen is a wonderful experience.
 If you have a beloved tea towel that has special memories, wonderful sayings, a gorgeous picture, etc., turning it into a wall hanging can be a fabulous way to keep it in the spotlight.

Iron the tea towel flat.
Place it on a backing board. Attach using tape or stitches. Make sure that it is taut.
Build a frame around the edges. A framing store can cut to size if you can't do this alone. Nail frame into place.
Attach a hanger at the back and hang on your wall.
 There are a number of great ways to reuse linens in the kitchen:

Make favourite linens into tea cosies.
Turn linen into a toaster cover.
Make coasters for hot drinks, or padded mats for hot foods.
Turn old linens into placemats.

Make sachets to ward off the moths in the pantry.
 There are many possibilities, from iPod covers to dog coats that can give your old linen collection a new lease of life. Just get started and your new hobby of reinventing linen will grow from there!

Be daring and stop hoarding. Linens tend to be beautiful creations, which is why you're holding on to them in the first place. They deserve to be put to better use, and to be seen!

, This is a "reinvention" of its own right, in which you make a conscious decision to take the linens out of the closet and display them as they once would have been.