 Are you hitting targets, hunting, or simply keeping the weapon for self-defense? If you shoot at targets, how far away do you normally shoot from? The primary thing to think about now is distance -- how far do you actually need to see to hit your common targets?



Self-Defense: Unless you're defending a large parcel of land, a scope will likely slow you down and get in the way for self-defense.

Target Shooting: Is your range 100 yards, or are you shooting long distances?

Hunting: Think about where you hunt and what you hunt. Small game hunters in New England won't need zoom above 10x, as thick trees are likely to make it useless, but those hunting big game out west may require a bit further vision.;
, When sold, scopes come with two numbers, often something like "3-9x40." Scopes come with a range of magnifications, depending on your range. The numbers to the left of the "x" represent how much bigger the target will look than to the naked eye-- so "3x" will make the target appear three times as big in the scope. While the following magnifications are guidelines, they can help you as you start shopping.


For carbines, a reflex sight or 3.5x-9x magnification telescopic scope should work well. These are often strong enough for most recreational hunters or basic target shooters.
Anything below 10x is best for off-hand shooting and following targets.
For full-scale rifles, 12x-20x magnification telescopic scopes may be necessary. They are made for big, open spaces and long shots. They will be expensive. Anything above 10x generally requires a supported position, such as prone or bench shooting.There is no real benefit to paying for higher magnification just to have it. In fact, zooming in 20x to hunt whitetail deer is overkill that often leads to missed shots and wasted ammo., Know that you'll pay more for high-range variable scopes. A variable scope is one you can adjust, like the 3.5-9x mentioned above -- you can adjust the zoom anywhere from 3.5 times normal size to nine times normal size. Of course, the greater this range, the more versatile your actual scope will be. This, of course, comes with a much higher price tag. In general, it is best to get a smaller, more specialized scope, but spend money on higher construction. Really ask yourself how often you'll need to shoot something at 20x zoom? Unless you're hunting huge game out west, this is almost always overkill.A classic, fixed 4x scope is common on many basic hunting rifles. Simple, effective, and cheap, it will work in a variety of mid-range scenarios.
If you know you're doing open, long-range shooting, a high-powered fixed scope, something from 24x, 36x, or even 40x power, might be the most cost-effective solution., Your scope, at the very least, needs to be fog-proof, otherwise you'll be severely limited in your conditions. While this is generally standard, not all scopes are designed to hold up in extreme heats, moisture, humidity. If you hunt in a variety of conditions or live in extreme winter/summer environments, spend the extra money for high-end weather-proofing.Feel the scope, checking for solid construction. There shouldn't be wiggling or looseness., The number after your zoom length is usually the objective lens diameter, or the size of the glass at the far end of the scope, and this determines the diameter of the "main tube," which is the body of the scope. It is usually 30 millimeters or 1 inch (2.5 cm), but there are other options too.


The objective zoom diameter is noted by the number after the "x", so a 3-9x40 scope would have a diameter of 40 millimeters.With zooms over 10x, especially higher zooms, you may want to move up to 50mm OLD.
Larger objective zoom diameters allow more light into the scope as well, helping see the shot better. Note, however, that higher magnification lowers available light.
 Eye relief determines how far back from the scope your head can be to see everything, and is crucial to help prevent "scope eye," when the recoil of the gun knocks the scope into your face. The higher the recoil on your gun, the more useful a higher eye-relief will be.The most common eye relief for rifles is around four inches. However, there are scopes for pistols and bigger guns that go up to 16–20 inches (40.6–50.8 cm), sacrificing some field of view vision in return.
Always test the scope how you most frequently shoot it. If you shoot with a bench rest, test the eye relief on a bench rest., Some smaller scopes are "parallax free," but you should know what to do if your scope is not. On scopes with parallax, your cross-hairs actually move slightly when you move your head, making short-range scoping maddeningly difficult. A parallax knob helps with "adjustable objectives." Basically, it is a knob on the scope helping you dial in distance. For example, if you're shooting a 200 meter away target, set the adjustable objective to 200 yards. Now, your scope will be calibrated to give you the best shot at this distance.


For big game hunting, the movement of your breath and heartbeat is greater than any movement caused by parallax.
For smaller shots and target shooting, parallax is near industry standard.