 Even though having a bank account in another state doesn't necessarily mean you are doing business in that state, most banks require your business to be registered with the secretary of state before they will open a business deposit account.The registration requirement also may apply if you're operating your business as a sole proprietorship or partnership, even though the state may not require you to register.
Many states allow you to register your business online. Search for the state's secretary of state website and then look for a link to register your business.
You may have to pay a fee to register your business in the state, typically around $100. You may have to pay additional fees if you want to expedite your application, or to get additional certified copies of your certificate.
If you have any questions about whether you need to register your business with the state, talk to someone at the bank where you want to open an account.
 Different banks have many different features and options for business accounts. You may want to make a list of the features that are important for your business so you can find the bank that is right for you.For example, many banks have a monthly service fee attached to accounts, and you may have additional fees depending on the number of transactions you have in a month.
Different accounts also may have different levels of access with respect to withdrawals and domestic wire transfers allowed per month.
You can compare accounts to choose the best account for your business based on the number of transactions and minimum balance you anticipate for your account.
 A customer service representative will be able to answer any questions you have and help you set up your account. Unlike personal accounts, you typically cannot set up a business account online.Look on the bank's website to find the appropriate customer service number. Keep in mind some banks may have a different line for business accounts than for personal accounts.
Follow the prompts to talk to a representative, and tell them you'd like to open a business account. Be sure to let them know that you reside in a different state.
They typically will ask you questions about your business, including whether your business operates in the state and whether you're registered with the secretary of state or the state department of revenue.
If you begin your application over the phone, you typically must mail or fax copies of any documents required to verify your identity and information you provided about your business.
 After your paperwork is complete, you still must provide a deposit of at least the minimum amount specified by the bank to complete the set up of your business's bank account.If the account type you chose requires you to maintain a minimum deposit, your initial deposit must be at least that much.
Some banks may have a particular minimum initial deposit, regardless of the minimum you're required to maintain to avoid monthly fees.
To move money to an out-of-state bank, your easiest method would be to initiate a wire transfer from the bank where you're currently holding the funds you want to transfer.
You also may be able to make an initial deposit by sending a certified or business check to one of the bank branches.

