 Try high-waisted shorts that hit a few inches below your belly button so they do not swallow up your torso. Shorts with a top button that hits just below your belly button may make your torso appear shorter, rather than elongate your frame.You may need to try one several pairs of high-waisted shorts with different inseam lengths to find the right one for your petite frame.;
, An A-line cut will help to elongate your legs and flatter your curves. A-line means the shorts have a narrower waist and a slight flare from the hips to the leg. This forms a nice A shape to the shorts.You can shop for A-line cut shorts online or in stores.
 Sizing up can make the shorts feel more casual and comfortable, especially if they are made of denim. Try sizing up so you have more room in the waist and legs.If the waist is very big on you when you size up, you may not want to go for this. Instead, look for high-waisted shorts that still fit well in the waist and have a bit more room in the legs when you size up.
 If you have a pair of high-waisted jeans that already fit you great, consider cutting them and making your own high-waisted shorts. Use a pencil to mark where you want the shorts to hit you on your legs. Often, five to six inches from your waist is ideal. Go shorter if you don’t mind showing more leg in the shorts.Use scissors to cut the jeans into shorts. The edges of the jeans will fray over time or once you wash them, but that can become part of the distressed look of the shorts.
 High-waisted jean shorts are a staple of any wardrobe. Get light denim jeans for a more casual day look. You can also get dark denim jeans for a more dressy look, such as a night out dancing.You can buy light denim jeans that are already distressed or distress the jeans yourself at home.
 Fabric shorts that are high-waisted look great with a blouse or a cropped top for a night out. Look for shorts made of a blend of rayon, spandex, and cotton in black, navy, or white.You can also try patterned fabric shorts for a fun night out look. Go for fabric shorts in a bold pattern or design.
 Shorts made of linen are great for summer or hot spring days. Linen is a great breathable fabric for when it is hot outside. Look for high-waisted linen shorts with a drawstring for a casual, relaxed look. You can also get linen shorts with a zipper and top button for a more put together look., Tucking your shirt into the waistband of your high waisted shorts will show off the high waist of the shorts. Tuck in a t-shirt for a casual look or try tucking in a button up shirt for a more dressy look. Get a pattern silk or cotton button up for the shorts and tuck it in.


When you tuck your shirt in, make sure that the fabric left out is straight and even. Check the shorts from the back and the front to make sure the shirt is tucked in evenly.
 A cropped top stops just above the narrowest part of your waist. Look for a cropped top that hits just above the top button of your high-waisted shorts. Get cropped tops in cotton, silk, or linen for a fun spring or summer look.


Be especially bold with a bralette top. A bralette top is a vintage-inspired piece that is very form fitting and usually stops just above the belly button. The outline of your bra area shows through the top, making it very daring.
 If you're interested in wearing your shorts for a casual-dressy affair, you can pair them with a loose blouse. Loose fitting blouses tend to pair well with tighter high waisted shorts, while slim fitting blouses tend to work better with shorts that are looser in the legs.
 If you want to rock your style while strolling along the beach, slip your high-waisted shorts on over your swimsuit. This will allow you to show off the top part of the suit and look casual at the beach.You can wear the high-waisted shorts over a one piece bathing suit or over the bottom part of a bikini.
 Rock high-waisted shorts in fall or winter by wearing tights underneath. Go for black tights with black high-waisted shorts and a button up top for a clean, sophisticated look. Or try high-waisted jean shorts with colored tights and a t-shirt for a fun casual look.You can also wear knee length socks over the tights to keep your legs extra warm when you are wearing shorts and tights on a cold day.
 A cropped blazer or sweater works especially well with the silhouette created by the shorts. Try a cropped blazer in navy or black with fabric high-waisted shorts for a day at the office. Wear a long cardigan with high-waisted jean shorts for a more casual look.A jacket can be especially good if it comes in at the narrowest part of your waist, right about where the top of your shorts rest. This further accentuates the skinniest part of your figure and can be very flattering.
 A belt can be one of the best, most natural style accessories to match with high waisted shorts. Make sure the shorts have belt loops if you plan to wear them with a belt. Choose a skinny belt in a neutral color to accentuate your waist. Or go for a thick leather belt with high-waisted jean shorts to keep the shorts up., When you are putting together an outfit with the high-waisted shorts, strive for a balance between color and pattern on the top and bottom. You can wear all neutrals or incorporate a classic pattern like a pinstripe or a texture like lace on either the top or bottom. Keep the details to one or the other, though, and do not wear pattern or texture on both your top and bottom.The other alternative is to use color. You can stick to simple patterns or all solids if you include a little color, but adding color to the top will generally look dressier if your shorts are in a neutral color.
 Flat sandals or basic flats work especially well for a casual summer look with the high-waisted shorts. Pair the shorts with a casual top and sandals or flats for a day out.You can also try sandals or flats made of leather for a dressier look. Get sandals or flats with a design on the top or rhinestones.
 Pair fabric high-waisted shorts with high heels for a night out. Get silk high-waisted shorts and wear them with heels to a summer wedding or a work event.If your shorts are in a neutral color and you've paired them with a nice blouse, a good high heel in a bold pattern can add a fun twist to your outfit.
 If you need an option that is flirty and feminine without all the fuss, an open toe or closed toe wedge heel is the way to go. Choose shoes with a wedge heel in a neutral color or a pattern. Try a high wedge or a low wedge, depending on your comfort level.Wedge heels are a good option for a summer night out or for around the office, as they look comfortable and stylish.

