 You don't want to -- no one wants to help out a jerk -- but you should. Find ways to be supportive and helpful around this person, in ways that make the most of your own strengths. Just do small things without calling attention to the favor. You're not "winning them back" or courting them, you're just being a good person. Be casual kind: don't make a big deal of it or ask for thanks, just get it done.


If they don't have any lunch at lunch time, offer to give them something of yours.
If they make a joke that they and their friends find funny, laugh.
If they respond with anger or hatred to your kindness, just smile and walk away. It's a defense mechanism for the hurt and lonely -- not true hatred.
 Studies show that this is even better than helping the other person out.And you get free labor! Keep the request small and manageable, or honor them with a bigger collaborative task if you're feeling bold. They'll feel good about helping you out, which makes them feel good about you. Its the best kind of reverse psychology, and is the result of something called "cognitive dissonance."


Trying to win over someone by harming yourself is pointless. If they're going to screw it up, intentionally, then screw them. You'll find plenty of other friends who aren't so cruel.
 Make the first move in order to fix any broken friendship. Invite them for tea, go see a movie, go on a double date, or just stop by their desk. Get out there and talk to each other. Most people only hate others because they don't know or understand them. Granted, the first few conversations will probably suck, since they "hate" you, but they will melt. Even the hardest hearts want a friend."How was your day/weekend?" is the simplest, but most effective token of friendship you can offer, and you can use it anytime, anywhere.Ask questions about them instead of talking about you. He already hates you, so giving him more of you isn't doing you any favors, right? But people love to talk about themselves. Focus on listening, getting to know where they come from so you can become a better friend.Find shared interests. Solving the hatred isn't necessarily enough -- not if you want to ever be friends with someone. Try to find something that you can talk about together. Maybe you both like the same sport, or riding motorcycles, or dancing, or collectible cookie jars., Get them to go out with you somewhere, usually as part of a group. More likely than not, they will not accept an invitation just to hang with you -- and you're not going to have a great time with someone who hates you. But, in groups, a casual setting is the perfect place to strike up conversations that lead towards friendships.
 Once his or her friends realize you're not the second coming of Satan, it's going to be a lot harder to hate you. You aren't stealing friends, by the way (and you thought he hated you now!), you're just being your friendly, personable self. Whether you notice or not, his friends get to work on the hater for you.

