 This slightly higher temperature allows you to use a shorter baking time, which keeps the cookies moist and chewy., Mix together the flour, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl, until thoroughly blended. This recipe uses slightly more flour than most cookie recipes, because flour traps more chewy moisture in the cookie., Melt the butter in a light-colored skillet so you can watch the color. Swirl the pan constantly, and transfer the butter to a large, empty bowl as soon as it turns a dark golden brown. Melted butter leads to much chewier cookies, and browning it adds a richer flavor.Melting half the butter at a time may be easier to control.
You can lower the risk of burning by melting most of the butter, then pouring it over the remaining room temperature butter and stirring until fully melted.
 Whisk these ingredients into the butter with a fork or whisk. Add both types of sugar, a little at a time, and whisk until there are no more lumps.


The more brown sugar you use, and the darker the brown sugar is, the chewier the cookie will be, since brown sugar contains more moisture (molasses).






If using light brown sugar, consider using ⅞ cup brown sugar and ⅜ cup white sugar instead.
 Separate one egg, and throw the white away or set it aside for another recipe. Add the yolk to the butter-sugar mixture. Crack a second egg directly into the mixture. Whisk until smooth and shiny.


For better flavor and more consistent texture, instead whisk for 30 seconds, wait for 3 minutes, whisk, wait, whisk, wait, and whisk one final time., Use a wooden spoon or rubber spatula to stir the wet and dry ingredients together, until the dough is well mixed.


Add the M&Ms and stir briefly to distribute them throughout the dough.
 If you haven't prepared a baking sheet yet, line it with parchment paper to prevent sticking. Use a large cookie scoop, a tablespoon (15 mL), or your fingers. If you like, press extra M&Ms onto them for decoration.
 Use a cookie scoop or tablespoon to drop balls of dough on a parchment-paper lined baking tray. Bake for about 10 minutes or until the edges brown for a chewy cookie with a soft center. Bake for about 14 minutes for a crisper cookie with a brown, chewy center.


Let cool for at least 5 minutes before eating to get the right texture.
