 A wedding dress is a large expense but it can be reduced. Try looking for sample dresses that fit you instead of getting one custom made. If you are seeking to get a free dress, see if any family members or friends have a dress they are willing to give you or let you borrow. If you want your own dress, make sure to keep it minimalistic instead of getting ornate add-ons that can increase the cost of your dress and wedding.The average cost of a wedding dress in the U.S. is $1,200.
Great websites where you can purchase second-hand dresses include OnceWed, Still White, and Nearly Newlywed.
 Photographers, bartenders, and tailors can increase the cost of the wedding. Think of friends who would be able to fulfill those roles in your wedding at a discounted price. Talk to people that you know and ask them if they would be interested in doing your wedding., Instead of having a florist get all of the materials for your arrangements, you can purchase flowers at wholesale and provide them to the florist. This will reduce the cost that you need to spend on flowers. Negotiate and have a conversation with your florist about what a tight budget you are on.If you or someone you know has gardens with naturally growing flowers, see if you can use them instead of having to purchase them.
 Instead of getting ornate and extravagant wedding materials, think small but refined. Keep an open mind and be willing to negotiate the quality of certain things to keep the price down. Speak to your partner and bounce ideas off them so that you stay realistic.
 Typically the bride and groom get gifts for people in the wedding party. If you're on a tight budget, consider skipping this tradition. You can also purchase cheaper gifts if you want to get something but don't want to spend a lot.Affordable gifts for bridesmaids include flowers, books, or cards.
Cheap gifts for the groomsman include a flask, whiskey rocks, pocket knives, or luggage tags.
 Instead of paying full price for decorations, look for ones that are on sale. Consider altering your wedding's aesthetic if you find a great deal on decorations that you can't pass up. If you want to save even more money, there are shops online that are dedicated to selling used wedding supplies and decorations. Do a search online to find the different sites and take a look at what they have to offer.