 Many people who are depressed find comfort in foods, like sugary junk food. Ice cream, cakes, and other sweets can raise serotonin levels, which may make you feel better. But it’s a temporary spike which can be followed by a crash. Too much refined sugar can disrupt your moods and cause fatigue.Sugars can also lead to anxiety when your blood sugar levels drop and you experience a crash.In addition to giving you a false sense of comfort, high levels of sugar can lead to health problems, such as weight gain, diabetes, and heart disease.;
, Refined carbs, such as white bread, white pasta, snack foods, and many cereals, are bad for your depression and anxiety. They can lead to blood sugar dips, which can cause bad mood swings, irritability, and sadness. Instead of refined, simple carbs, eat complex carbohydrates, such as whole grains and quinoa.Avoid foods like bagels, white bread, processed crackers and chips, donuts, cakes, and muffins.
Low glycemic index foods such as fruits, vegetables, and whole grains are also more likely to keep your mood balanced than high GI foods (white flour, white sugar, white rice, candy, baked goods, etc.)., Protein contains amino acids, which are required for proper brain functioning. Make sure that your diet includes plenty of high-quality protein to help maintain proper mood balance. The best sources of protein include meat, eggs, and dairy products.Plant proteins like soy, beans, and seeds also contain amino acids, but they may not contain the proper balance of all 12 essential amino acids.
 Artificial sweeteners, like aspartame, can negatively affect your depression. Research shows that it blocks serotonin, which can cause you to have low moods and worsen your depression.Though refined sugar can negatively affect your depression and anxiety, artificial sweeteners are worse. If you must have something sweet, avoid foods or drinks that contain aspartame. Eat something with sugar instead, but in limited amounts, or try some sweet fruit like berries or peaches, to satisfy a sugar craving.
Artificial sweeteners include Sweet’N Low, Equal, and NutraSweet.
 Hydrogenated oils are unhealthy trans fats found in fried foods, such as French fries, cheese sticks, fried meats, and fried vegetables. Trans fats can negatively affect your depression.Too much saturated fat, like from junk foods such as potato chips, pizza, and ice cream, can result in anxiety.These foods also lead to health problems, such as heart disease and obesity.
 Alcohol is a depressant, so you want to avoid it when you are depressed and anxious. Because alcohol messes with your central nervous system, which includes your emotions, drinking alcohol can make your depression worse. Alcohol can also make anxiety symptoms worse., Caffeine can cause agitation, irritability, and nervousness, which can negatively affect your anxiety. Caffeine also causes problems with sleep, which may worsen your depression.Don’t drink energy drinks. These drinks are full of caffeine and sugar, both of which negatively influence anxiety and depression.
If you drink coffee, limit your intake. Be careful not to drink large coffees that contain concentrated amounts of caffeine and sugar, like you can buy at coffee chains.
 Foods with too much sodium can worsen your depression. Sodium can make your emotions fluctuate, which can negatively affect your depression and cause anxiety.Too much sodium can also weaken your immune system and cause fatigue.
 Omega-3 fatty acid supplements can treat depression when taken regularly.Omega-3 fats can be found in fish, like salmon, sardines, trout, fresh tuna, herring, mackerel, and halibut. Some foods may be enriched with Omega-3 fatty acids, like eggs, milk, soy milk, yogurt, bread, cereal, flour, and peanut butter. Nuts and seeds also contain Omega-3s, like walnuts, pumpkin seeds, and flaxseeds.Look for an omega-3 fatty acid supplement that contains between 1.5 to 2g of EPA. This amount was shown to improve the moods of depressed people when taken daily., Some supplements have been shown to improve symptoms of depression when taken on a daily basis. Before taking supplements for depression symptoms, make sure that you check with your doctor. Also, make sure that you follow the manufacturer’s instructions for dosing.


Vitamin B12. Taking a supplement of 0.4 mg of vitamin B12 every day has been shown to reduce symptoms of depression.If you take a multivitamin, then check to see if it contains this amount.
Folic acid. Taking 0.8 mg of folic acid every day has also been shown to decrease symptoms of depression as well.You can take a multivitamin that contains this amount or take it as a solo supplement.
Magnesium. Taking magnesium has also been shown to treat depression. Try taking 125 to 300 mg of magnesium with each of your meals and at bedtime as well. This dosage was shown to reduce depression symptoms in less than a week.