 Many medications have side effects that can keep you awake at night or lead to problems sleeping.Talk to your doctor if you take medication for asthma, chronic bronchitis, and emphysema. Many drugs used to treat these issues contain steroids and a compound called “theophylline”, which is a stimulant that can keep you up at night.
If you are taking heart medication or medication for arthritis, you may experience insomnia and nightmares because of these drugs.You may also have a hard time sleeping if you are taking antidepressants. If you suffer from anxiety or depression, you may also experience insomnia or sleep problems.
 Speak to your doctor about specific symptoms or patterns in your sleep issues. If you feel irritable or sleepy during the day, have difficulty staying awake while sitting still, fall asleep while driving, and require caffeine every day to stay awake, you may have a sleep disorder. There are four main types of sleep disorders:Insomnia: The most common sleep complaint. Insomnia is often a symptom of another issue, such as stress, anxiety, depression, or another health condition. It can also be caused by lifestyle choices, like medication you take, a lack of exercise, jet lag, or your caffeine intake.
Sleep apnea: Occurs when your breathing temporarily stops during sleep due to a blockage in your upper airways. These pauses in breathing interrupt your sleep, leading to many awakenings throughout the night. Sleep apnea is a serious, and potentially life threatening sleep disorder. If you suffer from this disorder, it’s important to talk to a doctor and get a Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) machine. This device delivers a stream of air to your airways while you sleep and can successfully treat the disorder.
Restless leg syndrome: (RLS) is a sleep disorder caused by an irresistible urge to move your arms and legs. This urge usually occurs when you’re lying down and is due to uncomfortable, tingly sensations in your arms and legs.
Narcolepsy: This sleep disorder involves excessive, uncontrollable daytime sleepiness. It is caused by a dysfunction of the mechanism in your brain that controls sleeping and waking. If you have narcolepsy, you may have “sleep attacks” where you fall asleep in the middle of talking, working, or even driving.
 If your doctor refers you to a sleep center, a specialist will observe your sleep patterns, brain waves, heart rate, and rapid eye movement with monitoring devices attached to your body. The sleep specialist will analyze the results from your sleep study and design a custom treatment program.A sleep center can also provide you with equipment to monitor your activities while awake and asleep, at home.

