 Flatulence is the body’s simple way of expelling excess air from your stomach. Eating or drinking too fast, talking while you eat, smoking, and drinking carbonated sodas all cause the swallowing of too much air.Eat and drink slowly. By taking time to eat your food and drink your beverages, you will swallow less air.
Avoid carbonated drinks and beer since they are known to release carbon dioxide gas.
Part of chewing gum or sucking on hard candy is swallowing large amounts of air. Avoid both if you flatulating too often.
If you smoke, you are swallowing lots of air. The stinky smell on your clothing might not be from smoke.;
, Complex carbohydrates are gas-producing foods that can cause discomfort. Complex Carbohydrate Intolerance (CCI) occurs because you lack the enzyme necessary to break down complex carbohydrates. In most cases, however, you are more likely just to suffer from bloating and stomach pain.Cut down on vegetables such as broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, and cauliflower.
Avoid fruits such as apples, peaches, and pears.
Bloating and discomfort can originate from eating whole grains, cereals, nuts, and seeds. Celiac disease, which is an autoimmune disease triggered by gluten, can cause bloating and gas.
Steer clear of drinking milk (especially if you are lactose intolerant), alcohol, and carbonated drinks.
 Although food intolerances and digestive issues are the main causes of flatulence, anxiety can also lead to its own set of flatulence problems. Anxiety can lead to further anxiety. Chest and stomach pains caused by digestive symptoms results in flatulence and anxiety followed by the increased anxiety of flatulating in public.Excessive stress and anxiety usually cause you to breathe faster, which result in swallowing more air and more flatulence. Severe anxiety can increase hydrochloric acid in the intestines causing more gas to be produced as well as flatulence.
If you experience anxiety from either excessive flatulence or pain, the best thing to do is let the gas out safely. Find a secure spot where you are comfortable and away from other people.
Practice deep belly breathing, or breathing from your diaphragm, which simulates the parasympathetic nervous system and helps to relax the body. Place a hand on your belly and inhale so that you can feel your stomach rising (as opposed to your chest). Hold your breath for a few seconds, then slowly exhale.

