 To activate the yeast, you’ll need to mix it with water. Fill a small bowl with ½ cup (118 ml) of warm water and place it in the center of your workspace.The water should be 110°F (43°C) so it’s warm enough to activate the yeast.;
, After you’ve filled the bowl with warm water, sprinkle 1 package (¼ oz./7 g) of active dry yeast and a pinch of granulated sugar over it. Stir the mixture well to help the yeast dissolve.If you have a larger container of active dry yeast, you’ll need 2 ½ teaspoons (7g).
 Once you’ve stirred the yeast mixture together, allow it to stand for about 10 minutes. You’ll know that it’s ready to mix into the dough when it starts to foam., Add ½ cup (113 g) of melted, unsalted butter,¼ cup (50 g) of sugar, 1 ½ teaspoons (9 g) of salt, 2 teaspoons (10 ml) of vanilla extract, ¾ cup (177 ml) of lukewarm milk, 3 eggs, and 1 cup (125 g) of all-purpose flour to a large bowl. Stir the mixture together until it is completely blended.The milk should be between 98 and 105°F (37 and 41°C).
If you prefer, you can replace the eggs with egg substitute.
 Once the other ingredients are combined, pour the yeast mixture into the bowl. Mix well until it is fully blended in., After you’ve stirred the yeast mixture into the dough, gradually begin to mix in the remaining 3 cups (375 g) of flour. Work in a little at a time, stirring well until the flour is fully incorporated before adding any more. Continue mixing until a sticky dough forms.You can use an electric mixer or stand mixer to mix up the dough if you are having trouble stirring it by hand.
 When your dough has come together, turn it out onto a lightly floured surface. Use clean hands to knead it for approximately 10 minutes, or until it becomes smooth and elastic.If you prefer, you can knead the dough in a stand mixer with the dough hook attachment in place.
 After you’ve kneaded the dough until it’s smooth, set it in a bowl that’s been lightly greased with butter. Turn the dough over once so it’s coated with butter on both sides, and cover the dough with plastic wrap.It helps to work the dough into a round or ball shape before you add it the bowl.
The dough will expand so make sure that the bowl that you place it in is large enough for it to double in size.
 Once you’ve covered the bowl, place it in a warm area and let it rise at room temperature until it’s doubled in size. It should take approximately 1 to 2 hours., To make the cheese filling for the babka, add 1 ½ cups (640 g) of softened cream cheese, ⅓ cup (66 g) of sugar, 1 ½ tablespoons (22 g) of sour cream, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract, and ½ teaspoon (2 g) lemon zest to a large bowl. Use an electric mixer on medium speed to beat the ingredients together until they’re smooth.You can substitute farmers cheese for the cream cheese if you prefer.
 After the dough has doubled in size, turn it out onto a lightly floured surface. Use a rolling pin to roll it out into a 20-inch by 16-inch (51-cm by 41-cm)rectangle, with the long side facing you.If you don’t have a rolling pin, you can use a heavy cylindrical object, such as a wine bottle, thermos, or jar, to roll out the dough.
 When the dough is rolled out into a rectangle, take 2 tablespoons (28 g) of melted butter and brush it over the dough with a pastry brush. Make sure to cover the entire surface of the dough with the butter.If you don’t have a pastry brush, you can use a piece of parchment or wax paper folded into a strip to apply the melted butter to the dough.
 After you’ve covered the dough rectangle with the melted butter, spread the cheese filling over it as well. Use a spatula to carefully cover the entire surface of the dough., To bake the babka, you’ll need a bundt pan. Lightly grease the interior of the pan with butter to ensure that the babka won’t stick after baking.You can use nonstick cooking spray to grease the bundt pan if you prefer.
You can also use loaf pans for the babka; you may need to cut the dough in half and place it in two separate pans, though.
 When the babka dough is covered with the cheese filling, begin rolling it up like a jelly roll, starting with the long end. Once it’s tightly rolled, twist it 6 to 8 times to form a rope.Twisting the dough is optional, though it gives the babka a more decorative look.
 After you’ve rolled and twisted the babka, use your fingers to pinch the ends together and seal them. Next, place the dough in the greased bundt pan so it forms a circle., Once the babka dough is arranged in the pan, cover it loosely with plastic wrap. Let it rise until it nearly doubles in size again, which should take approximately 1 hour.It helps to place the dough in a warm spot when you’re waiting for it to rise.
 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the babka, you must preheat it. When the babka is nearly finished rising, set the temperature to 350°F (177°C), and allow it to fully preheat., When the oven is preheated, place the pan inside. Let the babka bake until it is a deep golden brown, which should take approximately 40 to 50 minutes.You can test the babka’s doneness by inserting a cake tester or toothpick in the center; it will emerge clean if the babka is finished baking.
 Once the babka is finished baking, remove it from the oven. Allow it to cool in the pan for minutes without trying to remove it., After the babka has cooled in the pan for a few minutes, carefully turn it out onto a wire cooling rack. Allow it to cool completely for at least 2 hours before cutting it into slices and serving it.Store any leftover babka in an airtight container in the refrigerator. It should stay fresh for 3 to 5 days. Allow it to sit out at room temperature for 15 to 20 minutes or heat it up briefly before eating the leftovers.

