 Old garages and sheds, especially those next to trees, are good ground squirrel nests. Try to seal up holes as soon as possible.;
, If your roof is nearing the end of its life cycle, it may allow just enough space for a squirrel to fit through. Squirrels in the house pose an electrical risk, because they often chew through wiring.
 Make sure that they are 6 feet (1.8 m) away from your house, roof and garage. For larger trees with big heavy branches, you may need to call a professional tree trimming service. Most squirrels prefer trees for their homes, rather than outbuildings. , Nuts and seeds are a squirrel’s favorite food, so they will be very persistent in trying to get the food. Invest in squirrel-proof bird feeders and suspend them away from a roof or tree.


If you don’t want to give up your bird feeders, you can try buying a safflower seed mix. Many squirrels don’t like this feed. Other alternatives include white proso millet seed and nyjer thistle., Cover the hole in the building with newspaper. If you return the next day to find it's been removed, something is living inside. If a squirrel has nested, try calling animal control or a local pest control business. Give preference to businesses that trap squirrels and let them go in the wild.






Make sure that a trapped squirrel is released at least 3 miles (4.8 km) away, preferably with a body of water between your property and their new home.
 Purchase sheet metal and attach it with metal springs. The collar should be at least 6 feet (1.8 m) high to deter enterprising climbers. Smaller trees can be protected with a collar of hardware cloth.






If you find that squirrels are chewing on tree bark, wrap the trunk with hardware cloth.






Ensure you cover each tree in your back yard and power line poles with collars. The squirrels should move on to another house that is easier to climb around.
 Squirrels may be able to outwit dogs, but they will choose an environment without a predator animal over a yard with a dog. Most dogs have an instinct to chase and kill the squirrels.

A dog can keep the squirrels in the trees, rather than near your house or garden.






If you combine this method with tree trimming and tree collars, the squirrels are even more likely to keep away from your property. , If you can’t find buckets to serve this purpose, then you can cover the ground with a very thick layer of leaves. The squirrels can still dig through the leaves, but many sources suggest that they prefer not to.

Do your research about the types of bulbs that attract squirrels and those that don’t. Try planting squirrel-resistant plants.






Squirrels favor crocuses, colchicum, tulips and gladiolus in bulb form. They love to eat corn from the garden.






They prefer not to eat alliums, narcissus, daffodils, amaryllis, Spanish bluebells and hyacinth. , Buy plastic pipe that is 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) in diameter and slit it vertically down the side. The pipe will roll when squirrels attempt to walk along the wire between trees and buildings. , or .30 l) with 1 gallon (3.8 l) of water. Spread the mix on tree bark or other areas where squirrels chew.


Animal experts suggest this only as a last resort. It can be harmful to humans and pets, and it is also less humane than simply making your home less hospitable.
 Unless they are very sensitive, you can apply the capsaicin treatment to the plants themselves to deter squirrels from taking them for food. , This may deter squirrels from eating the mix, but it won’t hurt the birds. 