 A right triangle is so named because one of its angles is a right angle. You can find the measure of one of the other angles if you know either of these things:


The measure of the third angle. In this case, you add its measure to 90, the number of degrees in the right angle and subtract that total from 180.
The measure of any two of the triangle’s sides. In this case, you can find the measure of the angle using trigonometry., Trigonometric functions are ratios between two of the three sides of the triangle. Although there are six trigonometric functions, the following three are used most often:


If you know the length of the side opposite the angle and the length of the hypotenuse (the side opposite the right angle), you can use the sine function, which is the length of the opposite side divided by the length of the hypotenuse.
If you know the length of the side adjacent to the angle and the length of the hypotenuse, you can use the cosine function, which is the length of the adjacent side divided by the length of the hypotenuse.
If you know the lengths of the opposite and adjacent sides, you can use the tangent function, which is the length of the opposite side divided by the length of the adjacent side., For the purposes of this example, we’ll assume we know the side opposite the angle has a length of 5 units and the hypotenuse has a length of 10 units. Because we know the opposite and hypotenuse, the ratio we’re finding is the sine.


Dividing the opposite’s value of 5 by the hypotenuse’s value of 10 yields 5 / 10 = 0.5.
 Because we’re using the sine to find the angle measure, the angle we’re looking for is called the arcsine or inverse sine. There are two ways to find it:


In the days before calculators, you would consult a printed table of values for sines, cosines, and tangents for angles from 0 to 90 degrees. Read down the Sine column until you find the value “0.5” and then look at the angle measure corresponding to that sine value.
With a calculator with trig function capability, you input the sine value (if you didn’t already divide the opposite by the hypotenuse with the calculator to find it) and then press the appropriate key or keys. Depending on the brand of calculator you have, you may press a single key labeled “sin-1” or a key labeled “Inv,” “2ndF,” or “Shift” before pressing the “sin” key.Whichever method you use for this example, you should find the angle has a measure of 30 degrees.

