 Combine one teaspoon of baking soda, 1/3 cup (79 milliliters) of olive oil, and one cup (237 milliliters) water. Pour the solution in a spray bottle. Aim the spray bottle at the plants you wish to keep insects away from, then squeeze the handle.Repeat as necessary. It will be necessary to repeat this treatment after it rains.
 If your preventive pesticide spray doesn’t work, you can make a somewhat stronger variant that will eliminate insects. Mix one tablespoon of olive oil, two tablespoons baking soda, and a few drops of liquid soap. Mix the concoction together and pour it into a spray bottle. Spray the liquid liberally about your garden.Reapply once every three days. Continue to apply even after the insects are gone to dissuade them from returning.
 Yet another baking soda insect spray is tailored specifically toward ants. If you have an ant problem in your garden, mix confectioners’ sugar and baking soda in equal amounts. For instance, you might mix five teaspoons of baking soda and five teaspoons of confectioner’s sugar. Sprinkle the powder in the vicinity of the ant hills. The ants will eat the powdered mix and die.You might choose to add a spoonful of water to the mix after you’ve combined the sugar and baking soda to help it clump together.
Don’t use regular sugar, as it won’t cling to the baking soda in the way confectioner’s sugar will.
 Sprinkle baking soda around your vegetable garden. Make a thin but visible ring of baking soda around each plant. This will dissuade rabbits from nibbling on them. You will need to reapply this mixture regularly, especially after it rains., Mix baking soda and flour in equal proportions. For instance, you might mix one cup of each together. Dust the mixture over cabbage, kale, broccoli, and other plants that tend to attract cabbage worms.You will need to reapply this mixture regularly, especially after it rains., Baking soda is useful for killing slugs. When you see slugs in your garden, just sprinkle them generously in baking soda. This will cause them to shrivel up and die.