 Many individuals continue therapy after their recovery program and a weekly session can have a positive effect on your life. A therapist will listen to your concerns and emotions, without being directly involved in your day-to-day life, providing a specific kind of release and advice that can be very beneficial.


There are various options available including inpatient treatment, group therapy, family therapy, education, nutrition counseling, and medical monitoring.
It is recommended that you try multiple therapy options. Some require inpatient care, while others benefit from group therapy sessions.
Remember, it is not only your symptoms that you need to target. If you're struggling with anxiety or depression these will be treated within your therapy sessions.
 Cognitive behavioral therapy helps change your thoughts and life patterns and promotes healthy behavior. Through these discussion sessions with a psychologist, you will become motivated to move towards a better lifestyle.
 Inpatient and outpatient treatment is used for the most severe forms of eating disorders.


For inpatient treatment, you would be kept in a hospital wing or psychiatric institute and treated for your disorder using different techniques.
During outpatient treatment the patient is kept in a controlled atmosphere only during the day and is sent home at nights if their counselor thinks there is a safe and supportive environment at home.
 If you are recovering from an eating disorder, food counseling is important because your relationship with food is so paramount to your successful treatment. A counselor works as a dietician and makes a diet plan to keep you healthy.


This is a great way to because you will be under an authority who is watching every bite you take.
This can help improve your eating patterns.
 Although medical intervention is a last resort and can have side effects, it is sometimes necessary to maintain your recovery.


Some doctors prescribe Prozac, an anti-depressant, to treat anorexics and bulimics because it elevates the level of serotonin in the body and improves mood.
Other medicines include Topamax and Zyprexa to reduce the obsessive thinking patterns regarding food.
Always make sure consult with a doctor before taking any medication.

