 The height of your seat isn't the only thing that matters. Seats can be slid forward and backward and angled up or down to get rid of sore spots and make a more comfortable ride. To test for the perfect fore/aft position of the seat:


While riding, stop your feet so that one pedal is at 3:00 position (completely forward. Your foot should be flat.
Imagine a straight line coming down from the front of your knee to the ground.
This line should intersect through the middle of your pedal. In other words, your knee should be right over your pedal when in the 3:00 position., On the back of the seat, pointing down at the back wheel, is a small bolt that controls the seat placement. It connects to a bracket that clamps onto small metal tubes that hold the seat in place. Loosen this bolt by turning it counter-clockwise to lower the pressure on the clamps that keep the seat in place.
 You should be able to comfortably reach your handlebars, and your knee should be over the pedal when your foot is at 3:00 in the pedal rotation. A good test is to try standing as you ride. If your seat is in the right position, you should be able to stand up easily without pulling or pushing on the handlebars. If you experience any of the following problems, slide the seat forward or back while the bolt is still loose:


Trouble standing, reaching for the bars, and finger numbness can mean the seat is too far back.
Trouble feeling comfortable down hills and shoulder pain can mean your seat is too far forward., Use a carpenter's level to make sure the seat is flat -- this evenly distributes your weight for more comfortable riding. That said, if you experience discomfort in your crotch you can adjust the seat a little, though no more than 3 degrees in either direction.









Women should typically tilt the seat slightly down for more comfort.
Men should typically tilt the seat slightly up for more comfort., This bolt, usually on the right of the seat, allows you to easily change the angle of the seat and then tighten it in place again. Some older seats have two small bolts underneath the seat, one in front of the seat post and one behind, that are needed to change the seat angle. You must tighten one side to push that side up while loosening the other, almost like a see-saw.








Never make large adjustments to your seat angle. Check you seat height and forward position first, then adjust the angle slightly, if at all.

