 There are two types of travel credit cards: general and co-branded. General travel-rewards cards are offered through a credit card company and return rewards (such as miles) on every purchase. These do not limit the airlines you can fly or hotels you can stay at. Co-branded travel cards are offered through a specific airline. Co-branded cards only reward you with miles for that airline, as well as multiple airline-related perks.Many hotels also offer co-branded credit cards. These cards will not generate airline miles, but will build up points at the hotel chain that may be used for free hotel rooms or amenities.;
, All travel-rewards cards do not distribute equally valued points. Most cards have a basic rewards rate of one point (or mile) for every dollar spent. However, the redemption rates can differ drastically between cards. Compare a few travel credit cards against one another to determine which has the best point-value system.For example, if two cards both offer two miles for every dollar spent, but the first card requires 20,000 miles for a flight and the second requires 40,000 miles, the first card is the better option.
 Many travel cards will immediately give you a large number of bonus points or miles simply for signing up. Cards present this as a “reward” for applying. The initial bonus may even provide enough miles or points to cover one (or more) free flights.If you’re applying for a cobranded travel card, the airline or hotel may offer a lucrative sign-up bonus to individuals already staying at the hotel or flying on the airline.


Think about joining a frequent-flier club or a hotel-rewards program prior to applying for a cobranded credit card. These type of airline- and hotel-based programs may offer special perks to their members for signing up for a cobranded credit card, or may lower the annual fees or minimum spending amount.
Most cards will only apply the initial sign-up bonus after you meet the required spending minimum on the card. For example, the Capital One Venture Rewards card will reward you with 10,000 miles if you spend $1,000 in the first three months after receiving the card., Certain travel cards restrict the user’s opportunities to redeem points and miles. You should select a card that has few restrictions, and allows you to redeem points, miles, and other benefits as liberally as possible. Some cards have extensive blackout dates that prohibit travel, or—if they’re general travel cards—restrict the airlines and hotels you can purchase from.Avoid these cards if possible.


Investigating a card’s travel blackout days is a good way to start checking up on the card’s flexibility.
For example, the BankAmericard Travel Rewards Credit Card has no blackout dates, and doesn’t restrict which website you purchase tickets and hotel reservations through. The Chase Sapphire Preferred Card Also has no blackout dates or other restrictions., A final aspect of a travel card to consider is its customer service. In addition to the usual customer-service concerns (friendliness, convenience, ease of settling credit disputes), keep in mind that you may need to call your card’s customer service while overseas or in a drastically different time zone. Many top-tier travel cards (including those from Chase Bank and Capital One) will offer 24/7 customer service.When considering service alone, consider applying for a travel card with top-rated customer service, including: American Express, Chase Bank, USAA, or U.S. Bank.