 There are a variety of unpowered, handheld engraving tools you can use. To make detailed pictures, such as you might see in a 19th-century book, select two or three tools for different effects. Here are three common types of traditional, handheld engraving tools:Spitstickers are used to carve fluid lines.

Gravers produce lines that swell or shrink as you cut, depending on changes in the tool's angle.

Scorpers, with round or square tips, gouge out large areas of the wood to produce white space in the printed image. This tool is probably not necessary if you are not printing.
 Take a bottle of black pen ink, and use a brush or a cloth to barely cover a flat, wooden block.This will make the areas you've already cut stand out, so it's important not to use so much ink that it soaks down below the surface.
 Let the ink dry completely. Once it has, check whether there is a rough "nap" to the wood. If there is, remove it by burnishing firmly with a paper towel., A small, leather sandbag makes an excellent support for the wood, providing a firm backing regardless of the direction you push.Clamping the wood to a table is not recommended, since you'll need to move the block around as you engrave.
 Hold the tool as you would a computer mouse, with your hand lightly cupped around the handle. Press against one side of the metal stem with your index finger, and press the other side with your thumb. Let the heel of the handle rest in your cupped palm; when engraving, you'll push against the heel to provide pressure.
 Press the tool into the wood at a shallow angle to engrave. Use your other hand to turn the wooden block slowly as you push forward with the tool. Cut no more than 1 centimeter (less than ½ inch) at a time before adjusting the position of your hand. It will likely take some practice before you can cut smoothly.


If the tool quickly embeds itself and halt, the angle is probably too steep."Graver" tools can be gradually moved to a steeper or shallower angle to widen or narrow the line drawn. This can take some practice to use correctly, but it is an excellent skill to develop for wood engraving.
 One way to start a woodcut is to cut the outline of the image first, making it slightly too large so you can refine the details with a smaller tool.There are many stylized forms of shading, but a series of small, mostly parallel lines in an overlapping "falling rain" pattern often creates the most natural effect., Once the wood is cut, you'll be able to transfer the image onto paper as many times as you like. Purchase a tube of oil-based black relief printing ink for this purpose. Squeeze a tiny amount onto the flat, curved portion of the wood, and use a hand roller, or "brayer," to spread a fine layer over the entire surface. Add more ink if necessary, and keep rolling with even pressure until the surface is smooth., Lay a sheet of paper over the wet block, taking care not to move it once it comes into contact with the ink. Rub over the back of the paper using a burnisher tool, or any smooth, flat object. Lift the paper once it has been rubbed, and you should have a print of your image. Repeat this as many times as necessary, rolling out additional ink whenever the block dries out.


If the burnisher is not sliding easily, rubbing it against your hair may provide just enough oil to help, without staining the paper.Look for a "burnisher printing tool," since there are tools used in other professions also called burnishers.
 After a printing session, wipe away ink from the woodcut and tools using mineral spirits (white spirit) or vegetable oil and a clean rag.Store your woodcut for later use, if you plan to print it again.

