 You need both ambition and confidence to succeed in a competitive field. You have to be self-critical in order to show only your best work. If you are passionate about wilderness photography you will have the drive to work hard and refine your technical and creative skills.Seek to specialize but be careful that your work isn’t to specialized that there is no market for it. You want to differentiate yourself from the crowd without fading into obscurity.;
, Invest in the best equipment that you can afford but do your due diligence and research what’s best for your price point and skill level. Understand that while some equipment, like lenses, can last you a long time, other equipment, like the body of your camera, may get old in a couple years as newer technologies arise.Invest your money wisely and rent what you can. You may also join photography groups to pool your resources. Research on social media for clubs near your location.
 Being technically competent is essential to being a successful nature photographer. You don’t want to be out on the field with the perfect shot and not know how to troubleshoot a minor camera error. You may slowly take evening courses or complete a full degree.Be sure to research the instructors and institution to make sure that you are making a proper investment for your career goals.
 Keep only your best shots. Take as many pictures as you can so that you have a lot of variety to choose from. Be brutally honest with what your best shots are. Ask friends to help judge what should be in your portfolio.Make sure to show the variety and breadth of your skill. Show different close-ups, camera techniques, environments, etc.
 Depending on fees and deadlines, enter as many competitions as you can. The more prestigious the better as awards will only give you more notoriety and leverage to negotiate sales to later work.Research what the guidelines and prizes are. Some contests offer to launch your career with an immediate contract to a publication.
 Email photographers that you admire and politely reach out to them with any questions you may have. You be surprised at how easy it is to establish a relationship if you remain respectful of her time and passionate about her work. You may also fin photography groups on social media so that you can share your passion and support each other as you learn.A mentor is a great person to have so that you can learn tips and tricks that only someone with experience in the field can give. She can especially help in giving emotional support by letting you know that she once was just starting out and now sees the same potential in you to succeed as she has.
 If you are looking to grow nationally or internationally, you will need to learn how to photograph landscapes and fauna. You may also have to invest in travelling to exotic locations to capture unique wildlife.If you live in an exotic location than you are at an advantage.
 Becoming a professional nature photographer won’t happen overnight. You will need to invest in equipment and develop both your creative and business skills. Have patience and use your available resources to fund your passion until you receive your break.Because of the unpredictability of nature and the investment needed for exotic locations, you may need to supplement your nature photography with commercial photography., Take courses and attend lectures. Always keep learning about your craft. Whether it’s learning about new lenses or new exotic locations, keep ideas and technical skills fresh.You may take courses online if you don’t have the time to sit in a physical class or download tutorials online.
 Nature photography greatly relies on the sun, which can be your worst enemy or best friend. Learn how to make the most out of your lighting conditions no matter what your location and time of year. You may also learn how to specialize with certain lighting techniques., Depending on the equipment you invest in, your close ups can put your right in the action. With the right perspective and lense you can capture amazing textures and views. Research the functionality of your equipment and experiment with perspective to get you the macro shots that you are looking for., While sunsets are beautiful, there is much more to nature photography. Learn to develop your eye and create stunning perspective that makes you unique. Experiment with your location and lenses when capturing your photographs. Learn how to capture the full scope of a landscape., Lenses and software have developed so much in smartphones that you can capture quality images without bulky equipment. If you are in a pinch for time or at a precarious position, don’t be afraid to use your smartphone. In fact, you could use your smartphone to create a specialized set of photographs for your portfolio.Make sure you go to your smartphone’s camera settings menu and learn the full functionality. You’ll be surprised at what you can accomplish.
 Make sure you keep contacts at publications and agencies that have received your work. If you are lucky, they may provide feedback for your initial submissions. Continue to build your relationships as you grow your portfolio.Take business cards, email, or add your contacts through social media.
 Get your images seen by donating them to conservation websites or other nature related groups. Make sure to ask if they will purchase your images first before offering to donate any image for free., Make sure to study what your peers and contemporaries are doing. Never copy anyone’s work. You may even reach out to other photographers whose work that you admire to see if you can establish a professional relationship., If you have built an extensive body of work, find an agency that will promote your work. Make sure that you understand any commits before signing any contracts with your agency.While many photographers freelance, an agency lets you concentrate on the creative side of your passion rather than worry about the business aspect.
 Create a website, blog, and utilize existing social media tools like Facebook and Instagram to show off your talent. Work with a graphic designer to develop a site that stands out from other photographers. Participate in online photo sharing forums.Choose where you post your photos because you want to make sure that the audience is large enough to garner a following. Strategically post on sites that will showcase your talent. While you are most likely promoting yourself for free, the number of views for a photo can translate to visits to your site. Your goal is to get noticed by having your photos go viral.
If you have the resources you can hire someone to help you manage your website. Otherwise, read blogs, forums, or invest in classes to learn how to create and manage an effective website., Sell prints, ebooks, video tutorials, calendars, or whatever else you can on your site. Once you begin to get traffic to your site you want to be able to convert views into sales. Selling art prints alone can be a difficult source of income at first so diversify your revenue streams., Submit your work to galleries, art fairs, and printed publications. Learn how to write an article to go along with your photos as magazines will often look for stories before they look for photos. If your work is published or featured at a gallery, be sure to make a note of it on your website.Visit exhibitions and award ceremonies. Network and learn what is at the top of your field.
 Many digital cameras also shoot video. Learning how to shoot and edit video can give you an additional stream of income. You can sell nature footage to broadcasters specializing in educational programming like the Discovery Channel or National Geographic.Make note that learning video can double your costs depending on how much you want to invest. While there is some photography equipment that you can use for video, there is also special equipment made specifically for video.
 Whether you’re talking about your equipment or software, sharing your knowledge with the public shows that you have a firm grasp of your craft and that you are a trusted voice in your field. You may even specialize in order to capture a niche market like underwater photography.There are thousands of aspiring photographers in varying levels who share the same passion as you. Creating a workshop where they can meet and exchange ideas helps cultivate your presence as an expert nature photographer. It allows you to share what you have learned to others.
 While you will need to image editing software, it is also wise to learn web development, word processing, and bookkeeping software to help keep your business afloat.You will have to be more than a photographer in order to turn your passion into a career. You must also learn how to grow your business and each new skill can mean eliminating an outside cost.
 Nature photography can mean a lot of extended travel and long hours growing your business. Remember to balance your professional life and personal life. Allow your personal experience to inform your creative sensibilities.