 When you start actually selling your house, you need to consider how the climate of the market will impact your chances of selling. If it's a seller's market, for example, where there is little inventory and houses sell in a few days, a couple cell phone pictures might be enough. Otherwise, you may need professional help creating a better listing., Utilizing professionals to take care of some of the services usually covered by real estate agents can ease the process for you.While studying comparable homes in your area (“comps”) can help quite a bit, you may want to hire a professional appraiser to help you set the right listing price for your home. After all, what’s the point of saving $15,000 on a real estate agent if you undervalue your home by $20,000?
When it comes time to actually conduct a transaction, the amount of paperwork required is hard to fathom. Some paid FSBO sites will provide help for this process. Otherwise (and perhaps in addition), you may want to hire a real estate attorney to help you navigate the sea of forms, documents, and so on.
Also note that, as many FSBO sites are updated by homeowners, those sites tend not to be up-to-date.
 If time is of the essence, and you are confident in your ability to set the right price for your home and go through the transaction process quickly, you can try to unload your house quickly. For most people, such sales are not likely to be a first option.Auction websites like eBay are a viable option for selling your house online. Set up an account on the site, create your listing and upload your photos. If you’re lucky, you’ll make a quick sale for a decent price. If you’re unlucky, you’ll simply be delaying the process of making a sale.
Auction laws vary from state to state, including whether you will need an auctioneer license. If possible, you will want to establish a minimum bid or reserve that must be met for the sale to go forward.
If you must sell your house quickly, you can search the Internet for an investor who will purchase your home at a discounted price, on a fast-close, all cash basis. Popular sites like Craigslist may be good options for this type of sale. Don’t expect to secure top dollar for your home this way, however.

