 If your army is just made of one type of unit, there is a big risk that you will lose the fight. Because if you have only musketeers and the enemy has musketeers but some cannons too, you will definitely lose. If you don't know how a balanced army looks like, you should read my guide "How to build a good balanced army in Age of Empires 3". This guide will help you a lot!;
, Before you attack you should collect your units and see, how many of them you want to use for an attack and how many you want to leave behind to defend your village. I always recommend taking about 2/3 to attack and 1/3 to defend your base. If the enemy is attacking you while you are bringing your troops together, try to push the enemy back only with your defending troops so you can make a really strong counter attack with your main troop. If your defending troop gets destroyed you have to use your attacking troop to defend your village and start building new units.
 To make a really strong attack you want the enemy not seeing your troops until you knock at his front door. So here's a little trick. Build some cavalry and about 2 or 3 mortars. Before you send your troops to your enemy, you want to look for enemy towers, outposts or ambushes that the enemy placed somewhere near your village or near his village. If you find buildings (towers, outposts etc.) destroy them with mortars, they are very strong against buildings. If you find enemy troops, send small troops from your base to kill them because you don't want the enemy realizing that you want to attack him with your real army. If you send the whole army to defeat his small troops, he realizes that you will attack him and he can prepare a strong defense. It's much easier to defeat an enemy if he doesn't realize an attack.
 Take a small amount from your army to attack (for example) from the right and the rest will attack from the left. Attack with the small troop first! Many enemies will send the main part of their army to your small troop because he thinks you are attacking there. When you see his troops coming, start attacking with your main troop. If he has cannons, try to eliminate them first because they do huge damage.
 First you will have to fight against his troops. When you can defeat his army and you are already in his village and you have troops left, he lost (most of the time; He can still rebuild everything and defeat you, but that's not often the case) If you see that you can not win against his troops, try to sneak around the fight with some cavalry or infantry to kill villagers. If you can kill villagers, it will stop his economy and he should not attack you immediately after the fight because he has to rebuild his economy.
 You shouldn't concentrate yourself only on the fight. Always watch your village. Maybe he is attacking at the same time and you have to send troops back in order to defend your village.
 While your troops are fighting at the front, units will die and your population limit will go down again. So while it's going down, start building new units at home. This has two advantages. You will have units to defend a counter attack from your enemy or you can start a second attack immediately after your first attack. This will do very hard pressure to your enemy.
 If you are attacking, he is normally not attacking because he has to defend himself. So keep the pressure on him. If you are attacking, start building barracks near him with some villagers, so you can always send new units that replace the ones who got killed in the fight with the enemy. Sometimes the enemy can destroy your troops completely. Then you should have a new army that can attack again or defend. It is really important that you never stop building troops when the war-time started. Because when you don't have troops and the enemy attacks, you lose normally.
 If you are attacking, just do the best you can with your troops. Sometimes the enemy army is just better and your troops will die. So don't give up. You should have seen the enemy troops when you were attacking. So in your village, start building counter-units to destroy the enemy army when you are attacking again. It's all about pressure and defense.
 This is a very important point. Not only in Age of Empires, but in every War-game. If you don't attack, you will never know if your troops are good enough or not. Don't be scared of losing all your troops, you can build new ones. And when you never attack, you will lose. Because in a fight, the one who is always attacking will mostly win because he can build new troops while you are just defending and staying at your home-base. It can happen that some attacks fail, but with each fail you will learn new strategies on how you can attack your enemy. Don't be scared, just attack and I guarantee you that you will get better and win!

