 Glucerna can be used by people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. If you do not have diabetes, Glucerna is not right for you. Other products are similar but designed for people without diabetes:Ensure
AdvantEDGE
ZonePerfect;
, Glucerna has not been tested in women who are pregnant or nursing.Gestational diabetes should be closely monitored by a doctor for the safety of the mother and the baby.
 Glucerna has been designed for the nutritional needs of adults.Children younger than four should not consume Glucerna products.
Children four to eight should only consume Glucerna products if recommended by a doctor.
Children over nine can include Glucerna products in their meal plans when under the care of a doctor.
 Insulin shock occurs when diabetics have too much insulin in their blood and this causes low blood sugar. If not treated immediately, it can lead to a diabetic coma and even be fatal.Glucerna products are not an effective treatment for this condition because they are digested too slowly to be effective.
If you have insulin shock, get medical help immediately.
Glucerna has not been tested in people who suffer from low blood sugar, but don’t have diabetes (called hypoglycemia). If you have hypoglycemia, consult your doctor before using Glucerna products.
 Your doctor will help you create a plan that is both healthy and meets your goals.You may also wish to meet with a nutritionist.


For best results, pair Glucerna products with a healthy diet that includes complex, rather than simple, carbohydrates.
Complex carbohydrates are digested more slowly and will help you to maintain steady blood sugar levels. Whole-grains, vegetables, beans, peas, and lentils are excellent sources of complex carbohydrates.
Avoid simple carbohydrates like refined sugars and processed white flour. They are more likely to cause your blood sugar to spike.
 Glucerna makes products that provide nutrient profiles suitable for snacks and for meal replacements.Examine the nutritional information to see which products best suit your needs according to the amount of calories, carbohydrates, protein and other nutrients they offer.
If you have food allergies, read the ingredients to make sure the products are safe for you.
 Glucerna offers snack bars and snack shakes.These products are designed to help you manage hunger by supplying protein without loading you up with calories.
If you are looking to gain weight, ask your doctor whether adding Glucerna products into your diet could help.
 These shakes are high in vitamins and proteins to keep your body nourished, yet low in calories so you can lose weight.The Advance Shakes and Hunger Smart Shakes can be used as meal replacements. They come in chocolate and vanilla.
Only use meal replacements when supervised by a doctor. Do not replace more than one meal a day.
Make sure you are getting enough protein. Women should get about 46 grams a day and men should aim for around 56 grams.To lose weight more effectively, add regular exercise to your schedule. 30 minutes of exercise per day will increase the calories that you burn and make you feel healthier.

