 Cystic acne is the most severe category of acne and consists of rampant, infected outbreaks of pimples. Cystic acne tends to run in families and starts during puberty, often resulting in scarring.Cystic acne pimples are raised, red bumps that affect the deep layers of skin.They can become very large and deep.
They often do not have the whitehead-looking appearance.
They are often felt before they are seen and are almost always painful.
 Photodynamic treatment is an in-office dermatological therapy that consists of using a medication that is activated by a light or a laser to shrink sebaceous glands, therefore limiting oil secretions that cause acne.


Your dermatologist coats the affected area with a photosensitizing ointment that is absorbed into the skin for 30 minutes to three hours. From there, you sit underneath a lamp or have a laser treatment that causes your sebaceous glands to dry out and therefore shrink. This treatment takes place up to three to five times with a few weeks between each session.
This treatment is both effective at addressing current acne concerns and also serves as preventative maintenance.
 Isolaz is a laser-based therapy that targets bacteria that causes acne. It is done in-office and during the session, your dermatologist uses a strong vacuum to suck debris out of your pores, making them extremely clean. Then a laser is applied to the skin to kill off bacteria.Isolaz is a non-invasive, outpatient treatment that has two-sided effect — it both cleans the pores and kills acne-causing bacteria.
Consult your dermatologist if your skin is suitable for Isolaz therapy.
 Isotretinoin is a powerful prescription medication that clears up potentially scarring acne. It is prescribed in extreme cases only due to its many possible side effects.Isotretinoin can be prescribed as a topical cream or as oral tablets. Your doctor will assess your skin and acne and recommend the product that might be best suitable for you.
Potential side effects include dry and flaking skin, impaired wound healing, liver damage, elevated triglycerides, depression, and irritable bowel syndrome. Because of the severity and range of side effects of this medication, risk counseling is usually required.Women must submit negative pregnancy tests prior to receiving this medication because it can cause severe birth defects. They must also use two forms of birth control.
If you experience any side effects, call your doctor and ask if any changes to your treatment regimen should be made.

