 For example:


Keep a gratitude journal
Keep a family gratitude list and post it on the refrigerator
Go around the dinner table at dinnertime and have everyone say something that they're grateful for;
, Gratitude can be as simple as being grateful for being born, or being grateful for specific things such as a new puppy, doll, or toy. All of this counts in practicing gratitude with your kids.
 You can do it daily but research shows that even just doing it once a week will have a considerable effect and all kinds of benefits.
 Savor positive experiences; doing so tends to amplify the pleasant emotions that you might be feeling.
 This should relate to things that happened to them that day or that they did during the day. This gives them a lens through gratitude glasses. Practicing this routine at the end of the day will help teach your children to slow down, savor the moment, and notice things that they feel appreciative about and should be thankful for.
 This is a souped-up version of the thank you note. Teach your kids to think about writing a letter to somebody like a teacher, or a family member who has done something for them that has gone with little gratitude. This teaches them that it is not just about when somebody gives you something material but when somebody really does something for you. Help your child write the letter - they can dictate for you if they're younger. Talk about what they feel grateful for and then take them to deliver it in person and read it out loud.
 When we say that our children are really talented at something, we actually set this talent in stone and suggest that it doesn't change. It creates a "fixed mindset"; it means that we believe that talents and anything that a kid is good at are inborn. This label is one that they haven't necessarily earned and they got it just by being born. Instead, change that fixed mindset to be more of a growth mindset, then we start to value the role of effort a little bit more.


A fixed mindset example would be: "You did great on that test. You must be really smart."
The growth mindset would be: "You did really great on that test. You must have tried really hard." This mindset gives kids something to really hang their hat on.
 Say thank you or "I appreciate..." to family members, friends, and others.