 It's all about your psychological readiness. If you are not ready to change from a closed and lonely person to a more social one, you will never change and you will hold still in your place.


You will know your psychological readiness when you feel that is the time for you to change,. That is the time to take the step that will change your entire life.

When your family goes to a wedding party and enjoy themselves and you do not know what to do, in that very situation thoughts will run in your head like “What if someone came and asked me a question, what if someone comes and shakes hands with me and talks when I do not even know him, how should I react?” Then, you are one step closer for a change as you see people chat with each other and you do not even dare. You will decide that it's high time for me to be just like them.;
, Friends are a fundamental factor. If you don't have any friends, there must be someone you usually chat with. There are no conditions it could be your father, mother, brother or your neighbor.


Talk with him/her spontaneously. Tell her/him that you want to change. And if he/she is close enough to you he helping you finding new possible ways to get out of your problem.
 Know new faces and be more interested in their situations. Show them that you care about them and many times, they will care about you!


You may feel hardships at the beginning, and you may feel that you cannot do it. But hold on a second, tough guy, no one can affect you, even yourself.
 Stand in front of the mirror and challenge him. And always remember: No one can beat you except yourself.


Define clear objectives that you want to achieve, like attending your friend's party, helping people in markets, chatting with people online, etc. Choose things you could not do in the past and know that you have turned over a new leaf after taking the decision to change.
 Whatever it was, do it. Talk to people you know, your neighbors for example. Go shopping but this time talk to sellers and ask more about things. If you have health problems, go to the doctor and speak with him freely.. Run in the public, walk friends home or play games with your family.


The first action is the hardest one, if you accomplished it, that will push you forward in order to accomplish the second and the third ones, all that to enjoy the feeling you felt from accomplishing the action. You feel worthy and unbeatable. But if you stood still controlled by negative thoughts and achieved nothing, you are not going to change. Push yourself to the limit in your first action and when completing it, that is a positive sign for going ahead to accomplish more.
 Throw negativity out of your head. You need to charge positive signs to yourself.
 Hang out with your friend in public places and see how people deal with each other. Teach yourself like a student who does not know anything and you inform him and direct his behavior.
 Never ever change your character. Every single one of us has his own personality!

, See the beauty, the open sky, funny guys.

