 Focus on science, history and geography. But don't forget to learn about other things too. It may surprise people (in a good way) if you come out with a wonderful, unexpected, well-informed remark. The Doctor does it all the time.;
, Knowledge is power, and since the Doctor does not carry any weapons, you will need a lot of it.
 The TARDIS does this for him, but you don't have one and learning different languages is really cool and useful. You can also try learning how to address people in different social situations. Don't get worried it you mess up a bit, because it's all part of learning. This also helps with the whole travelling thing - if you are travelling in a country that doesn't speak your first language, it's often good to know the main language.
 Make your own up. However, if the established rules make sense and are there for a reason, don't go breaking them for no good reason. The key is to think; are those rules sensible for safety and well-being or are they just a case of authoritarianism and blind allegiance gone wild? Hone your critical thinking skills!

, Make sure you know what the words mean, and preferably how to pronounce them!

, If you don't, then don't be insulted if someone corrects you! It's always good to get more information and you can impress people with your new knowledge. Thank people for helping you to better understand things.
 Be nice to friends (and enemies!) if they're having a bad day, and make sure you compliment people. Don't be tactless, though!

, It doesn't matter what kind, long distance or to a shop you have never been to before, just travel. Always be well informed about the places you are travelling to, but don't think you know everything about said place, because you probably don't.
 You don't have to look it, but do try. Running is a great way to exercise and burn off steam, and it is very Doctor Who.
 If you need to run, run. Always be ready to run.
 The Doctor is known for helping/saving people and planets. Don't be afraid to show a little tough love as you do it though.
 The Doctor is a great believer in second chances; he even gave the Daleks a second chance. Find the redeeming features in others and seek the good. Realize that some people continue to misbehave precisely because they feel that other people have given up on them. Let them know that's wrong.
 If you see someone being picked on, beaten up, attacked or upset help them. if there is a large group shout, if not then go to the person and get them out. If you can't do anything without getting hurt yourself, then get reinforcements.
 Protect your friends and others around you. Never desert your friends. They need you in hard times, even if you have fights, stick together. Don't leave them; if they forget you, remember them and safeguard them. Do everything you can to ensure they are safe.
 Try combining the two and trying out technobabble (which is talking very fast about technology, mixed in with a little nonsense).


Be sure not to overdo your enthusiasm and glee. Make sure you act appropriately to the situation - the Doctor quickly switches between this and complete seriousness depending on the situation.
 The Doctor is. Dress well too, simple and well-cut always works, but add a little odd touch, like the 5th and 10th Doctors' glasses which he doesn't need.


That said, don't boast. Remain modest to the core.
 The Doctor does it all the time and it makes you and other people laugh. You may not be the class joker, but try making a sarcastic or witty comment from time to time.
 However, when you are justifiably angry, there may come a time when it is appropriate let it loose if innocent people are suffering. Be a pacifist but don't neglect the need for justice to end unfairness. Some things, like starving children and slavery, are worth being angry about.


The Doctor tries not use harmful weapons, the most deadly thing he usually does is to use his sonic screwdriver on them (of course, his reputation helps a little). No killing required, by all means give them an electric shock and knock them out but don't harm them. If you feel you may get in a fight, try to talk your way out of it. With practice, you should be able to thwart someone simply by talking to them.
If you can't talk yourself out of somewhere, put your physical skills to good use and run. If there's nowhere to go, then you may have to fight back but never seriously injure anyone.
 Never give up.


Don't let go of everything––hold on to it and carry on, try not to fall apart.
 Sure it can be lonely at times but there is a difference between loneliness and fruitful solitude. Plus, being able to be alone shows that you don't fear the things to come and that you're willing to reflect deeply.


Don't purposefully ditch your friends to be alone all of the time, otherwise you won't have any. If you are more sociable, spend time with a few close friends as well as with a big group.
 Be ready for anything!


This might include having a first aid kit in your bag, on your bike or in your car; a tissue for a sobbing friend; a rain poncho for a downpour; a secret language to communicate in; a tiny flashlight for when the lights go out; and so forth.
 If you're scared of something, try getting over your fear (if you have a serious phobia, don't shock yourself though) or facing it with someone else.
 Don't worry about backup plans, or plans at all. Think as you go-why stop and plan when you can run and do? It doesn't hurt to have some idea of what you're doing. That way you can plan ahead a little, but be prepared for anything and don't have a specific plan that will fail if one thing goes wrong.
 You just need to realise that. You are who you are and nobody can take that away from you––it is your choice, not your friend's choice, not your parents' choice, it's yours, completely yours.
 Talk to anyone and everyone with no concern for what they might think of you. Be nice to people, though. Going up to a stranger, saying 'I hate your hat', and walking away isn't polite and it's not very Doctor-y either.
 When somebody asks you a question about yourself, give vague answers and change the subject. You could also use this as an opportunity to find out more about the other person - give a quick answer and ask their opinion on the same subject. Make sure you listen, as well.
 A person you can trust, who enjoys travelling and living as much as you do. This could be a best friend, a family member or a pet: basically anyone who you get on with and can talk to.
 If you have lost something, then you know how others may feel. Only share intimate detail with friends and people you trust, everyone else you need to be vague with because nobody knows what people you don't trust can use information to do, they can use it against you at the best and worst of times.
 You never know which detail might save your life and your conversations will always be interesting.
 Try to look on the bright side, but when things get serious, be defensive. Look for the good things in situations, but don't just ignore the bad things because you don't like them: try to change them instead!

