 Insert the hook into the stitch indicated by the pattern.


At this point, you should be in the middle of a crochet project and you should already have one loop on your hook.
The butterfly stitch is worked into two stitches, and this stitch is the first of the two.;
, Yarn over the hook once from back to front, then pull the hook back through to the front of the work.


This should create a second loop on your hook.
 Wrap the yarn over the hook once from back to front. Pull this yarn-over through the top loop of your hook.


Afterward, you should have two loops on your hook.
When you complete this step, you have completed one "wing" of the butterfly.
 Insert the hook into the stitch immediately following the one you just worked in.


This is the second and final stitch you will work into while completing the butterfly stitch.
 Yarn over the hook once from back to front, then pull the yarn and hook back through to the front of the work.


This should create another loop on your hook, giving you a total of three loops.
 Wrap the yarn around the hook from back to front, then pull this yarn-over through the top two loops on your hook.


There should be two loops left on your hook.
 Wrap the yarn over the hook from back to front once more, then pull this final yarn-over through the remaining two loops on your hook.


You should be left with one loop on your hook.
The completion of this step completes a second butterfly wing.
 Work one chain stitch from the loop on your hook.


This chain stitch completes the butterfly stitch and prepares the yarn for your next stitch.
 Attach the yarn to the crochet hook using a slip knot, then work a foundation of chain stitches for your project.


The exact chain size will vary depending on how long you want your project to be. As a general rule, though, your chain should have an even number of stitches in it to accommodate the butterfly stitch.
Note that you can work butterfly stitches into rows or rounds. This example uses rows, but the same basic principles apply to a pattern worked in the round.
 Work one single crochet into each stitch of your foundation chain.


This step is not strictly essential, but it does give the butterfly stitch a sturdier edge to rest on. If desired, though, you could work the butterfly stitch directly into the foundation chain or into a row made with another type of stitch (half double crochet, double crochet, etc.).
Keep in mind that the final stitch count of this row should still be an even number.
 At the start of your first row of butterfly stitches, you'll need to work a turning chain of one chain stitch.


The turning chain increases the row height enough to accommodate the first stitch of that row. Without it, the sides of the work would become uneven.
Turn the work to the other side before continuing.
 Starting with the first stitch after the turning chain, work one butterfly stitch into every pair of stitches.


Remember that the butterfly stitch uses two stitches from the previous row.
Do not skip row stitches in between butterfly stitches.
Continue working butterfly stitches into the previous row's stitches until you reach the end of the row. By that point, one full row of butterfly stitches will be complete.
 As before, work a turning chain of one chain stitch, then turn the work over to the other side.


You will need to repeat this step in between each row from now on.
 As before, you will need to work butterfly stitches into every two stitches of the previous year. Repeat until you reach the end of the row.


The first stitch of your butterfly will go into the top loop of the first/right wing of the butterfly stitch in the row beneath it.
The second stitch of your butterfly will go into the top loop of the second/left wing of the butterfly stitch beneath it.
 Consecutive rows of butterfly stitches can be made simply by repeating the pattern of the second butterfly row. Work as many rows of butterfly stitches as desired.
 When you complete the final stitch of your project, you'll need to fasten off the yarn. After fastening off the yarn, the project is complete.


Cut the yarn, leaving a tail 4 inches (10 cm) long.
Grab this yarn tail with your crochet hook and pull it through the loop already on the hook.
This should form a secure knot and fasten off the yarn. Weave the remaining tail into the back of the stitches to hide it.

