 Once you have selected and created a pattern, trace the pattern onto the felt that you will be using to make the ornament. In order to trace the pattern onto the felt, you will need to use an iron-on transfer pen. To use this pen, print out the pattern and then trace over the design directly on the paper. Once complete, flip over the paper and place the ink directly on the felt. Iron the paper on the felt. This will transfer the ink onto the felt., In order to cut out the pattern, make sure that you are cutting two pieces of felt that are the exact same size. Try folding the felt in half with the pattern side facing up. This way you can cut both pieces at the same time. This will ensure they are the exact same shape and size. Carefully and slowly cut along the pattern.


To navigate sharp corners, stop cutting, take the scissors off the material, and change directions. Then begin cutting again, facing in a new direction.
 Depending on the ornament you are making, you may want to stitch on some added details. For example, if you are making a snowman you may want to stitch on eyes or a mouth. Stitch these details only onto one of the pieces that you have cut out.


This will vary depending on the ornament and is not always necessary. If you are not comfortable with more complex stitching, you can glue on details afterwards.
 In order to sew the ornament together, you need to layer the two pieces of felt, with the good sides facing inwards. The good sides are the sides of the felt that you want to be visible once the ornament is complete. Measure and sew a ⅛ inch seam around the ornament, leaving a 1 ½ inch opening. Typically you should leave the opening at the bottom of the ornament, but depending on the shape you may need to leave an opening along the side. Once you are finished sewing, turn it inside out, so that the good sides are facing outwards.Alternatively, you can sew the ornament together with the sides you want to be visible facing out using a blanket stitch. You will still need to leave an opening at the bottom in order to fill the ornament with stuffing.
 When you sew the ornament closed, you should add a looped ribbon for hanging. Loop a small ribbon and position it between the two pieces of fabric at the top of the ornament. When you sew the ornament closed sew through both pieces of felt, as well as the ribbon. This will secure the ribbon and allow the ornament to hang.
 Stuff the ornament with polyester fiberfill. Insert the filling through the opening that you left at the bottom of the ornament. This will give the ornament depth. Once filled, stitch the opening closed.