 Each actuarial society will have its own set of tests that you must pass to attain membership. You will need to review the society’s website and study the material about testing and admission.


For example, the Casualty Actuarial Society in the United States requires a set of nine exams, ranging from Probability in Exam 1 to Financial Risk and Rate of Return in Exam 9.In India, the exams are administered by the Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI). Their exams are arranged in four “stages.” Each stage consists of exams that cover from three to nine distinct subject areas.The stages and their contained subjects are outlined on the IAI website.
 In many cases, the tests will build in increasing difficulty and content matter. In some cases, you must attain a particular level of work experience before you move from one exam to the next. It makes sense to learn the order of the tests, and find out from the actuarial society whether you can substitute work experience for testing.


The CAS in the United States provides a very handy “map” that illustrates the order of the tests, with a timeline for coursework and work experience that you should accumulate along the way.The Society of Actuaries (SOA) in the United States strongly recommends studying for and taking the tests in the prescribed order. They recommend that you attain a passing score on one exam, or are nearly certain of attaining a good score, before moving on to study for the next exam., The study outline that is presented on an actuarial society’s website is often a general outline that will apply to most people. However, if your background includes some work experience or college coursework in finance, accounting, or mathematics, you may be able to demonstrate proficiency in certain subjects and save yourself some time and money by avoiding certain tests.


The Canadian Institute of Actuaries (CIA), as an example, accepts credentials from the CAS or SOA in the United States. However, the CIA website identifies certain exams that may be exempted by demonstrating adequate proficiency or work experience.The CAS in the United States notes that it will honor credits from candidates who have passed certain exams in other countries. They specifically cite the Canadian Institute of Actuaries (CIA), the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFA) from the U.K., the Actuaries Institute from Australia, the Actuarial Society of South Africa, and the Institute of Actuaries of India. If you have passed exams from any of those organizations, and are attempting to gain membership into the CAS, you may want to consider this alternative.