 Riders can get nervous before shows, and this in turn can make the horse nervous. Take a moment to breathe and relax. Remember also, again, that the horse can read your mood and emotions. It is your job as a rider to be the leader. You have to be confident and guide your horse.;
, If you are already on the horse, pet its neck or massage and scratch the area around its hairline on its neck. You can also rub the horse below its ears. Try different techniques until you find the one that works best for you. A good technique is T-Touch – that is, moving your middle and pointer fingers in small circles around the horses body. This will help to ease the horse's tense muscles and calm it., A causal or loose rein is held in one hand, with elbow mostly straight and close to the mane. This requires experience on a horse. You might not feel safe without both hands on the rein or holding it close to your body. However, using two hands on the reins engages the horse's hindquarters and adds power to whatever they are doing. You have to remember that you are sitting on top of a prey animal! The most important thing is keeping the horse calm and assured. Use one rein for control to disengage the hindquarters., If your horse starts to spook, your first reaction will be to hold on tighter. Resist this feeling. Do not immediately pull back on the reins, as it can worsen the situation. The horse may react as if it is being attacked and fall into a total panic., Indirect rein is a technique that will stop the horse's forward motion and turn it, allowing the horse to circle and have some time to calm itself. You can do this by taking the rein in one hand and pulling back, inward, in the direction of the horse's outside hip. The rein will not cross over the neck but lay against it and apply small pressure to the animal's mouth., If the horse starts to buck, rear, or run, you may need to use something called lateral flexion and achieve a “one-rein stop.” Unlike indirect rein, this is a direct rein technique that stops the horse's feet when the animal is ready to stop – it does not force it to stop. With the “one-rein stop” you will need to shorten one rein smoothly and force the horse into a tight circle. Remaining centered and balanced, pull the left rein until the horse's head and neck bend in that direction. Keep your forward movement. The idea is not to stop the horse immediately but to slow it. Once the horse is in the turn, it will start to calm and relax, allowing you to slow to a walk and stop. , You should act promptly if you feel the horse become tense. Stay calm. A spooked horse is a dangerous horse and how you react may save you from an injury or worse. Try to diffuse the situation and bring the horse under control, dismounting if necessary., Your horse shouldn't fear the arena or get nervous whenever the saddle comes out. Don't punish the horse for an episode of spooking. This will merely frighten it and cause it to see you as a potential threat or predator.