 The person doing your eyebrow piercing should be a trained professional. They should work in a sterile environment with sterile tools, know the proper piercing technique, be knowledgeable about the piercing industry and experienced in piercing eyebrows. You should feel comfortable with them and able to ask them any questions you have about the piercing.;
, Dirty hands are the primary cause of infection that leads to scarring. Avoid fiddling with your eyebrow piercing., It will be harder for your piercing to heal if it gets contaminated.
 Avoid products like makeup or lotion during the first six to eight weeks when your piercing is healing.Other products to avoid include hair products, gels, creams and dyes.
 Your piercing needs to breathe. Do not cover it with your hair or a bandage during the first six to eight weeks of healing.
 Use an antibacterial liquid soap with a neutral pH that won’t irritate your piercing.Allow your piercing to soak in the warm shower water for a few minutes before applying the soap.
Carefully use your soap to remove any dirt from in and around your piercing.
Be careful not to pick at or pull your scabs off when scrubbing with the soap. Allow your scabs to fall off on their own.
 Your piercer may provide you with an antiseptic solution or suggest an antiseptic solution you can buy. Antiseptic solutions kill germs and help prevent infections., It’s important to clean your piercing before you go to bed each night.Soak a cotton ball in hot water and thoroughly clean your piercing.
Soak a second cotton ball in antiseptic and wipe your piercing clean.
Dry the piercing using a cotton swab or tissue.
 If you are exposed to dirty environments or accidentally fiddle with your piercing, use the salt water mixture to clean it.Dilute one tablespoon of salt in one cup of water by stirring vigorously.
Dip a cotton ball into the salt water mixture until it is partially soaked.
Apply the wet side of the cotton ball to your piercing and gently clean the area.
 After the first two weeks have passed, you can clean your piercing less often. Continue using the antibacterial, neutral pH, liquid soap to clean your piercing every time you take a shower. Also continue using the salt water mixture whenever your piercing gets dirty in between showers.
 Eyebrow piercings are not permanent. Any piercing on flat skin will eventually migrate to the skin’s surface. An eyebrow piercing can last anywhere from a couple of months to a couple of years., It is important to remove your eyebrow jewelry as soon as these signs appear to avoid scarring. If you notice the skin in between your piercing is thin or the area is red, shiny or peeling, it’s time to remove your jewelry., Use the antibacterial soap you used to clean your piercing to clean the area now that the hole is closing. Make sure all soap residue is removed after washing., Ensure your hands are clean before squeezing and don’t squeeze so hard that it hurts.Use your forefinger and thumb to gently squeeze the piercing area to push out gunk from inside the hole. Use a clean tissue to wipe the gunk away.
 Products like makeup, gels, creams, lotions, dyes and hair products should be avoided in the area.
 Keep your skin healthy by drinking water, taking vitamins and eating right to help the skin to repair itself., When the eyebrow piercing has closed, you won’t be able to squeeze out anymore gunk and the area will not be red. It can take about one to two months for a piercing hole to fully close. If you aren’t sure if the hole has closed, you can check with your piercer or a doctor., After the piercing hole has fully closed, apply anti-scarring cream daily for one month. Follow the application directions on the label of your specific cream.