 This is work that is best done by people who have owned or used motor homes and understand where they can be driven and parked while you drive across country. Damage to a motor home en route is likely to cost you money.


Some delivery work is done by driving motor homes themselves, while other work is done by towing the motor homes with a pick up truck. In the case of truck delivery, you will be required to furnish the truck.;
, People who have a regular Class C license will find fewer opportunities to deliver large vehicles than those with a commercial license. A Class A license allows you to drive a tractor-trailer of 26,000 lbs. (11,790kg) or more, while a Class B license allows you to drive a straight vehicle of 26,000 lbs. or more.


Class B licenses are significantly more difficult to obtain than Class A or C. You may be required to enroll in a driving course in order to pass the test.
 Delivering RVs is different from delivering goods by truck. You are usually required to make 1-way trips and find your own transportation or return job. You will also only be paid when you make a delivery within a specific time range, so you will need to spend time away from home and family.


Some people choose to deliver motor homes on weekends to supplement their own full or part-time jobs. If you find that companies are unable to offer you regular work, this may be a more fitting option.
 Although the manufacturers will carry their own insurance, you should elect to take out Bodily Injury/Property Damage/Uninsured Motorist insurance (BI/PD/UM) from a private insurance company to protect you during each delivery. You should inquire whether you need to take out a policy before you deliver a vehicle or if you can find a policy that covers you all year round.
 Prepare a resume and a cover letter that detail your experience with transportation, insurance, reliability and time commitment.


Visit HappyVagabonds.com for a list of different motor home transport companies.
If you are looking for steady employment in RV delivery, then you should apply for work with many different companies. You may be listed as a prospective driver on many different company rosters, and you may be contacted if there are jobs in your area.
 You will need to pay for your own supplies during the journey.


Many companies will require you to provide your own fuel. They will hire you on a per-mile basis. If gas prices are volatile, the profits from this type of work can decrease considerably.
You will need to provide your own food and lodging during your trip. Although the motor home will have facilities, you will be unable to use them because the vehicle will not be able to be sold if it is no longer considered new at its end destination.
You will need to provide your own transportation home after the motor home is delivered. You may incur the cost of plane tickets, bus rides, rental cars or gas for a borrowed car.
You may be required to put up a bond based on part of the value of the motor home. The company may ask that you take out a bond with a lending company worth 10 percent or more of the motor home's value. Once the motor home is safely delivered, the manufacturer or buyer will no longer hold the bond.
 Once you do some research and complete a few jobs, you will know what jobs and companies pay rates that are worth your time. Arrange for payment of half the money in advance.
 Delivering buses may offer better pay, because there is less competition when a commercial license is required.

