 Pre-soak your car with water for 5 minutes to remove any stubborn dirt. Place a few drops of a mild liquid soap (e.g. Ivory soap) in a bucket of water and use a sponge or car wash mitt to clean your car. Wash your car in sections and rinse with plain water. Start at the top of your car and work your way down. Once you have cleaned your entire car, rinse the car with water again.


Clean your car in a shaded area to prevent your car from getting too hot. If the surface of the car is too warm, the soap may dry and you will have to wash your car multiple times.
Dry your car with a clean, soft, dry towel or drive your car around the block.
 Once you have washed the car, spray a light degreaser on a towel and apply it to the plastic areas of your car. Wipe your car using a medium amount of pressure. If the area has buildup, scrub with a brush. Be careful not to scrub the paint.Purchase a light degreaser that is safe for cars. Visit your local automotive store or the automotive section of a large retailer like Walmart or Target.
The degreaser will also remove any buildup from other products that you applied.
 Many cars these days have black plastic trim. This trim can begin to look dull and worn. A restoring product will provide a deep clean and restore some of the color. Apply a couple of nickel sized drops of the solution on a soft towel and rub it into the plastic areas using medium pressure.These products will remove stains and improve the color.
Some good products you can try include Poorboy’s Trim Restorer, TUF SHINE Black Restore Kit, or Black WOW, or Mother’s Back-to-Black cream.Always read the instructions before using the product on your car.
 A good protectant will protect the exterior plastic from UV rays and keep the trim looking like new. Spray the protectant on a clean, soft towel and wipe it on your car using a back and forth motion. The protectant should only take a few minutes to dry.These protectants can often be used on multiple surfaces such as plastic, vinyl, and rubber.
Always degrease the surface before applying the protectant.

