 All you have to do is open the Friendlist window by clicking on the two-person icon found at the upper-right side of your screen, right next to your mini map. Using the friend's list, right-click on the player's name you wish to invite and then click on the option “Invite to Party.”


Invitation will be canceled if the player already joined another party.
If the person you invited is currently fighting a monster, invitation will also be canceled.
Players can join the party only if they accept the invitation.
Inviting players while they're in another channel is possible, but they need to be in the same channel if you wish to play with them in the same dungeon.;
, The guild is useful for a quick search of party members, but not all are listed in your Friendlist. To invite a guild member in your party, simply open the Guild window by pressing G in your keyboard. In the member list, scroll until you find the player's name. Right-click the name and then choose “Invite to Party.”


You can see your party members using the mini or world map found at the upper right of your screen.
You can use party chat by using /p. Only party members can read your message.
 It's inevitable to find someone idling near the dungeon and shouting out for party members. They're neither in your Friendlist nor a guild mate. In order for you to invite a complete stranger, left-click on their character and then right-click on the character bar, which will appear at the upper part of your screen. Choose “'Invite to Party.”

, Party Search is a useful tool for solo players in Aura Kingdom. This is a feature that will become available after you've reached level 20. Party Search can be found at the upper-right corner of your screen, also next to your mini map. It's the icon of a person with signage.
 It will open the search window. Choose the dungeon you wish to raid. A list of existing party looking for members will appear at the right-hand side of the window.
 Click “Join.”


Party leaders have the right to reject your request.
 This will refresh the party list.
 When you're in a party of two or five, the experience per monster in dungeon or open world will be shared equally to each people in the group.


Players in different channel and map won't be able to get EXP.
Members should be in the same location to enjoy the EXP share feature.
 When in the party, players get shared loots aside from loots obtained from treasure box. So regardless of your class, especially for players with Muse characters, they will receive items without the need of hitting a monster with their offensive skills.
 Many players enjoy being in a party because of the bonus EXP they'll receive. Bonus EXP will increase if there are more than 2 people within the party group (from 5%-20%).

This applies in dungeons.

