 Perhaps they will address the comment you intended to make, or have additional information that would render what you wanted to say moot.
 If the person is talking to you about something you’re uninformed about, let them know and ask for a primer. Usually, the person will be happy to oblige, and the conversation will become interesting both for you and for the other person, who is given the opportunity to share their knowledge of something they are quite familiar with and -- presumably -- passionate about.For instance, if your conversation partner says, “I recently heard a new planet was discovered near Earth,” you might say, “Oh, really? I hadn’t heard. Tell me more about it.”

, For example, if your conversation partner says she works in the makeup industry, ask, “Do you like it?” If she replies that she does, because she gets free makeup all the time, ask her what type of makeup, or how much she is able to get for free. Linking the questions and answers in a continuous chain will give the conversation a natural flow and keep things interesting for you and the other person.


Don’t make your exchange seem like an interrogation. Before asking follow-up questions, for instance, insert information about your own opinion or experience (or lack thereof) regarding whatever the other person is talking about., No matter who you’re talking to or what you’re talking about, try to look at the conversation as an opportunity to expand your own horizons. If you can start a conversation with this attitude, the discussion will become more interesting for you, and the more interested you are, the more interesting it will be for the person who you’re talking to., If you don’t show interest in what the other person has to say, you might never get to the stage where the conversation is actually interesting. Or, even worse, you might prematurely end a conversation that was just starting to get interesting. Show your interest by maintaining eye contact, nodding your head a few times intermittently while they speak, and interject words of acknowledgment like “Right” or “Yeah.”, If, for instance, they are looking around, giving one-word answers to your questions, staring blankly, or crossing their arms over their chest, they are probably not interested in the conversation.


If the conversation is uninteresting to one of you, it will quickly become uninteresting to both of you.
Don’t waste your time by trying to make the conversation interesting.
Don’t take it personally if the person you’re talking to is uninterested in conversing with you.
 You might notice that the person you are talking to has a distinct style of talking and gesturing. Allow your tone and pace to match up with your partner's tone and pace. For example, if your partner speaks in a low voice, then lower your voice a bit. If your partner speaks in a slow, intentional way, then try to do the same. This can enhance the conversation.


You might even be matching your partner's tone and pace without noticing it. For example, if your partner speaks rapidly and uses a lot of hand movements while speaking, then you might find that you are doing the same.
Make sure that you do not try to mimic or copy your conversational partner in an obvious way. This may insult the person.