 Most insurance companies offer liability protection only. Liability insurance is very important. It protects the driver from liability in the event of an accident. It covers injuries to people and damage to vehicles caused by your trailer in the event of an accident. It does not however, cover damage to the actual trailer. For that you will need comprehensive coverage.;
, Choosing an insurance company can be difficult, but your decision should be based on getting the best coverage, as well as the price. Get an online quote to determine the price. If you have other questions, or if you need specialised services, you may telephone or e-mail the company to discuss a customised policy.
 If you plan to rent out your trailer as a 'for hire' service, you will require a different type of liability insurance than if you only carry your own belongings in your trailer. People who use their trailers to transport other peoples cars, horses, or furniture must have substantial liability insurance to cover potential damage to the property of their customers. If you run a food service business out of your trailer, then you can purchase additional coverage for public liability. Your trailer will also require standard liability insurance coverage for accidental injury or damage to other people’s vehicles in the event of a car accident. Those who do not hire out their trailers only need standard liability insurance, and comprehensive cover.
 You will want cover in the event of fire, theft, vandalism and flood as well as cover for traffic accidents. There are many features available including hire cover to replace the trailer temporarily during repair, and a new for used replacement, in the event your trailer is destroyed or stolen. New replacement cover is usually only available for trailers three years old or newer.
 Check all the conditions, exclusions and coverage sections to insure that you policy meets your needs. Evaluate all exclusions to see if any of these seem likely circumstances for your trailer. Take steps to insure that you follow the conditions of your policy so that it will be protected in the event of a claim.
 When purchasing insurance make sure that all your trailer’s activities are covered by the policy, and none of the things you wish to use it for are among the exclusions, or violate the conditions of the policy. You may want to inquire about additional cover for unusual uses of your trailer, such as for hire activities, food service activities or exposure to high crime areas.
 It is possible that if you do not pay these in a timely manner your insurance could be void at the time of any loss. For that reason careful financial management is necessary to insure that premiums are paid.
 Even though you have purchased insurance for your trailer it is important to protect it adequately from the elements, and from danger. When possible, store your trailer in a garage or other secured location and always check on it frequently.
 Keeping valuable possessions inside your trailer puts your trailer and your possessions at added risk for theft and vandalism. Remove all the cargo from your trailer before storing it.
 There are many devices designed to secure your trailer when it is mobile, and when it is parked and left attached to the towing vehicle. The trailer hitch ball locks are among the best of these devices. They require a key to remove your trailer from your towing vehicle. This prevents theft, and also offers more protection to prevent your trailer from becoming disengaged during towing. Other ideas might be a secondary or safety chain attaching the trailer to the frame of the vehicle, and secured with a padlock.


Similarly, there are many devices including legs incorporating locking mechanisms. These prevent the trailer from being stolen or from simply rolling downhill. Wheel clamps or simple wheel blocks can be used for a similar purpose. In addition you can chain the trailer to a large tree or other heavy object to prevent theft of your trailer., Use alarms and video cameras mounted on the trailer to prevent theft. Security video cameras and alarms are especially useful when trailers are parked in public places. Video can also be set up to stream onto a mobile phone, so that you can check on the trailer when you are away from it.
 Electronic transponders and tags help police to track trailers and discover their locations in the event they are stolen. An electronic transponder hidden in your trailer can pinpoint its exact location. Be sure to hide the transponder to prevent thieves from simply discarding it.
 Use UV etching technology in several different locations on your trailer. Police will only return trailers they can identify and UV etching is proof of ownership. The UV etching is invisible except under UV lights, which prevents thieves from seeing and removing the marks.
 There are several UK sites, designed to help you recover a stolen trailer. The site is designed to help prospective used trailer buyers from paying for stolen vehicles.

