 If you want to have fresh, crisp, delicious broccoli in your fridge, it's helpful if you start with the freshest possible vegetables in the first place. Whether you're picking out your broccoli at the local supermarket or pulling it fresh from your garden, it's a smart idea to know the signs of a fresh, healthy plant so that you can consistently choose the best broccoli. To start, try examining the small, beady buds making up the head of the broccoli — these are called "florets". The florets of the best broccoli plants should be a deep, somewhat dark green color.


Look out for yellow florets or patches — this is a sign that your broccoli is past its prime and is about to flower, which will make the plant tough and woody., Another thing to take into account when you're picking out your broccoli is the size of the individual florets — are they tiny and almost indistinguishable from each other, or are they large and full? Ideally, you should see some florets that are just smaller than a match head — this is a sign that the broccoli plant is mature, but not over-ripe.You don't necessarily have to shy away from broccoli with exclusively small florets. These plants won't hurt you or taste bad — for instance, most frozen broccoli that you can buy from your grocery store's frozen foods aisle won't have large florets.
 The texture of a broccoli plant is crucial — nothing's better than a satisfyingly crisp head of broccoli on a hot summer day, but nothing's grosser than broccoli that's become soft or chewy. Don't be afraid to use your hands when you're picking out your broccoli. Give each head a gentle squeeze or twist. Ideally, the best heads of broccoli should be quite hard and firm, but not completely unyielding.
 When you buy broccoli at the store, it's already been picked for you, so the way the broccoli is harvested is out of your control. However, when you grow your own broccoli at home, you have total control over how and when the broccoli is harvested, so make the most of these opportunities. Generally, for the best-tasting, freshest broccoli, you'll want to harvest during the coolest part of the day (usually the morning). Cut the entire broccoli head from the plant at its stem and immediately transfer into the refrigerator to preserve its freshness.


Doing this minimizes the amount of time that your broccoli will have to warm up — the cooler it stays, the better its original taste and texture will be preserved.

