 New ingrown hair scars often have a red appearance, which is due to inflammation. Cortisone creams can reduce the redness of a new ingrown hair scar by reducing inflammation. You can purchase cortisone cream without a prescription.Make sure that you read and follow the package instructions for use. Check with your dermatologist if you are unsure about how much or how often to use the cream.
Do not use cortisone cream on broken skin. Make sure that the ingrown hair has completely healed before using cortisone cream.
These types of ingrown hairs are usually are result of shaving. Make sure you use a lubricant when shaving. These lesions are often known as “razor bumps” or “shave bumps.”

, Ingrown hair scars can cause a dark-colored scar and lightening creams can help to reduce this darkness. Talk to your doctor before you start using a lightening cream and only purchase lightening creams that contain natural lightening agents. Avoid products that include hydroquinone because this product has a carcinogenic effect and it can also irritate your skin. Look for a lightening cream that contains one of the following ingredients instead:Kojic acid (derived from mushrooms)
Arbutin (sometimes listed as bearberry extract)
Vitamin C

, Picking at ingrown hair scars (or ingrown hairs) can lead to irritation, infection, and an increased risk of scarring. To minimize these risks, do not pick, pop, or squeeze any ingrown hair scars or ingrown hairs. Allow them to heal on their own.If you are concerned about the look of an ingrown hair scar or ingrown hair, then make an appointment to see your dermatologist. Also check out this article How to Remove and Ingrown Hair.
 Too much sun exposure can cause scars to darken and it can also slow down healing, so try not to spend much time in the sun. If you must be outside, protect your skin with an SPF 30 sunscreen and a wide-brimmed hat.The sun is most powerful between the hours of 10am and 4pm. Try not to go outside at all during these hours.

