 Find out what movies this producer has already made and any movies that are currently in development. Look up movie titles online to see what they're about, and watch the movies if you can. Trade publications such as The Hollywood Reporter will tell you what movies are being developed.


Look for commonalities in the producer's movies, such as genres, budgets, locations, actors or themes. A producer may want to stick to movies that are similar to what he or she has already made. If the producer has recently started producing a different kind of movie, it's a sign that he or she is looking for new ideas.
Try to understand what the movies might say about the producer's personal beliefs. You may be able to glean the producer's politics, religious beliefs, love of certain parts of the country or personal values such as whether family or personal ambition is most important.;
, Don't pitch a story or parts of it that you haven't written. Emphasize certain aspects that are likely to appeal to the producer.
 Start with a short summary of the movie, then expand a little at a time if the producer wants to hear more.


State the genre of the movie, so the producer can correctly interpret your pitch.
The first few seconds of your pitch should be centered on your log line--your 1 or 2 sentence description of your movie. Begin with a rhetorical question, then give the log line. For example, you might ask, "How might your life change when you win the lottery? This is the story of a man who won millions but lost everything he loved."
Follow with an explanation of the main character's story arc. Tell the producer who the main character is and why the audience will identify with the character. Give the reason that you are telling this character's story, and describe the character's journey from the beginning to the end of the movie.
Expand on the story with more characters, subplots, and other interesting aspects of your screenplay. How much you can include will depend on the length of your pitch session, so be sure to organize these details so you can wrap up at any point without leaving out anything important, such as how the movie ends.
 Don't memorize it, but learn it well enough to pitch your family, friends and coworkers. Listen carefully to their feedback, particularly if they tell you they're confused about any part of your pitch. If the producer you pitch to gets confused, you will not sell your screenplay.


You want the producer to ask questions that indicate an interest in the story, what happens and why, but you never want a producer to ask "Can you explain that part to me again?"
If you have trouble putting together a clear, compelling pitch of your movie, it may be because you have a serious flaw in your screenplay. Think about what changes you can make to your screenplay that will make your pitch better.
Remember that you're not just selling your screenplay, but yourself as a screenwriter the producer will enjoy working with. Be passionate about your story.

