 Before you get on stage, just picture yourself knocking it out of the park. Imagine a standing ovation, picture the smiles on the audience members' faces, and hear the sound of your cast mates or director telling you what an amazing job you did. The more you focus on visualizing the best possible outcome instead of worrying over the worst case scenario, the more likely it is to happen. Picture yourself being amazing on stage from the audience's point of view.


Start early. Start visualizing success from the second you're cast in the role. Get into the habit of imagining what a great job you'll do.
As you get closer to the starting date, you can work harder on visualizing success by picturing what a great job you'll do every night before you go to bed and every morning when you wake up.
 Do this until you memorize it. Remember the words of the person who speaks before you, so you recognize the cue for you to speak. Practice in front of family, friends, and stuffed animals and even in front of empty chairs, so that you are used to performing in front of people.Part of the fear of performing comes from thinking that you'll forget your lines and won't know what to do. The best way to prepare against forgetting your lines is to be as familiar with them as possible.
Practicing in front of others helps you get used to the fact that you won't be reciting your lines alone. Sure, you may know them perfectly when you're alone in your room, but it'll be a whole new ball game when you're facing an audience.
 If you really want to overcome stage fright, work on truly inhabiting the actions, thoughts, and worries of your character. The more in tune you are with the character you're portraying, the more likely you'll be to forget your own worries. Imagine that you really are that person instead of a nervous actor trying to portray that person.
 Gain confidence in yourself by reciting your lines in front of a mirror. You can even tape your own performance to see how amazing you are, and to look out for areas of improvement. If you keep taping or watching yourself until you know you're really killing it, then you'll be much more likely to succeed on the stage.


Being able to see yourself perform will also help you conquer your fear of the unknown. If you know exactly what you look like, you'll feel more comfortable on the stage.
Watch your mannerisms, and look at how you move your hands as you speak.


Note: this may not work for everyone. This trick may make some people feel more self-conscious and aware of every movement of their bodies. If watching yourself starts making you more nervous, then avoid this tactic.
 Improvisation is a skill that all good actors should master. Improvising will help you prepare for a less-than-perfect situation on the stage. Many actors and performers are so worried about forgetting or messing up their lines that they often don't consider that other cast members are just as likely to make a mistake; knowing how to improvise will help you feel comfortable with performing on the fly and being prepared for anything that comes your way.


Improvising will also help you see that you can't control every aspect of the performance. It's not about being perfect -- it's about being able to react to any situation.
Don't act startled or lost if something unexpected happens. Remember that the audience doesn't have a copy of the script and that they'll only be able to tell if something went wrong if you make it obvious.
 Staying physically active before and during the performance will help ease your tension and keep the audience's interest. Of course, you should only move when the character is supposed to move, but make the most of your movements and gestures so that your body becomes more relaxed by being active.
 Once you're on stage, just focus on your words, your body, and your facial expressions. Don't waste time over thinking it and asking yourself pesky questions. Just start enjoying your performance and inhabiting the moment, whether you're singing, dancing, or reciting lines. If you've learned to turn off your mind and fully inhabit your performance, the audience will know.

