 You can still handle and manage to hold these rats, but they are obviously scared of you and need some extra work to bond with. Many pet store rats fall into this category.
 A semi-socialized rat will usually not take a treat from your hand right away, so the first thing you need to teach them is this.


Pick a tasty treat like Cheerios and put some in the cage for several days, so your rats can become addicted to them. If it's been a couple days and they aren't eating the selected treats, try another type of dry cereal until you find treats they will like.
When they start eating them readily, stop putting the treats in their cage and start only offering them by hand. Never feed them through the cage bars as this encourages biting. From now on they can only have a treat if they will take it from your hand. (Be sure to use the same treats you first got them addicted to.) Eventually they will take the treat from your hand and that is a big step in the bonding process.
 It will take some time for a semi-socialized rat to bond with you. The more time you spend with them, the faster they will bond with you. A living room chair can be a good place to do this.


Throw an old blanket over the chair to protect it from poop/pee. Eventually your rats will learn to "hold it" when they are out with you and will stop pooping and peeing, as long as you take them back to their enclosure for bathroom breaks when needed.
Take the rats from their enclosure, and sit with them in the chair. At first the rats will wander around the chair exploring it, and they will probably do so for the first several days. (Don't worry about them jumping off the chair. Rats have poor vision. As long as you don't show them how to get down or let them climb up onto it from the floor, they should not know how to leave the chair.)
Show your rats that they can climb under your shirt. They will feel safer there. Rats are more comfortable in dark places. (To keep yourself from getting scratched up, wear two shirts and lead the rats in between the two shirts to protect your skin. If you don't want them in your shirt, try throwing a blanket over yourself and let them crawl under that.)
This close contact to you, being exposed to your smells, and forced to be directly on you will greatly help your rats get over their fear of you. Eventually when you take them out they will crawl straight in your shirt and go to sleep. After awhile you can start handling them more by putting your hand under the shirt with them and petting them.
The couch can also be a good location for bonding but doesn't have as much intimacy as the chair brings. The important part is that you choose a small space to bond with them so that your rats have no other choice but to interact with you. If you have no other place to use, you could lay in your bathtub with your rats. Lay a blanket down under you and maybe throw a blanket over you, or again, just let your rats get into your shirt. It's not the most comfortable place to be, but it forces that intimacy needed for them to get over their fear of you.

