 Use the handle of a rat-tail comb to take a 1 to 2-inch (2.54 to 5,08-centimeter) square-shaped section of hair from your hairline. Lightly mist the section with water, then apply a moisturizing hair cream to it.A combination of castor oil and coconut or olive oil would work especially well for this. You can also use any other cream you'd normally use for making corn rows.;
, Purchase some braiding hair or Marley hair. Select a thick strand, find the center, then place it behind the section of natural hair. You will have three strands of hair: a left synthetic strand, a center natural strand, and a right synthetic strand.Make sure that the hair you are using is synthetic.
 Cross the left strand over the middle one, then cross the right strand over the middle one. Keep braiding, making the stitches nice and right, until you run out of natural hair to braid. You will be left with two strands of synthetic braiding hair., Twist each strand of synthetic hair clockwise form two ropes. Next, twist the two ropes together counterclockwise to form a thicker rope. Do this for a few stitches, then stop.If the hair is very slippery and does not have a lot of texture to it, it may unravel during the next step. Secure it with a small hair elastic.
 Hold the first 1½ inches (1.91 centimeters) of the synthetic strand against your braid. Make sure that the tip of the synthetic hair is pointing down towards the end of the braid, and not up towards your scalp.Secure the strand with a small hair elastic, if needed.
 Hold the 1½-inch (1.91-centimeter) tip of the synthetic strand against your braid with one hand. Use your other hand to wrap the rest of the strand around braid and tip tightly. Start at your root, and continue downwards until you run out of hair to wrap.Overlap the hair slightly as you wrap so that you have no gaps.
 Hold the first 1½ inches (1.91 centimeters) of the new strand against the rest of your hair section. Secure it with a small hair elastic, if needed, then wrap the rest of the strand downward. Keep doing this until your faux loc is the length you want it to be., Hold the synthetic hair you were wrapping with away from the core. Trim the excess hair from the bottom of the core with a pair of scissors. Do not cut the hair you were wrapping with just yet.

The "core" is the first strand of synthetic hair that you braided into your hair at the very begging.
 Wrap the synthetic hair downwards until it covers the core hair completely. Trim it off using a razor comb, then wrap it back upwards until you have nothing left to wrap with.You don't have to use a razor comb, but it will give you a nicer finish.
 Turn on a lighter and pass it up and down the length of your faux loc. If using fire around your faux hair makes you nervous, use a drop of nail glue instead., This process can take a while, so it would be a good idea to get some help or take lots of breaks. Work your way in sections, row by row, until you are done.