 This way, the toppings will be ready and you can focus on preparing for the party event. Make sure all of your topping items are covered in their serving containers and put them into the refrigerator ahead of time.

Don't prepare foods more than 24 hours ahead of time. Keeping them as fresh as possible is important.;
, Cheeses that melt easily include Cheddar and Monterey Jack, although mozzarella and feta cheeses are popular choices with potatoes as well. Grate the cheese and put into a serving dish. Cover with a lid or kitchen plastic wrap., This is the main decision, as you can offer toppings that accommodate the potato as the main course, or the potato as part of the entrée.

Potato as the main course: Bacon bits, diced pepperoni, diced cooked sausage, or diced ham
Potato as part of the entrée: Chili, fajita meats (such as chicken, beef, or steak), cooked bacon strips, or taco meat.
Cook your bacon, crumb, and put into your serving dish.
 Set up bowls containing diced tomatoes, olives, chopped scallions, or sauteed mushrooms.,

Fill up salt and pepper shakers for convenience.
You might like to use vegan butter, not only to accommodate any non-dairy guests, but it's more nutritional and less fattening than regular butter.Choose light sour cream for additional flavor.
Basil, chives, and oregano are popular herbs to use. Insert labels to avoid mistakes.
Transfer the sour cream to a serving dish.
, Put soup or stew into the pan or crock pot that you'll be serving it from.

At the time of setting up the potato bar, put the soup or stew on the stove (or on the crock pot element) to reheat at least an hour before you'll be eating. Leave on low heat once it has warmed through.
,, Save some table room for different chips, such as Frito's or a simple fruit salad., Non-proportional and curved potatoes may not bake the same as smooth and small., Use a vegetable scrubber to scrub them under running water. Ensure all dirt particles and roots are removed.,, Slightly prick the prongs around each potato., Position the potatoes evenly on a baking sheet and place them in a 425ºF oven for 50-60 minutes. The potatoes should be done when the insides appear to be soft when pricked.

You can also produce baked potatoes by zapping them in the microwave for 3 to 4 minutes.
 This arrangement is basically a uniform guideline to be followed for most buffets.,,

The basic seasonings and herbs, such as salt and chives, should always be first.
Cheeses and other light ingredients should follow next.
Meats and vegetables should go last. This is to allow guests to decide if they want the food on the potato or on the side.
 Insert spoons or tongs in each bowl or platter.,,