 The barks should be controlled and you should be able to count them:


Think of the cues you wish to use. Don 't precede your teaching with "what is", as the puppy may begin to bark before you have said the number.
Combine a signal with a word command. For instance, make a hand/head signal that is very visible as you request the dog to bark and stop barking:

Say " Rover, bark!" and nod your head deeply.
Say "Rover, stop! and nod as obviously again.


Use different cue words and signals, as suit your needs, as long as they're consistent.
Repeat this over a couple of training sessions until the puppy response to your signals alone. It can be useful to give the signal first, then the word command, followed by a treat if the dog response after the signal.
This of course, as with any trick, must be taught in progressive stages. In order for this trick to be most successful in front of an audience, your puppy needs to be trained to observe the smallest of signals.You can then slowly diminish your head/hand signals as the training progresses, so that you can merely flick your hand and the cue works to set off and stop the barking. This will only come with practice.;
, This is a fun activity for regular playtime, yet it also improves your puppy's coordination and focusing skills. This 'game' evolves out of the regular ball throw and retrieve.


Start by having the ball in your hand, and the puppy sitting in front of you.
Hold the ball and let the puppy take it out of your hand.
Play around with this, giving the puppy the ball, and taking it back again.
After a while, start rolling the ball into the puppy's mouth, and then throw it from a really short distance. The purpose here is to not simply throw the ball and have the poor puppy get hit on the head, consequently dodging all balls being thrown at him for all eternity. Instead, start slowly, and throw the ball really slowly, in a nice upward curve. Once the puppy gets the basic catch down, you can make it more challenging. The ball catch can even be the basis for fancier Frisbee throws.
 Here you get your puppy to focus on you for a limited time by looking at you, and then reward him with a treat. Make sure your hands are hidden, so he won't be inclined to look at them instead.


Start with sitting on your knees (this is easier for a little puppy to look at your face, but you can also stand if you want more authority)
Call the puppy over to you, making him sit and saying "Rover, focus."
When you have the puppy's attention, make him hold it for a couple of seconds and reward.
You can then slowly lengthen the time to 5 seconds and beyond.
If the puppy's concentration breaks and he stops looking at you, call him again with the phrase "Rover, focus" and shorten the time you have the puppy focus.
 This is a good method for achieving barely perceptible commands. Just gently blow in the directions of the puppy's ear when you give a command to perform a trick. The dog will learn to associate this with being a discreet signal to perform something. Keep practicing.



With the puppy standing in front of you, hold out a doggie treat and show it to your puppy.
Hold it so your puppy can't just take it out of your hand.
Now lead the puppy with the treat in a circle while saying "Spin".
After the puppy completes the rotation, give him the treat, and praise him. Something like "Good SPIN!" is fine. Repeat.
After a couple of training sessions, try it without a treat, by just having the puppy follow your finger. Finally this evolves into a simple finger spin and the vocal spin command.

