 There are lots of things you can do with your hair. Some of the cutest looks for sports practice are a slightly messy ponytail, a ponytail teased at the crown, ponytail with a bump in the front, side braids, french braid, or just a ponytail with a really bright headband. The reason I didn't mention any buns? Because most people tend to put them in WAY too tight, and that looks really weird. Unless, of course, you dance, you should never do a messy bun! It usually starts to unravel and fall out. Even if you don't think it does? It does.;
, Makeup can be bad for your skin if it's mixed with sweat, especially if you are acne-prone. If you have oily skin, it will melt off! Which is why when you play sports, never ever use liquid foundation. Even if you don't notice it, it is melting off and it looks really weird. try using a light or translucent powder, concealer, waterproof mascara, and lip-gloss. Trust me, use a tinted mascara version and a nude-ish, medium pink lipgloss/lipstain. You'll look great! Also bring along blotting papers if you have oily skin. Dry skin? Bring along a small tube of moisturizer.
 Top: If you're playing a school sport, you may not be allowed to wear tank tops. But that's fine, because it looks kinda weird. Just wear a loose-fitting (but not too loose) tee shirt over a sports bra. The trick is to pull on a really brightly-colored cami (if possible, be sure it has a color from the tee in it) on underneath the tee. Bunch up just a bit of the front into a ponytail holder, and tuck it under. It looks very cute and unique! Bottom: Wear nicely-fitting shorts. No shorter than your wrist when you arms is hanging by your side, no longer than an inch and a half above the knee. Make sure they do not poof out; it looks very awkward! Also, unless you play volleyball where you wear spandex anyway, wear spandex underneath your athletic shorts. Shoes: Get a quality pair of athletic shoes. If you're a runner, use only Asics. You'll see that's what everyone wears because they come in cute colors, and don't give you shin splints. For soccer, get Pumas or Nikes. For volleyball, try Asics or just any other kind of court shoes.
 In it, put in some cute sweats that aren't too loose, an extra cami, sports bra, tee, socks, and shorts. Also pack your makeup bag. Bring along some strong deodorant, because if you don't sweat too much, they might have you do a surprisingly gruelling workout. Bring lotion, and a light body spray. Now you're set! Toss in your cell, and you're all ready to go!

,