 For safety reasons, most schools do not allow a parent to just walk in and go to a classroom. Instead, the parent needs to stop in the office and sign in. Sometimes this just involves literally writing their name and arrival time in a ledger as well as the intention of the visit.


There are also schools with more advanced visitor programs that require the parent to scan their driver’s license and wear a temporary name badge that is printed out with the date and time of the visit.
 The parent needs to stop in the office at the end of their visit as well, in order to sign out and turn in the temporary name badge. Not only are these systems used for the safety of the children and staff, but also for the parent by accounting for everyone that is in the building in the case of a fire or other disaster.
 Most elementary schools encourage parents to sign up to be the class parent for their child’s room. The class parent is the one that is responsible for the arrangements for class parties. This includes bringing in the party supplies such as treats and drinks as well as goody bags.


The class parent also plans some type of entertainment for the party such as a quick craft or a simple group game.
Depending on the school and the teacher, the class parent may have other responsibilities. Sometimes they might be asked to help chaperone field trips or help with rehearsals for school productions.
 Young children that have not learned how to read love to have someone read to them and many schools will allow parents to be volunteer readers. The reading might be done in the school library or it could be in one or more specific classrooms.


The teachers will usually supply the books in order to be sure that the reading material is age appropriate and adheres to school policy. They also do this in order to tie the stories in with what the children are learning in the classroom. Story times are usually less than an hour and can be as many times per week as the parent and school agree on.

