 If you are overweight and carry a lot of weight in your lower back and midsection, then losing fat will help uncover the dimples underneath and make them more prominent. There is no way to spot reduce when it comes to losing weight, so if you want to lose weight in your torso, then you will have to lose overall weight by cutting down your daily calorie intake.


Start keeping track of the calories you consume. Be sure to read all food labels, and include the calories in dressings, sauces, seasonings, and beverages.
Most adults, regardless of weight or body type, will lose weight if they consume around 1,200 calories a day.
A safe rate of weight loss is between 1-3 pounds per week.Do not attempt to lose more than three pounds per week while dieting.;
, Losing weight doesn't have to mean being hungry all the time. Vegetables like broccoli, carrots, celery, and asparagus provide your body with necessary nutrients while keeping you fuller for longer than other foods.Your diet should consist of vegetables, fruits, lean proteins like chicken, fish, and tofu, whole grains, and some dairy.


Drinking plenty of water and/or green tea can also help curb your appetite. To help cut down on portion sizes, drink two full glasses of water before each meal.
 While exercise alone will not make you lose weight, getting your heart rate up through cardiovascular exercise can help your body burn more calories and increase the speed of your metabolism so that you can lose weight faster. Aim to get at least 30 minutes of physical exercise 5 days a week.


Running, cycling, hiking, swimming, dancing, and kickboxing are all examples of calorie-burning aerobic workouts. Find one that you enjoy and stick with it---that way it won't feel like arduous work.
 Studies have shown that writing down what you eat can actually help you lose more weight by holding you accountable for the foods you eat.Get in the habit of reading all food labels and measuring out what you eat so that you can keep a proper log of your caloric intake.


Websites like My Fitness Pal and Calorie King allow you to search the calorie content of various foods, keep track of your daily intake, and even connect with other dieters.
 This is an equipment-free exercise you an do at home that will work your lower back and core muscles. Start off by laying down on the floor with your arms extended out in front of you. Use your lower back muscles to lift your chest, arms, and legs off of the floor. Hold the position for 30 seconds, and then return to the starting position.


Repeat this exercise 2-3 times.
 Extend your right arm and left leg out into the air, keeping them aligned with the floor. Return to starting position. Now, lift out your left arm and right leg, hold, and return to starting position.


Repeat 15-20 times on each side.
 Lie down on your back with your legs bent and your feet flat on the floor. Keep your arms down at your sides with your hands on the floor. Using your hands to stabilize you, slowly lift your hips off of the floor until your upper body forms a straight line with your legs. Hold for 5 counts, then return to the starting position.


Repeat 15-20 times for one rep.
This exercise helps strengthen the lower back as well as the gluteal muscles.

