 These don't have to be keywords--you just need general terms that adequately encompass your company and/or product on a basic level.


Ask any employees (or clients, if possible) to do the same.
For example: if you specialize in marketing, several of your phrases could be different types of marketing subcategories.;
, Knowing what people are looking for when they visit your website will help you create keywords that cater to your customers' prospective searches.


It might also help to come up with potential search queries (e.g., "how to take a photograph") to better empathize with your customers.
 Again, don't worry about being precise for now. Your main goal should be to commit as many words to paper as possible.If you're having trouble getting started, write down the name of each of your top products, along with descriptors (e.g., "silver iPad Pro").
Referencing your interactions with customers or clients should help you come up with some common search queries.
 These are words or phrases that don't directly relate to your product or field, but qualify as byproducts or subsequent searches.Sites such as http://soovle.com/ or https://trends.google.com/trends/ can generate obscure keywords in relation to a main keyword.
These keywords are often referred to as "niche topics", meaning that they modify topics that fall outside of your field's focus but not outside of its category altogether.
For example, a keyword focused on "athletic shoes" has an obvious association with "running" or "bouldering", but a less-obvious phrase might be "getting in shape".
 Chances are, if you have a competitor in your field, they've already done the keyword research. While you should have keywords that are specific to your own business, using the same general keywords and some of the niche topics as your competitor will expedite your process.Your competitors' keywords are accessible by using a paid app like KeywordSpy or SpyFu, as well as by using free sites like https://www.semrush.com/.
You can also reverse-engineer keywords by looking at the keywords your competitor hasn't yet used and then implementing them.
 These include keywords that are too difficult or advanced for your consumer base, keywords that don't quite apply to your company or product, and keywords you're already using.
 Unless your marketing budget is suitably large, you likely won't want to start out with the most expensive keywords.


You can view the cost-per-click (CPC) of a keyword or phrase by typing it into a site like https://serps.com/tools/keyword-research/ and reviewing the results.
 When you looked up your competitors' keywords, you likely found some that you aren't using. However, using high-ranking keywords that your competitors aren't using may give you an advantage.
 Again, using a site like https://serps.com/tools/keyword-research/ for this step will make your process easier, though you can set up an ad through Google to use the AdWords Keyword Planner as well.


This step will help you weed out any keywords that don't quite meet your return on investment standards.
 One thing to remember during this process is that there is a difference between an algorithm's interpretation of an organic keyword and a human being's interpretation of the same. If you see any keywords that don't look like they belong, consider removing them during this time.


This is also a good time to ask your employees, marketing experts, or customers what they think about your list. The more input you have, the better.
 The final test of whether or not your keywords are relevant, broad, and/or applicable enough will be putting them to use.


You'll want to keep a close eye on your site's analytics during this time. If site traffic notably increases, your keywords are working.
 You should do this about once a quarter to ensure that your previously relevant keywords are still relevant.You may also find that some keywords that weren't working for you at the beginning of your campaign are now directing more traffic.
 Looking at updated reports on customers' interests, common search queries, and most frequently purchased items should give you an idea of which keywords you should prioritize.


Looking at customers' favorite items especially will help inform your keyword prioritization.
 As your site's traffic increases, you may find yourself in a position to spend more on higher CPC keywords. If this is the case, it's probably worth experimenting with some of the higher CPC keywords you ruled out earlier.


You'll want to keep a close eye on how these keywords perform initially, since you risk not achieving a profitable ROI.
 Google updates often, meaning that a keyword which previously set your site at the top of the results page might now bring up an information box or separate article.

