 Tumblr Savior is a free, third party browser extension you can use to hide Tumblr posts tagged with certain words or phrases. You'll need to download the extension before continuing.


Download the appropriate version based on your browser:Tumblr Savior for Chrome: http://tumblr-savior.chrome.bjornstar.com

Tumblr Savior for Firefox: http://tumblr-savior.firefox.bjornstar.com

Tumblr Savior for Safari: http://tumblr-savior.safari.bjornstar.com

Tumblr Savior for Opera: http://tumblr-savior.opera.bjornstar.com



Follow the on-screen instructions to install the appropriate extension to your browser. Once the extension is installed, re-open your browser and continue with the rest of these instructions.
 From your Internet browser, access the the Tumblr Savior extension and navigate to the extension's settings.


Look for the Tumblr Savior icon on your browser toolbar. It should look like a black capital "T" in a tilted white box. Clicking on the icon should take you directly to the extension's settings.If you do not see the icon on your browser toolbar, you may need to navigate to the extensions list in your browser and select "Tumblr Savior" from the list to access its settings.
 On the main page of the extension, you should see one or more text boxes beneath the words "Black List." Type the tags you wish to blacklist directly into these boxes.


The tags you'll need to block will vary depending on what you don't want to see.
The extension will check the whole post for the word or phrase you input, so you'll need to choose carefully. If you only want to block posts using that keyword as a tag, make sure that you type a hashtag (#) before the keyword itself.
To add more tags once you run out of boxes, click on the "add" button beneath the bottom text box.
 Once you've added all the tags you wish to blacklist, click on the "Save" button to complete the process.


Note that you may need to close and re-open your browser for the settings to take effect.
The extension should block any posts containing your blacklisted tags from appearing on your dash. For instance, if you blocked "nsfw," any post containing the keyword "nsfw" will be collapsed and hidden from your main view.

