 When you get up in front of lots of people, with your heart beating and your mouth dry, it'll be tempting to speed things up. Good speeches, however, are almost always delivered slowly, with force and feeling behind each word. Remember to slow down.


Listen to a speech by Martin Luther King, Jr., one of the most effective public speakers ever, and pay attention to how slowly he speaks. Slow speeches sound really good because they let the audience process what is being said.
Practice delivering your speech into a voice recorder and listen to the recording. You'll see that even when you think you're speaking slowly, it comes out a lot quicker than you imagine. There's always an opportunity to slow down.
 Don't be afraid to take a breath or two after you've finished a sentence. Give the audience time to make sense out of what you're saying. Pause after you deliver a really heartfelt sentence so that the meaning of the sentence can sink in.
 Have the speech memorized so that you're not just looking down at your notes, reading off of a piece of paper. Reading off of a piece of paper can make the speech sound robotic, robbing it of all the natural rhythm and flow of the language.
 Making good eye contact will allow you to grab the audience not just with your words, but also with your eyes and with your presence. This is a really important part of public speaker that is easily overlooked because it is so hard to master.


Scan the audience every once in a while. If you're reading your speech, you'll obviously spend a lot of time looking at your paper. When you finish a sentence, however, look up from the dais and scan the people in the audience. This will help you catch your breath.
Don't be afraid of focusing on one person for a short while. It's not uncommon for a speaker to lock eyes with a person in the audience for two, three, or four seconds. (Four seconds is a really long time when you're alone on a podium!) Don't do it all the time, but try to do it every once in a while.
 If you mess up a line, don't worry about it or apologize. Get the line right and move on. The less you labor over your mistakes (which you will make; everyone does), the less they'll be noticed.
 Don't ramble on in a monotone voice for eight minutes or you'll put everyone to sleep. Get excited about your speech, and let your excitement bleed into your voice. Mix up the volume, pitch, and speed of your voice for an even better delivery.
 Be confident in your ability to make people laugh, to help them understand you better, to inspire them to be better people and to realize their full potential. You're delivering this speech for a reason, right? Trust in the people who trust in you and reward them for their trust.


If you're getting nervous, try out the old public speaking trick of imagining someone in the audience being naked. Don't fixate on it, but imagine it. It will help rake away some of the butterflies and allow you to concentrate on delivering a more confident speech.
 Practicing your speech ahead of time, perhaps on a few trusted friends, will do two things:


It will get you in the habit of what works in the speech and what doesn't. There's still time to change that joke that no one understands, or focus more on that part that your friends really like.
It will help you memorize the speech, making you less nervous and giving you better presence.

