 This beautiful blend from Southern French is one of the easiest and most drinkable French wines to pair. It is light, generally fruity, and mild enough to work with almost anything. If you want something foreign but not wallet breaking, go to the CdR.


Pronounced "Coat Do Rone."
There is actually a white version of the CdR as well, which match well with fishes. They are less common, but still a good choice for a white., Of course, this pairs very well with almost all Italian dishes, as it is light, acidic, and peppered with light hints of spice, cherry, and even tobacco. It may be blended with a Cabernet to make it a little heartier, as well.
 Note, however, that merlots are popular and can vary substantially. For example, a bottle of Merlot is usually bold and fruity. However, Merlot aged with oak may have a smoky taste as well. They are best from France and the Northern US, and pair with anything, much like the Côtes-du-Rhône, but with a slightly bolder and more noticeable taste.
 This is the famous Napa Valley grape, and it leads to a very dense wine with layers of currant, dark berries, and even olives. Pair this with a rich, substantial, and hearty dish for a beautiful combination and strong, flavorful meal.


If you're aiming for a bargain, grab a Cab Sauv, as it is often the cheapest win with the best results, since Cabernet grapes are easy to grow, These wines can be made either on the lighter side or rich and dense. They come from a spicy, peppery grape, and this note shines through to pair well with similarly peppery foods., This French and Argentinian wine is strong, spicy, and tart. It matches well with casual, rich, and oily/greasy foods, making it a good pair for tailgating, BBQs, or pizza night

, The Cabernet Franc is known for its notes of blueberry and violets, as well as an earthy, almost coffee-like scent. It is high in tannins, giving it a full-body feeling and a touch of bitterness.


Matches well with stews, red meats, and smoky dishes.
 Usually found with hints of raspberry, cherry, raisin, and more, Zinfandels have a uniquely hearty but fruity taste, making them great wines to drink on their own or to pair with rich meals. They are highly alcoholic, meaning they may overpower lighter dishes if you're not careful.
 The Pinot grape is notoriously difficult to grow, making good Pinots expensive. But when a winemaker gets it right, the grape yields a complex, rich, and nuanced wine. Know that you should spend at least $20 a bottle to get you money's worth, if not more. Cheaper pinots aren't worth it.


The Pinot is a complex wine for rich, complex dishes. But it goes equally well with desert, such as a decadent chocolate.