 A warm compress may help alleviate ear pain. Use a clean washcloth soaked in warm water and place the washcloth over the ear. Replace the washcloth often, every 15 to 20 minutes, or as needed.You can also press a warm bottle or warm bag of salt over the ear.;
, Olive oil is a great home remedy for ear infection pain. Warm one teaspoon of olive oil, making sure that it does not get too hot. You don’t want to burn the ear. Using a medicine dropper, add three to four drops of the warmed oil to the affected ear. Repeat three to four times a day. Alternately, you can also soak a small piece on cotton in the olive oil and place the cotton in your ear. Repeat 3-4 times a day.


Always warm the oils to about body temperature. You can test the temperature by dropping a bit of the oil on your wrist. Be very careful about warming the oil because it can cause serious damage to the inner ear if it is too hot. The best way to warm oils is to pour some into a dropper bottle and let the dropper bottle stand in an inch or so of heated water until it is warm.
 A few herbal oils can act as natural antibiotics and have antiviral properties. Mullein oil is traditionally used for earaches, and has soothing and antibacterial properties. It can be purchased online or at an herbal store. Using calendula in ear drops can also be used to help relieve pain.Make sure to talk to your doctor before using any herbal remedies on children.
 Garlic oil has antibacterial and antiviral properties and has been used for centuries to treat ear infections. You can make your own garlic oil by warming up one teaspoon of fresh, minced, or crushed garlic in one tablespoon of olive oil. Let it infuse for 15 minutes and run it through a fine mesh sieve. You can mix the remaining oil with an equal amount of olive oil or just use the garlic oil. Use three to four drops in each affected ear three to four times a day.You can also slice some garlic and put the garlic pieces in a cloth or paper towel. Place the garlic pouch on the ear. You can secure it by tying around your head with something, like a piece of cloth. Make sure whatever you put the garlic in allows the garlic to seep into the ear, but keeping it from directly touching the skin.Make sure to talk to your pediatrician before using garlic in your child’s ear.
 Ginger can be used to relieve pain as well. Mince or crush one teaspoon of fresh ginger and add it to one tablespoon of olive oil. Let it infuse for 15 minutes and run it through a sieve. Use three to four drops in each affected ear three to four times a day.Speak with your doctor before using ginger to help your child’s ear infection.
 Cut up half an onion and gently heat it in some olive oil. When the onion is soft, let it cool before pouring it into a cotton cloth. Fold the cloth so that the onion doesn’t fall out, and place the compress over the ear, allowing the warm onion juice to flow into the ear. Leave on for 10 to 15 minutes. Repeat every three to four hours., Honey has antibacterial and healing properties, so you can use it to help relieve ear pain. Warm up some honey and put three to four drops into the affected ear. Make sure the honey is not too hot. You don’t want to burn your ear. Repeat three to four times a day.