 Dishwashing liquid will cut through most grease and oil stains. Don't use automatic dishwasher detergent, since it can be too abrasive for fiberglass.Your detergent or cleaner should not have any bleach in it. Bleach can also damage fiberglass, so verify that it's not an active ingredient in your mild cleaner.
You can also make a homemade cleaner easily by combining vinegar with regular dish detergent.This cleaner may work particularly well in showers.;
, Mix baking soda with water to form a paste that can be used to remove dirt on surfaces like a shower door or sink. Apply it to the soiled area and leave it in place for at least 12 hours.Follow up by cleaning the area with soapy water.


The paste may turn a brownish color when it sits on the dirtier areas of fiberglass.
You can use vinegar to active the baking soda after it sits on a fiberglass surface for deeper cleaning power. It should bubble a little, after which you can wipe down the fiberglass to get rid of the baking soda and dirty stains.
 Both of these substances can be dangerous, so be careful when you are using them. Acetone and paint thinner should only be used for stains such as oil or paint.Since these materials can harm the fiberglass, only use them in the case of the worse stains. Spot clean using acetone and paint thinner, so you don't damage any areas not heavily stained.
Wear thick gloves when cleaning using acetone or paint thinner. It may be good to wear goggles as well so you don't get either substance in your eyes.
 It can be dangerous, so be careful when handling rust remover. Mix it with water so the rust remover is not too strong and damages your fiberglass.Dilute rust remover with water by about 10% to make it less dangerous to handle. Mix carefully before applying to any fiberglass surfaces.
Since this can be a dangerous cleaner, make sure to wear rubber gloves. Rinse the fiberglass surfaces immediately with water when applying the rust remover; don't let it sit on the fiberglass for long.
 If you have a fiberglass boat, you'll likely want it to shine when in the marina or on the water. You can find these cleaners at marine stores, who can usually suggest the best kind for your particular boat.


A good boat wax polish will create a protective shield on the gel-coat fiberglass surface, protecting the boat from the elements. This will stave off any damage from the water and keep your boat looking nice.
Older boats with fiberglass surfaces that have seen a lot of use might do better with a silicone polish, which sinks in to the surface better. If your boat is older or used, you may also want to clean it on a more regular basis.
If you remove your fiberglass boat from the water after each use, wash it down thoroughly with a mild detergent and rinse thoroughly after each outing. This is especially important if your boat is in saltwater. Saltwater can really damage a boat's fiberglass surfaces.

