 It would be a very good idea to carry them in a purse, a bag, your bra, or even your shoe if you need to. If you are in school, it's a good idea to keep them in a pocket inside your book bag, because some schools don't allow purses to be carried in the building. If this is the case and if you are able to keep your purse in your locker, do so, and every once in a while ask for the restroom pass. Then you'll be able to "check on things." For gym class try putting some in a plastic bag and hiding them under clothes in your gym locker in case of emergencies.;
, If you have a heavy flow, you do not want to use those little, tiny, thin pads! This will lead to a leak! If you have a heavy flow, then it might be best to use a more absorbent type. While having a lighter flow, try going for the regular absorbency. If you don't know what type you need, then either you could try them all out--please do this in your spare time, such as at home, so you can avoid being embarrassed by having a leak in front of your friends or classmates--or ask someone you trust like your mom or your best friend if she has any tips on which to use.
 If you want to try, you could buy some lavender lotion, candles, bath beads/soap/etc., or even lavender incense. Remember to tell your doctor if you start experiencing really severe mood swings.
 Just place it over your lower stomach and leave it there for a while. If that doesn't work for you, then you could use Midol or aspirin. Ask someone you trust what the products with the best results are. You could take a really nice, hot bath. This helps a lot! You can also take a vitamin to relieve some of the pain, or eat a banana, which is rich in potassium!

, This can lead to even more or even worse cramps. Avoid eating a lot of food during your period, and when you do eat, eat something healthy. It's also best to avoid dairy or chocolate, for this can also give you really bad cramps. Drink plenty of water too! Also, cinnamon will help curb cramps, breast pain, and mood swings. Use it on your breakfast toast, in your tea/coffee, or just carry cinnamon sticks around and chew on them. They taste good and they help with bad breath, too!

, Don't wear your tampons for over 8 hours because this can lead to a severe medical condition known as Toxic Shock Syndrome (TSS). Make sure not to wear panty liners or pads for a long time. This can make them start to smell! Change panty liners and pads often.
 It's not very fun having to walk around in tight jeans with a tube top clinging to you. Sweatpants and a comfortable top is just fine. You can wear tight pants if you choose, but it may be uncomfortable. Don't be too obvious! You don't want everyone to know it's that time of the month. Keep a jacket around if you want, so if you have a leak you can wrap it around your waist. It also helps to bring a spare set of clothes in case really bad leaks happen.
 Stressing out during your period can lead to an even worse period. Stressing can affect your flow cycle. If you have to take some time out for stress-relief, take a day off and stay home.
 You can also use baby wipes or Playtex/Cottonelle/etc. wipes.
 They're often more reliable than regular pads or tampons, can help with reducing odor and irritation, and will ensure you never find yourself out of supplies in the middle of the night. Plus, the long-term savings can be spent on buying yourself a stress-reducing treat like a massage or nice dinner.
 Most girls will feel very self-conscious at this time. Wear your favorite jewelry, makeup, or perfume to boost your spirits.
 It helps a lot to have a really good, close friend, preferably female, to look after you and help you through your "time of need." Usually, she'll know exactly how you're feeling and will do whatever she needs to help you out. Just please don't start making her your slave, or else she may abandon you and you won't have her as a friend anymore. Ask for small things like for her to make sure you haven't leaked, or if she could help you with an energy or confidence boost. Best friends are really good at this kind of thing. Make sure it's someone you can trust completely!

