 You can find them at drugstores, party supply stores, online, and at some supermarkets. Make sure to buy as many as you need. Look carefully at the price, the size, and the quantity of the balloons, and compare each package to the other options that you have.


You can use regular party balloons in place of water balloons, but they may not pop as readily as dedicated water-fight balloons. Water balloons tend to be smaller than air and helium balloons, and they are usually made from a thinner material.;
, Blow the balloon up with your lungs, or use a pump. Fill the balloon so that it is as large with air as it will be with water. Make sure not to over-inflate, or you risk popping the balloon before you even hook it up to a faucet. It is not absolutely necessary to stretch the balloon before filling it with water, but this extra step may make the balloon less prone to popping.
 Many people traditionally fill water balloons by stretching the opening around the mouth of a faucet. However, these small, thin balloons are liable to rip when they are stretched to their limit straight out of the package. To stretch the neck: insert two fingers into the opening of the balloon to give yourself a grip. Pull the neck open to approximately the width of your faucet, your hose, or whichever nozzle you plan to use to fill the water balloon.


This step is less important if you are using a funnel, a nozzle attachment, or a water balloon-filling device. These nozzles are typically much thinner than the average faucet, meaning that the balloon neck doesn't have to stretch so much to fit.
 Pull the opening of the balloon over the threads of an easily-accessible faucet or hose. Use an easy-fill nozzle attachment, if you have one; some packages of water balloons actually come with a plastic nozzle.


Be careful when you stretch the balloon over the faucet. If you haven't pre-stretched the neck—and even if you have—it is very easy to rip the rubber when you try to snap it onto something.
Make sure that there is a place for water to drain if you pop any balloons during the filling process. Sinks, lawns, and outdoor areas are great for this.
 Pull the balloon over the lower (output) opening of the funnel, and make sure that it is tight. Simply pour the water through the funnel (from a faucet, a hose, a watering can, etc.) for any easy and nearly-foolproof home method. If you don't have access to a screw-on faucet attachment, this is the next-easiest thing.
 Use your thumb and forefinger to pinch the neck of the balloon onto to the water source while you're filling up. This is an important step whether you are using a funnel, a nozzle, or a regular faucet. Even if a balloon fits onto the faucet without breaking, it is common for the sudden burst of water to pop, snap, or dislodge the balloon. Hold the balloon neck tightly, and do not let go until you tie the balloon.
 When you have situated the balloon, turn the faucet on halfway for a slow-to-moderate stream of water. Watch the balloon as you fill it up, and turn the water off before it fills to the top. Leave about an inch of airspace so that you can easily tie the balloon.You can use hot or cold water – or, for that matter, any other liquid with about the same density as water. If you are filling water balloons in the summer, you may want to use cold water for the sake of cooling off.
 Pinch the bottom of the neck—just above the waterline—with the thumb and first two fingers of your non-dominant hand. Pull and stretch the neck a few times to be sure that you can wrap it around the first two fingers of your pinching hand.


If the balloon is too full to tie, let out a bit of water. Release your grip on the neck, but keep your fingers ready to pinch it shut again as soon as you've freed enough space. Tilt the balloon and pour a small amount of water into a sink, a potted plant, or a lawn.
 First, stretch the neck as far as it will go, and wrap it completely around the first two fingers of your pinching hand. Then, tuck the loose end of the neck between the tips of the two pinching fingers. Pull the knotted balloon away from your fingers, by the end of the neck, and your water balloon is ready to use!


Alternately, make a loop with the neck and pull the end through. Pull the wrapped neck of the balloon away from the two fingers, creating a slight gap, and poke the loose end in. Pull the loose end of the neck through the other side of the gap. In one fluid motion, pull the whole neck of the balloon away from your two fingers.
 Twist the neck 10-15 times, until it is tight. Then, fasten it shut with a clothespin or a paperclip. Remove the fastener right before you throw the balloon, then hurl it at your target. Since there is no knot, the balloon should unravel mid-flight and spray water everywhere along its trajectory. This gives the balloon a larger impact area while still drenching your intended target.


This method may come in handy if you're having a water fight with a lot of people. You can use one water balloon to soak multiple friends, making each throw more efficient.

