 A dull or rusty razor can keep you from getting a clean shave, whether it's by snagging hairs instead of cutting them, or irritating the skin around the follicle.
 Shaving every day can irritate new bumps, so try to wait and only use a razor every second day. If you can, shaving every third day is even better.
 Exfoliation will clear off any dead skin cells or other material on your skin, paving the way for a close and clean shave. You can use an exfoliating scrub, loofah, mitt, skin care brush, or whatever works best for you.


If your skin is sensitive, consider exfoliating on your "off" day from shaving.
If your skin handles exfoliation with minimal irritation, try doing it right before you shave.
 Applying pressure can make the razor uneven on your skin. Instead, aim to hold it lightly and "glide" it over your bikini area.
 If you missed too much to overlook, make the second pass with the grain, instead of against it.


Shaving against the grain means to move the razor in the direction opposite of hair growth. For instance, most people are shaving against the grain when they run a razor from their ankle to their knee.
Shaving with the grain creates less irritation, but not as close a shave. Try to use this technique as much as you can if you're going back over an area you've already shaved.
 The steam from a warm shower serves two purposes: it makes the hair softer, and your skin less prone to nicks and irritation.


If you usually shave first, consider reorganizing your shower tasks so that you do it last. Try to give it five minutes before you start shaving.
If you don't have time to shower, wet a washcloth with water that's as warm as you can stand, and lay it over the area you're going to shave. Try to leave it for two or three minutes before shaving.
 Shaving cream can also soften hairs and make them easier to remove (as well as making it easier to track where you've shaved and where you haven't).


Find cream that includes aloe or other moisturizing compounds.
If you're in a pinch and have no shaving cream, use hair conditioner instead. It's better than nothing!

, Ending your shower with a blast of cold water, or using a cold washcloth on the area, will cause your pores to close up, leaving them less vulnerable to irritants and infection.
 Don't rub yourself dry harshly with a towel. Instead, dry your bikini area in small taps, saving your skin a load of irritation.
 Some people claim that putting deodorant over the bikini area when you're done shaving (as you would on your armpits) can help reduce irritation.

