 Agents are routinely allotted a certain number of upgrade vouchers. This will not come free but you can persuade your agent for a business class flight voucher if they have any available.


If you're not a frequent user of a particular travel agent, they have very little incentive to try to get you an upgrade. Whatever discretionary vouchers they may have will most certainly go to the people who have contributed the most to their agency.
Travel agents have much less input regarding your status now than they used to. Your seat assignments are done via computer now, and computers don't take into account notes that a travel agent may have added to your record. Computers are quite content to simply count the miles and use your earned status.
 Mileage brokers buy mileage from frequent fliers, and resell those miles to other travelers.


This is very risky. Airlines have very strict policies against buying frequent flier miles from a 3rd party. If they catch you doing this, you will likely lose your ticket, and you may also lose all your miles, earned or purchased.
As a result of strict policies, brokers are hard to come by.
 This will almost never work. In most cases, on most airlines, the ticket agent is not authorized to upgrade. Only the manager is, so if there is only one person at the ticketing counter, you are talking to them.


You will most likely need to use miles to get your upgrade. However, you might be able to ask the ticket counter agent to kindly add a code to your ticket. That signifies to the gate agent that you are potentially eligible for an upgrade.
You have a better chance with international airlines.
 Both airlines need to be on the same E-ticket number, so both airlines are responsible for getting you to your destination. If they can't get you to your destination on time, that's a great time to ask—as nicely as possible—for another flight, plus an upgrade voucher for your troubles.
 Again, if and only if seats are available will an airline offer a free upgrade and even though a travel agent might have some pull (this pull ended in the late 90's), you always have to assume that frequent flyer status will help more than just travel agent status. If you have both, you will only improve your chances of an upgrade. It certainly does not hurt to try.
 Typically flight attendants never upgrade passengers and simply asking for an upgrade is not going to work. However, there are legitimate reasons why a flight attendant might upgrade you. Here are a few:


A problem with your seat. In some cases where your seat has malfunctioned and you cannot comfortably sit there, i.e. a seat-belt problem or the seat will not stay in the up position, the flight attendant will make an attempt to find you another seat. If no other seats are available in coach yet space is available in first, you may be moved to first class. However, this is a very rare occurrence, and you should never try to purposely break your seat. Also note that if there is an elite flier in coach, they may get the bump to first class, and you would take the elite member's old seat.
Choose Seats at the bulkhead, where families with children get seated. This can result in an upgrades if they need your seat, which they often do.
A problem with a fellow passenger. If by chance you are sitting next to a passenger and you have a legitimate complaint such as harassment, the flight attendant can, at their discretion, move you to another seat. If there are only seats available in first class, up you go!

, Do you fly in and out of a certain airport regularly? If so, getting to know the agents you deal with often yields rewards. When a delay occurs, you could be the first person they think of to upgrade, or at least put to on a better flight. They will appreciate your loyalty and friendship, and will accommodate you accordingly.
 Dress like a business executive and at the very least, business casual. This means no jeans, athletic shoes or wear or other very casual attire. Looking like a first class passenger helps. Airlines are more willing to upgrade passengers who look as though they will fit in with those who willingly paid the extra money. You may also be able to get a seat in business class.


Be aware that most upgrades are not based on looks, but on status. If you don't travel frequently but look like an MBA all-star, and the choice is between you and a sloppy-looking but extremely well-traveled NBA all-star, your Gucci's just won't count.

