 You may be making a choice that you will regret later by not attending a private school, so it is important for you to really think about what you want. Your chances of getting into a good university are much higher if you go to private school than a public school in most instances. However, keep in mind that this is not always true. If you are sent to a private school for religious reasons, or your public high school as benefits/courses better for you, chances may be better at the public school. Weigh the benefits of private schools with your reasons for wanting to switch to public schools.;
, If you are still adamant about going to a public school, compile a list of all the positive attributes of the public school. Make sure to have references suggesting it is better than the private school. For example, take a look at some courses offered only in the public school and not in the private school, courses which you and your parents would approve of. These could pertain to the field you will pursue in college. Any college-preparatory programs should be mentioned too.
 Even though you may be tempted to only research one side, look at the positives of both schools. You might even find that you like the private school better than you thought. If not, you will be able to strengthen your own argument by knowing your parents' position.
 Believe it or not, your parents really do want you to succeed. They probably plan to invest a lot of money in your education, and you need to respect that they have most likely researched both schools even more thoroughly than you have. Listen to them and don't immediately discount their arguments. However, keep in mind that adults are not always fully mature. They may be unreasonably adamant on sending you to this private school and are unfair about the public school. Make sure to have your research ready.
 While it may be tempting to get your friends to help you argue your point, don't. Your parents will be less likely to give up their position if you do. That's a natural defensive nature that everyone has and since you will be hard pressed to make them give in already, you needn't make it harder on yourself.
 Don't cry, go on a hunger strike, or try to commit suicide over which school you go to. You are a high school student and need to act like one and all of those methods are very childish. One of your parents' reasons for your attendance at a private school may be to keep you from being exposed to the crude behavior found in public schools. If you show them you can handle situations in the proper way, you will find it easier to negotiate.
 Will your parents eventually forget about it? Or will they continually despise you? Will they send you away from home? Decide what is best.
 The best way to assess a school is by talking to people who go there. They know what the website doesn't tell you. Maybe you'll find some things out about the private school your parents wouldn't like.
 A general good time to start negotiating about high schools is whenever your parents bring up the topic, no matter how early. You should really start the research process right away. Within three months, if you have failed to convince your parents, understand that while it is not too late, hope is running out. After five or six months, you should be almost sure that your ideas will not work. Your parents are strict on this and you must go.
 Even if your parents won't budge, try not to let it eat away at you. High school can be one of the most exciting times of your life. Don't let this decision get in the way of enjoying yourself. No matter where you go you will have a lot of fun and make tons of new friends. Be optimistic about the new school and maybe you'll realize it's not as bad as it seems.
 Complain about how unhappy you are an how well you could've done in the public school. This will make your parents regret. In the long term, if you are so unhappy and do badly in the private school, your parents may relent and send you to the public school. But remember to be open minded to both places.

