 If you are holding a large party or an office party, you will have to structure it differently from a house party. You will likely need to rent a venue and order catering, which can both be pricey.If you are planning a party for an organization or for your office, they likely are covering the cost of the party. Check in and make sure you know the budget limit.
If you are paying for the party yourself, assess your finances and your budget before making any arrangements.
 If your party is for your office or a very large group of people, you will need to rent out a venue. Do some research and ask around for recommendations of different venues that host large parties. Then call these venues, see if they are available to host the party on the day that you are planning, and ask for an estimate.
 Once you have a venue and a date picked out, send out invitations to your guests. Make sure that you specifically request your guests to RSVP, since the venue will want to know how many people coming to the party., If the venue you are renting does in-house catering, you can ask them to cater the party. You can also call your favorite restaurant or catering service and see if they can cater. Let the company know approximately how many people will be in attendance and specify the menu items that you want for the party.


Catering services do all the hard work of preparing and delivering the food so that all that you have to do is pay.
 See if the venue you are renting will help you set up tables and chairs. Also be sure to set out plates, cups, utensils and napkins. Then decorate the space for Christmas. Set up a Christmas tree, and hang lights, garlands, mistletoe and whatever other decorations you’d like.


If you are unsure of how to hang things in the venue, ask a staff member how you should proceed.
If the venue has speakers you can use, hook up a laptop and play either a playlist you made or use an app like Pandora to custom make one for you. You also may choose to hire a DJ for a larger party.
 Since the party is taking place a venue, you do not have to act as a host if you don’t want to. For instance, you don’t have to greet each guest as they come in. However, since you masterminded the event, check in with caterers, guests, and the venue throughout the party to make sure that everything is running smoothly.