 See whether there is always an effort to talk about a certain topic, even if you have either hinted or have told them outright that you don't want to talk about it. Try using the tactics in How to Avoid Uncomfortable Conversations About Religion (whether the topic is religion or not) and see the response. Also, remember that religion and faith are NOT the only issues that create ideologues.;
, Think back and remember how your relationship with this person came into existence. An ideologue will at first seem genuinely interested in your opinions and might truly understand them, but over time will become impatient with you once realizing that you are not going to convert from yours without serious consideration. An ideologue often has what could be called a missionary complex-- they seem determined to convert others to their viewpoint regardless of the cost.
 There is no such thing as compromise with an ideologue. Generally, an ideologue doesn't understand the concept of agree to disagree. To use a cliché, an ideologue sees everything in a black and white contrast with few if any shades of gray.



Deliberately bring up a known opponent of the person's views, and see what is the thinking about them. If what one tells you sounds hard to believe, then conduct a fact check and see whether it's true. If it isn't, there is resorting to personal smears and not actual facts. This is an excellent sign of being an ideologue, since it shows being more committed to converting others to ones viewpoint than to having a fair and fact-based discussion of the issue at hand.
 An ideologue will seem well versed in whatever belief system this person is committed to, and will often quote facts and statistics as if they are rehearsed. Even if you do have information to back your ideas, an ideologue will present ideas in a manner that prevents you from presenting yours: they will cut off your side of the conversation, for example.


Sometimes an ideologue will start a discussion in a deliberately provocative manner to get you upset. This is because they know that it will be much more difficult for you to respond calmly once they have upset you, and this will limit your chances of looking fair-minded. Ideologues never fight fairly, and this is because of valuing winning the argument over having a fair exchange of ideas.
 An ideologue will often present their ideas and opinions as material facts, regardless whether there is evidence to the contrary. They also will start with discussions gently, but as time goes on, they may become more and more aggressive.


Ask them where they get the information on current events in the field of what you are discussing. If it's exclusively from sources that you now know for their consistent (hidden or explicit) bias, then there simply is not much respect for media and others who do not explicitly agree with their viewpoint.

