 Most religious or semi-religious people will probably want some kind of wedding in a church, but if you and your partner choose a civil ceremony, that does not mean you do not have options. Aside from chapels and meeting halls available to rent, city parks, family estates, and even cruise ships may be viable options. People have even gotten married while skydiving. Discuss costs and personal values with your lover and settle on a venue that suits both of you.
 For people who strictly adhere to one of the older churches, the details of the ceremony will more or less follow tradition; for everyone else, it is time to pick and choose. Remember to keep more than your likes and dislikes in mind. This is a serious and life-altering event; plan it so that it reflects your deeply held values and beliefs as well. That is not to say you cannot have fun picking a fanciful theme, but do not forget the momentous nature of the day.
 Feel free to get a bit theatrical, especially if you do not want to do everything according to actual ancestral wedding traditions: Matching torcs and a silk-clad harpist are perfectly appropriate for a Celt-Irish themed wedding, for example., The main thing to be aware of is cost: A Gothic wedding and a video game-themed wedding might seem like diametric opposites, but both are likely to cost more than a plain ceremony., This does not necessarily have to be a professional, such as an event planner, but it helps, if you can afford it. Otherwise, ask around among friends and relatives to find people who can assist in planning things like seating arrangements and help put up garlands, streamers, tables, and other elements right before the wedding. For more time-consuming or complex tasks, offer to pay a little bit.
 If there is a question or problem, they will come to you. Instead of hovering, why not find something else to work on or help out with?, Normally, you will not be able to set things up for your wedding until the day arrives, but that does not mean you cannot be up before dawn and working on it. In some cases, you can begin to prepare a day or even a few days beforehand. If you are fortunate enough to have this option, take it: Setting up a wedding is exhausting work.
 Once the ceremony starts and the wedding is on, you and your soon-to-be spouse are the center of attention, not only for everyone attending but even for anyone who happens to pass by (as in an outdoor wedding) and notice what is going on. This is not the time to nitpick or berate anybody nor is it the time to get upset when something is less than perfect. Instead, set a shining example to everyone around you. Be forgiving of problems or complications that arise. Keep your composure with a smile, no matter what, both during the ceremony and at the reception. Your parents and friends will be impressed and remember the event fondly.

