 The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) requires that you be 18 years of age to undergo the naturalization process, no matter how long you have lived in the United States.;
, Your permanent resident card, or "green card," shows the date you were granted permanent resident status. You are eligible to begin the naturalization process exactly five years from that date.


If you are married to a US citizen, you may begin the naturalization process after living as a permanent resident with your spouse for three years, rather than five.
If you have served in the US armed forces for more than one year, you do not have to prove five years of continuous residence.
If you left the US for six months or more, you may have "disrupted" your permanent resident status, and you may have to make up for the time before applying to become a citizen.
 In most cases, you may not apply for US citizenship while out of the country.
 The USCIS will determine whether you have good moral character by taking the following into consideration:


Your criminal record. Crimes committed with the intent to harm a person, terrorist acts, drug or alcohol related crimes, hate crimes, and other types of crimes could disqualify you from the naturalization process.
Lying to the USCIS about past crimes is grounds for denial of your application.
Most traffic fines and minor incidents will not disqualify your application.
 Examinations on these subjects will be administered as part of the application process.


Applicants over a certain age or with a disability will have less rigorous language requirements.
 A civics exam will be administered as part of the application process.


Applicants over a certain age or with a disability will have less rigorous civics requirements.
 Taking the Oath of Allegiance will be the final step to becoming a US Citizen. Be prepared to promise to:


Renounce foreign allegiances.
Support the Constitution.
Serve the United states, whether as part of the Armed Forces or through civilian service.
 Download form N-400 from www.USCIS.gov (click "Forms"). Fill in the form completely, answering all the questions. If you miss anything, your application may be delayed or denied, and you will likely have to proceed with an appeal.
 Buy passport-style photos within 30 days of filling out your application at a location that is familiar with the specific requirements.


You will need two color photos printed on thin paper with a white space around the head.
Your face should be fully visible and nothing should cover your head, unless for religious purposes.
Write your name and "A number" lightly in pencil on the back of the images.
 Find the address of the facility that serves your region. Include the following with your application:


Your photos.
A copy of your permanent resident card.
Other documents necessary according to your circumstances.
The required application fee (see the "forms" page at www.USCIS.gov).
 When the USCIS receives your application, you will be asked to come to a certain location to have your fingerprints taken.


Your fingerprints will be sent to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), which will perform a criminal background check.
If your fingerprints are rejected, you may need to provide additional information to the USCIS.
If your fingerprints are accepted, you will receive a notice in the mail telling you where and when your interview will be held.
 During your interview, you will be asked questions with regard to your application, your background, your character and your willingness to take the Oath of Allegiance. The interview process also includes the following:


An English test with reading, writing and speaking components.
A civics test during which you will be asked ten questions regarding US history; you must answer at least six correctly to pass.
 After your interview, your naturalization will be either granted, denied, or continued.


If your naturalization is granted, you will be invited to complete the process of becoming a US citizen.
If your naturalization is denied, you may look into appealing the decision.
If your naturalization is continued, which usually occurs when additional documents are needed, you will be asked to supply the needed documents and undergo a second interview.
 The ceremony is a meaningful event at which you will officially become a US citizen. During the event, you will


Answer questions about what you have done since the interview.
Turn in your permanent resident card.
Pledge your allegiance to the US by taking the Oath of Allegiance.
Receive your Certificate of Naturalization, the official document stating that you are a US Citizen.

