 If you've done all you can to help yourself grow taller, there are still a few things that can help you to make the most of your height. You may not realize just how much bad posture can affect your overall height. A slight slumping of the shoulders, leaning forward of the head and neck, and habitually standing with your weight on one leg can all subtract from your height.Walk with a book on your head to train your body to keep your spine as erect as possible.
Stand with your legs straight, and no further than hip width apart. Stick your chin up a little. Not only will it add some extra height, but it'll also make you look more confident.
Get into the habit of sitting up straight and concentrate on contracting your abdomen muscles to help.
 You may think that longer hair would make you look taller. But in fact, longer hair takes attention away from your neck and neckline, making you appear smaller. Instead, opt for short or medium length hair. These hairstyles will put the emphasis back on your neck.If you have a fairly tall neck, these hairstyles will look great.
 Wearing tight-fitting clothing, such as skinny jeans, helps to accentuate the lines of your form. When you wear baggy clothing, those lines aren't really defined, making you appear more squat. Skinny jeans, especially, will define your leg length and will cling on nicely to your leg shape, attracting attention to your leg shape rather than your height.


For girls, wearing a slim skirt will help you accentuate the natural length of your legs., Slimming colors such as black, navy blue, and forest green will help you appear taller. These colors make your body appear slimmer and works for boys and girls. Going for slimming top and slimming bottom gets you double the effect. Likewise, wearing clothes with vertical lines help accentuate height.


For women, try out a pair of vertically striped pants, or maybe even a collared shirt.For men, a shirt that has narrow vertical stripes, rather than checks, can help.Both genders should avoid the horizontally striped tees — these have the opposite effect of making you appear squatter.
 This isn't for everyone of course, but wearing heels or platform shoes is an instant boost. You can grow anywhere from a couple of inches to six inches as soon as you put them on. With a pair of heels on, people will look at you or up to you instead of down to you. When you first meet a person, their first impression won't be of your height, but rather of your facial features.


Walking in high heels is a serious skill that takes practice. Take the time to really feel comfortable in high heels before you wear them outside.
Walking in high heels can damage your feet. Try to wear insoles and moleskin, as well as breaking new shoes in before going out in them.
If you don't want to wear obviously big heels, look for shoes with thick soles.
Men can buy heel inserts to boost their height.