 You can go for any color, however, Eleanor tends to wear black, indigo, and acid wash skinny jeans the most. If you don’t have a pair at home, you can find them in any store like H&M, Forever21, or TopShop. To get a look similar to Eleanor’s usual skinny jeans, try a high-waisted pair from ASOS, like the Farleigh Mom Jeans for around $30.


You can also change out your skinny jeans for a pair of high-waisted shorts or a skirt, like the MOTO denim button front a-line skirt from TopShop for $15.;
, Eleanor’s look is very neutral and classic. She also maximizes comfort, which is why you will often find her in t-shirts like the Stilton short sleeved black t-shirt or a Rag & Bone tee. However, since these items are upwards of $50-$100, try looking for black, gray, or white v-neck/crew neck t-shirt on sites like TopShop and H&M.


You can also try a striped or polka dot blouse, like the BDG Polly Flannel shirt from Urban Outfitters.
 Eleanor wears a lot of different coats, though she is probably most famous for some of her leather ones or her bomber jacket. Try looking for a black leather jacket similar to the Burberry Biker jacket or a fur-lined one from Acne Studios. For a cheaper duplicate, try Urban Outfitters., Whether she’s in sneakers, boots, or pumps, Eleanor tends to avoid heels. Depending on the time of day and the season, you can change it up. For example, try wearing a pair of all white sneakers like the Women’s Freestyle Hi Lace-Up sneaker from Reebok for an everyday look. Then, in the colder months, try a pair of black, suede, over-the-knee boots similar to her Stuart Weitzman pair. You can also try out a sandal like her Shanna Gladiator ones in the summer., The most makeup Eleanor ever wears is a bit of foundation, mascara, eyeliner, neutral blush, and lip gloss. To mimic her look, try a natural shade like beige, tan, or matte gold on your eyelids. Once applied, blend it into a darker shade in your crease and line your lashes with a thin black eyeliner. Then, just apply your mascara and a tinted gloss and you’re good to go!


Try a light pink or dusky rose for your lips. You want a little color, but nothing over-the-top.
 Eleanor's hair is usually seen in waves and parted in the middle. You can recreate this look with a curling wand like the Babyliss curling wand, which is what Eleanor herself uses. However, you can also create waves using a straightener by twisting it first. If you can’t get your hair to wave properly, try putting it into a messy bun or braid., Eleanor is almost never seen without her Ray-Bans. However, while she’s partial to the 3025 Aviator pair, you can also find her in different styles like a pair of pink Dior shades. The most important thing is to find a shape and shade that suit your face.For example, if you have a round face, try square frames. Whereas if you have a square face you should aim for round sunglasses. If your face is more heart-shaped, aviator glasses are the way to go. And for those of you with oval faces, you are free to wear whatever shape you'd like.