 It's okay to acknowledge what you're feeling. Don't feel like you have to ignore or deny your feelings of sadness or pain. By dealing with these difficult emotions head-on, you'll have greater confidence to move forward. When you suppress or deny what you're feeling, you may be letting those feelings linger longer than you realize.Allow yourself to feel for a few hours or a few days, depending on the circumstances.
Do things that help you let out what you're feeling inside. Cry. Hug someone. Talk with a friend. Write in a journal.
Opening up is important. Just make sure to avoid dwelling on these emotions for weeks or months. This is your time to release these feelings, not let them take over you.
 Find support through friends, family, co-workers, mentors, and other people you trust. They may have experience the same thing that you're going through. Use their wisdom to help you think more objectively about the situation.


Find someone you trust, and talk with them one-on-one about what you're feeling and what you've experienced. Listen to what they say and think carefully about what they have done to move forward.
If your feelings of self-doubt, depression, or anxiety persist for weeks or months, consider talking with a counselor who can help you with your self-esteem. When you're experienced a set-back in life, counselors and therapists are trained to help you cope with this time.
 Redirect your time and energy away from negative thoughts or feelings of doubt. Give yourself time to rest and relax after being turned down. Take time for yourself and do things that make you happy.


Get active. Exercise. Take a walk. Go to the gym. Join a fitness class.
Spend more time with friends or family. Connect with your support system.
Be creative. Let out your emotions through art or music. Write. Draw. Paint. Play music. Build something.
Relax your body. Take a hot shower. Stretch. Meditate, do some relaxing yoga poses, do some deep breathing, or perform progressive muscle relaxation. Get good sleep.

