 If you have a narrow kitchen, it can easily feel cramped and uncomfortable. A longer mirror strategically placed along one wall can make a small kitchen feel bigger. Place a mirror running horizontally along one wall of your kitchen, keeping it above cabinets and other furniture so it's visible.You can buy a long mirror at a department store. Hang it alongside one wall in your kitchen. You will be surprised at how much bigger it looks.
A single mirror in the kitchen is usually suitable to make your space look bigger. More than one mirror may overwhelm in the kitchen.;
, Windows can often make a small room feel larger. If you have a room with only one window, you can use a mirror to create the illusion of a window in your living space.Place a mirror directly across from one window in your home.
The mirror will reflect images of outdoors, doubling the natural light in the room. It will also make the window-less wall look less closed off.
 If you have a small bedroom that's bothering you, try hanging a large mirror over your bed. Place a bigger mirror just above your headboard. If you don't have a headboard, you can simply keep the mirror a few feet up from the end of your mattress.A mirror over your bed creates a sense of depth. This can make a small bedroom feel bigger.
Keep the mirror on the wall of your bedroom and not the ceiling.
 In a small space, furniture may feel cramped or cluttered. This issue can easily be corrected by placing large mirrors just behind big pieces of furniture.Choose floor-length mirrors the same width as your furniture. Place the mirrors just behind the furniture so the top sticks out.
 Densely packed collections of paintings and objects can look cramped. Try inserting small mirrors in areas where you display artwork.If you display artwork on a shelf, use one of the drawers in the shelf to display a mirror. You can also place a standing mirror behind a piece of artwork on a mantel.
If you have paintings or other artwork hung up on a wall, hang a mirror next to the paintings as well.

