 Be up front and clear about the consequences of not completing chores. Although you shouldn’t box yourself in, you should also let your children know what will happen as a result of disobedience.


For a teenager, an appropriate consequence could be taking the car away or not allowing them to spend time with friends. A consequence for a younger child could be withholding allowance or a favorite toy for a small amount of time., Parents who don’t hold their children accountable for their chores often find that the kids ignore them and wait for the parents to do them themselves. . Instead, make sure they finish what is expected from them.


Also, when you communicate that there will be a consequence when chores are not completed, be sure to actually follow through with disciplining them. Your children will not take you seriously if you make empty threats that never come to fruition.
 Your children will likely be more encouraged to perform when they hear from you that they are doing a good job. This is particularly true when they are just learning a new task. Even if the end result is less than you expected, hearing that you appreciate what the effort is helpful.Give your children praise by saying things like “Good job on cleaning your room!” or “It makes me so happy to see that the dog’s food bowl is filled!”
Also, resist the urge to correct what has been completed, as doing so can make your children feel that whatever they do is never good enough for your expectations., However, one of the best ways to encourage your children via allowance is to offer it through a commission-based system. In other words, instead of offering a set amount each week, only pay your children for the work that was completed.


Additionally, don’t give your children allowance if chores aren't completed. Not having money to do things they want to do will remind them why they don’t have the funds--because they didn’t do what was expected.
 Sit down with your children once a year or every few months and look back over your disciplining/rewarding system. Do the rewards and consequences still match up with your children's interests or developmental status?


For instance, if you have a 7-year old who is addicted to a certain cartoon show, you might reward them by offering allowance that goes toward a fund to buy a life-size toy of the show's main character. However, if your child does not complete chores, a part of disciplining might be to take away TV privileges for a day.
In the example above, if the child was no longer interested in the TV show, the rewards and consequences would no longer be as motivating. Revisit your system regularly to be sure it will encourage your child to do chores.

