 Typically, these can be purchased for between $50-$100 dollars. Popular models include:


Elgato Video CaptureRoxio Easy VHS to DVDDiamond VC500;
, The role of the adapter is essentially to connect the VHS player to your computer or laptop. One end will have A/V cables (the red, yellow, and white cables used to connect the VHS player to a TV) and the other end will have a USB port, typically.
 If your device comes with an installation disc, insert the disc and follow the instructions.


Alternatively, you can download and install any number of freeware applications that may offer more versatility. This is a good option if you acquired a used adapter that didn't come with software. VirtualDub is a free open-source video capture and editing program available.Huffyuv is another very fast lossless video codec available for free.
 Insert the VHS tape and fast-forward (or rewind) to the portion of video you'd like to record. Generally, you'll be asked to "Start a New File." Name it something ("Video Project 1") and select your format from the file menu.


If you're using the open-source software, you'll also have to select your device from an accompanying list of capture devices.
Try playing the VHS tape at this point. You should be able to see it in a pop-up window for the software you've installed. Check the audio levels and frame rate, making any adjustments for playback quality. Then return to the portion of video you'd like to record.
 Make sure the software is in capture mode before you start playing the video or you'll miss the first few seconds of the tape in your recording. This process will vary slightly depending on the software you've installed, but regardless you'll have to wait for the video to finish playing before moving on to convert the file to a DVD.
 If you want to edit the video at this point, you can open it in iMovie or a freeware program like VirtualDub and trim out any unwanted parts.


Make sure that the audio and video are in sync. If they are not, you can adjust the audio skew by selecting "Interleaving..." from the audio menu and entering a positive or negative number for the audio delay. When figuring out how much to delay the audio, it is helpful to select "Audio display" from the view menu.
After trimming the video and/or adjusting the audio timing, you can quickly save the edited video by selecting "Direct stream copy" under both the Video and Audio menus, then saving the file as a new AVI.
 At this point, you've got a digital copy of your VHS tape that you can either burn on to DVD or save on your computer. Popular software for burning DVDs follow:


For use on a Mac: Roxio Popcorn, Roxio Toast, and DVD2oneX are all popular burning software available.Burn by Sourceforge is a freeware program you can download and install.For a PC: Avidemux, DVDStyler, and ImgBurn are free open-source video editing programs available for download and installation.