 If your bunny is particularly soiled, you can give it a “butt bath.” This is a wet bath that focuses mostly on their backside and belly (if needed). Wet baths can be very stressful for rabbits, however, so do this only in situations where spot-cleaning and a dry bath didn’t work. First, fill a clean bathroom or kitchen sink with approximately 2 ½ inches of warm water.It may be helpful to use a sink that has a hose attachment for rinsing.
You can also use a small kitty litter tub, a baby bath, or even a slanted paint pan. Use whichever works best for you and your rabbit.
Place a non-slip mat on the bottom of your sink, tub, or pan. This will help keep your rabbit from slipping on the smooth, wet surface., Next, add a tablespoon of rabbit-safe shampoo to your water and mix it well. Rabbits have extremely sensitive skin so using a shampoo made specifically for bunnies is important., Wrap one arm around your bunny, underneath its elbows, and hold it firmly so that its head and shoulders are pressed against your chest. Use your other hand to hold underneath your rabbit’s back legs.


It is important that you are gentle, but firm when holding your bunny. You need to make sure it isn’t able to twist or wiggle too much. Pay attention to its actions to make sure you’re not hurting it., Lower your bunny’s hind end into the sink until its back feet touch the bottom. At this point you can remove your hand from underneath its back legs., Use one hand to gently rub your bunny’s hind end and belly with the soapy water. Work the shampoo through its fur and down to the skin.


Do not wet above your rabbits belly unless absolutely necessary, as this will be extra stressful for it.
If your bunny is especially dirty, you may have to drain and refill your sink with fresh soapy water a few times to get them completely clean. , Once the soiled areas of your rabbit are clean, drain the soapy water from your sink and rinse any residual shampoo from it., Next, fill your sink with clean, warm water to rinse the shampoo from your rabbit’s fur., At this point, lower your rabbit’s back end into the clean water. Use your hand to gently rub its fur in order to remove the shampoo from it.


You may have to empty and refill your sink multiple times to get all of the shampoo residue out of your pet’s fur. Do this until the water remains clean and shampoo-free.
You can also use a small hose to rinse the shampoo from your rabbit’s fur., Lift your rabbit out of the bath and place them on a towel or other soft surface where it will have some traction. Using your hands, gently wring the water out of your rabbit’s fur as best you can. Gently pat or rub your rabbit with a towel to get additional water out of its coat.


Be very gentle when wringing the water from your rabbit’s fur and when using a towel to dry it. Pulling or rubbing too hard can damage your rabbit’s skin.Microfiber towels are a good choice for drying your rabbit. They are softer and more absorbent than most other towels., Finish drying your rabbit’s fur with a hairdryer. Use the dryer on a medium-warm setting, never hot. Hold the blow dryer at least six inches away from your rabbit at all times and try to keep your hand near where you are blowing the heat to further monitor the temperature.


You can use a fine-toothed comb to separate the fur while you’re drying it to speed up the drying process.