 The Chinese use a lunar calendar, which is different from the Western Gregorian calendar. For this reason, you're going to have to calculate the mother's age according to the lunar calendar, not the Gregorian calendar.


First of all, add one year to however old you are right now. You're 32 years old right now? According to the Chinese calendar, you're at least 33 (possibly 34). This is because the Chinese count the first nine months spent in the womb towards the baby's age, unlike in the West. So when a baby is born, it's already 1 year old according to the lunar calendar.
If you were born after February 22, take your Gregorian age, add 1 (from the roughly year you spent in your mother's womb), and you're done. If you're 17 and you were born on July 11, you're 18 according to the lunar calendar.
If you were born before February 22, find out if your birthday comes before or after the Chinese New Year during the year you were born. If you were born before the Chinese New Year, add an additional year to your Gregorian age.

For example, you were born on January 7, 1990; the Chinese New Year during 1990 happened on January 27, meaning you were born before the New Year, according to the lunar calendar. This makes you two years older, in lunar years, than you are according to the Gregorian calendar.


If you're having trouble converting your Gregorian age to your lunar age, search for an online converter or click here.;
, If the baby has not yet been conceived, determine the month that you would like the baby to be conceived, or just work backward: use the calendar and desired gender to determine when you should conceive.


The easiest way to convert the actual month or the desired month of conception to the lunar calendar is to use an online converter. Type in "Gregorian to lunar calendar conversion," or use the one supplied here


, Start from your lunar age at the time of conception and move right until you find the lunar month when the child conceived. This will give you either a G (girl) or B (Boy).

