 You can give your toddler healthy protein from a variety of sources. Meat, fish, poultry, eggs, and tofu all count towards your child's daily protein intake. One year olds need 2 ounces of protein. Two year olds need 3 ounces and three year olds need 4 ounces a day. To get one ounce of protein, give your toddler one of these:1 ounce of lean meat, poultry, or seafood.
1 egg.
1 tablespoon of peanut butter.
1/4 cup of cooked beans or peas.
1/2 ounce of nuts or seeds.;
, As your toddler gets older, they'll probably drink more milk which is an easy way to give them dairy. Most one year olds should get about 2 cups (a cup is 8oz) of dairy products a day, while two and three year olds need 2 1/2 cups a day. To give one cup of dairy, offer one of these:1 cup of milk.
1 cup of yogurt.
1 cup of fortified soy beverage.
1 1/2 ounces of natural cheese.
2 ounces of processed cheese.
 You might find that your toddler only likes to eat roasted vegetables or drink vegetable juice. Offer vegetables in different ways and of different colors until you find what your toddler likes. One year olds need 1 cup of vegetables a day, while 2 to 3 year olds need 1 1/2 cups a day. To give one cup of vegetables, offer one of these:1 cup of raw or cooked vegetables.
2 cups of leafy salad greens (like lettuce or spinach).
1 cup of 100% vegetable juice.
 Toddlers usually love the sweet taste of fruits and have little trouble eating their daily recommended amount. For one or two year olds eating a 1,000 to 1,200 calorie diet, give 1 cup of fruit a day (fresh fruits are the best choice). For three year olds or toddlers eating a 1,400 calorie diet, offer 1 1/2 cups a day. To give one cup of fruit a day, offer one of these:1 cup of fresh or cooked fruit (like 1 medium banana or 1 small apple).
1/2 cup of dried fruit (like raisins, cranberries, or dried apple).
1 cup of 100% fruit juice.
 Most of your toddler's grains should still be whole. Offer brown rice, whole grain breads, potatoes, cereals, and wheat pastas. A one year old should get about 3 ounces of grains a day. A two year old should have about 4 ounces a day and a three year old needs around 5 ounces a day. To give your toddler one ounce of grains, offer one of these:1 slice of bread.
1 ounce of ready-to-eat dry cereal (about 1 cup).
1/2 cup of cooked rice, pasta, or cereal.
1 "mini" bagel.
1 small tortilla (6 inches in diameter).
1 pancake (4½ inches in diameter).
 Before your toddler turns two, they should be getting about half of their daily calories from fat. If your toddler is getting around 1,000 calories, this means that 500 of them should have good sources of fat. For example, you could give:Full-fat yogurt and milk.
Nut butters.
Avocados.
Hummus.
 By age 2, your toddler should be drinking whole milk out of a cup. Your toddler should drink about 16 ounces (473 ml) of milk a day. Avoid giving more than 32 ounces (946 ml) a day since this may prevent your toddler from absorbing iron and may reduce their appetite for other healthy foods.Consider giving your toddler a vitamin D supplement if your toddler doesn't get much sunshine and drinks less than 32 ounces of milk a day. 400 IU of vitamin D can prevent your toddler from getting rickets.

