 Combine the warm water and yeast in a large bowl, stirring gently only to dissolve the yeast.


The water should be between 110 and 115 degrees Fahrenheit (43 and 46 degrees Celsius) in order to activate the yeast properly. Use a food thermometer to check the temperature of the water before you add the yeast.;
, Combine these ingredients with the yeast-water mixture and beat with a mixing spoon until smooth.


You could use an electric mixer set to low speed instead of a mixing spoon, if desired.
Make sure to beat the egg slightly with a fork to combine the yolk and white before adding it to the mixture.
Use softened butter. To soften butter, let it sit out at room temperature for 30 to 60 minutes. You could also soften butter by microwaving it for 15 seconds at 30 percent power., Gradually add the all-purpose flour to the mix, stopping once a soft dough forms.


If you have a stand mixer with a dough attachment, you can use it to fold the flour into the dough. If not, you will need to use a mixing spoon or your hands. Do not use an electric hand mixer.
 Turn the dough out onto a clean, lightly floured surface and knead until it becomes smooth an elastic.


This usually takes about 10 minutes.
If the dough sticks to your hands as you knead it, you can apply a light dusting of flour to your hands to help prevent further sticking.
 Place the dough in a greased bowl and let it rise, covered, until it doubles in volume.


The dough will usually need to rise for about 1 hour and 30 minutes.
You can grease the bowl with nonstick cooking spray, butter, or shortening.
Turn the dough after putting it into the greased bowl once in order to grease the top.
Make sure that the dough is placed in a warm area. Otherwise, it may not reach its full rising potential.
Cover the bowl with a lid or warm, moist towel.
 After the dough rises, punch it down and separate it into three equal pieces. Allow those three pieces to rest for 5 minutes, regaining some volume in the process.


This might be a good time to preheat your oven. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius), and prepare a baking sheet by spraying it with nonstick cooking spray or greasing it with butter or shortening.
 Use a rolling pin to flatten each third on a floured counter top.


Each piece of dough should be about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) thick.
Rub a little flour onto the rolling pin to prevent it from sticking to the dough.
 Use a 2.5-inch (6.35-cm) round biscuit cutter to cut out as many biscuits as possible. Transfer these round pieces of dough to your prepared baking sheet and let rise for another 30 minutes, or until doubled in volume.


If you do not have a biscuit cutter, you could also use a cookie cutter or the open rim of a glass. Choose a glass with a fairly sharp, well-defined rim in order to create even circles.
 Place the biscuits in your oven, preheated to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius). Back the biscuits until they become golden brown.
 Remove the pans from the oven and let them cool for several minutes on wire racks. Serve the biscuits once they are cool enough to touch.


Always use oven mitts or a thick kitchen towel when handling a hot baking sheet.

