 Learn about the field, job tasks performed and areas of specialization. Review some job postings for the position of an aviation safety consultant to see what types of experience and education are required.;
, Services may include line operations safety and crew resource management in addition to flight maintenance operations quality assurance.


Additional areas of service provided by aviation safety consultants may focus on training program development, testing and assessment as well as fatigue risk management. Some aviation safety consultants may have expertise in organizational consulting and human factors training program implementation.
 Regulations may vary depending on what region you work in, but you will nevertheless still need to acquire some level of formal training.
 There are also master's degree programs available if you want a more advanced level of education and training and are considering opening up your own aviation consulting service company.


Your coursework may include subjects focusing on aerodynamics, science and physics. Additional studies should encompass legal and ethical issues in aviation, aviation safety management systems and statistics.
You will also take courses to familiarize yourself with current aviation laws and regulations particularly as they may apply to the region where you will be working. Additional classes should include aviation safety and management in addition to aerial craft design and mechanical engineering.
When you enroll in a training program to become an aviation safety consultant make sure that it is accredited by a recognized organization. Accreditation will be important when you seek certification at a later date following graduation.
 You would work alongside practicing professionals within the field of aviation safety consulting while still in school and gain valuable skills and knowledge about the industry.
 Some aviation consulting firms may also offer college students internships while working on their degree programs. You can explore this option yourself or contact your college's career counselor to make the arrangements.

