 If you weren’t planning on getting pregnant, the announcement can be quite a shock. Don’t let this shock prevent you from showing excitement. If you show that you are displeased, your wife or girlfriend may feel isolated and alone as well as insecure.


For example, even if you feel overwhelmed, avoid making a face that shows disgust or irritation.
You can say things like, “I am overwhelmed, and a little scared, but I also want you to know that I love you and I am with you every step of the way."

, Pregnancy means that your wife or girlfriend is experiencing an influx of hormones that, if she has never been pregnant before, can be overwhelming to her. These hormones often cause mood swings. Be aware of them and try to minimize your reaction to any irritability or tears that seem out of character.


These increased hormones include estrogen, progesterone, oxytocin, prolactin, and endorphins., Pregnancy is a time of great physical changes, also triggered by hormones such as increased estrogen and progesterone.These changes can be very uncomfortable, even painful sometimes, so when she complains about them, show that you care by not dismissing what she says.


She may complain of back aches, pelvic pain, sciatic nerve pain, and many more aches and pains.
Do what you can to ease these symptoms, such as offer back rubs and finding extra pillows.
 When a woman is pregnant, she gains weight, and sometimes not just around her abdomen. No matter how your wife or girlfriend’s physical changes manifest, she will feel much larger—and perhaps not as pretty—as she used to. Telling her that she is beautiful and that you love her can mean the world to her.
 Be available to let your wife talk about what she is going through. This can not only create a safe place for her emotions after the baby is born, but it helps her feel close to you and confident that you are there for her and her child. Knowing that you are available to talk about her experience being pregnant can bring you closer together as a couple and help you both feel confident about becoming parents.
 During pregnancy, women have to give up things that they used to enjoy, such as alcohol and caffeine. Show your support by giving up these things along with her. Doing so not only shows her that you support her, but it helps you develop compassion for what she is experiencing, bringing you closer together.


For example, if you both love coffee, your wife may have to reduce her intake. If you do this with her, you may both suffer caffeine withdrawals together.
Pregnant women should not consume alcohol and must limit caffeine, as well as thoroughly cook all fish (which means no sushi).