 Especially if the egg stain is old, it might be congealed and harder to remove. Soaking the egg stain makes it easier to get it off with chemicals.


If you have light siding, you could dab hydrogen peroxide on the stain first to weaken it. If your paint is a darker color, don’t use this, though, because it is a bleaching agent.
With darker stains, you should try non-bleach laundry detergent and water to loosen up the stain before you try to completely remove it.You could also soak your rag in the cleaning agent you choose, and blot the stain with it, in order to loosen it. Leave whatever chemical you apply to the stain on it for a few minutes before moving to the next step.
 This is one of the most common ways to remove egg stains from a house.


Take 1 cup of non-bleach laundry detergent, and put it in a bucket of warm water. If the egg has already dried, the stain will be more stubborn and probably require detergent. You could also try using dish soap or even shampoo. You want to choose a gentle cleaner that doesn’t have bleach in it.
Take a scrubbing brush with bristles, and dip it into the soapy water. Scrub the egg gently with the warm soapy water.
Rinse the area. Once you’ve scrubbed the egg-covered area with the soap-and-water-mixture, rinse it off with the hose or pressure washer. Repeat the process if it’s needed.
 Instead of detergent and water, you could use an all-purpose household cleaner, but make sure to choose one that is alkaline-based.Alkaline-based cleaners will get rid of the egg stains more effectively by dissolving the fats in them. Formula 409, Zep, and Simple Green are examples of household cleaners that are alkaline based.
As with the detergent, put the cleaner in warm water, and gentle scrub the stain. Then, rinse the area to get rid of the remaining cleaner and egg.
When using alkaline cleaners, take care to wear gloves and eye protection, and read the label to avoid any irritation to your skin. Use a cleaner recommended for removing organic, high protein matter like blood, grass or food., To give the cleaning solution more oomph, try adding some white vinegar into it. White vinegar is an effective, natural cleaning solution for many surfaces.Mix one cup of white vinegar into one cup of warm water. Put the mixture into a spray bottle that you’ve cleaned.
Spray the solution onto the egg stain. Make sure the stain is completely wet. Then, take a clean sponge, and soak it in hot water. Wipe the stain with the damp sponge.
You may need to remove some of the egg with a paint scraper if necessary, but be careful not to scratch or damage the paint. Consider soaking a terry cloth towel in the solution and holding it onto the egg stain for several minutes to loosen the stain.