 A glucose-screening test is a routine procedure done between 24 and 28 weeks of pregnancy. This test helps check your glucose levels to determine if you have gestational diabetes.During pregnancy, your hormones increase the amount of insulin needed to control glucose levels. If your body can’t handle this increased need for insulin, you can develop gestational diabetes in the late stages of pregnancy.Your doctor might instruct you to eat at least 150 grams of carbohydrates per day for three days prior to the test., The test takes an hour after you have consumed the glucose solution (see next steps) and thus, in order to reduce time waiting, it is better to make an appointment.


Choose a laboratory that is the primary provider for your health insurance and call a few days before you want to take the test.
Bring the form you received from your doctor to your appointment. As with the other glucose tests, bring the form detailing what test should be conducted to the laboratory where you will be testing at.
 When you arrive on the test day, you will be given a sugar solution containing 50 grams of glucose. The solution tastes similar to a soda drink and you can often even pick your flavor from cola, orange, or lime.


You must drink the solution in 5 minutes., You will be asked to wait for one hour after you have consumed the glucose solution to allow it to absorb into your bloodstream.The test will help your doctor understand how efficiently your body can process sugar.
 After one hour, the laboratory technician will draw a blood sample using venipuncture:


A needle will be inserted into a vein in your arm and blood is drawn into a test tube.
 If the 1-hour blood test indicates your blood sugar is too high, you will be asked to return for a three-hour glucose test to determine if you have gestational diabetes.You will need to take the three-hour glucose test if your glucose level is above 140 mg/dl (see next step).
If your one-hour glucose test result was below 140 mg/dl, you don’t need to return for further testing.
 The three-hour test takes (as the name indicates) a whopping three hours after you have consumed the glucose solution. Thus, it is better to make an appointment so you can get started immediately when you arrive to the testing center.


Call a few days before you want to take the test. Then, fast the night before the test.
 This is imperative before you take the three-hour glucose test because your sugar levels need to be dormant in order to compare your results after you’ve taken the glucose solution.Fasting while you are pregnant may seem harsh but it is needed. Make an early morning appointment for your test to get it over as soon as possible.
 Because the three-hour gestational glucose test takes so long, you may want to bring along a book or play a game or watch a movie on your smartphone or tablet to make the time go by faster.
 Your first blood test will be drawn before you drink the glucose solution to measure your baseline fasting blood glucose level. This test result will be used as a controlled variable against the other blood tests.The technician will draw your blood using a venipuncture.
 After you’ve had your fasting blood glucose level tested, you will be instructed to drink a glucose solution similar to the one you drank during the 1-hour test. However, this solution will be greater in volume and contains twice the sugar (100 grams) than the previous solution.You might feel nauseated during the three-hour test because the solution is sweet, has higher volume and is taken into an empty stomach. If you feel nauseated, ask to lay down., After you’ve consumed the glucose solution, your blood will be drawn three to four times every 30-60 minutes.Each time your blood glucose level will be checked.
 Your blood levels are considered abnormal if more than one of the test results are higher than normal, indicating that you have gestational diabetes. Results considered abnormal for the three-hour glucose-screening test are:Fasting results are > 95 mg/dl.
One-hour results are > 180 mg/dl.
Two-hour results are >155 mg/dl.
Three-hour results are >140 mg/dl.
If only one of the test results is higher than normal, your doctor may instruct you to change your diet.