 Soccer is on year-round, as there are so many different leagues, tournaments, and teams across the world that you can almost always be sure of finding a game. While the availability of certain games depends on where you live and your TV provider, following your favorite teams is getting easier and easier in the online era. Moreover, the widespread nature of soccer means that almost every country and area will have a team to watch.


If you want to watch a game, but can't find it on TV, search for the game and date, plus the word "streaming" in your internet browser. Many soccer blogs will post all of the different ways to see the game.
Check out your local teams, including semi-pro teams. Much like baseball, soccer players and teams can move up and down in the rankings from season to season and even become national stars after several years. The rankings and leagues are fluid, and the enormous global market means players move frequently.
 Just about every country on the planet has a soccer league, and while most of them play through the winter months, many of them are staggered in order to make room for international tournaments later in the year. These teams are colloquially known as "clubs."



The English Premier League, generally considered the best league in the world, plays from late August to early May. La Liga (Spain), Seria A (Italy), Bundesliga (Germany), and Ligue 1 (France), the other major European leagues, all run on similar timelines.

Major League Soccer, America's league, runs from March to October. Liga MX, the Mexican league, runs in both the summer and winter.
 All sports are more fun if you have someone to root for. Pick a team or league based on whatever feels right to you, whether it is your hometown, has your favorite player, or simply seems like a fun team to root for. Even individual leagues have their own intricacies, quirks, and unique facets:



The English Premier League is where all the best players go because it has the most money. The play is crisp, tactical, and fast, and there are a lot of teams that can compete in any given game.

La Liga, the Spanish League, is fast and flashy. The players are technical and the game is beautiful, and the top clubs, like Barcelona and Real Madrid, are among the best in the world every single year.

The Bundesliga, Germany's league, is technical and physical, and produces many of the best players in the world. It is less watched, perhaps, than other leagues in Europe, but contains some of the highest quality play.The MLS is a young, quickly growing league marked by physicality and young, developing players.
 Almost every league in the world doesn't actually have a playoff. Instead, points are tallied up from every game, and the highest point total wins the league. However, there are a variety of major tournaments each year for club teams, and this is almost always the highest quality soccer you can watch every year.


The Champions League is a tournament between all of the best clubs from every country in Europe. Qualifying takes place over the summer and winter, with the final in May.The FA Cup is a tournament between every pro or semi-pro team in England, no matter what their standing is.
Every continent has versions of this cup (such as South America's Copa Libertadores) but the European League is the best-known tournament.
 A country's national team is made up of only citizens of that country, and these teams compete in the world's biggest tournaments, like the World Cup. International soccer is played in the summer and consists of a series of games, qualifications, and tournaments that ultimately culminate in the World Cup every 4 years.



Friendlies are practice games that mean little, but are essential for team building and testing out players and strategies. Since most players leave to play for their club team during the year, these are crucial practice games for coaches.

Qualification for major tournaments, such as the Gold Cup, the World Cup, and the Confederations Cup, take place every single year. These crucial games determine, ultimately, what 32 countries make it to the World Cup.

Tournaments These round-robin and knock-out events are what every national team lives for. Winning some of them, like the Gold Cup, gets you an automatic free bid to the World Cup, the ultimate tournament in soccer., There is so much soccer on TV at any given time, it is hard not to find something worth watching. But the deluge of information can be overwhelming, especially for new fans. If you don't have a team or can't figure out who to watch, the best place to start is the English Premier League. It runs from August to May, and all of the games are played on Saturday and Sunday, always, making it easy to sit down and get a good game even if you aren't in the know about the schedules.