;
, Just because you want to go green doesn't mean you need to cut back on the good times. Green events still enable you to celebrate and be healthy and environmentally-friendly at the same time. You can even Have a Green Wedding!

, There are many, many things you can do to minimize the release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Basically, the less we depend on fossil fuels, the better!

, If you have access to some land, maybe you can Practice Sustainable Agriculture. If all you have is a balcony, you can still grow things like beans and peas, tomatoes, and herbs in pots. And if all you have is a window, become a guerilla gardener: find a patch of dirt anywhere in your neighborhood and plant stuff there. Whatever you can't grow, support your local farmers and buy it at a farmers' market.
 Consider whether you can Live Without a Car. At first, you might think it's impossible, but there are so many other ways to get around these days. If you can't part with your car, consider buying a hybrid, using biodiesel, and hypermiling. Replace as much of your car use as possible with the following:


a bicycle

public transportation
good old walking

carpooling

, Look for ways to Save Water around the house, and encourage others to do the same. You can also save water outside the house with a sleeping lawn or by xeriscaping. In addition to using less water, take steps towards keeping the water we already have nice and clean: How to Reduce Water Pollution. If there are any leaks in the faucet, fix them immediately.
 In a consumerist society, it can be difficult go for even a day without buying anything. When you do buy stuff, try to make sure it's stuff that will last a long time and can serve multiple purposes; avoid buying disposable items when possible. Also, consider the "greenness" of the company that made it! Before throwing anything away, try to find creative ways to reuse it. You'd be surprised what you can do with old Altoids tins, socks, plastic bags, plastic bottles, and, well, everything.
 You can certainly be green without wearing green. The first rule is to never throw clothing away; always donate it to a charitable organization so it can be reused by someone else. But before you even part with a garment, try to think of ways you can revamp it and give it a little extra mileage. There are more than 20 ways you can give a t-shirt a makeover. A pair of pants can easily become a purse. So can a bra, for that matter. Even a trip to the tailor can turn a poorly fitted garment into a flattering outfit. When you do go shopping, favor thrift stores.
 Communing with nature is more resource-friendly than going to the movies or restaurant or mall. Instead of traveling with an RV, why don't you Go Canoe Camping? Instead of getting McDonald's or Wendy's, why don't you find nature's munchies? Instead of staying at a hotel, why don't you pitch a tent or a hammock?

, Consider downsizing your home so you have less space to heat or cool and less room to fill up with stuff you really don't need. If you want to be extra green, Start Living in a Tiny House, Camp As a Lifestyle, or Live in Your Car!

,


Reduce the amount of waste you use! Bring your own shopping bag, use a reusable water bottle, and invest in a good mechanical pencil!
Reuse waste! Could that can make a good pencil holder? Or maybe that bag could be used for Bowser's "presents"?
Recycle! If you are fortunate enough to have a recycling program in your area, recycle! It will get used again!

