 Any treatment regimen for hypothyroidism, including adjusting your nutrient intake, should be discussed with your doctor. Only your doctor is experienced and familiar enough with your medical history to determine how tweaks to your nutrient intake might impact your metabolism and thyroid condition., If your diet contains too little iodine, you will develop a slow metabolism and hypothyroidism. To correct this, take foods that naturally contain iodine or have iodine added to them. For instance, you might consume iodized table salt, kelp, dairy products, or seafood.One exception to this is in the case of Hashimoto’s disease. If you have Hashimoto’s disease or another autoimmune disease, iodine intake can cause you to develop hypothyroidism (and, therefore, a slow metabolism). If you have such a condition, avoid consuming kelp, dulse, and other foods with large amounts of iodine.If your urine concentration of iodine is below 100 micrograms per liter, you are iodine-deficient. Consult your doctor to ensure you’re getting the right amount of iodine., Omega-3 fatty acids such as those in fish and fish oil supplements are thought to help reduce inflammation and build immunity, which in turn enhances metabolism. Talk to your doctor about good ways to incorporate more omega-3 fatty acids into your diet.Be sure to consult with your doctor before you start any omega-3 supplements if you are on blood thinners or if you have a bleeding disorder.
 Selenium is a chemical element present in certain foods. Some research suggests low levels of selenium could lead to hypothyroidism. Getting adequate selenium, therefore, could boost your thyroid. Brazil nuts, meat, fish, and mushrooms contain selenium in moderate doses.Avoid taking selenium supplements. They contain selenium in far higher concentrations than the foods that contain selenium naturally, and the side effects are quite risky.
 Inadequate protein intake can depress the metabolism.Around 20 percent of your daily caloric intake should be protein (or up to 35 percent if you have a very active lifestyle). For instance, if you consume 2,000 calories per day, about 400 calories should come from lean proteins like nuts, seeds, and tofu.Avoid red and processed meats, as they cause cancer and heart disease., Caffeine can slightly increase the metabolism. Avoid dousing your java with cream and sugar, though, as this could add unwanted calories and fat to your diet. This is never desirable, but is especially problematic when you’re a thyroid patient with a sluggish metabolism.Two cups of coffee is enough to boost your metabolism as a thyroid patient., Green tea is a popular beverage made from green tea leaves. To make green tea, obtain some tea bags containing green tea. Place the bag in your mug. Boil some water, then pour it over the tea bag. Allow it to sit in the water for two to three minutes, then remove it. Wait five minutes, then drink the tea.Alternately, you could get some loose leaf tea. In this case, you’ll need a tea strainer or tea ball. Fill the strainer or ball up with loose leaf tea and drop it in your mug. Just as you did with the tea bag, pour boiling water over the tea. Remove the strainer or ball after two to three minutes and wait for the tea to cool.
Three to five cups of green tea per day will help you boost your metabolism as a thyroid patient., Eating certain spicy foods can give your metabolism a small boost, even if you’re a thyroid patient.For instance, habanero, jalapeno, and cayenne peppers can improve your metabolism. The spike in your metabolic rate may last for three hours.Spicy foods are also good for the immune system and circulatory system.
Adding paprika, chili flakes or a similar spice to soups is a great way to help you boost your metabolism., Eating foods seasoned with cinnamon, ginger, onion powder, black pepper, and other spices could boost your metabolism. For instance, add a few shakes of cinnamon and/or nutmeg to your apple or pear slices. Put some garlic or onion powder on your mashed potatoes. Or add some black pepper to your green beans., The metabolism slows during sleep and will remain relatively slow until it is jump-started for the day by consuming food. Thyroid patients who make breakfast a priority could boost their metabolism.Avoid sugary snacks like donuts and sweetened cereals for breakfast. Instead, choose whole-grain toast with a smidgen of jam, orange juice, and a banana or other fruit.

