 For many students, the stress they experience during their transition from school to university it largely due to their uncertainty about what university will be like. Therefore, it's important to talk to people and ask questions about what you should expect from university. There are multiple ways you can do this:

Ask friends, parents, or older siblings about their university experiences
If your university has a social Facebook group, join the group and ask questions to the upper-year members
Ask questions and read experiences from fellow students on forums and websites like Reddit
Read blogs about university, and try to find ones that are about your university specifically;
, You shouldn't trick yourself into believing that university is one big party, that you'll befriend everyone you meet, and that the classes will be easy. If you have unrealistic expectations about university and end up being disappointed, it is much more likely that you'll drop out later on. Therefore, it's important to have positive but realistic expectations about what your experience will be like. Here are some ways to do that:

Take a campus tour. Walk around campus, visit lecture halls, and take a peek in the dorm rooms so that you know what to expect when first year starts.
Sit in on a lecture. If your university has big lectures, sit in on one to get a better idea of what to expect from a lecture.


Many students find the transition between school and university challenging because of the changes in teaching and course specifications.. In university, students are expected to learn more independently, and are not reminded about projects and tests multiple times like they were in high school. To prepare yourself for this major change, try to practice learning independently as much as you can before university by creating study schedules, getting head-starts on projects long before they're due, and studying before your teacher reminds you about an upcoming test. This should help you be less stressed during the transition. , One of the biggest transitions in university is getting used to living by yourself and away from family and friends. This newfound need to be self-reliant can be a big source of stress for students. . If you've lived by yourself before, this transition should be much simpler. However, if you don't have experience living alone, try to prepare before university starts by doing some common household tasks independently in order to practice being self-reliant. For example:

Cook your own meals
Do your own laundry
Clean your room and bathroom
Go grocery shopping by yourself

, The more confident and optimistic you are, the more successfully you'll adjust to university.. Staying optimistic about the transition to university can help reduce the impact of stressors, and it can also help you cope better.. Rather than going into the situation convinced that you won't make friends, that you'll be homesick all the time, and that you'll fail a class, try your best to think positively. You will experience some challenges in your transition, but staying optimistic will help you to actively manage those challenges.
 A key factor leading to a successful transition is being socially integrated. One way to ensure you meet many new people early on is to join a sports team or society - from reggae club to lacrosse, immersing yourself in the vast amount of clubs on campus is valuable in creating a social support network that many use to cope with stress.In addition to meeting people through clubs and sports, make sure to talk to the people in the hallways of your dorm, or the ones who sit beside you in class. You never know which one of them might become a close friend!, You will be much more independent at university and that means you will have to find the incentive to work without anyone asking you to, otherwise coursework and deadlines will pile up. Some form of motivation is vital in order to adjust and succeed in your courses,so figure out what motivates you, whether it's getting good grades so you can get a scholarship, making yourself and your family proud, or just the goal of earning your degree., Although being motivated and having a goal is good, without a routine it will be difficult to accomplish your goals. It's important to be self-disciplined and to establish a routine in order to help with your time management and your workload. Establishing a routine that allows for a good work-life balance can take some time, but it's worth doing as it will reduce your stress in the long term and is associated with better grades. Take some time in the first week of school to sit down and create a schedule of your days every week, planning out time you're in class, time you'll be studying, and your free time.
 Make full use of all the available support your university offers - don't wait until you're struggling to look for help. If you have a disability, this is even more important - many campuses offer academic support in order to create a learning environment that will work for you. Aside from academic support, there are also resources for emotional support, such as counselling services, peer groups, and support sessions on time managing and coping with problems. Students without these resources are more stressed during their transition,, so make sure to use them whenever you feel like you need to., If you are lucky enough to have a close friend or family near your university, be reassured this should aid your transition hugely. For many students, having someone important to them nearby, or even a few familiar faces around, was enough to ease their nerves at the beginning. If you don't have friends or loved ones nearby, you may find yourself feeling lonely at the start of your university experience, so keep in touch with friends and family in order to reduce your homesickness and receive support. You can do this by:

Talking on the phone
Texting
Using social media to send messages and connect
Writing letters back and forth
Video-chatting
Having your loved ones visit your dorm or have a meal with you

, Having a coping mechanism that works for you is key to keeping stress levels down during your transition. It may take a while to find one that works for you, so try out a few different ones, such as:


Breathing exercises
Yoga or meditation
Talking to friends and family
Spending time with friends and other support networks
Doing a hobby you enjoy
Spending time outside
Taking a break from school-related work to let yourself relax

