 Go to the website here: http://www.findmugshots.com/. Enter the first and last name, as well as the state. Click “Search.”


You can also browse if you don’t have a name. Scroll down the page and look for “Browse by State.” Click on the state you want to search, and then select the county or city.
After selecting the county or city, you can browse by first letter of the last name.;
, Visit here: http://prisonhandbook.com/mugshot-search/. At the website, choose your state. You will be taken to a list of jails.


Select a jail and read how to view mugshots. There might be a link to the jail’s website, where you can search for mugshots. The links will be at the bottom of the page under “Links and Resources,” so scroll all the way down the page.
Not all jails let you view mugshots online.
 Every state in the U.S. should have a website, and you can use the inmate locator to find information about the prisoner. Some states will also publish mugshots.Type “your state” and “department of corrections” into your favorite web browser.
You can find links to state department of corrections websites here: https://www.usa.gov/corrections.
At the website, look for a link that says “Prisoner Search,” “Offender Search,” “Prisoner Locator” or something similar. You can usually search by prisoner number or name.
 In the U.S., every state has a sex offender registry, which you can find by searching on Google. A sex offender registry is a good resource because it will contain mugshots even in states that don’t normally provide mugshots.You can search using basic information, such as the offender’s name. If you want to see all of the offenders in your area, there should be an option to search by location as well.
The person must have been convicted of a sex offense for their information to appear in the registry. Accordingly, the number of mugshots might be limited.
 Some law enforcement agencies host mugshots online, which you can view for free. Not many do, however, so this shouldn’t be your first place to check. You’ll need to know the county where the person was booked., You can download some apps to your smartphone and search for mugshots. One popular app is JailBase. You can search millions of arrest records for free. The app does not have records for all counties in the U.S., but it is adding to its list daily.