 Physical exercise, especially cardiovascular exercise, has been shown to reduce panic attacks and anxiety.Exercise serves as an outlet to physically release tension which can lead to emotional release as well.


There are many forms of exercise you can try such as: hiking, running, swimming, aerobic dance (such as Zumba), Pilates, bicycling, kayaking, rowing, roller-skating, jumping rope, and sports such as soccer and basketball.
Yoga has been shown to reduce anxiety and sympathetic nervous system activity in individuals who have panic attacks., Individuals who experience panic attacks commonly have sleep issues as well.Anxiety can contribute to difficulty falling asleep, and waking up multiple time throughout the night.


Have a regular sleep-wake cycle. Set your bedtime and stick to it. Set your alarm to wake you up in the morning. Most adults need at least 8 hours of sleep per night for optimal functioning.
Try deep breathing or progressive muscle relaxation (detailed above) if you have trouble falling asleep at night. If you continue to experience sleep difficulties despite using these technique, speak to your medical doctor.
 Stimulants such as caffeine, nicotine, and cocaine can increase your anxiety and incidence of panic attacks.Limit or eliminate these stimulant substances from your consumption.


Other types of prescribed stimulants are Ritalin (methylphenidate), Adderall (amphetamine salts), and other medications used to treat ADHD and other disorders. Always discuss issues with medication with your prescribing doctor before tapering or stopping medication.
Illegal substances that are stimulants include Ephedrine, Ecstasy (MDMA), and Methamphetamine. Not only are these stimulant substances illegal, but they can produce severe side effects and can be life-threatening. Speak to your doctor or a mental health professional if you have a substance use problem.
 Alcohol is a risky substance to take with panic attacks because it seems to calm you down and reduce your anxiety because it is a depressant. However, alcohol serves as a momentary relief rather than a long-term solution. Individuals with anxiety and panic may be more susceptible to developing a substance use disorder (alcohol abuse/alcoholism).If you drink alcohol daily make sure you speak to your doctor before cutting down. Severe alcohol dependence may require detoxification treatment.

