 In order to treat your scoliosis, it’s important to understand where your spine is curving and in which direction. See your doctor to have a physical exam done, and get an x-ray of your spine. Continue to visit your doctor every 4-6 months for repeat x-rays to monitor for change. Ask for a copy of the x-ray to bring home with you, or at least have your doctor write down the exact location of your spine’s curve – for instance, “right-sided curve in T4 through T7.”Scoliosis curvature can be either S-shaped or C-shaped. C-shapes are single curves in the spine, whereas the S-shape is basically a C shape but the lower spine curved in the other direction to compensate, causing a double curve.;
, Your doctor can give you a back brace to wear to help realign the curve of your spine. Braces are most helpful if your bones are still growing, so they’re usually not used anymore once you get your period, have stopped growing taller, or have to shave your face every day (boys).Braces are tight-fitting and some are nearly invisible underneath your clothes, so people probably won't even notice that you're wearing one. They don't have to limit your activity or significantly change what you do every day, so they're a great choice to use temporarily.



Full torso (Milwaukee) braces are good for high curves. They have to be worn at all times other than during bathing – for at least 23 hours a day.Thoracolumbar-Sacral Orthoses (TLSO) are less visible, and can be effective for mid- to lower-back curves. They work better the more you wear them.Nighttime braces are newer on the market and some doctors question how well they work, especially since 10% of people who use them still end up needing surgery. However, they may be useful for small curves.They must be worn at least 8 hours a night, and they put much more corrective force on your body than full-time braces., Consider having surgery if your scoliosis is severe or your doctor thinks it is going to keep getting worse. Surgery may seem scary, but these doctors do surgeries like these often to help young people treat their scoliosis. The most common surgery is spinal fusion, where two parts of your spine – the vertebrae – are connected together to prevent further changes.Many factors determine whether surgery is right for you, so talk to your doctor about your scoliosis and treatment options.Another surgery is to put a metal rod in your back to help keep it straight. The rod is adjusted to get longer as your grow taller, usually every 6 months. This can be helpful if your scoliosis is getting worse quickly.Dealing with the problem now can significantly help for when you're older.
 It’s unclear whether long-term conditions like scoliosis can be improved with chiropractic.Some evidence suggests that regular chiropractic treatments are especially helpful for adults with scoliosis.Talk to your doctor about whether seeing a chiropractor may help, and get a referral if possible.
 Scoliosis in infants and young children can be treated with serial casting, casting the baby’s body in progressively larger casts as they grow.This helps the spine to grow straighter. Casts usually need to be changed every 2-4 months for children aged 2-4 years, respectively.

