 Before anything else, explore what is happening to you with a doctor. Your doctor will make a decision if you need medication, physical therapy, rest, and support. Your Dr. will also tell you if you need to see additional specialists, including a pain doctor. Do not be surprised if you need more than one appointment with your regular Dr. before being referred to a specialist, that is completely normal. Many Dr.'s are very conservative when it comes to pain relief, so make sure you are very upfront about how much pain you are in. Otherwise it's easy for the Dr. to not understand exactly how much you hurt.;
, If they know how you're feeling they won't judge you when you miss events or have to lie down during a visit. When you share how difficult things are it makes you feel better and allows the people who love and care for you to support you during this difficult time., Record how you feel during the day. If something triggers pain, write it down, if you find when you eat something specific the pain is worse, keep a record. Your Dr. will find it invaluable and it will help you over time to remember how you felt at certain times. Doing this helps your Dr. recognize symptoms and issues, allowing your Dr. to diagnose you more accurately. If you are having seizures or other life threatening events be sure to wear a med-alert bracelet so that health professionals and EMTs are aware in case of an emergency.
 Soak and enjoy relaxing for no more than 45 minutes and then, if you are able to tolerate the sensation and it does not cause further pain, gently massage a fragrance-free and dye-free moisturizer with lidocaine liberally all over your body slowly after drying off.


Apply other, light, natural hygiene items (like powder or lip balm or deodorant) after.
 When you have an acute injury ice is the best immediate treatment. The best way to ice an area is to use an ice pad that conforms to your body, in a pinch you can use a bag of frozen vegetables, such as peas, wrapped in a towel. Use it for no more than 15 minutes at a time. Repeat every hour. On the other end of the spectrum, heat is better for chronic muscle and joint stiffness and cramping. Heat loosens tight muscles and helps soothe joint pain. Both ice and heat help to relieve pain and are valuable tools to have in your arsenal.
 Sometimes a sudden increase in pain and discomfort is considered a flare and completely normal for your condition but in others it can be a sign that there is a serious issue becoming worse. Only your Dr. can decide which it is. Do not try to diagnose yourself.


If you feel you need to go to a Dr., by all means go. Do not force yourself to live life in pain, there is no reason for anyone to do that. And that goes for emotional pain as well. If you are having emotional pain get a referral to a psychiatrist, in many cases emotional pain can actually cause physical pain.
 Inhale for the count of 5, hold, exhale for the count of 5, hold, repeat. Focus on your breathing rather than the pain. Think about things that make you feel happy and content. This removes your focus on your pain and allows it to subside.
 When you do that it is easy to think the worst. While yes, it could be something catastrophic such as cancer, it most likely isn't. However, it should absolutely be brought to the attention of a Dr. You don't have the training to figure out what is causing your pain when you're hurting unbearably for a long time. See your Dr. and let him diagnose and help you, that is what he is there for.

