 You'll need a spot that gets at least 6 hours of good sunlight a day. Choose a spot that's not crowded with the roots or branches of other plants and trees.The soil should be loose and have good drainage; if yours has a lot of clay, loosen it and add some gypsum pellets before planting.


Roses do best when the soil has a pH of 6.3-6.8.To determine whether a site has good drainage, walk around it after a good soaking rain. If the soil is damp, but not waterlogged, it should be fine. If you see puddles or large mud spots, you'll need to find another site or work on this one to make it more conducive to growing roses.
 If you're planting bare roots, soak them in a bucket of water for a few hours before planting. If you're planting a rose you bought in a pot, water it thoroughly before you prepare the planting bed.
 You'll need one for each rose bush you're planting. Use a garden spade or shovel to dig a hole 18 inches (45.7 cm) wide and 18 inches (45.7 cm) deep. The measurements don't have to be exact, but a hole this wide and deep will be suitable for most roses. Mix the soil you removed from the hole with compost, and use some of it to form a small mound in the base of the hole. Add some bonemeal or rose fertilizer.


If you're planting more than one bush, allow several feet of space in between, so the roots have room to grow and stretch.
 Place the bare root or potted rose on top of the mound. Use a shovel to fill the hole back up with soil. The rose's bud union should be located about 2 inches (5.1 cm) below the surface of the ground. If you live in a colder region, you may need to plant your roses deeper to protect them from low temperatures.If you're planting a potted rose, loosen the soil around its roots to expose them before planting it in the hole.
Make sure the soil is firm around the roots; press down with your hands to remove any air pockets.
 Thoroughly watering the area where you planted the rose helps compact the soil against the roots, stabilizing the plant. Make sure it gets a good soaking right after you're finished planting.
 Place mulch over the area where you planted the rose. If you planted a potted bush, place the mulch around the stem. This will keep the temperature consistent and protect the roses during the early stage of growth.

