 Attach the yarn to your hook using a slip knot, then work a foundation of six chain stitches. Join the first and last chain stitch together with a slip stitch, forming a ring.;
, You'll need to work a series of chain stitches, double crochets, and double treble crochets into the center of the ring to form the first shell of the first round.


Chain stitch four times.
Work one double treble crochet into the center of the ring. There should be one stitch left on your hook after completing the double treble crochet.
Work three more double treble crochets into the center of the ring. Leave the last stitch of each double treble on the crochet hook so that there are four loops on your hook when finished.
Yarn over the hook, then pull the yarn-over through all the loops. You should be left with one loop on your hook when done.
Lock this shell in place by working one chain stitch.
Chain four from the loop on your hook.

Double crochet once into the center of the ring.
 Follow the exact same procedure used to create the first treble shell three more times.


You should have a total of four shells in the first round. Once you complete the final shell, the first round is finished.
 Work two chain stitches, then double treble crochet 12 times into the locking chain of the first shell in your first round.


This step begins the second round.
You should be able to spot the locking chain in the valley between shells.
 Work two chain stitches, then work one double crochet into the first double crochet of your previous round.


This step completes the first shell of the second round.
 Follow the same steps used to create the first second round shell three more times.


For each shell: chain two, double treble crochet 12 times into the locking chain, chain two, and double crochet once into the double crochet space.
When finished, you should have a total of four shells in the second round. This will complete your second round.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail roughly 2 inches (5 cm) long. Pull this yarn through the loop on your hook to fasten it off.


The first two rounds are worked in one color, but the next two rounds will need to be worked in a second color.
 Attach your second color of yarn to any of the second round shells, placing it in between the eighth and ninth double trebles of the 12-double-treble cluster.


Attach the yarn to your hook with a slipknot.
Insert the hook through the eighth and ninth double treble stitches.
Yarn over from the back.
Pull this yarn-over through to the front of the work, then through the bottom loop on your hook. The yarn should now be fastened in place.
 For the third round, you will need to begin by creating a double treble shell that span across the first two shells of your second round.


Chain four.
Double treble crochet once into the back bar of each of the next four double treble crochets of your first second-round shell. Leave the last loop on the hook after each stitch.
Double treble crochet once into each of four matching double treble crochets in the next second-round shell. Leave the last loop on the hook after each stitch. After the last one, you should have eight loops on your hook.
Yarn over and pull the yarn-over through all eight loops on your hook, creating an eight-double-treble shell.
Chain one to lock the shell cluster.
Chain four.
Double crochet once into the space between the last double treble you worked into and the next double treble.
 The next thing you need to do is to create a smaller shell on top of the rounded edge of the second-round shell you're currently positioned over.


Chain four.
Double treble crochet once around the back bar of each of the next four double trebles from the previous round. Leave the last loop on your hook after each stitch.
Yarn over the hook.
Pull this yarn-over through all four loops on your hook, creating a four-double-treble group.
Chain one to lock the shell group in place.
Chain four.
Double crochet once into the next double treble of the previous round.
 Complete the third round by working three more sets of shells, following the same procedure used to create the first set.


Each set should start with a shell that crosses between two previous round shells, and end with a shell that sits on top of one previous round shell.
By the end of the round, you should have a total of four shell sets or eight separate shells.
 You're now ready to star the fourth round of Bavarian crochet. As with the rounds before it, this round consists of double treble shells.


Work eight double treble crochets into the next locking chain.
Work one double crochet into the next double crochet of the previous round.
Double treble crochet 12 times into the locking chain of the next four double treble groups from the previous round.
Double crochet once into the next double crochet of the previous round.
 Follow the same shell procedure completed in the previous step around the entire perimeter of the third round.


Once you work your way back to the start of the fourth round, the fourth round is complete.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail measuring 2 inches (5 cm) long. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten off the work.


You've technically completed the Bavarian crochet at this point. You can end your project here or continue on until your work reaches its desired size.
If you choose to continue on, repeat rounds three and four around the perimeter of the work until you are satisfied with the final size.
When you finish, weave the excess tails into the back stitches of your work to hide them.

