 Middle Eastern skin can range from a light cream color to a deep brown shade and can have either cool or warm undertones. In order to determine your skin's undertone, consider whether you feel you look better wearing white or cream, silver or gold. If you think you look better in white and silver, you are considered to have a cool undertone, and if you prefer cream and gold, you are considered to have a warm, yellow or tawny-based undertone.;
, If you must guess your shade, err on the darker side, which will warm your complexion. A foundation that is too pale can look masky and unflattering, particularly on darker skins. If you have a darker complexion, try to avoid foundations with titanium dioxide (a sunscreen that can look ashy on darker skin, especially in photos) in them. Some foundations, such as Revlon Custom Creations, allow you to customize your shade for a more accurate match, which can be useful if you are unsure about the correct shade. Powder is not necessary, but helps control shine on oilier skin and add longevity to makeup if you choose to wear it.
 Many Middle Eastern women suffer from dark shadows underneath the eyes and around the lips. A separate concealer should be used for these areas, with another used for blemishes. A blemish concealer should be light in texture and match your skin tone, while concealers for dark shadows should be heavier and creamier and slightly lighter than your skin tone. Apply concealer before foundation to avoid a patchy look.
 Brows are a very important facial feature and should be shaped regularly. When applying your makeup, brush your brows, and if you choose, fill them in with a brow pencil. Some Middle Eastern women have sparse brows, and filling them in adds necessary fullness, but be careful not to "overdraw," making your brows look unnatural.
 As women age, eyes can begin to look droopy and tired. This is of particular concern for Middle Eastern women. In general, stick to black or black-brown shades for eyeliner and mascara. The darker your complexion, the more intense black you should use. Always curl your eyelashes to lift the eye and enhance the look of the lashes. If you have dark shadows, avoid using eyeliner and mascara beneath the eye, as it can add to darkness. Instead create a dark, defined line on the top lid to make eyes appear bigger, brighter, and lifted. Apply black mascara as your last step in doing your eye makeup.
 A vast majority of Middle Eastern women have an eye color in the brown range. Brown and copper eye shades will complement your eye color, while blue and purple shades will contrast it. Both will enhance and beautify your eyes. Gray, silver, gold, black, and cream shades are universally flattering, but avoid peach, coral or pink shades as they can clash with your eye color and skin tone. Paper-white shades are also not the best, unless used in very small amounts on the inner corner of the eye or just below the brow bone. Darker tones can handle brighter and darker colors, while lighter skin demands slightly subtler shade choice.
 Avoid pink, red or plum shades and instead choose dark, tawny peach or bronze shades. Bronzers make excellent blushes for Middle Eastern skin, especially darker-toned skin. If you want more sculpted, defined cheekbones, apply blush just beneath the cheekbones and use a highlighter (YSL Eclat Miracle is a popular brand) on the cheekbones themselves. For a fuller, less sallow face, apply blush on the apples and sides of the cheeks.
 In general, lighter skin looks best in dark mauve, dusty rose, shimmery bronze, light brown and burgundy shades. Darker skin is flattered by wine, plum, raisin and chocolate brown shades. All Middle Eastern skin tones should generally avoid lip colors with too much silver in them (commonly seen in pink and red lip colors,) which looks metallic and unnatural. Bright blue-red colors are also not the best. Warmer, crimson reds should be worn instead.

