 This can be kinda hard sometimes as you don't know what the Bravo team has equipped. But generally speaking speed is good. It allows you to make a fast run when the round starts before Bravo has managed to organize their defence. It's also easier to run between the bomb sites and confuse your enemies so they don't know where you're actually going to plant the bomb. Couple of suggestions:


Light vest/Reccon vest. It gives you 10% vs. 15% more speed, first one is available for GP at rank SFC2 and second one can only be bought with NX regardless of your rank.
Military bandana/Cyclops bandana. Boosts your speed with 5% vs. 7% extra, military bandana can be bought for GP at rank CSM 4 and second one is NX only.
Specialist. Hawk and Viper provides most speed (16% vs 15% boost) and can be bought with either GP (if you are a high rank) or NX otherwise.;
, Advice for which guns to bring is harder to give as you probably have personal favourites. However it is advisable to at least bring one long range gun (assault rifle with good aim or a sniper rifle). This can be useful if Bravo players are camping the bomb sites and you need to take them out. Here is an example setup:


Primary weapon: A nice SMG such as P90/PP-19. This is reliable in close combat and can also be usable at mid-range if you attach a sight.
Secondary weapon: You won't use your pistol most of the times so bring whatever gun you like.
Melee: Same goes for this one
Support: Nade. Mines are pretty much useless when you play Alpha, if you have the possibility (due to rank/NX money) you should buy M69HE or the nade pack consisting of 2 standard nades.
Backpack Slot A: Assault rifle or sniper rifle. As for assault rifles G36E or L85A1 are favoured by the author. When it comes to sniper rifles it depends on whether you like bolt action or automatic rifles, if first case I suggest buying a L96A1 and in second case the PSG-1 is decent.
Other guns(rocket launcher/specialist etc): It should be mentioned that a LAW/RPG rocket launcher or M32/Minigun if you are using Hawk/Viper can be pretty devastating to the enemy. However most of the times you will be kicked and if you play with your clan it can gain a bad reputation for using noob weapons so I suggest you don't bring any of them.
 If you are playing with your clan you should already have agreed on a strategy so everyone knows where they should go and what they should do. It is advisable that you split up so couple of players go to each site (there are always 2 bomb sites you can plant at). But when you play in public rooms everyone pretty much do what they want so here are a couple of suggestions:


Go with the crowd. Most of the times a number of players will run to one site and if you like sniping from long range/don't want to go alone then it can be a good idea to follow them. You can stay at the back of the group and take down targets in front of you - however be careful against backreapers.
Go where you are needed. If one player goes to a site and the rest of Alpha goes to the other site you will probably be more useful as a backup to the lonely player.
Go on your own. If you like close combat then this is the best strategy, as most of the Bravo team probably are covering the bombsites you can try to sneak upon them (this is especially good on Short Fuse by running into the house rather than to the sites) and then spray against any enemy you spot.
 This is the point where some of the players has been killed and hopefully your team has been able to secure one of the bombsites. It's time to plant the bomb so if none of your teammates do so then it's up to you! Newbies should keep in mind that bombs are planted by standing in the light up site area, press 6 and then hold left mouse button until it is planted. When this has been done there are some important things to consider:


Guard the bomb. If everyone in Alpha is killed, Bravo can easily defuse the bomb. You need to make sure that Bravo doesn't start defusing until it's less than 7 seconds until it goes off, as that's about the time it takes to defuse it.
Find a decent spot to camp. It should be close to the bomb so you can see it or easily check whether someone has started to defuse it. If there are several players left in Alpha make sure that you have every entry point to the bomb covered so Bravo players doesn't backreap you.
If you are the only player left, distract the enemy. You don't need to kill them but merely prevent them from defusing the bomb. This can be done by shooting against them, most of the times they won't dare to defuse it as they cannot guard themselves while doing so.

