 Place it against a rubber foam mat or a special mat meant for needle felting. If you are using your own foam rubber pad, make sure that it is around 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) thick.
 Keep poking the wool until a firm ball starts to form., Once the ball is firm, pull another tuft of wool roving, and wrap it around the ball. Keeping the loose ends tucked in. continue poking the ball with your size 36 felting needle., This will smooth the ball out and give you a nicer finish., Make the second ball 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) in diameter, and the third ball 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) in diameter.These balls will create the center and top of the snowman., Place the medium-sized ball on top of the large ball. Join the balls by poking your needle through them at an angle, all the way around the seam. Repeat this step to attach the smaller ball to the top of the medium-sized ball., Use your size 36 felting needle to poke the base of the snowman repeatedly until it flattens., Take a small piece of orange wool roving, and roll it into a loose ball. Place it against your rubber foam pad, and poke it with your felting needle until it forms a cone shape. You want it to be around ⅜ by ½ inch (0.95 by 1.27 centimeters). Trim the cone down with a pair of scissors, if needed., Place the nose against the middle of the small ball, and poke the needle through its edges at an angle. Keep doing this all the way around the seam until the nose is secure., Pull off a small tuft of black wool roving. Roll it into a ball, then place the ball against the snowman's face. Poke the needle repeatedly through it until it sticks. Do this for the other eye and buttons. You will need two to three "buttons" on the middle ball.Alternatively, you can glue tiny, doll-sized black buttons to the snowman to make the eyes and buttons.
 Poke both wires through the middle ball until you have about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) sticking out on each side. Twist the wires together on each side until about ¼ to ½ inch (0.64 to 1.27 centimeters) are left for the fingers. Spread these fingers apart to make a V-shape.Alternatively, you can get two small twigs, about 2½ inches (6.35 centimeters) long, and poke them into the sides of the snowman instead.
 You can cut a small 1 by 14-inch (2.54 by 35.56-centimeter) strip out of craft felt and tie it around the snowman's neck. You can also knit the scarf by casting on 4 stitches onto a pair of size 10 knitting needles, and knitting the scarf until it is 14 inches (35.56 centimeters) long.