 Clean an empty mayonnaise jar with the label still attached, then fill it with yogurt. Take it to a public park or cafeteria and eat it enthusiastically by the spoonful.
 Glue on a Windex label or other cleaning product label. Spray it onto your car window or another object, wiping it off with a rag. Spray it into your mouth occasionally, while someone is watching.


Using an actual Windex bottle is not recommended, unless you are certain it is thoroughly washed.
 Act as though you have nothing on your hand, eating, shaking hands, and so forth as normal. After one or more people have been watching you for several minutes, pretend to be surprised by the puppet, scream loudly, and run away with the hand puppet "chasing" you.


This works with any unexpected object as well. Try searching thrift shops, antique stores, and yard sales for eerie-looking statuettes.
 Many pranksters have copied the visual style of signs found in subways, on telephone poles, or elsewhere, then altered the words or pictures to include silly messages.Be aware that placing these signs on property that isn't yours may attract the attention of police or employees, and is illegal in some locales.
 Pretend you are an incompetent spy, a time traveler, or a lunatic. For maximum confusion, begin by acting relatively normal, and drop increasingly bizarre hints about your "true nature." Here are example scenarios:


Dress in a futuristic, silver suit, or other sci-fi style. Act confused around everyday objects, for instance by smelling a mobile phone or attempting to get on a bicycle upside-down.
Carry on an ordinary conversation, but include longer and longer pauses before your replies. Start giggling for no reason, then abruptly put on a serious expression and say "I need to return to the asylum now." and walk away backwards.
 It's easy to earn a few confused glances, but with extra effort, you can transform them into laughter and applause — without sacrificing the confusion, of course. Here's some advice to get you started:


For a public comedy sketch, begin with one person dressed in a bizarre costume or doing something unusual, attracting attention while pretending that nothing is unusual. After a few minutes, have one or more other characters show up and talk to the first person loudly.

Organize a flash mob to rush in on a certain location and dance, sing, or perform another communal activity.
Check Improv Everywhere for upcoming events you can join in your area.

