 You don't need to be a great cook, nor do you have to cook him anything especially elaborate. The time and effort involved in fixing any meal demonstrates a certain level of care when that meal is prepared for someone else, though, and that alone can speak volumes about how much you love him.


For something extra special, find out what his favorite meal is and try making that. You should occasionally cook other things, as well, but mastering his favorites will show him that your efforts are for his sake.;
, Every relationship comes with some sort of financial burden. Oftentimes, the man in the relationship takes on the majority of that burden. Even if he is happy to do so, you can still show some consideration for his needs and his situation by offering to chip in every now and then. He may or may not take you up on the offer, but knowing that you would be just as willing to pay for him as he is for you can reassure him that you love being with him for his sake, and not simply because he pampers you.


Know when to back off. Some guys like taking on the role of financial provider, and if that dynamic works for your relationship, you do not need to push him into letting you pay the way. Make the offer, and if he politely declines, then leave things at that.
 Chances are, there is at least one thing your guy enjoys doing that you find little to no enjoyment in. Figure out what that hobby is and tell him that you want to do it together. When the day of the event or activity arrives, attend without complaint. Your willingness to put his needs above your wants demonstrates your love for him.


For example, offer to see his favorite band in concert even if you hate their music, or ask him to take you to see his favorite baseball team play even if you think that sports are boring.
 When the two of you are apart, pick up the phone and call him. This is important even if the two of you live together and are only apart during working hours. A quick phone call just to let him know that he's on your mind will tell him that you're still “with him” even when the two of you are physically miles apart.


Know when enough is enough, of course. A call once during the workday can be sweet, but a call every hour can be a bother.
 A love letter is a great idea if the two of you live apart, but if you live together or otherwise see each other every day, try dropping a quick note into his pants pocket or suitcase when he isn't looking. When he stumbles upon the note later in the day, it'll probably bring a smile to his face.
 If your man has a favorite snack or food he loves, buy it and bring it over, especially if you know he's had a long day or has been under a lot of stress. It is a simple gesture, but one packed with plenty of consideration, and that consideration is what lets your man know that you love him.


If you happen to be a good cook, you could make the treat instead of buying it.
A favorite treat can be something sweet and indulgent, like a quart of his favorite ice cream, or it can be something more practical, like a pizza or a meal from a favorite take-out place.
 The longer two people are together in a relationship, the more likely they are to fall into a routine. A kiss or similar expression of affection can highlight the sincerity of that gesture when delivered at an unexpected time.


Kiss him on the cheek or lips as you walk past him, or give him an affectionate squeeze on the arm under the same circumstances.
Try playing footsie underneath the table at a restaurant or grabbing his hand when you walk down the street.
 Read up on what to do, then surprise your man after a long day by offering to massage his troubles away. The thoughtfulness of the gesture might speak volumes on its own, but since a massage is also a physically intimate act, it tells your man that you appreciate and love his body, as well.
 One of the simplest ways to make a man feel loved is to directly tell him, “I love you.” A direct expression of love and affection may seem hollow when there are no actions to back it, but it is still an important sentiment to convey in words. It is the statement that focuses all your loving actions into one clear, obvious meaning.


Mix things up.Saying "I love you" is important, but there are other sentiments you can use to express your love just as meaningfully. Try something like, "I'm grateful you're in my life," "I am so in love with you," or "You're incredibly important to me."

, Men hear these sorts of things less often, but as visual creatures, they usually like to know that you have your eyes appreciatively on them as much as they have their eyes on you.


For instance, if he plays a lot of sports and you usually go to cheer him on, tell him something like, “I love watching you as you play basketball” or “I love the way your body looks when you're playing.”
If he is more of the artistic sort and is not physically active, you could compliment his body by telling him something like, “I love watching your hands as you play the piano.”
Even simple compliments like “I love staring into your eyes” or “I could stare at your smile all day” can work wonders.
 Tell him that he turns you on. In strong romantic relationships, emotional love and physical love walk hand-in-hand. You need to express your love on an emotional level, but you also need to express it on a physical level. Telling him how much you love his body and love having it pressed against you is important.


Of course, you can usually convey this sentiment with body language and behavior. As with emotional love, though, saying how you feel in straightforward words can be just as important.
 When the two of you are around other people, sing his praises. Talk about how great he is at his job, how passionate he is about his hobbies, or how great he is at making you feel loved. These are all great things to say to his face, but telling them to another person in front of him lets him know how proud you are to be at his side.
 Express your gratitude often and earnestly. “Thank you” should be part of your daily exchanges. Tell him how much you appreciate a kind gesture when he does something thoughtful. If there is something he has done for you habitually that you do not usually thank him for, go out of your way to tell him that you appreciate that gesture, even if you do not always say as much.
 Every couple fights. When you have an argument, be the first to apologize, even if you were not at fault. You do not need to be the first to apologize every time, but you should be the first to do so sometimes. An apology lets him know that he is more important to you than your own ego, and it also tells him that your relationship is something you want to fight together for.


This does not mean that you should allow him to walk all over you. If you sense that he will never apologize to you without you apologizing first, or worse, see that he does not apologize to you even when you do offer the first “I'm sorry,” there might be an underlying problem in your relationship that you need to analyze and remedy.
 When life gets stressful, simply tell him, “I'm here for you.” He may still hesitate to show you his weak side, but telling him that you love him even when he feels weak can be incredibly reassuring.
 Serious problems in your relationship need to be addressed, but avoid nagging him, embarrassing, or making him feel ashamed for trivial reasons.


A statement meant to shame is critical without being constructive. For instance, “You're so cold; do you even have any feelings at all?” would be a statement meant to shame. On the other hand, “I feel hurt when you walk away without telling me what's wrong,” is a statement that addresses the actual hurtful behavior and opens the problem up for discussion.
 Do not make him feel like he has to beg for your attention. Make it absolutely clear to him that he is one of the most important parts of your life.
 Kiss him hello, goodbye, good morning, and good night. Cuddle against him when the two of you are side-by-side. Linger in his embrace when the two of you hug. Physical affection demonstrates physical love, and this physical dimension of love is just as important to a guy as the emotional dimension when he is involved in a romantic relationship.
 This is important no matter how long the two of you have been together, but it is especially important if the two of you have just begun falling in love with each other. Find out about his likes and dislikes. Ask him about his past or his plans for the future. Getting to know him deeply and thoroughly lets him know that you are really serious about him.


Part of getting to know a guy also means letting him talk about the things that interest him at length, even when they do not interest you. Your conversation should never be completely one-sided in his favor, though. If you want your relationship to be healthy, you need to make sure that both of you are allowed time to talk about things that are important to you as individuals.
 If you've never met them, ask your man to introduce you to the other important people in his life. Once you do meet them, go out of your way to connect with them. Welcoming these people into your own life demonstrates a desire to further connect his life to yours.


At the same time, you need to make sure that you let him spend time with these people away from you, as well, especially where his friends are concerned. Sometimes your guy might actually crave “guy time” with his buddies, so you need to let him have it.
 Sometimes, your man might need to get away from the world for a while. If you lets you, then hide away with him. He may not feel like talking about what's wrong and he might act a little indifferent to you, but simply being there with him when he wants to shut the rest of the world out completely will make you a safe, comforting presence in his mind.
 If your relationship has been going on for quite some time, the two of you may have reached a point at which you are so relaxed around each other that you no longer feel the need to glam yourself up for a date with him. Every so often, though, you should surprise him by slipping on your most flattering dress and putting on a little makeup. Greet him, and when he offers you a compliment or appreciative stare, let him know that you put the extra effort in just for him.
 If your relationship is already physically intimate in nature, make sure that you meet his desires and needs as often as he meets yours. This does not mean that you need to let him “have his way with you” regardless of how you feel. It does, however, mean that you need to spend time satisfying him even when you do not find the experience equally remarkable.


Note that this step should only be considered if your relationship has reached a physically intimate stage at a natural pace that both of you are comfortable with. Do not feel pressured into becoming physically intimate with a guy if you are not yet ready for that step.

