 As you get older, the genes that control inflammation, the production and strength of collagen, and your skin's ability to retain water begin encourage the formation of wrinkles. A study found that aged skin that hadn't been exposed to the sun had about 3,800 genetic mutations while skin that had been exposed to the sun had around 10,000 mutations in the same genes!If the risk of skin cancer isn't enough to get you to wear sunblock and wide-brimmed hats, let vanity persuade you.









The sun provides vital Vitamin D, so make sure you're taking a supplement if you're worried about Vitamin D levels. This is a much safer way to get the vitamin than sunbathing., When UV rays are absorbed by your skin, they create free radicals, which are volatile molecules. Those free radicals can latch onto your DNA and cause the mutations that cause wrinkles. Antioxidants help your body defend against free radicals.Combat wrinkles by eating foods and drinking beverages that contain antioxidants (pomegranates, açai, blueberries, green tea) and using creams or moisturizers that contain them.
 Oils containing long chain polyunsaturated omega-3 fatty acids (your basic Omega-3s) work wonders in promoting intracellular repair. Examples of omega-3 oils are almond oil, egg oil and milk cream. Fish oils also contain omega-3, and can often be taken as gel pills.








Salmon and other cold-water fish are excellent sources of Omega-3s., Splashing cold water on your face first thing in the morning stimulates micro-circulation and regenerates dermal membrane. Preferably, fill your mouth with water while you splash so as to stretch the facial skin.









Hit your skin with cool or cold water for 15 seconds after showering -- this closes up pores and helps your skin dry naturally. Big, warm pores allow oils out.
 Wearing sunglasses protect the delicate skin around your eyes from the sun, but it'll also help prevent squinting, which directly contributes to wrinkling.
 These may eventually turn into wrinkles. Moreover, sleeping on your back or left side is better for your spinal health as well.
 Heavy smokers are almost 5 times more likely to show excessive wrinkling than nonsmokers. Smoking can damage collagen, and the squinting and lip pursing that comes with smoking directly create wrinkles over time.
 More animated expressions mean more creases, and creases eventually become wrinkles.It might be difficult, but try to do away with frowning, eyebrow raising, and squinting. Don't stop smiling or laughing, however. A genuine smile causes crow's feet around your eyesbut the power of sincere joy against wrinkles may be stronger than the effects of not smiling at all.
 In a study of female identical twins (i.e. people with the same genes), researchers found that divorced women looked older than their married or widowed twins, and women on antidepressants looked older than their twins who weren't.It's unclear whether the antidepressants or the depression itself causes increased aging, but these findings imply that being in a happy relationship and having an optimistic, laid back approach to life might prevent wrinkles. At the very least, being happy will help you not care so much about the wrinkles.
 It's true that some people age more gracefully than others. And while scientists are beginning to gain a deeper understanding of how genetics can influence the aging process, they're also discovering how much your lifestyle choices can affect your genes. Your genes only govern 30% of how you age; the other 70% is up to you.








No one can completely prevent wrinkles. They are a natural part of aging. But you can help control how severe they are., Prescription retinoic acid can minimize the appearance of wrinkles. Wrinkles arising solely from excessive muscular contractions, such as forehead horizontal lines or crows' feet, should be injected with botulinum toxin. Deep wrinkles may need filler injections.








