 It can be really easy to lose sight of the fact that coming to an agreement about custody shouldn’t be about your own personal desires. Custody arrangements are about the needs of the child first, and the desires of the parent last. As a matter of fact, if your children are old enough, it might be a good idea to start with their preferences before either adult's preferences come into play.Most states have child support formulas they use to determine the support obligations of each party, so child support itself shouldn't be something most people have an opportunity to do much fighting over--although it may or may not be fair.
 Custodial arguments can be the most contentious of all arguments in a divorce. Unfortunately, they are also the arguments which are most likely to harm people other than the combatants—your children.


Therefore, every time you become infuriated with one of your spouse’s demands or requests, and every time you think they’re being unreasonable, put yourself in their shoes until you calm down.
 When you and your spouse come to an agreement, make sure to put it in writing. It will help everyone—your spouse, yourself, and the judge—understand the rights and responsibilities of each parent more clearly.Make your parenting plan as specific as possible while still allowing for flexibility. For example, it might be better to use a percentage of time each party spends with the children instead of assigning specific times and days. Try to outline suggested options for exchanging the child, specify that open communication between the children and parents is allowed and encouraged, and decide how much consultation is allowed when it comes to child care options.Divide time as equitably as possible. Your children need both you and their other parent, so you should strive to allow each parent to have as close to equal time with the child as is possible.
 If your divorce is contested and you have children, you and your spouse may not come to a settlement agreement before the court has to step in. In these situations, a lot of state courts will require parties to go through mediation before a trial and/or other court hearings will be held. During court ordered mediation, a neutral third party will sit down with you and your spouse to discuss settlement options. Mediators are good at finding unique solutions to difficult problems. Mediators will not take sides and will not inject their own opinions into the negotiations.

Even if your state court does not require mediation, a lot of parties will voluntarily take part in order to avoid a prolonged court battle.
 If child custody is your main sticking point, look into using a “custody coach.” Custody coaches are professionals who help navigate the legal and negotiating pitfalls associated with a custody battle, doing their best to make sure that it is as little like an actual battle as possible.Custody coaches aren’t as widespread as attorneys or mediators, so a lot of the work is done remotely. You can look for one using a simple internet search.
 Children need routine more than adults do. So once you’ve arrived at an agreement and written up a parenting plan, strive to consistently abide by and live up to the terms of the agreement.