 If you repeatedly get acne on specific parts of your body, think about what touches that area regularly. You may find that your hands or an article of clothing may be touching that area and causing breakouts. To prevent this, avoid touching your face with dirty hands or wearing tight fitting or dirty clothes.


For example, if you wear a baseball cap and regularly get acne on your forehead, try not wearing the hat and see if the acne clears up.
Acne can also appear in places that are regularly in contact with your hair (for example, on the forehead, under your bangs). This can be a particular problem if you use oily hair care products. Try keeping your hair off of the affected area, and stick to hair products that are oil-free.;
, To avoid acne, you should wash acne-prone areas only twice a day. Washing your skin removes oil and dead skin that can lead to breakouts. When you are looking for acne creams or gels, look for something with either benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid as the active ingredient.Avoid over washing your skin, which can dry out and irritate it.
If you are unsure about what kind of wash to get, talk to your doctor or dermatologist.
 Although the idea that eating certain foods, like chocolate, can lead to acne is a myth, diet does influence the body’s hormone levels, which can cause breakouts. In order to avoid breakouts, try to eat a balanced diet that is high in fruits, non-starchy vegetables, and whole grains. You should also avoid fatty, sugary, or processed foods. Eating a healthy and balanced diet will help regulate your hormones and prevent problematic breakouts., Although anxiety does not cause acne, it can make it worse. Stress causes your body to release hormones that can cause breakouts. To limit anxiety’s impact on your acne, try to relax and practice mindfulness. You can also exercise, which helps reduce anxiety., If you do get acne, picking or popping your pimples can lead to infections and scarring. Messing with your blemishes also slows down their ability to heal and go away. If the unsightliness of the acne is bothering you, use a concealer to cover the blemish until it has healed., If you are having a hard time dealing with or managing your acne, you should talk to your doctor or a dermatologist. It is important that your acne is treated in order to prevent any scarring. They may prescribe medications, ointments, or washes designed to help deal with your acne. There are also various therapies, such as chemical peels and steroid injections, for more severe cases of acne.Many prescribed treatments may take as many as weeks to work, so be patient.

