 Go to Wikipedia's Main Page or, if you want to write your article in a language other than English, visit the international page and click on your language.;
, First, you'll need to do a search to see if the article already exists - if yours is a popular or well-known subject, the chances are it already exists. In the box, type in your article topic. (e.g. "zero gravity marriage") and press Enter.
 If an article about your subject already exists, the article will come up now; if no such article exists, you will get a list of search results. Check this list - it may be that your article is written under a slightly different heading. If you are sent to an article that isn't the one you just typed in, check the top of the page. It may be that your search term was a redirect to another article, which means you can create it as a stand-alone article.
 If no article exists and you wish to create an article, first ask yourself the following questions:


Is it a worthwhile subject for an encyclopedia article?
Is it notable (will anyone else ever bother to read this)?
Is it verifiable (are there other references to it elsewhere on the internet, or in books)?
If the answer is 'no' to any of these, do not create the article. Articles that aren't notable or verifiable are deleted, and all your hard work along with it.
 If a 'Create this article' link is visible on the search page, click that. If not, look under where it says 'Search' - it'll say (e.g) "You searched for Underwater tennis" Click on the link of the title you typed in - i.e. click on underwater tennis. Then click on "Start the Underwater tennis article"

, You can edit Wikipedia articles without having an account, but to create an article from scratch, you need an account. Click on "Log in or create an account". If you have an account, then log in now. If not, click on "Create one". Type yourself a username and password (twice), and click "Create account". Assuming no-one else has taken your name already, your account should be created successfully, and you can now create your article. Anonymous users can also submit an article through the Articles for creation system, but it won't appear as an article until a registered user approves it.
 The space for writing the article before you publish it is your userpage. Go to User:(your username here)/(your article name here), where you can edit. Click on the 'create' tab.
 You should now have a big empty box in which you should write your article. Write a short introduction (called a 'lead' section), and then the main body of your article. Make it a reasonable length, and informative (see Tips and Wiki formatting, below). When you have finished, click the 'save button'.
 Your article has not been published yet!! Have a good read, looking out for spelling or grammatical errors. If you are happy with it, click the 'move' tab. Remove the 'User:(your username here)/' bit so only the article name remains. Now you have a new article! Consider nominating it for Did you know. You can do this by typing WP:DYK in your search box and following the instructions located there.

