 Some players judge others on their account username, which is not a nice experience for the victim! Pick something unique, not too long. It may not be a good idea to add numbers, but you may if you wish.;
, In Roblox, there's many items of clothing to choose from the catalog. Unfortunately, you may not suit everything. Some items depend on gender, personalities, interests, age, etc. Find something that suits you. You can also purchase hats. This also includes hair for both boys and girls. Gear is available and can be found in the catalog also.
 Roblox provides a lot of items you can earn, and it's always good to have a few of these items! There's a lot you can earn on Roblox, and here's a few things; Badges, knockouts, friends/friend requests, money (robux, tix), etc. Badges are always a good place to start. Begin by making 20 friends and adding them to your friends list, and you will get the "friendship" badge. Next, I'd recommend going for the CI (Combat Initiation) badge. You must gain at least 10 victories (kills/knockouts, I believe). Go to a game and "pwn" someone at least 10 times. Once you've earned these badges, you should go for 100 knockouts and earn the "warrior badge". This shouldn't be too hard.
 If you're interested in Roblox and would like to explore more, I recommend Builders club. For new purchasers, I'd get BC (Basic/normal builders club) or TBC (Turbo builders club/medium builders club). I would only recommend OBC if you're a veteran, because you may get bored of Roblox and you won't want to be wasting money! BC is the cheapest, TBC is in the middle, and OBC is the most expensive one of the three. (BC/TBC/OBC costs real life money). You can earn daily robux with builders club (BC=15 daily, TBC=35 daily, OBC=60 daily).
 Everyone has special qualities on ROBLOX. Some are great at graphics designing, clothes designing, owning groups, foruming, making games, etc. Monkrymonkry got famous by a few games, that could be you some day! PaperMousee is into clothes designing along with Jalki, BlueJuice, and a few others, so most of them are in the fame. We've got a few famous group owners and successful graphic designers, some are really famous forumers, and some with unique hobbies and qualities. Explore your successions and see what you're good at.
 If you trade with people and make deals, you'll be known as a successful "LMaD'er".