 Mix together 1  c (240 mL) of chlorine bleach, 1  c (240 mL) of laundry detergent, and 1 US gal (3.8 L) of warm water. This mixture will create a cleaning solution that is strong enough to remove most dirt and stains, but gentle enough to keep from damaging your teak furniture.As always when handling bleach, be careful not to get it on any other materials.
 Use a soft plastic brush to apply the bleach solution and gently scrub it into the teak wood. Let the solution sit for approximately 15 minutes and then rinse it off completely with water.


Make sure to do this cleaning outdoors. If you must do it inside, use a drop cloth on the floor to avoid spilling any bleach around your home and damaging something.
 Instead of power washing away all of the dirt (along with all of the protective elements), use a handheld scrubbing brush to get a controlled clean for your teak furniture. Gently scrub away any stains or imperfections in the wood. But don’t scrub too hard or you might damage the wood permanently.Getting the teak wood wet first can help the scrubbing process be more effective. And a constant flow of water will help rinse away any dirt or grime as you clean.
 This cleaning method is more aggressive in fighting stains and signs of wear. So it may be better suited for teak furniture that has been left outdoors for long periods of time. Simply apply the teak cleaning solution to the furniture and scrub it in with a soft brush. Generally, you should let it remain on the teak for 15 minutes or so before you rinse it off with the hose.Follow the directions for application on the bottle.
Look for the active ingredient oxalic acid in any store-bought teak cleaner.
 Whether you use store-bought teak cleaner or a bleach cleaning solution, you’ll need to rinse off any remaining residue after you finish cleaning. Use a garden hose to rinse the teak off completely and let it air dry.


If you are cleaning your teak furniture indoors, use a damp cloth to wipe off any remaining cleaner residue.

