 A test kit is the fastest and most reliable way to determine if you have ammonia in your tank. There are many effective test kits that you can purchase. Ask the employees at your local pet store to help you choose the best one for your needs.Ammonia test kits are very affordable. Most cost between $5-$10.
A test kit can tell you whether you have elevated ammonia levels. Keep one on hand in case you notice any symptoms.
Follow the directions on the packaging. If the test indicates any level of ammonia, that is too much.;
, The only safe level of ammonia is zero. If your test kit detects any amount of ammonia, you need to perform a water change. This process can take several days.Changing the water is the only safe way to lower ammonia levels. Products that promise to remove ammonia might have negative side effects, so they should be avoided.
A water change means that you will remove 10-15% of the water in the tank. Use a clean bucket or jug to remove the water.
Replace the water with fresh water. Use dechlorinated tap water.
Continue changing the water over the next 2-3 days until there is no trace of ammonia. You do not need to remove your fish or any plants that are in your tank.
 The process by which you keep the water in your aquarium healthy for your fish is known as "cycling". The primary reason to cycle your aquarium is to ensure that the levels of ammonia and nitrates are at the proper level. You can cycle a new tank or an already established tank.A full cycle will take 4-6 weeks to complete. Begin by placing all new water in your tank.
With a new aquarium, start slowly. Let the aquarium run for at least a day before adding fish.
Add fish slowly. Do not add more than 3 new fish per week to any tank.
Purchase a cycling aid product. You can ask for these at your local pet or fish supply store. There are several brands that will contain bacteria to supplement your tank.
These products will help promote healthy bacteria in your tank. Follow the instructions on the product packaging.
 When you are preparing and cycling an aquarium, it is important to keep a log of the components of your tank water. Closely monitor the levels of ammonia, nitrate, and pH. Keeping careful records can help you notice changes and correct the levels as fast as possible.You can write down all of the chemical levels in your water. You can also note factors such as temperature level and population statistics.
There are many websites and apps that can help you monitor your tank. Some sites offer basic memberships for free.Other sites are more sophisticated. You can purchase memberships if you need to monitor several aquariums.
 A filtration system is key to lowering and regulating ammonia levels. A good filter will regulate and neutralize ammonia and nitrates. It will also remove floating debris from your tank.Purchase the best filter for your tank. Filters come in many sizes and price ranges, so do your research.
Read reviews online. You should also talk to experienced employees at your local pet store.
Power filters are commonly used for tanks up to 55 gallons. They are used to increase biological filtration, which means you can keep more fish in your tank.
If your tank is larger than 55 gallons, consider getting a Canister filter. They are the most powerful and effective for large tanks.

