 If you are hospitalized or become a patient in a healthcare facility, you are at a higher risk for CRE. To help minimize your risk, be completely honest with your physician and the nursing staff about any symptoms, previous hospitalizations, recent surgeries, drug use, medications, and medical conditions you have.Alert your doctor to any hospitalizations in other countries. Most of the cases of CRE come from outside of the US.A CRE infection can kill you, so do not be embarrassed or reluctant to share.;
, When you are prescribed medications, make sure to take them exactly as prescribed. This is especially important for antibiotics. Do not stop taking them because you feel better — take the full course to ensure you eradicate the bacteria and reduce the chances of developing a resistance to your antibiotics.Ask questions if you are not sure how to take any medications.
 You should expect all physicians, nurses, and healthcare providers to wash their hands before and after touching your body in any way. This protects not only you, but also others. If they do not do this, remind them and insist on watching them wash their hands.Watch to make certain that all healthcare personnel are using sterile gloves and are disposing of them after use.
 When you are being treated at a healthcare facility, working at a healthcare facility, or visiting a healthcare facility, make certain you wash your hands often before eating, before and after using the bathroom, and after performing any personal hygiene activities.Wash your hands for at least 20 second with warm water and soap. Make sure you get your wrists, between your fingers, and under your fingernails.
 Make sure any tubing or medical devices, such as IV lines and urinary catheters, are sterile and removed as soon as possible. To do this, ask all physicians, nurses, and healthcare providers to remove your tubes as promptly as possible. Ask questions and get answers if you are not sure how long tubes or devices should remain., One way to minimize the spread of CRE is to place people with CRE in separate rooms or areas. This helps reduce the risk of someone who has not been infected getting contaminated. If you are sharing a room in a health facility with someone suspected of CRE, ask to be moved to protect your health., If you come into contact with someone who has a CRE infection, make sure to take precautions to protect yourself. Wear protective gear, such as gloves and a gown. Before you exit the room, making sure to remove the gloves and the gown, then wash your hands properly.