 Show your girlfriend that you love her by being affectionate. Small touches, hugs, a kiss, and maybe a little public display of affection (PDA) are just some of the ways of connecting through affection.Don't overdo it––you don't want to make her uncomfortable. Remember to read her signs, and if she's not in the mood, don't kiss her.
Many times, even a light touch is appreciated. If your girl is a romantic, upon seeing her for the first time in a couple of days, say, "I missed you..." and weave your arms around her hips then give her a loving hug.
Depending on her preferences, also try giving a light kiss on her lips/cheek/forehead/neck just to show that you really appreciate her presence. Or just kiss her hand by clasping and bringing it up to your lips.
If you're not sure how your girlfriend feels about public displays of affection, be discreet at first. Believe it or not, not every girl is into holding hands.
 Give her extra compliments when she makes extra efforts to look beautiful, but also make sure she knows she can relax and be herself with you. Don't make her feel like she always has to look like a celestial being. You should let her know that she looks pretty whether she's spent an hour getting ready or if she's just woken up.If she gets a new haircut or a new outfit, let her see that you've noticed and let her know that she looks amazing.
Truly appreciating someone's looks isn't as superficial as it may seem, though. When you truly care about someone, she will look beautiful to you no matter the situation. When you feel this way about your girl, let her know.
 You should compliment your girlfriend as often as you can without making her feel smothered. Compliment her not only on how she looks, but on how she is. That way, she'll know that you care about her appearance and what's on the inside. She is more likely to be confident about herself when you give her reasons to be confident through your compliments.Go beyond the ordinary statements. For example, don't just say, "You look nice." Instead, say "That really makes your eyes shine," or "Your haircut really suits the shape of your face." The more specific you are, the more unique and appreciative the compliment.
Even small, seemingly silly compliments can be meaningful. Saying things like "you really have beautiful handwriting" or "you're awesome at parallel parking" can be confidence-builders, when spoken with sincerity. The also show that you are paying attention to her.
 No healthy relationship can survive on gifts alone, not matter how fancy or expensive they are. However, giving gifts thoughtfully and purposefully can provide lasting demonstrations your interest, attentiveness, and affection.Put thought into a birthday, Valentine's Day, Christmas, or anniversary gift, and other special occasions. Choose a gift that is reasonable and thoughtful; it doesn't need to be expensive, just considerate of who she is and her likes.
Think of special touches, like adding a her name to a necklace, or a pendant representing something she cares about, such as a snowflake if she loves to ski or a musical note if she loves to play an instrument, etc.
Notice her interests when you're out together. She might make mention of something she likes in a shop window, or something she wishes she could try, like going for a horse ride. Don't just think of tangible items––experience gifts can be far more exciting and fun than a list of things.
Sometimes, get her a gift "just because." Pick something up out of the blue now and then and give it to her just because your were "thinking of her". This sort of gift has great impact because it's so unexpected and delightful.
 While familiarity is one of the most comforting aspects of a relationship, try not to fall into a rut of always doing the same things. While you probably have one or two regular things you enjoy doing together, avoid making the regular the only things you do.Instead, try visiting new places, giving new activities a go and going to different parts of town. Even if the new activities don't turn out the way you'd hoped, at least you've shared the experience and are getting to know one another even better.
By mixing things up, you keep the excitement in your relationship and make your outings together refreshing. You are also creating memories together that will endure well beyond the experiences.
Surprise your girlfriend by doing something offbeat now and then -- this could include anything from racing your girlfriend to your walking destination, dancing without music, or even bringing her a tub of Lego bricks and encouraging her to build something that represents the two of you.
Take a surprise trip. You can pick a location in advance and just tell her what to pack without saying where you're going. Of course, use your best judgment about her preferences. Perhaps she'll love the mystery and excitement of going to an unknown location, perhaps not.
If she's mentioned the fact that she's never checked out a national park or quirky town not too far from where you live, take her there without telling her where you're going. She'll love the spontaneity and the fact that you took the time to listen to her.
 Let your girlfriend feel like she is needed, helpful, and appreciated, but don't be overly needy or dependent. Be hygienic and neat, set goals, and work hard. You can't be a good boyfriend if you're not taking responsibility for yourself.Take pride in your appearance, and in how you present yourself to the world. Making yourself look good (both in actual appearance and, more importantly, by how you conduct yourself) makes her look good too, and she will appreciate that.
She won't have fun in the relationship if she feels like she's always nagging you to do one thing or another. She wants to take care of you, but she doesn't want to be your mother.
 Just because your girlfriend is your significant other, it doesn't mean she is yours, implying some kind of ownership. You don't have to be attached at the hip to have a great relationship. In fact, if you let her pursue her own interests without checking in every five seconds, she'll like you even more.Find a balance that lets you both spend some time alone, spend time with your individual friends, and spend time with each other.
Spending time with your separate friends will make you appreciate each other even more when you see each other again.
Maintaining different social schedules will also give you something to "report back" when you are together again.
Maintain some separate interests as well. Keep up your hobbies, sports and other interests that you had before each of you met. Though it'll be great to find an activity that you both like together, you shouldn't force her to watch football with you if she doesn't want to, and you shouldn't have to go to yoga with her unless it's something you want to try.
Maintaining your separate interests will help you maintain a sense of individuality, and to grow separately so that you can grow together.

