 A foster parent provides for the emotional and physical needs of the child. In addition, foster parents are required to:work with the agency, the courts, and the biological family.
work with schools to ensure educational needs are met.
transport the child to appointments.
update the division on the child's progress.
help the child maintain a Lifebook (a family album).;
, To become a foster parent in Missouri, you need a license issued by the state. In order to qualify, you must meet some basic requirements first:You must be at least 21 years of age.
You must be a citizen of the United States.
You must be in sufficiently good health.
You must be sufficiently stable financially so that you can handle the addition of a foster child to the family.
You must have no criminal history that would prevent you from being licensed.
You also must pass a competency based assessment.
 In addition to the emotional satisfaction of knowing that you are helping your community and the child, you will qualify for certain benefits if you become a foster parent. For example, you will qualify for maintenance payments. The payment rate is set by the state.


The current reimbursement rates are available here.
Children will also be awarded an annual clothing allowance, which varies depending on age, but ranges from $250 for a child up to age five and reaches $480 a year for a teenager., To start an application, you will need to contact your local DSS office. The representative you talk to will answer any questions you have and try to get basic information about you.In 2013, the state of Missouri outsourced its foster parent licensing to a private agency, Cornerstone of Care, which also subcontracts with other agencies.You will probably be given the name of an agency to call and work with.
 You will need to give your caseworker a variety of documents as part of the application. To speed up the process, you should gather the following:physicals on all family members
birth certificates
marriage licenses and divorce decrees
automobile insurance policies
driving records
pet vaccinations
school references
employer references
income tax filings

, The caseworker will come to your home to discuss in more depth the requirements of becoming a foster parent. The caseworker will also explain the licensing requirements and try to get a sense for why you want to become a foster parent.The initial consultation should last one to two hours.The caseworker will probably give you various agreement forms, covering discipline, HIPAA, and the home assessment. You will go over them together and then be asked to sign.The house assessment will not happen at this time. However, since the caseworker will be coming into your home, you have an incentive to clean it, address any obvious safety hazards, and make sure that it appears safe.
 In order to become a foster parent, you will need to have your criminal history checked. During the first at-home consultation, the caseworker will initiate paperwork.


As part of background check, you will need to be fingerprinted.
In addition to your criminal record, the licensing agency will check for actions brought against you for child abuse or neglect. This check will be for every state in which a household member 17 or older has lived during the past five years., Before you can get a license, you need to take sufficient training. The purpose of the training is to help you understand what skills are required for effective fostering.You must complete 27 hours of STARS training.


In addition to pre-service training, foster parents must also complete in-service training each two years to maintain their license.Foster parents also need to be CPR and First Aid certified and to take courses in disaster preparedness.Be sure to ask questions during your training and clarify anything that isn’t clear. Also hang onto training materials. You never know when you might need the information.
 You must have your physician fill out a form attesting that all family members are in good physical and mental health. Also, family members need to have taken a physical exam within the past year.All children need to be up to date on their immunizations. If they are not, then their physician will need to attest that their health is not at risk., Part of the application will involve providing references from people who know you and can tell the caseworker about your character.Ask your caseworker how many references are needed.


Be sure to confirm that your references can speak positively about you before forwarding their names to your caseworker. Good references include anyone who has interacted with you on a personal, professional, neighborly, or school basis.
 Missouri has strict laws regulating the foster child's bedroom. The child must have a dedicated bedroom which cannot be used as another room (such as a living room). Also the bedroom may not be in an unfinished attic or basement or separate from the home altogether.Foster children aged six or older of the opposite sex cannot sleep together.
Foster children two years or older may not sleep in the same bedroom as the foster parents.
Foster children can never sleep in the same bed as foster parents.
Each foster child under two must have a separate bed, and foster children over age two must have sufficient space equivalent to half of a full-sized bed.
 Your home must be free of accumulated dirt and vermin or rodents (such as mice or rats).You can begin to clean the home by picking up any accumulated magazines, papers, toys, or trash and disposing of it. Then vacuum the carpets or sweep and mop the floors. Dust furniture and fixtures.


Walk through the house, cleaning each room. Make sure the entire home is clean.
 Every room must have proper ventilation and lighting.Replace any missing screens from windows.


Check all lightbulbs and replace any missing ones. Clean or replace dirty or cracked lampshades.
 The home must be safe and in good repair. Walk through the house and check to make sure that the following hazards are not present:



Exposed wires. If you find them, then make sure that they are safely covered.

Broken windows, stairs, and bannisters. Replace or mend, and make sure that they are sturdy.

Accessible medicines, chemicals, and matches. Make sure that these are put out of the reach of children.Firearms. All firearms must be stored in an inaccessible manner. All ammunition must be stored in a separate location from the firearm.
 You must have a working smoke detector with installed battery located where sleeping areas will be alerted. You also should install a charged portable ABC fire extinguisher which is at least five pounds. Install it near the kitchen. Also install a carbon monoxide detector if you have gas appliances.
 You will need a working telephone in the home. You will also need to post the numbers of the fire department, police, doctor, and ambulance near the phone., You should expect several. During the visits, the caseworker will assess the home and also question family members. The purposes of these meetings include:Discuss your history, marriage and family live
Talk about why you want to become a foster parent
Decide what types of children you want to foster

, Being licensed does not guarantee the placement of a child. Instead, a license makes a placement possible. However, the demand for foster parents in Missouri is great.


At the end of 2014, the number of children in foster care in Missouri was at an all-time high., Effective foster parenting requires open communication between foster parents and caseworkers. When you get your first placement, ask the caseworker any questions that help you understand the child’s background. You might want to know:Why the child is in foster care.
Whether the child has been in foster care before.
If the child has any allergies or other medical concerns.
How long the child is expected to be in foster care.
 The first moments when you meet the foster child can be nerve-wracking. It is best to go outside and greet the caseworker and child together. Speak softly and smile.Do not insist that the foster child call you “Mom” or “Dad.” Let the child use whatever name is comfortable.
 To help the child adjust, you should show him or her your home. Start by showing where the child will sleep. Then show where his or her clothes will be stored.Finally, you should sit the child down and discuss the rules of the house, including your expectations. Encourage the child to ask questions and answer honestly. Be open to his talking about his natural family, and let him know that you are aware of how important his family is to him.