 By now you should have the RSVPs or confirmations of who can come. This is useful for tallying up how much food and drink will be needed.


Chase up any stragglers to confirm their attendance or otherwise.;
, Know what you're making from scratch and what you're buying ready-made. List the ingredients needed and the items to buy, in readiness for the shop prior to the party.


If ordering anything, such as a cake or dessert, book it early in the week, with the day of the party as the pick-up date.
When planning food to make at home, favor items that can be made the day before. It makes your party day a whole lot easier.
 If it needs a wash or clean, deal with it now. If accessories are missing, such as tights or headbands, get them now. If you need new anything, buy them early in the week.


If buying new shoes for the party, wear them in a little each day before the party, so that they won't hurt your feet at the party.
If your hair needs styling or cutting, get this organized. Either do it earlier if it's just a cut or book an appointment very early on the morning of the party if you want a style for the party.
Check your makeup supplies and replenish as needed.
 If you don't have the decorations, write a list of what's needed, then head out early to collect these. Getting this out of the way early saves last-minute stress.


If making your own party decorations, start early and finish them on time.
 If these are going to be collected by someone else, let that person know in advance what they need to get––email or text them the list. Set a firm time for delivery, preferably the day before the party.
 Pull it all together before the day of the party, ensuring that there is plenty of music and it's all music you want heard.


Organize the music playing device and speakers, to be sure it's all available as needed.
 This includes DVDs (and player), a movie selection off a movie service provider (and TV), video games (and consoles), party games, prizes for games, dress-up clothes, goody bags, etc.


If making goody bags, plan what is to go inside them, what sort of bags you'll use and decorative additions. Purchase these items early in the week rather than when shopping for food.
 This also includes drink space.
 Using the list you created, buy the items needed to make food. Doing this a day ahead gives you plenty of time to find substitutes or visit other stores if anything you need is missing. It also takes the weight off you on the day of the party.
 This relieves a lot of pressure as the food will be ready to simply place out on the day of the party.


Warn other members of the house not to touch any of the party food.
Have a simple meal the night before the party, or even takeout, to avoid making more mess in the kitchen.
 It should be completely ready by now, cleaned, ironed, etc. Place it somewhere safe in your room and forget about it until the next day.


Check that you have makeup, hair accessories, etc., as needed too.
 If it's possible, do it the day before as it gives you plenty of time to make it perfect. If you spot anything missing, you've still plenty of time to fix this.


Ask other members of the household to stay away from the decorated area and be sure to keep the pets out too.
If planning a sleepover, clear out the space intended for the sleeping bags and guests.
 If you're having goody bags, make these up the day before. These can be a bit finicky, so they're best done while you still have plenty of time.
 Do a test run of playlists, DVD player, video game equipment, etc., just to be sure it's all in good working order. Set these items up as needed.
 This will give you plenty of time to relax and wake up refreshed for party day.
 Do this as early in the day as possible, to get it done and to allow for time to mend any stuff-ups.
 Do this as early as possible or at least set up stations for preparing last-minute foods that only work when made fresh. Have everything arranged neatly.


Double check space for drinks. If you need iceboxes with ice, have someone go out and fetch the ice just prior to the party and stick the drinks inside.
 If you've already decorated, just check that you're happy with it.


At this stage, also set up anything needed for the party games and activities. This might include setting up a game-playing area, a salon/makeover area, a movie-watching area, a board game area, etc.
 If you're having music, playing video games or DVDs, set these items up a few hours before the party starts.
 If you wear makeup, plan your time accordingly.
 You'll enjoy taking photos of the set-up of the party, then of everyone having fun at the party.


Upload the photos to Facebook, Instagram or anywhere else you prefer.
 With all of your careful planning, you should be calm and collected by now, and ready to meet your guests with enthusiasm. It's a great way to get the party started.
 You've earned it.

