 Fruits and vegetables are packed with nutrients, relatively low in fat, and can fill you up without you having to consume a lot of calories. Adults should eat about five servings each of fruit and vegetables per day.One serving is equivalent to one small piece of fruit, or a half cup of cooked vegetables.
Cauliflower and broccoli, peppers, string beans, summer squash, peppers, and leafy greens are great vegetable choices for people who want to control their weight.;
, Fiber, which is a type of carbohydrate, is a filling nutrient that can also reduce your risk of heart disease and diabetes, and can help you lose weight because it keeps your digestive tract running smoothly.


A healthy diet should include between 25 and 38 grams of fiber each day.Good sources of fiber include: strawberries, raspberries,almonds, popcorn, and fruits and vegetables.
 Fat is still an essential part of a healthy diet, but at maximum, you should consume no more than two to three servings of fat and oil per day. This includes things like butter, oils, margarine, and mayonnaise., In general, weight gain is caused by consuming more calories than your body is burning, while weight loss is caused when your body expends more calories than you consume. Depending upon your health and lifestyle, try to stick with around 1,600 to 2,400 calories per day for adult women and 2,000 to 3,000 calories per day for adult men.To help reduce the amount of calories you consume, try:


Around 1800 calories for women and 2000 calories for men is a good baseline. You can modify from there if you notice yourself rapidly gaining or losing weight.
Reducing the fat in recipes by half and replacing the lost moisture with either broth (for savory dishes) or fruit purees (for baked goods)., A healthy and balanced diet requires about 0.8 grams of protein for every 2.2 pounds (one kilogram) of body weight,and it’s best to obtain this from plant sources (as opposed to animal sources) such as:


Nuts and seeds
Beans and legumes
Soy products and wheat gluten

, There are many fad diets around that tell you the magic way to lose weight in a short amount of time, and these diets often require eliminating entire food groups, such as fat or carbohydrates, from your diet. However, while these diets may lead to temporary weight loss thanks to the reduction in calories, they aren’t ideal for long-term weight control. Instead, keep an eye on:


Portion control
Calories in versus calories out
Recommended daily values

, One easy way to monitor your calories is by controlling the portion sizes of the foods you eat. Pay attention to recommended serving sizes, and stick to those when serving yourself food at mealtimes. To help reduce or control the amount that you eat at each sitting, you can:Drink a glass of water 30 minutes before every meal.
Swap out some of your protein or carbohydrates for vegetables.
Divide snacks into individual portion sizes. Never sit down with an entire bag of snacks in front of you.
Eat a bowl of soup before lunch and dinner. The liquid will help fill you up and prevent you from overeating.
Use smaller plates and bowls. This will help trick your brain into thinking you are eating more.
 Over snacking is an easy way to consume too many calories, which can lead to weight gain if you don’t burn off the excess. But that doesn’t mean you aren’t allowed to snack, especially if you’re hungry between meals. Just make sure to choose healthy snacks, such as:Homemade popcorn flavored with herbs and spices instead of butter
Fresh or dried fruit, nuts, or seeds
Fresh vegetables with hummus
Foods you have to work to eat, such as pistachios and edamame.
 Food cravings happen, and by allowing yourself to indulge once in a while and have that piece of cake or bowl of ice cream, you won’t feel like you’re missing out and won’t over-indulge to compensate for that.


Observe portion control even when you are allowing yourself to indulge. Pay attention to the serving sizes of your favorite desserts and stick to them.
 Sugar is naturally occurring in foods like fruit, but added sugar can be found in processed foods like soups, condiments, and breads, and is even hiding in sauces and salad dressings. Sugar, however, can quickly lead to weight gain, and has been associated with health problems like obesity and diabetes.


The general daily recommended sugar intake is six teaspoons or less., Adults between the ages of 18 and 64 should ideally exercise about five hours per week, spread out over at least three days. For optimal weight control, exercise for about 60 minutes at a time.If you aren’t currently active, slowly work your way toward faster-paced aerobic activities. For instance, start by walking and working your way toward jogging over the course of a few weeks.
Don’t be afraid to mix up your workout routine to prevent getting bored. Try activities like:walking, jogging, and swimming, or use low-impact machines like the treadmill or rower.
 Strengthening activities are a great way to stay in shape and help control weight, because adding muscle mass will help your body burn fat more effectively.For weight control, strengthening activities should be done at least twice per week, and good exercises include:


Push-ups
Weight training
Sit-ups

, On top of exercising each week, you can also increase your activity level—and burn more calories—by making more active choices every day. This includes:Taking the stairs instead of the elevator
Walking or biking to work instead of driving
Parking farther away from your destination

, One of the most difficult parts about controlling your weight can be staying motivated once you’ve achieved your goal. It can be easy to fall back into old habits, which is why it’s important to stick to your proper diet and exercise regimen.


Maintaining a proper weight, and eating a balanced diet is all part of a healthy lifestyle, and it’s a conscious choice that must be made every day.
To keep track of your weight, weigh yourself once a week at the same time of day.
 Don’t try to lose, gain, or control your current weight if you don’t know what a healthy weight is for your body size and type.


There are many calculators you can use online to determine what a healthy weight is for your height, age, and sex. You can also talk to a doctor or healthcare practitioner about the right weight for your body type.
Another way of keeping track of your health and weight is using your BMI, the body mass index, which is a measure of your body mass based on height and weight. There are many online calculators that can be used. A healthy BMI is between 18.5 and 24.9.
 Rapid weight loss or weight gain can be a sign of health problems, and it’s best to consult a doctor or healthcare practitioner if you’re experiencing any issues. Always consult your doctor before beginning a new exercise regimen.


Seek the advice of a registered dietitian for additional information about proper nutrition.

