 First, set up a new email account in a different name. Try to use Gmail from Google because it defaults to using SSL encryption.


If you want to encrypt the messages you send using any email, though, you can use tools like Encipher.it, with is an encryptor that you install. It allows you to give the text an encryption key before you send it.
You will need to give the person on the other end of the email the key if they want to decipher the message.
 You can do this by boiling it and then smashing it with a hammer before discarding it.Buy a new computer (do not buy refurbished), wipe the OS and replace it with SSH, or linux-based OSs like Ubuntu, Mint, Fedora, or Kali.
Encrypt the hard disk with a strong password using Truecrypt, and use the hidden drive feature. Never connect it to the Internet.
 Better yet: Stay offline completely. This is your best chance at not having a footprint. If you must go online, try to hide your IP address.


Do this by using a proxy server like Tor. It routes your webpage requests through many Internet routers. Some of these services get federal money, as it has turned out, so they may not be foolproof, though.You can also try other Web-based proxy servers like Proxify or the Ghostery extension available on Firefox, Chrome, and Safari.Do Internet searches at public libraries so the searches can’t be traced back to your IP address at all.
 People find you and find out information about you through the Internet.


You can put misinformation out there on social networks and so forth, making it harder to tracers to find you.Loyalty cards given out by places like supermarkets for discounts will also put you on the grid., If you’re trying to completely vanish, adopt a different look, including a different hair color.


Drive a car that is the opposite of what would be expected. Change your lifestyle. Work as a janitor if you used to be a CEO, for example.
Break all of your normal patterns, including where you eat, where you shop, and the kind of work you do. Live a simple life so you don’t stand out.