 Style it as you normally would, using a blow dryer, flat iron, or curling iron. It's important to make sure your hair is dry and styled as usual so that you don't end up cutting it in a way that will look off once you have it styled.;
, Look in the mirror and angle your head sideways. Place a comb on the crown of your head, and find the place where it starts to curve down toward your forehead. This is the spot where your bangs should naturally begin.
 Use the comb to pull your hair forward over your forehead starting with the place you identified in step 2. This spot will act as the point in a "V" with legs V that extend to either temple. The hair that falls inside this V shape is what you'll cut to create new bangs.Make sure you don't gather too much hair. Cutting bangs that extend past your temples on either side will give you an old-fashioned look.
Gathering too little hair is also a mistake. You want your bangs to look full and pretty, not thin.
 Once you've gathered your V, pull the rest of your hair back to keep it out of the way. This way you can make sure you don't end up accidentally cutting the rest of your hair.
 Side-swept bangs are a little longer than other styles because you sweep them to the right or left side. If they're too short, they won't fall gracefully across your face. Aim to have your bangs hit the middle of your nose when they're combed straight. If you want them shorter, you can always cut more.
 Use your middle finger and forefinger to pull the hair taut from your head. The part that will be cut should extend evenly from your fingers. Position it in front of your face so that you can easily reach it.
 Use a pair of haircutting scissors to snip the hair extending from your fingers at a slight angle. This will give it a more natural appearance than you'll get if you cut it straight across. Continue snipping along the line of hair extending from your fingers until it has all fallen away.


Do not use fingernail scissors or safety scissors to cut your hair. It is very important to use professional haircutting scissors. They have a sharper edge and will make a much prettier cut. Using other types of scissors will make your bangs look choppy.
 Sweep them to the side you like best and see if you like the length. If you want them to be a little shorter, repeat this method and cut off another 1⁄4 to 1⁄2 inch (0.6 to 1.3 cm). Cut no more than this at a time - it's very easy to end up with bangs that are a little too short!

, Enjoy your new look!

, Style it as you normally would with a hair dryer or flat iron. This way you can ensure that the way you cut your bangs will work with your hairstyle.


Straight-across bangs work best on thin, straight hair. If your hair is naturally curly or wavy, use a flat iron to straighten your bangs. Use an anti-frizz serum if you are prone to fly-aways.
 Blunt bangs should start about 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) back from your hairline, and should cover the width of your forehead.
 This way you can keep from cutting too much hair.
 Blunt bangs can fall anywhere from just above your eyebrows to just above your upper lashes. Don't go too short at first - you can always cut more.


Fold your hair over to see the bangs would look like at different levels before making the cut.
 Your fingers should hold it just above where you want to cut your hair.
 Make a horizontal cut, making the bangs slightly longer (about half an inch) than what you want them to be. It's better to err on the longer side at first.


When you're cutting blunt bangs, it's extra important to use a good pair of haircutting scissors. Using any other type will make it look like a preschooler cut your bangs.
 Brush the bangs with a comb so that they lie flat on your forehead. Holding the scissors vertically, trim the bangs to the length you want, working your way from the middle of the bangs to the ends.


Blunt bangs should be slightly shorter in the middle and slightly longer at the ends.This helps them lay more naturally on your forehead.
 Check to see if they are even, and cut any stray hairs.
 Enjoy your new look!

, Leave your bangs loose in the front. This will keep your hair out of the way so you don't accidentally cut too much.
 Comb them straight forward, even if you normally style them to the side.
 Hold your comb just above where you want your bangs to end. When you're giving yourself a trim, err on the side of making them too long at first. You can always go back and cut more.
 Use your fingers to hold them taut at the place where you want to cut them. Your fingers should fall just above the place where you'll make the cut.
 Hold your scissors vertically and at a slight angle, and start snipping from the middle to the right side of your bangs. Cut from the middle to the left side of your bangs, then go back and cut from the middle to the right side.


Bangs should be slightly shorter in the center and slightly longer at the ends.
 Check to see if they’re even, then go back and trim any portions that are longer than the others.
 Enjoy your new look!

