 It would also help if you talk to someone who has been there. There is no substitute for firsthand knowledge.;
, All the knowledge in the world is not going to save you if your body fails to deliver. Calculate the time left for you to start your tour and plan an exercise regimen accordingly. e.g If you have six months in hand, set a benchmark of a 5-mile run followed by freehand exercises. There is no hard and fast rule but if you can manage a set of 100 pushups at the end of your run, you're generally good to go.
 Revisit the firing range if you are out of touch. Touch up on your map reading. Believe me, practice does make perfect. You may have been a hotshot during basic training but that won't cut it if you are out of touch.
 When the bullets start flying, a cool head might just save your life. Just 3-10 mins to begin with are enough. Also try some deep breathing exercises and yoga. The added benefit of yogic postures is that they will make you flexible as well as strong.
 That way, you will be less stressed about what will happen to your family if you don't come back. It's a fact that most soldiers have only one worry on their minds when they go into battle - their families.
 Gather your favorite snaps, a well-worn tee or some such token. They feel good in moments of loneliness.
 Excessive consumption of alcohol can lead to fatal errors in judgement. Learn to restrict yourself to a couple of beers.
 There will always be some downtime. Use it constructively. Carry along some favorite books or enroll for an online course that you can take from your base. Basically, stay busy. It is very tempting to get piss drunk with your mates, but if you have been meditating religiously you won't really feel the need. Besides, you'll feel better when you head back into action. It's no fun patrolling with a hangover.
 You are a trained soldier. Remember the basics, stick to them and you will be just fine. Have faith in yourself, your mates and your officers. You are never alone. No matter what happens, you'll all face it together.

