 The SATs consist of 25 minutes for the essay, two 25 minute sections of math, two 25 minute sections of English/reading comp., a 20 minute section of English/reading comp, a 20 minute section of math, a 10 minute section of writing questions, and a 25 minute section of writing questions. So, there is 70 minutes for math, 70 minutes for reading, and 60 minutes for writing. Combined with breaks, the amount needed to take the SAT is 3 hours 45 minutes. Kind of painful just to think about, isn't it? But don't worry-with proper time management, that time will be well spent.;
, The section focuses on Algebra I, Algebra II, geometry, and some basic comprehension problems. In the math section, there are usually two very wrong answers. Weed these out and focus on the other answers. Points are not subtracted if you leave a question blank or for wrong answers. Be sure to check your work, as silly mistakes can bring down your score.
 They are little known resources that can provide a quick score boost. Some programs can be used during the math section of the test and others can be used in place of verbal flashcards.
 Instead of studying 5000 vocabulary words, one easier way is to study common roots of words. If you know about roots, prefixes, and suffixes, you will be better off than memorizing long lists.
 The passage portion consists of a couple of questions for passage one, a couple of questions of passage 2, and compare/contrast questions for two passages. Before reading be prepared to come up with an argument that takes just one side of the issue in the prompt. An outline is key to structuring your essay. The five paragraph structure works well for this essay and length counts. Studies have found a correlation between long essays and higher scores, as ninety percent of essays over 400 words got the highest possible score of 12 out of 12.
 Remember, it's just a test. Your score doesn't define you as a person and it won't screw up the rest of your life if you don't get a perfect score. All you can do is prepare as much as you can and take the test. After that, it's out of your hands.
 This will increase your fluid intelligence which will improve your score.

the passages, read the questions to see what you are supposed to be looking for. The questions always give the number of the line they are talking about, which is helpful. Remember, while it is admirable to painstakingly read each passage and think long and hard about each answer, you are being timed here. That being said, don't skim so quickly that you lose important details and the meaning of the passage. Also, do not attempt to answer the questions without first reading both passages.
 The essay is always to be written in persuasive essay format, so