 Think of a name not many people will use, but will easily remember. If it's inappropriate, you'll have a bad image. You can choose to use your real name if you'd like, or you can make up a good one. But choose wisely as you won't be able to change it later on.
 You don't want it to be like any other channel so be creative and make a totally new one that nobody but yourself could think of. Try and involve what you're doing into the name, such as Johns Artistic Channel - it's catchy, to the point and tells you what he will be doing on his channel. By adding aesthetic to the art in the name it gives you the vision of a cool and fun person showing YOU how to draw things., Once you are logged in, you will see your name or username at the top of the left menu. Click this to access your user page.
 It's a necessary piece of your YouTube channel. Make sure it has something to do with your channel name to ensure it's not confused with someone else's that looks similar., This is an image that is seen at the top of your channel page. YouTube will show examples of how the image will be displayed on the website, a TV, or a mobile device.


Use artwork that will draw your viewer’s attention. The cover image will set your channel apart from the rest of the YouTube interface.
Include your channel’s name or a message in the channel art. This will help solidify your name in the viewer’s mind.
YouTube recommend your channel art file should be 2560 x 1440 pixels
Change your channel art regularly. Unless you want to set a brand image by keeping the same picture, consider regularly changing your channel art about what content you are releasing in your channel. For example, if you are doing comedy sketches, change the channel art so that it relates to your current set of sketches.
Catch the readers attention by adding a cool and new picture to your channel. However, the picture needs to be about the thing you're doing on the channel. You need to put a picture on but with what type of mood you want. If you love art and you're a newcomer to YouTube bring out the silly in your icon so people know you're fun and always are up for a laugh on your channel. If you're formal and want to show your art skills to the world pick a more sensible picture filled with artistic talent.
To make art without Photoshop, use Picmonkey or Pixlr.
 Add a brief description for your channel to let the viewer know what kind of content to expect. To adjust the channel description, click the About tab in the main channel window. From there click the “+ Channel description” button.


Use the description to include links to your other websites, or to update news about your channel. Discuss who appears in your videos and link other related channels.
Make sure your description makes sense, because it is publicly visible at all times. It should most likely be a brief description of you and your channel.
 Look at your description and the intended video content. Use this to determine the name.


For example: if your videos are about knitting beautiful hats, you could call it: Proudly Knitted; The Infinite Knitter; or Woolly Mountains. And so forth.
 If you add links to your social media from your channel, make sure you have created a separate account for each example, Facebook page, Twitter account, Instagram account. But remember, it's not always recommended to do this., The first step to adding content is deciding what you want to share with the world. People use YouTube for a huge variety of things, from watching music videos, laughing at comedy sketches, learning with tutorial videos, and much more. Think about what you can bring to audiences that they aren’t getting from anyone else.
 If your friends keep telling you that you’re funny, consider making comedy videos. If singing is your thing, upload some videos of you performing. The key is to create content that will keep your viewers coming back to see more.
 Reviews are a great way to gain viewers, especially if you are reviewing something that people will be searching for. People always want to see good reviews before making the decision to purchase a product or service. There are a variety of possible review topics, including:


New albums
The latest gadgets
TV and movies
Video games
Books
Restaurants and other food products
Businesses

, Constantly try to create more content for your viewers. Not only will a steady stream of content keep your audience glued to your channel, it will also help you improve your craft as you continue to develop your style.


Brush up on basic video-making techniques. If you’re talking into the camera, make sure that the camera is steady and that you are speaking clearly and at a good volume. You may have the funniest skit in the world, but nobody is going to watch it if they can’t hear or see you properly.
If you are making a YouTube video for a gaming channel, you will need a recording software. There are many recording software out there, Bandicam being one of the most popular.
With the Bandicam free trial, you can make videos up to ten minutes for free!

, Cut out unneeded parts of the video, and add music to keep the viewer on your video. A well-edited video will make a much stronger impression on viewers than a hastily thrown together creation. Spend some time learning the ins and outs of your video editing software. Look up tutorials on how to perform basic editing functions.


There are a variety of free and open source video editors available online. Many of these contain the same features or similar features as expensive professional editing software. For beginners, feel free to get acquainted with the free software that comes with your computer. For Macs, iMovie and for Windows, it's the Windows Movie Maker. After you become acquainted with these interfaces and the technology behind them, you can progress to more complicated and more powerful software.
If you use music, it will have to be Non-copyright music, or music with permission of the maker.
 Most viewers will determine a video’s worth in the first few seconds. Strive to make your intros both entertaining and informative. The longer viewers watch your video, the higher YouTube will rank your videos on search results.


Show a teaser of clips from the video that the viewer is about to watch.
Make sure that your personality is front and center from the start of the video. Talk directly to the audience. Introduce the video personally, quickly discussing what to expect (don’t give away your twist if you have one!).
If you’ve built a brand, such as your name or a series that you are creating, make sure that is distinct and professional looking at the start of your video.
When making a nonfiction video, such as a review or tutorial, make sure that the purpose of the video is clear at the very beginning. This will keep viewers from looking for another, more informative video.
 The media constantly creates hype around events throughout the year, in virtually every field of interest. These are referred to as “Tent-pole” events. Examine your programming and determine which events are tent-pole events for your audience.


Create videos leading up to the event to capitalize on pre-event searches. As anticipation grows for an event, more and more people will be searching for related content.
Create videos during the event to cover it as it is happening. This is great for viewers that can’t otherwise experience the event themselves.
Create follow-up videos after the event. Use this time to summarize what happened and analyze any information.
Interact with your viewers throughout the process to keep them coming back to your channel.
During big events, increase the amount of content you release to continue capitalizing on new viewers. More content shows viewers that you are knowledgeable and passionate about the event.
 Every video, fiction or nonfiction, essentially needs to tell a story. There should be a definitive beginning, middle, and ending. This is as true for comedy sketches as it is for a tutorial on taking care of flowers.


Break up long videos into segments that focus on different aspects of the larger issue that the video is addressing. This will make the content more digestible for the viewer.
 These are boxes of text that appear in your video stream. Use them to direct viewers to other videos, channels, external websites and more.


You can use annotations to easily allow viewers to subscribe to your channel.
Use annotations on old videos to link to updated content.
Annotations can act as a “table of contents” for long videos, allowing you to link to specific times in the video.
 If you have made a name for yourself making skits, spend an episode talking directly with the audience, answering popular questions from the comments and discussing the process of your creativity. This behind-the-scenes look will create a stronger bond with your audience and make them feel like they have an impact on your work.
 Although it's great to post every hour, not everyone is that enticed to post that often. You may want to upload a new video daily or every other day., But if you can't afford those, you can try Bandicam, until you have earned enough capital., Log in to YouTube and click the Videos tab in your User page. From here, click the “+ Upload a video” button to start uploading your content. Click the “Select files to upload” button to browse for video files, or drag them into the window. YouTube will begin converting and uploading the video.


If you want to control who watches the video, click the Privacy drop-down menu and select Private. You can then add the YouTube usernames or email addresses of the people who you want to be able to view the file. You can send up to 50 private invitations per video.
If you want to upload videos that are longer than 15 minutes, you will need to verify your account with Google.
 You can't upload something if you can't give it a name! The titles of your videos are the trigger to earning views, likes, comments, and even subscriptions at times., Tagging your videos will help make it show up when viewers search for content. Make sure that your tags apply to your video, but also make sure that you aren’t using the same tags as everyone else in your genre.


Try to narrow down your appeal to a few keywords when coming up with tags. For example, instead of tagging your video as “singing”, narrow it down to the style: “blues singing”, “country singing”, “freestyle rapping”, etc.
You can tag videos any way that you think people will search for it. Your tags should thoroughly describe the content of your video.
Use a mixture of broad and specific tags. For example, if you are making a short comedy film about ninjas, use the tags “short film”, “ninjas”, “funny”, “martial arts”, “action”, “fighting”, “silly”, etc.
You can use tags to create “sets” of videos. Create a unique tag and then apply it to each video that you want to keep together. This will lead to more clicks through to your related videos.
 When recording, make sure you keep a schedule of what day you need to record so that you don't pressure yourself with recording every day., If you want to have a successful channel, you will need a steady stream of content. Try to update your channel every couple of weeks. Let your viewers know if you are going to be taking an extended break, and when you’ll be back.


Setting a consistent release schedule can help build a following. Think of it like a TV show; everyone looks forward to a new episode of their favorite show, and they know exactly when it will be coming. Try to update weekly or every other week.
 Try to respond to comments when you have time. This will create a stronger bond between you and your viewers. Viewers that feel that the content creator cares about them will be more inclined to return and watch more content, as well as tell others about it.


Spend a few hours after uploading a video responding to the comments that viewers make about it. These viewers are your most die-hard fans because they are the ones eagerly anticipating the release of new content and are brave enough to comment on it. Treat them with respect, and you will see their numbers grow.
Moderate the comments on your page as much as possible. While reading nasty comments can be funny, they detract from your channel and drive viewers away. Remove comments that would offend others and report abusive users. This will help create a friendlier environment for your regular viewers.
Pose questions to your viewers. Try to keep the questions simple, such as Yes/No questions or “Voting” questions. This will keep negative feedback down and promote good discussion amongst your viewers.
 If you have older content that your newer viewers probably haven’t seen, stick it in your feed so that everyone sees it on the front of your channel page. This can give your old videos some increased traffic.
 You should be spending as much time on possible logged into YouTube, even when you’re not actively maintaining your channel. You should be watching other’s videos, interacting with other users, and browsing for like-minded content.


Link to other user’s content that you feel complements your own. This will help your channel show up on searches as related viewing.
Try to maintain a schedule for adding other links to other videos. Curate your linked and liked videos on days that you are not uploading your own videos. This will help break up the wait between your videos, keeping your viewers active on your channel.
When liking other videos, make sure that they are videos that you feel will appeal to the widest audience of your viewers as possible. You don’t want to turn away your audience because no one likes the video you liked.
 Once you upload something, there's a bit of a chance that your video will get views, and sometimes people like to leave their thoughts about the video you uploaded down in the comments section. So, it's a good idea to always keep check of your videos., Try to incorporate viewer commentary and creations into your videos. Post submission guidelines such as requiring a subscription to your channel.
 Forge relationships with other creators in the same field as yourself. Cross-promote each other’s channels to boost viewership. Do guest spots on another person’s videos, and invite others to guest start in yours.


Make sure that your viewers can easily reach the channels that you are collaborating with. You want them to be spending their time delving into the content that your community has created.
 Link videos and playlists from your channels into Facebook, Google+, Twitter, and other social media outlets. Encourage your friends, both online and offline, to pass your links on to others.


Avoid spamming your social media networks with links to your channels. A friendly reminder now and then is good, but almost no one reacts positively to being hammered with links.
 Don’t force it down their throats, but suggest that viewers share your videos if they like them. These messages are best saved for the end of the video after the important content has been viewed. Remind your viewers to “like” your videos.
 That's bad. If you somehow feel that when you're popular enough and people are re-uploading your content, search on YouTube the name of your videos to see if someone re-uploaded them without your consent., If you found your videos in someone else's channel, warn them. No need for conflict, unless they don't stop doing that then you can report them to YouTube.