 Going in with a good attitude about how the game is going to turn out and how you can perform will help you to build enthusiasm and self-confidence. In fact, successful athletes possess a multitude of mental skills, including maintaining a positive attitude and using positive self-talk.Try not to focus on the negatives or failures but to reflect on the positives.


Make a list of your best skills and all the things you've improved on in the last weeks, months, or even years. Write these things down, and use them to give yourself a pep talk. "I am the best at blocking on my team, and I've really improved on my free-throws. I know I can do this!"
Talk to yourself like you were talking to your best friend: would you blame them for missing a catch, or would you encourage them to believe that they can get it next time?
When you find yourself feeling down, use positive self talk to pull your mood up. "Hey, I know that I messed up back there, but I tried my best, and I learned something new. I'm going to practice all this week, and I'll do better next time!"
If you need a bigger pep-talk going into the game, talk to your friends, coach, or even your parents. Ask them what areas they think you do well in, where you can improve, and ask for their help.
 Before it's time to go out and play, get your mind in the zone by closing your eyes and picturing yourself doing well, whether you're dribbling the ball, passing the puck, or running across home base. Studies have found that even as little as five minutes of mental visualizations boost performance significantly, even for novices and amateurs. What happens is because you "see" yourself performing perfectly, your brain creates a neural pattern for your muscles to follow.You will want to incorporate all of your senses--sight, sound, touch, smell, and taste--into the fantasy and make it as detailed as possible, right down to picturing the crowds, the weather, and the feel of the ball in your hands.Just like practicing your actual moves, you will need to practice your visualization techniques in order to make it easier for yourself.
Make sure your mental images are realistic. Not even Michael Jordan could dunk a basketball from 300 feet away; don't set goals for yourself that you can't reach.
 A lot of athletes like to listen to songs with a fast beat and uplifting or empowering lyrics before starting a game. It's easy to channel nervous energy into positive excitement when you have messages telling you that you can do it to sing or hum along to. Try building your own playlist to listen to on an MP3 player or use free services like Youtube or Bandcamp on your phone or a tablet right before you're due to start.
 Although we often think of babies throwing fits because they're tired, hungry, or thirsty, older kids, teenagers, and even grown adults are just as susceptible to mood fluctuations due to certain imbalances. The same activities--eating, sleeping, and drinking correctly--that keep our bodies healthy also help to support a healthy mind. While some strong emotions like disappointment, excitement, and anger are an expected part of playing, you can help to make sure they are within a healthy range by maintaining good practices up to and during your games.


Scientific evidence supports the concept of people becoming "hangry" if they haven't eaten enough.Sleep deprived people can easily become more stressed, angry, sad, and mentally exhausted.Mild dehydration causes anger and mood swings.