 Mothers are encouraged to watch what they eat while they are breastfeeding. You should avoid eating foods that are not easily digested.


This includes cruciferous veggies like cauliflower and cabbage, chocolate, and allergenic foods like soy, wheat, peanuts, eggs, fish, tree nuts and dairy.
This is because these foods are not easily digestible and they may irritate the digestive system of the baby that is still immature.;
, If your baby is suffering from colic, it's a good idea to try switching the baby's formula, as the current feed may be irritating the baby's tummy.


Consider swapping from the standard formula containing cow’s milk to one that does not contain the cow’s milk.
Studies have shown that colicky babies benefit from hypoallergenic formulas because they decrease the symptoms of colic.
 Studies have shown that some infants who suffer from colic benefit from probiotics.Probiotics are natural bacterium that are found in the digestive system which help to promote good health.


It's possible to buy artificial probiotics which mimic the effects of natural probiotics. These can be added to the formula of the baby, as they are sold in powder or drop form.
Studies have shown that babies who were treated with a probiotic called lactobacillus reuteri cried much less.The probiotics should be given according to instructions of the manufacturer.
 It is important that you burp the baby after every feed as this helps to remove any wind that is trapped in the digestive system.


This is done by holding the baby over your shoulder, sitting her upright on your lap or placing her tummy-down, across your lap. The baby is then gently patted or rubbed on the back to help in bringing up the wind.
It is also advisable to massage the tummy gently using clockwise movements, as this helps to move any wind or stool that is trapped in the intestines.
 When breastfeeding the baby, it is a good idea to hold the baby in an upright position as much as possible. This helps to reduce wind that is likely to make the baby uncomfortable and increase colic.
 When the baby is fed from a bottle, it is important to ensure that the baby is not swallowing air.


This can be done by ensuring that the baby is in an upright position during feeding. It is also important to tilt the bottle so that the milk covers the entrance to the teat.
A bottle with a fast flow teat is better than a bottle with a very small teat. Fast flow teats help to reduce the chances of the baby swallowing air as they feed., Since the baby has an immature digestive tract, it is important to warm milk before feeding to prevent stomach upset and irritation due to the cold temperature.
 If you are breastfeeding your baby, it's important to avoid drinking beverages that contain caffeine (coffee, tea, energy drinks) as caffeinated drinks aggravate colic due to their acidic component.


The stimulating effects of caffeine can also be passed on to the baby, which can be irritating for them.
 It is best to feed your baby smaller amounts of milk more frequently. Small feedings are recommended in order to avoid too much wind inside the baby’s stomach.


To determine the right amount of milk feeding to your baby, multiply your baby's weight by 150mL. For example, if your baby weighs 3kgs, she will need 450mL of milk in a 24 hour period.
You can divide this into 6 to 8 small feedings per day, given at regular time intervals.

