 Being pro choice does not necessarily mean hating babies or coercing people into terminating a pregnancy. It is about allowing people to evaluate their own situations, think hard, and then choose what is best in their unique circumstances.


Mention how abortion centers will interview the patient to ensure that they are not being pushed or manipulated into the abortion.One Planned Parenthood ex-volunteer describes being trained on how to give resources (e.g. rehab brochures, information on subsidized childcare) to someone who said that they wanted to keep their pregnancy but didn't think they could."Choice" includes choosing to keep and love a fetus.;
, Pregnancy involves around nine months of difficult or debilitating symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, bloating, cravings, exhaustion, and more. The UN has classified forcing a pregnant person to continue a pregnancy against their will as torture., For example, in most countries, vital organs cannot be harvested from a corpse without the dead person's prior consent. If corpses are allowed to control organs that could save lives, while pregnant people cannot control their uteruses, then a pregnant person has less bodily rights than a corpse., Some pregnancies, such as tubal pregnancies, are ticking time bombs—the fetus faces certain death and the pregnant person could be harmed too. These people should have the right to safety.


Aborting a fetus before it naturally miscarries, and being kind about it, can save the pregnant person a lot of pain and danger to health (especially if the dying fetus was wanted and loved).Ask if causing both pregnant person and fetus to die is pro life.
 Ask if they believe the birth of an unwanted child to a young, promising person would hinder their life. Of course it will: it'll cause financial expense, increased stress, enormous medical bills (if they lack adequate insurance), and other hardships. Ask: Is it ethical to force this upon someone who never asked for it?


Not all pregnant people consented to sex—rape victims didn't, and some pregnant people were too young to consent to sex (e.g. 13-year-old girls).
Even if the sex that led to pregnancy was consensual, consent to one thing does not automatically translate to equal consent to another. Many people may not fully comprehend the implications of their actions. Thus, why would consent to sex be viewed as consent to pregnancy and childbirth?
Around 3/4 of people who get abortions say they could not afford a(nother) child.Is the pro-life person supporting programs that would help low-income families?

, They may argue exceptions of rape, incest, pregnant children/teens, dead or dying fetuses, et cetera. Ask what makes these cases so different. Continue examining different cases, and they'll begin to realize that abortion is far more than black and white.


For rape/incest exceptions, point out that this isn't about a "right to life" at all then, because a fetus created from rape is no less alive than a fetus created from consensual sex. It is about punishing the pregnant person (often a woman) for consenting to sex.For "pro need" type beliefs, point out that this is the foundation of the pro choice movement: that if the pregnant person feels their individual case is serious, then they should be able to abort. Shake their hand and say you wholeheartedly agree.

