 Subscribe to Hollywood trade publications ("the trades") and websites, like the ubiquitous Deadline.com (a must-read), to get a handle on what's being developed and produced by a studio or network. For example, Deadline reported last year that NBC was pushing big on medical dramas. What does that mean for you? That this year medical dramas are a lot less likely to sell, as NBC is currently developing 5-6 of them.


Visit the directories to get the complete list of industry contacts, cross-referenced by company, name, and show, and keep notes of names that are frequently attached to projects like yours.
 Once you know what studios are producing similar ideas make a list of all the relevant companies. Find out if they accept unsolicited pitches. The best way to do this is through their website. Find phone numbers, emails for assistants, and anything that talks about idea generation (such as "how to pitch").


This is largely a matter of common sense. You wouldn't pitch a cheesy monster movie to NBC, you'd send it to SyFy. You wouldn't send over a period drama to Judd Apatow's production company. Think about what the studio is already making to pitch to the right people.Many studios have fellowship programs. These are paid 6-8 week programs that help you develop and hone your ideas. They are, however, incredibly competitive and pay very little.
 Meeting people is still the number one way to sell an idea. Whenever you meet someone who is even tangentially involved in making films, set up a time to get coffee together. Even if this person isn't able to make your idea a reality, they may know someone who can. That said, do not make friends simply to try and get famous -- just be your normal, friendly self and offer up your ideas organically.


When possible, work on film and TV sets as a production assistant or intern. You'll meet many industry contacts who may need a new idea for their next project.
If you've published before, or have industry experience, you could consider hiring an agent, though it is not strictly necessary.
While not strictly necessary, selling your idea to Hollywood is easiest if you're in Hollywood. If you're serious, it's time to move to LA.
 These sites, which charge you a nominal fee to host and "directly" pitch your idea to development executives, have a spotty track record. Yet some of them, like The Blacklist, have launched careers and ideas before. Be sure to thoroughly vet a pitching service before sending them money.


Research any of their "success stories" online and on IMDB to see how the projects went.
Search for online testimonials. Many screenwriting and film sites allow people to comment on the effectiveness of an company.
Get and keep verification and proof of your idea from any company you send to. This can prevent theft later on and make sure your idea stays yours.
 If you show someone a trailer or a short cut of footage, you immediately capture their attention and show that you mean business. This is a great way to get funding as well, and it is always easier to get funding if you already have it. Some ideas include:


A crowd-sourcing campaign to shoot your first episode, scene, or promo.
A blog detailing your work on the idea.
Storyboard, scripts, or animatics.

