 It's free in the Windows 10 app store; you can find it listed under the name "Easy Movie Maker".While you can technically download the classic "Windows Movie Maker", Microsoft no longer supports it.;
, Your dedicated "Pictures" folder is a good place to start if you don't have any ideas.
 If you don't want to move the actual music file (e.g., MP3), simply copy and paste the file.
 This will create a new, empty folder on your desktop.
 This will make retrieving these files whilst creating your slideshow a quick and efficient process. You are now ready to make your slideshow!

,, This should take you to a photo selection screen.
 Easy Movie Maker will import your photos.


If you forget to add a specific photo, you can add it into the slide show by clicking the plus sign in the bottom right-hand corner of Movie Maker.
 This will allow you to reorder your photos as you see fit.
, This will save your progress.
 You can change settings such as lighting, color, the photo's default animation, and the display duration from here.


You can repeat this process for every photo in the slideshow.



You can also click the X in the upper left-hand corner to cancel your edits.
 This will determine which effect, if any, displays while transferring from your first photo to your second.


You can repeat this process for every transition in the slide show.
 This will take you to the text screen.
 This will allow you to input text.
 This will cement your text to the photo.


To add more text to the picture, click the plus sign in the lower right-hand corner of the screen.
 This will adjust the amount of time your text remains on the screen.
 This is in the upper right-hand corner of your screen.


Windows will prompt you to choose a save location. Make sure you save somewhere easily accessible.



If you closed out of Movie Maker, simply re-open the app.
 This will prompt you to select a video to add music to.
 The slideshow should be exactly where you saved it.
 This will allow you to add music to your slide show.
 You should be able to use most file types (e.g., MP3, WAV, WMV).
 This will import it into Movie Maker., Your music will automatically adjust itself to be the length of your slide show.
 Your slideshow is now complete!

