 How many people can read your posts? If you have your privacy settings set to "Everyone", even complete strangers will be able to view your messages. Consider whether you really want that.;
, How many people are your "friends" on Facebook? Even if your privacy is set to "Friends only", did you "friend" your mailman and your second-grade teacher? Do you want them to know about your relationship worries? How many people will read this on your partner's page?

, Pretend that everyone who reads your posts is sitting in the same room with you. How would you act? What kind of information would you share? You are dealing with very personal issues. If you wouldn't talk about something to someone "in the real world", don't do it on the internet! Once you put information into the web, chances are it will outlast the reason why you put it there and you have very little control over what happens to it.
 This is not just about you. If your partner upset you, it obviously involves him/her as well, but quite probably ONLY them and you. You might be sitting at home and tempted to find an outlet for your frustration, but broadcasting it all over the place will very likely make things worse, not better. If you think screaming the message you are dying to send from your balcony would be crazy, don't post it on Facebook! It's like a huge balcony with lots of people under it.
 Not only will your partner be upset that you dragged up to several hundred people into your relationship (and that really is a crowd!), probably you will seem rash and rude to everyone who reads it, so if nothing else, you are making yourself look really bad. Most of your Facebook friends probably would feel very uncomfortable being confronted with such personal information. It might make them feel awkward whenever they are around you or your partner.
 If you want to get rid of some negative feelings, go ahead and write them down. Take some time and breathe deeply. Read what you wrote down. Then decide whether you want to share these thoughts with your partner and how you want to go about it.
 Either meet them, or call them on the phone. Find a way to resolve your differences without embarrassing yourself or them in front of others. A good method of achieving this is by using nonviolent communication.

