 This means finding a place where you can be undisturbed, where it's quiet and peaceful and you feel comfortable just being. Allow yourself time to settle, then prepare to think and let your thoughts run where they will. For some people, this will be a quiet room, for others, it will mean taking a walk in nature or through the cityscape, while for others, it may be going somewhere new. Select the thinking space according to what you feel most comfortable with.;
, How many times have you asked yourself “what is life really all about anyway?” Maybe not in these exact words, but in one way or another. If you have, it’s then understandable that you’re also questioning your existence. We are part of where we live; on a small scale, he or she who lives on the street is a homeless person: a person with no house and no job. On a much bigger scale, he or she who is brought to life is existent: a person with emotions, ambitions, love and more. To understand you, understand the life that surrounds you. Are you in a poor country, where thousands die every day or in a luxurious place where celebrities roam the streets, how does either make you feel? Willing to do anything to help out a starving child? Tired of seeing the media focusing on materialistic rich people? That feeling is a big part of who you are. It’s then safe to say that the level of your comfort in a given place or situation also defines in a way who you are.
 Look at it from the angle of a third person. It’s not easy you say? Try it first; think of it as if you’re an alien looking down at the human race. There are many personalities, many traits, many faiths, many families, many jobs/activities, many leaders and many followers. If you had to start fresh, where you fit most, where would you see yourself?

, How close to that are you? Is it like north and south: not even close? If so, then clearly who you are physically and who you are mentally are not homogeneous, not at one. What likely has happened is that you have adapted to your reality. You settled for the present, for what was given to you by a series of life events that lead to where you are.
 What aspect (or aspects) would you never change, no matter what? Such things as becoming a parent, a manager, a lover, etc., may be what really matters to you. That aspect is then an achievement, it’s a check mark on your bucket list: that aspect is the highlight of your life thus far. Think about it.
 No matter how ridiculous you think your thought is, add it to the list. Yes, it might be very hard to become a surgeon at 40 but it’s not impossible. In fact, many things aren't anywhere near as impossible as they seem. Maybe not feasible in an effortless way, but not impossible. Aside from illustrating in wording on paper what your goals and interest are which is a big part of who you are, that list can also be a simple reminder that you have not fully settled into a rigid routine, that you have not stopped looking for more, that you’re life has not reached a dead end.
 As humans, we live in the present physically but in the future mentally. Where are you in the future? Somewhere closer to point one? This only reinforces the thought that you’re not totally fulfilled in your present.
 Your subconscious holds the answers to every question you have asked yourself about you. If only that information were easily accessible. Unfortunately, it’s not. Even trying to understand who you really are and what you really want takes time, patience and effort. But that's the whole point of giving yourself the time and space to reflect on this question. Persevere, it takes a lifetime.
 Good luck with that, you’re having a hard enough time trying to decode yourself. That’s why humans tend to try to analyze others at times just because they gave up trying to analyze themselves: it’s always easier to get into someone else’s mind because then, you don’t have the need to go in deep.
 Of course, first gather enough energy to ask the question, then enough energy to hear the answer. It’s not so easy when you let others define you, unless of course, they’re complimenting you. However, if it’s only compliments that you have been getting, then they’re not being fully open with you. Everyone holds a few criticisms on each person they know even those you love the most. No one is perfect.
 You aren't stuck in time, you change and grow as you age, and you are someone with multiple layers, some of which are sloughed away over time and some of which are thickened in time. Take the time to reflect on who you are now and then, without over obsessing or becoming self-absorbed about it. It's a balance, as with all things in life, to understand yourself, so that you may better understand the world you're in and the people who surround you.

