 When it comes to teaching children respect, it all boils down to this. Children are very impressionable. In addition, they naturally look up to their caretakers and try to imitate these people. Live a kind, caring, respectful life and your children will learn that this is the way adults are expected to behave. On the other hand, act disrespectfully to your children or other people in your life and they may soon pick up your bad habits.


See our main article on how to be respectful for lots of tips on this topic.;
, In the "real world," when people aren't respectful, they don't get what they want. Their date throws a drink in their face, they get asked to leave, and in extreme cases, they get tossed in jail. When they are respectful, though, they can get what they want. Teach this lesson to children by only giving them what they want when they are respectful. They'll quickly learn that it's almost always smarter to be kind than to throw a fit.


For example, if your children love their video games, let them play them only if they've been respectful to you in the past day. If they've been rude, insulting, or disobedient, take them away and do not give them back until they can go an entire day without any bad behavior.
 Children don't have the argumentative skills that adults do. Losing your temper can be a scary, confusing experience for them. Worse, it can teach them that it's OK to yell, mock, or threaten other people when they become frustrated. Always remember that you're setting an example for your children. Show them that difficult situations are best conquered with a cool head.


If you must, give yourself chances to "let off steam" when your kids aren't around. Have someone else watch the kids while you pummel a punching bag, for instance.
 One of the reasons respect is so important is that it's needed to form helpful friendships and relationships with others. Teach your children that respect allows them to build bridges by giving them fun opportunities to work with teammates and partners toward a mutual goal. If they get rude or possessive, warn them. If they keep it up, end the activity.


One great example is to play a board game (ideally with teams). For the game to "work," the children will have to respect the other players and exercise patience.
 No one's perfect. Being respectful shouldn't mean "never screwing up." Children — especially young ones — will make lots of mistakes. If your child messes up in front of you and truly didn't know any better, don't get upset or punish the child. Use it as a teaching experience so that your child can eventually learn not to make this same mistake again.


You'll also want to acknowledge your own mistakes. If you do something like swearing in front of your children or yelling when you're angry, apologize. Your apology teaches children to self-correct should they make a similar mistake.
 Patience is a sign of respect. It may take some children longer to learn how to behave respectfully around others. Becoming impatient with children only teaches them to become impatient people, so instead take time to explain the problem to your children — even if they've made the same mistake a million times before.

