 The ingredients in the facials serve different purposes, so decide whether your skin needs a basic, wrinkle-fighting, hydrating, lightening, rejuvenating, acne-fighting, moisturizing and anti-aging, or refreshing facial. You can also combine different ingredients for a multi-purpose facial.


Lemons and oranges are high in vitamin C, which is needed for our skin to produce collagen. Lemon is also an excellent toner for the skin, while both fruits fight acne scars and help fade sun spots.Honey is an antioxidant and an antibacterial cleanser that softens and moisturizes skin.
Olive oil is high in vitamin E, beta-carotene, and antioxidants, plus it has anti-inflammatory properties, and makes for an excellent skin cleanser and moisturizer.Red wine is full of antioxidants that can help repair sun damage, wrinkles, and saggy skin. White wine also has some antioxidants, which is why you can use either for this facial. White wine may have fewer antioxidants than red, but you won’t risk staining your skin with it.Kaolin clay, or white cosmetic clay, can draw dirt and impurities from your skin, leaving your face clean and fresh.
Oat flour and oatmeal are both excellent for exfoliating the skin and removing dead cells.
On top of being full of vitamin C, strawberries also contain exfoliating alpha hydroxy acids, and this allows moisturizers to penetrate better.Bee pollen acts as an exfoliant.
Papaya is full of enzymes that exfoliate and lighten the skin,smooth and repair the skin, reduce the appearance of sun spots, and will even out your pigmentation.Coffee beans are great for inflammation and redness, they exfoliate the skin, and they can reduce swelling and dark circles under your eyes.Cocoa powder is full of antioxidants and sulfur, which helps with fighting acne.
Cinnamon (as well as nutmeg)is also great for inflammation and redness, and can help fight acne.Avocado is chocked full of the age-fighting vitamins A, D, and E, as well as skin-softening fatty acids. It’s also an excellent moisturizer,and contains lots of other antioxidants.Bananas are great sources of vitamins A, B, and E, all of which help to fight the signs of aging.
Cucumber calms and cools the skin, because it is usually cooler than the surrounding environment.;
, Regardless of which facial you choose to make, the recipe combination and application techniques will be the same.


In a small bowl, stir together all your ingredients.
If you want to make a larger batch that you can store and use later, increase the quantities equally.
 Use the tips of your fingers to gently spread the mixture all over your face. Do not apply the mask to your eyes or your lips. For full-body benefits, also apply the mixture to your:Throat and neck
Shoulders, arms, and elbows
Hands and feet
Knees and legs

, Once that time has elapsed, rinse off the mask. You can either do this in the shower, or gently wipe it off with a washcloth and warm water over the sink.


Even in the shower, you may still need to use a washcloth to fully remove the mask.
 The combination of ingredients in these recipes will cleanse and moisturize your face, provide your skin with essential nutrients and vitamins, will even out your skin tone, improve elasticity, and help fight the signs of aging.
 To get the most benefits from your facial, scrub your skin beforehand. Use your favorite exfoliant to gently remove dirt, oil, and dead skin.


Exfoliating also leaves your skin fresh and ready to absorb the nourishing ingredients in the facial., After scrubbing, run a washcloth under hot water. Wring out the excess and lie down with the cloth over your face for three to five minutes., If the skin on your face has areas that require different treatments, don’t be afraid to apply different masks to multiple areas of your face.


To remove the mask most effectively, repeat the steaming process again.
 Toning helps to hydrate and calm your skin, and moisturizing with your favorite cream or lotion will help lock in all the goodness from your facial, and prevent your skin from drying out.

