 The classic Foil Knight costume utilizes around-the-house supplies for its construction, so even if this is a last minute, thrown together costume, you're likely to have the right supplies on hand. Try to accumulate your supplies completely, thinking about what you might like to add, so that you do not have to waste costume making time hunting down a pair of scissors!

Aluminum foil
Black elastic or ribbon
Cardboard
Construction paper
Gray pants and sweatshirt
Markers
Paint
Phillips screwdriver
Scissors
Silver card stock
Tape/stapler;
, Some fantastical depictions, like the movie Lord of the Rings, show some noble characters, like elves, going into battle with a circlet in place of the traditional medieval battle helm. To give yourself an air of nobility, a circlet might be the way to go, but if you want to come across as a no-nonsense knight, you might prefer a battle helm.


Circlet: take your card stock and draw a crown. You can do this in a traditional style, with the crown coming to elaborate points over the head, but in principle, cut a strip of construction paper wide enough to fit around your head in the shape of a crown. This will form the headband. Wrap the strip of paper around your head to find the appropriate length for your head. Cut and fasten the two ends of your paper together with tape or a stapler.

If you have no card stock and no time to get any, a shirt box will work in a pinch.



Battle Helmet: use a plate or circular object to help draw a circle on your silver card stock that is bigger than your head for the top piece of your helmet. Add a point to your circle that comes out to one side, making a teardrop shape. This point will be the front of your helmet. Now outline your teardrop shape so there is about an inch in between the two lines. Cut along your outer line, clipping slits in your inch margin between first and second lines. Fold your inch margin down to form tabs to connect the top and bottom pieces. Make the bottom piece by cutting a 10 to 20 inch piece of silver card stock, folding it in half longways, and then cutting a triangle that has its right angle opposite the crease. This will be where the top of your helmet inserts. Along the fold, cut a slit or slits for eye holes, and then fit your tabs into the opening of your bottom piece, stapling, taping, or gluing the two pieces together., Don't go over the top with elaborate designs or minute detail; your sword will be covered with aluminum foil before too long, to give it a metallic effect.Cut a simple, cross-shaped sword to your desired size.

Small details might not show up under the tin foil, but curving your sword will give it the look of a scimitar. You can cut almost any simple medieval weapon (ax, trident, spear) from cardboard.
You can achieve the same metallic effect with some paints. Use metallic paint to give your sword a unique design.
 Card stock and cardboard might not seem so impressive, but you can easily give each a metallic gleam, as though made by a medieval metal smith, by covering both crown and sword in aluminum foil., Draw the shape of your shield (likely diamond) onto cardboard to cut out.Measure and mark the holes for shield-strap, which occupy the center of the shield.Cut your shield from the excess cardboard, and then use your Phillips screwdriver, punch holes for your shield-strap., Taking your elastic or a piece of hardy ribbon through the two holes in the center of your shield, tie knots to keep your handle in place. From here, you can cover your shield with foil, paint it with designs, or add a coat of arms.

Popular shield designs you might want to consider: the fleur de lis, a roaring lion, a griffin, a castle turret.
 Put on your gray clothing and have a friend or your squire help you into your newly made knightly gear. A larger sweatshirt will give you the appearance of a medieval tunic.

Black undergarments can also be worn for more ominous effect.

