 In some situations, your doctor or physical therapist may prescribe specific exercises or movements that you should do. This is especially common if you have limited mobility due to a recent injury.The exercises and activities prescribed by your doctor or physical therapist are designed to help you avoid muscle deterioration or loss as a result of inactivity from limited mobility.
For example, you may be prescribed isometric exercises, in which you push against an object or another part of your body without moving the joint.
 No matter what kind of physical activity you're doing, you need to warm up first to get your blood flowing and your muscles ready to work. Skipping a warm-up can lead to cramps and other injuries.Likewise, you should end any exercise routine with some stretching and cooling down to lower your heart rate after activity.
Some ideas for a good warm-up include walking or jogging in place, arm and leg lifts or circles, and shoulder rolls. Generally, you just want to move your body all around and get it loose and ready to move.
 You have a lot of options in terms of how to exercise and the types of exercises to do. If you have limited mobility, focus on exercises that mimic actions you normally perform throughout the day.For example, if you're often reaching into high cupboards, look for exercises that involve lifting overhead or improving the range of motion in your shoulders, such as overhead presses and triceps extensions.
 When you have limited mobility, you shouldn't try to exercise parts of your body that are injured or otherwise limited. Instead, train other parts of the body to compensate.For example, if you have a shoulder injury, you'll want to focus your strength training exercises on your lower body and your core. If you have limited mobility in your legs, on the other hand, work on upper body and core strength training.
 If you're just starting to exercise, go for a few minutes each day. Get used to being active and make it a part of your regular routine, then gradually increase the length of time you exercise each day.Set small, reachable goals for yourself. For example, if your overall goal is to lose 20 pounds, you might set a smaller goal of losing a pound a week. Keep track of your progress and allow yourself a small reward for each successful week.
 When you have limited mobility, start strength training with the lowest weight possible. Increase repetitions first, then increase the weight. You can use soup cans or other household items if you can't find dumbbells light enough to start.For example, you might start doing 2 sets of 5 repetitions of bicep curls with 2-pound dumbbells. After a week or two, do 2 sets of 7 repetitions, then 3 sets of 5 repetitions. When you're up to 3 sets of 10 repetitions, move up to 3-pound dumbbells.
 A water aerobics class is a low-impact way to build muscles as well as increase your cardiovascular strength. The water both supports your body and adds resistance as you move through it.Check at your local fitness center or health club to find out what water exercise classes are available. Ask if there are any classes specifically for people with limited mobility.
 Cycling is a relatively low-impact, whole-body workout that is easy on the joints. Stationary bikes typically are easier because you can control the resistance and don't have to worry about balancing the bike on rough terrain.You also may be able to find a portable pedal machine. You can set these machines in front of your chair or sofa and get exercise while watching television or reading a book.
 Many recreational and everyday activities also may provide exercise if you have limited mobility. Think of the things you enjoy doing, such as gardening or fishing, and try to incorporate them into your regular schedule.For example, fishing can help increase the strength and range of motion in your arms and shoulders.
Go for a walk with a friend so you can socialize while you're getting some exercise.

