 Any sport such as dance, cheer, basketball, soccer, lacrosse, hockey, etc. will do. But then again, everyone can play a sport. That's why a serious talent is mandatory. Anything like playing the flute, being a great poet, or an exotic sport (i.e. rugby, figure skating.) This really intrigues people as to read into you.


If you aren't good at anything, find a random sport and talent and practice, practice, practice. You won't be bad forever. Find a unique talent, something out of the norm so you stand out.





;
, Bumble and Bumble, Paul Mitchell, Pantene, Matrix, Aveda, etc. are all wonderful brands, but whatever works for you is important. "Works for you" means looks clean, shiny, smooth, and healthy.


If you are growing your hair out and refuse to cut it, then hydrate, hydrate, hydrate! Otherwise your ends will split and get stringy and your hair will not be long.Scene bangs, long layers, and highlights are very stylish. Highlights are a big must unless you have either banana blonde, slick black, or fiery red locks.(if you have really noticeable natural highlights your fine)







, Conair Deep Wave Iron creates beautiful, soft crimped waves. Get a good blow dryer, Bedhead has great ones. Another very important thing is getting trims and cuts often.
 Clinique, Estee Lauder, Bobbi Brown, and Lancome DO work but what's really important is to get at least eight hours of sleep and drink a ton of water. If you aren't sure what type of skin you have, go to Clinique and get tested. Buy the whole line of your number of skin. Buy concealer, foundation, blush, bronzer, mascara, eyeliner, eyeshadow, and more. Buy what's right for your skin.
 You can shop anywhere really, as long as the clothes are good quality. Wearing Abercrombie or American Eagle will make people want to be you. The key to mixing up your wardrobe is going exactly two weeks without wearing the same piece of clothing, making it look like you have endless amounts of clothes. Shoes are fine to repeat, but definitely not clothes. The most important thing in clothes is to make sure they suit your body. They should fit properly (finding a good tailor can help tremendously) and cover the parts of your body that are covered by a bathing suit. Leaving a bit up to the imagination is extremely attractive because it shows that you aren't the type that will show your body to just anybody. Another thing that helps is first building a wardrobe of basics (plain tees, pants, tanks, cardigans, oxfords, polos, etc.) and then reading fashion magazines to find out the latest trend. Only buy a few of the trendy pieces: Heidi Klum says that in fashion, "One day you're in, and the next day you're out." Trends come and go, and you don't want to look like a slave to fashion. Whatever you wear, be comfortable in it, make it yours, and own it!

, Most of these "It-Girl" types are in love with Juicy Couture, Coach, Marc Jacobs, or Michael Kors. Or even all four is fine, but you should have a signature brand. You should have two designer bags; a fun one and a basic one. Louis Vuitton and Michael Kors make very nice ones. Also, owning the cutest shoes is key to being a girly girl. Get something stylish, good quality, and appropriate for the occasion. (For example, don't wear platform stilettos to a track meet, it will only make others see you as ridiculous) For starters, make sure you have a pair of cute flats (Juicy Couture and J. Crew make very nice ones), a nice pair of boots (Equestrian boots are all over the place this Fall, although a nice cowboy boot or booty will make you stand out in the crowd. Beware the Uggs though, they're a thing of the past), a pair of special occasion shoes (cute heels, not tacky ones), and a cute pair of sneakers or everyday shoes like Toms. For jewelry, Juicy Couture has really nice pieces, but get a tad pricy. If you cannot afford Juicy Couture jewelry for daily wear, American Eagle has great jewelry. It doesn't look cheap or knockoff-ish. But it does break easily, so careful!

, It's very important to have friends. Having a best friend isn't quite mandatory, but it is quite beneficial. Make sure your friend knows the real you, because otherwise your relationship will most likely fall apart, and that's ugly and unglamorous. Your friend should be a good listener, a good critic, kind, and cool.
 Always have back-up plans, impressive things to say, and ideas for your friends. Be admirable. You need to take the front role to make sure that everyone is always following. If all your friends want to have a sleepover, you throw it. If your school has elections, run for president. If you want it, go for it and people will admire your confidence.


Popularity is not key but does help. You don't need to be a Regina George but do you really want to be a Layne Abeley? Popular people are usually talented, pretty, charming, spontaneous, and smart. Popularity, however, is temporary and fickle. Don't confuse popularity and happiness because they are completely unrelated in the real world.
 Have a really fun bedroom; Ikea and PB Teen have great pieces. PB Teen IS expensive, but they have amazing quality and seriously gorgeous.


A "cool stuff" girl is usually constantly envied. You don't have to be rich, but you will need a ton of money for this article. The "cool stuff" includes; Juicy hoodies, a bunch of lipgloss, a credit card, and designer purses. Also, Macbooks, iPhones, and LV bags work too. You do want to be envied.
 Admire people. Have an inspiration. Pick someone, anyone. Pick a few people and combine them! Ideas for people are Massie Block, Audrey Hepburn, Jacqueline Onassis, Selena Gomez, or Miley Cyrus.

