, Your ideas of a path! Plan where you want your flower path to be, you don't necessarily need to write/draw it down, but you can if you wish., Then click on the one you want and click on display on floor.
 Make it where you want the path to go (e.g from the back to your house, from your house to tom nooks store, anywhere you like, you can even make it split to more than two places if you want, It'll take longer though!)

, When you've finished your trail, and it leads to a wall, instead of making it lead right into a wall, leave a gap for something to go there, like trees, or unwanted free furniture for everyone to take, or maybe even shells, but you don't have to.
 Once you've finished your planned path, it should look something like this:

, Now we need flowers! (Why else? It wouldn't be called a flower path if it has no flowers!) First go all around your town (Not just your selection) and pick all the flowers you see (Even the ones around peoples houses)!






 Remains of the chopped trees! But don't worry, they're for later :]

Chopping down all the trees in your selection must of left some remains, if so, you can either pick it all up, or, if you have no space in your pockets, save them till later!

,


Have you collected all the flowers in town? If so, good! Now to go and buy all the flowers at Tom Nooks' store, but don't buy any trees yet.
, It'll be a waste of bells.
 Well if you want something to do each time you go on animal crossing, I suggest that you add all the flowers you can find/buy each day and water the dying ones each day! It'll be a flower collection!


What if you don't want to wait each day for the flowers? No problem, Time travelers! Read on!







,, Keep the time the same if you wish.,, buy all the flowers and pick any flowers you bump into! Also, pick any weeds you bump into as well!,, Then save the game back to the title screen again, and if you set it one day forwards send it 1 day backwards this time, and if you sent it one day backwards, send it one day forwards this time., Then keep repeating step 15-20 until you have planted enough flowers., You have now made a flower path! You may now take away the pattern to make it an invisible path or edit the path, or just keep it as it is! It's all yours now! Don't forget to water the dying flowers everyday! And if some have died, replace them with more flowers at Tom Nooks or around the town!

