 Always wash your hands before you clean your piercing. Wet your hands, lather the soap, and scrub your hands together for at least 20 seconds. You can clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if you are unable to wash your hands with soap and water. However, hand sanitizer will not get your hands as clean.If you do not wash your hands first, germs and bacteria from your hands can infect your piercing.
You can hum the "Happy Birthday" song in your head twice instead of counting to 20.
 Lather up a small amount of soap in your hands and apply it to your piercing. Rinse all of the soap off of your piercing. Do not leave any suds or residue behind.Use fragrance-free, dye-free soap. Stay away from harsh soaps that may irritate the skin around your piercing.Do not apply the soap directly to your piercing and don't let the soap sit for more than 30 seconds.
Do not use soap more than twice a day.
 A salt water soak is the best way to clean your piercing. Mix 1/4 teaspoon of pure, non-iodized sea salt and 1 cup of distilled water in a clean glass. Bend over and place your nipple into the glass. Your nipple should be fully submerged in the water. Press the glass toward your body and try to create a suction effect or a tight seal so that the solution does not spill or leak. You can sit or stand while you do this.Let your piercing soak for approximately 5-10 minutes or longer.
Heat the water in the microwave before you soak your nipple. Do not burn your skin, but the warmer the water the better.
Discard the solution from the glass once you are through.
Soak your piercing twice a day or more often if it is not healing well.
You can make a gallon of the solution and keep it in your refrigerator. Then just heat up the amount you need for each soak. If you are preparing a large batch, mix 4 teaspoons of salt with 1 gallon of distilled water.
After 4 weeks, clean your piercing once every 2 or 3 days.
 A pre-made sterile saline solution is the second best method for cleaning your piercing. Spray the solution on your nipple and completely cover your piercing. The solution does not need to be rinsed off.The two most popular brands of sterile saline solution are H2Ocean and SteriWash.
Do not spray the solution on a cotton ball or swab before applying. You need to apply the solution directly to your skin.
 Once you have finished cleaning your piercing, gently pat the area with a clean, disposable paper product. Cloth towels harbor bacteria and can snag your piercing. You do not need to rotate your piercing during the cleaning process.

