 This does not serve as the invitation -- it just lets everyone know the plan well ahead of time (those coming from distant lands will appreciate it). Contact guests you know the bride needs there -- her best friend for college, favorite extended family, and females from the groom's side to see if they all can make your date.


As you're doing this, compile a list of addresses to send the real invitations out to. In your email, request their information if you don't already have it.
 It will help direct both the mood of the shower party and can even impact the gifts.


Consider a classic "Round the Clock" shower, where every guest gets a certain time of day to buy their gift for. Those with 7 a.m. could give the bride breakfast items, whereas those with 6 p.m. may gift the couple with dinner plates and napkins.
Another idea is to have a location theme: Hawaiian, French, Chinese, or Spanish works well. Or, tailor your theme to the location: if the shower is at the beach, an obvious choice is to have a luau or Hawaiian theme.
Choose a charity theme. Ask that guests not bring gifts but donate money to charity instead. This in consideration of the reality that you will receive wedding gifts anyway and a shower seeking gifts is akin to double dipping and can irritate potential wedding guests.
 Bridal showers can run from the very inexpensive to the extremely pricey, depending on your location and number of guests. Enlist a few of the bride's friends to help plan (and pay!) for the shower. Be sensible, however, as most of the money should go to the wedding and reception and not be eaten up by a wedding shower party. If you're a bridesmaid or maid of honor, consider asking all the girls to pitch in. A group effort will not only lessen the limits of your purse strings, but it will also help the shower itself run much more smoothly.


Get together with the girls to decide on the decorations, menu, party favors, flowers, activities and the like. Give each person a specific to-do list to make all the duties manageable. If any of the team has connections (or is particularly crafty), the details can be sorted out. You don't necessarily need a theme now, but knowing what is and is not reasonable will help lessen the burden on your shoulders.
 The invitations do not have to be store-bought or otherwise ordered -- you can make them yourself! wikiHow has a plethora of sources for this! Often personalized, hand-made invites are even more meaningful.


Once you've gotten the invitations taken care of, think about special items you'd like for the shower. Do you have to rent any equipment? Get anything intricately designed? Some companies may ask you give them 8 weeks to complete your order.

