 Stress related to schoolwork is often caused by a sense that there is too much work to do and too little time to do it all. Just as often, however, better time management skills can reduce schoolwork backlogs — and reduce stress in the process.Procrastination — putting things off to the last minute — is a common practice for many teens. It is also the source of a lot of stress when everything comes due at once. Budget your time, set a schedule, and start work on assignments and projects immediately. You’ll be amazed at how much you can get done with proper pacing.Good time management also means not “spreading yourself too thin.” Taking several advanced classes, preparing for college entrance exams, trying out for the school musical, playing on the basketball team, and being a member of multiple clubs may simply be too much. Determine your priorities and learn to say “no” or “not now.”;
, Not understanding what you need to do or how to do it is another common cause of stress related to schoolwork. When you’re confused by an assignment, don’t “get” your homework problems, or feel like you can’t keep up with a class, don’t be too proud or too timid to ask for help.When you get an assignment, especially a major one like a research paper or science project, ask the teacher to clarify the details, expectations, and time frame. If you need guidance, advice, or help along the way, ask for it.
If you need extra help with a subject, talk to your teacher or guidance counselor about options such as tutoring. The further behind you fall, the more your stress will build.
 Classroom stress is also often caused by unrealistic expectations. Sometimes other people — parents, siblings, friends, teachers — create these expectations, but at least as often you make them for yourself. When you demand too much of yourself, you usually end up having to work on homework and projects non-stop, which only further increases stress (and decreases overall performance).


Budget your time for schoolwork so that for every hour or so that you work, you can take a break of about fifteen minutes. Even short “brain breaks” can refresh your mind and body, reduce stress, and increase focus. Do something relaxing that you enjoy — take a walk, listen to music, meditate, paint, etc.Taking a short break is not “slacking off” or wasting time; it is necessary for optimal performance and health.
 Many kids and teens tend to hold onto and obsess over shortcomings, failures, and fears, and this can be another cause of classroom stress. You may be experiencing excessive stress because you are worrying about things that have already happened or that you can’t do anything about. Learning to let go of things that are out of your control can help eliminate a good deal of unnecessary stress.Part of letting go is identifying your stressors and determining which ones are beyond your control. For instance, you can’t control the avalanche of homework your math teacher loves to pile on, but you can control the way in which you budget your time for it.
Simple relaxation techniques like deep breathing (slowly taking in a breath, holding it in for a moment, and letting it out slowly); muscle relaxation (slowly and deliberately loosening your muscles); visualization (picturing a positive, comforting time or place); and mindfulness (focusing solely on your experience in the moment) can all assist in the process of letting go of stress.
 Teens can also experience excessive stress because they want to show how grown-up they are by dealing with everything on their own. In reality, being an adult means knowing when you need a helping hand, or someone to listen, or even a shoulder to cry on. Seek out the caring, responsible people in your life for help in dealing with your stress.Each person’s support network may be a bit different. It will hopefully include parents and perhaps siblings, other family, and close friends. For stress related to the classroom, teachers and guidance counselors can also be helpful.
You’ll know you’ve found the right person if you aren’t afraid to tell him or her what you are really feeling about your research paper, SAT exam, biology grade, etc. Be open and honest — you may be surprised at how helpful simply putting your stress into words can often be.
 Teenagers, like any other group, are less likely to experience stress when they feel comfortable and safe. Make sure your classroom is a welcoming place for all students, where they will be respected and valued.


Do not tolerate bullying or hurtful behavior. Even some snickering when a struggling student is called upon in class can create undue stress.
As a teacher, offer regular encouragement and support. Be a resource for stress reduction, not a source of stress.
 Stress is almost always increased by uncertainty and surprises, and reduced by the comfort of familiarity. If a student knows what to expect when walking into the classroom or starting a homework assignment, there is less likelihood of stress.As a teacher, keep your room orderly, organized, and generally consistent in look and layout. Consider posting or circulating a daily schedule for each week. Offer classroom materials and assignments according to familiar patterns (with room for “mixing things up” from time to time).
If the class is lengthy or intense, consider offering brief, planned “brain breaks.” Give everyone a couple of minutes to refresh and recharge., Regular disruptions or other inappropriate behavior can cause stress for other students and the teacher alike. While it is natural for a teacher to become agitated in such circumstances, it is better for the stress management of all involved if the issue is dealt with in a calm, deliberate manner.Whenever possible, speak with the disruptive student privately, such as after class. Chastising him or her during class may embarrass the student or simply provide the desired attention and induce more bad behavior.
In the end, though, maintaining the safety and order of the classroom has to be the teacher’s first priority. If a disruptive student must be dealt with immediately or removed from the room, act as required for the benefit of the other students.
 In an effort to combat the problem of student stress, some schools have implemented stress reduction programs. Whether or not this occurs at your school, you as a teacher can implement some basic measures in your classroom. Even brief lessons in mindfulness, meditation, or other stress-control strategies can provide lasting benefits for students.There are numerous common and simple stress-reduction techniques suited to the classroom that you can teach your students, including:The “take five” calming steps.
Deep breathing.
Muscle relaxation.
Positive images.
Positive self-talk.
Integrated movements.
 Despite the negative connotations attached to it, stress is not necessarily a bad thing, or something you’d want to completely eliminate. The stress response is a physiological reaction to challenging or threatening situations that harkens back to the “fight or flight” response required of our stone-age ancestors in order to survive.Under normal conditions, a regular amount of stress helps you to focus your mind, body, and energy on the task at hand. For instance, it is normal to have some nervous energy before a big algebra test, which can in fact aid in your performance.
Stress, however, is mentally and physically draining, and constant or excessive stress leaves you with insufficient time to recover. If you feel stressed all day while in school and all evening while doing homework, your body, mind, and emotions are all suffering from a lack of rest.
 When you experience stress, the physical response includes typical changes such as an increase in heart rate, blood pressure, and breathing rate, and a constriction of muscle fibers and blood vessels. In short bursts, these changes can be beneficial, but when experienced constantly, they carry numerous health risks.Excessive stress, even in teens, can cause troubling conditions like high blood pressure; headaches; eyesight problems; digestive issues; face, neck, or back pain; decreased impulse control and clouded judgment, reasoning, decision-making, and problem-solving skills; and perhaps increased risks of developing several diseases through constantly-elevated cortisol levels in the body.
Visit How to Reduce Stress As a Teenage Boy for additional information on signs of stress in teens.
 Every teen student is unique, and will have unique sources of academic stress. That said, common sources of teenage classroom stress include: over-scheduling; unrealistic demands (by oneself or others); excessive pressure to perform beyond one’s ability (again, self-imposed or from others); disagreements with the teacher; difficulties with one or more other students; learning disabilities or non-traditional learning styles; or external sources of stress (family, social life, athletics, etc.) that carry into the classroom.Keeping a “stress journal” for a week or two is a good way to identify your unique classroom stressors (causes of stress). Take note of times or situations when you feel stress, and consider whether particular people, events, assignments, or other factors are the major culprits.Once you have identified what is causing you the most stress, you can develop more specific strategies to deal with those sources.
See this wikiHow article on teen stress for further detail on identifying and dealing with particular stressors.

