 Peer pressure can be both direct, when someone tells you to do something or offers you something, or indirect, if you feel pressured to do something by a certain environment or situation. If you’re at a party where everyone drinks, you might feel you have to do it too in order to fit in, even if no one asks you to. In the first case, you’ll have to learn how to say no politely but firmly.


In the case of indirect peer pressure, you might not find yourself in a situation where you have to say no. However, you’ll still have to develop a strategy of self-control to stick to your principles and habits and do only what you’re comfortable with.;
, Learn to identify those situations where unwanted offers or behaviors are most likely to happen. Plan ahead what you’d say or how you’d act to turn down an offer.Being prepared will allow you to face these situations more open-mindedly. It’s okay to hang out with people who have different habits from yours. Knowing what to expect will help you respect their decisions as well as stand by yours.
 You’re probably the best one to know which environments or places are likely to lead to an unwanted situation. If you’re not confident you can say, the best option is probably to avoid these places outright.Depending on what you’re trying to avoid, these might include:


Environments where you’ll feel uncomfortable or out of place
Parties or clubs where most people will be drinking and smoking
Private meetings with someone you don’t want to have sex with

, It’s much easier to say yes to anything, even if it’s something we don’t want to do. However, showing that you’re in control of your life will get you much more respect from your peers in the long run. It’s not the easiest course of action, but it ultimately pays off and helps you be surrounded only by those who truly care about you. For example, show your friends you feel confident about your lifestyle and personal tastes. Don’t mimic what they do, but stick to what you like and pursue it.
Be proactive in suggesting activities and taking care of their organization. If you come up with fun ideas, others will look for you when they want to have a good time and follow your lead, rather than the opposite.
Keep in mind that being a leader is not the same as being patronizing toward your friends: to lead means to guide, not to act bossy or aloof.
 Since peer pressure comes from people, avoiding to hang out with those who are most likely to pressure you into unwanted behavior is the safest choice. Surrounding yourself with friends who share your views and lifestyle will decrease the chances of having to deal with uncomfortable situations. Remember that real friends won’t ask you to do anything you don’t want to do as a way to prove your courage or friendship. If someone expects this from you or makes fun of your choices, it’s probably not worth hanging out with.

