 If your ex has disappeared, you need to find him or her. You should begin by asking friends or family if they know where your ex has moved to. Try contacting those friends and family you are still on good speaking terms with.


You might not want to mention that you are searching for your ex because of alimony. Instead, you could be vague: “Kevin, do you know where your brother is? I need to show him some papers relating to our marriage. Let me know if you hear from him.”;
, If no one knows where your ex-spouse has moved to, then you will need to perform some research. You can check online. Visit websites, such as Intelius, which collect information from public records.You may have to pay a small fee to get this information.
 You may need to hire a professional to help track down your ex-spouse. If necessary, find a private investigator and set up a meeting. Discuss why you want to find your ex and where you think he or she might have gone.


Also talk about fees. Generally, private investigators charge $40-100 an hour. They may also charge additional fees, such as for mileage or other transportation., You need to “register” your alimony award in your ex-spouse’s new home state.In order to begin this process, you will need a copy of the original alimony order. If you also got a court judgment for unpaid alimony (called “arrearages”), then get a copy of that court order as well. You should go through your papers to find these forms.


If you can’t find them, then meet with the attorney who helped you during your divorce. He or she should have a copy of the order.
If you didn’t use an attorney, then visit the court where you received the alimony award. Ask the court clerk for a copy. You probably have to pay a small fee.
 You should go to the court for the county where your ex now lives. Tell the clerk you want to register a “foreign” alimony award, which is what alimony awards from another state are called.There should be several forms for you to fill out.


Make sure that you get a form for “wage withholding” (also called “wage garnishment”). This allows you to deduct money from your ex-spouse’s paycheck.
 Fill out the requested information neatly, using a typewriter. Some forms can be downloaded as PDFs into which you can type the information. If you need to write in the information by hand, then use black ink and write as neatly as possible.


Remember to attach your original alimony order or income withholding order to the forms.If the court has a self-help center or family law facilitator, then you should take your forms to that person and ask that they look them over.
If there is no facilitator, then try to find a free legal clinic in your area. There may be a list on your state’s Supreme Court’s website.If not, visit the Legal Services Corporation’s website and click on “Find Legal Aid.”, Make several copies of all completed forms. Then take the original and the copies to the court in the county where your ex lives. Ask to file the forms.You will need to send your ex a copy of the forms so he or she knows that you are registering the alimony award. Ask the court clerk how to go about doing this.
In some courts, the clerk will mail the forms. In other courts, you may be responsible for arranging service using a private process server or the county sheriff.
 In some states, registration and confirmation is a two-step process. After you file for registration, your ex will be notified. He or she can then request a hearing. When no hearing is requested, the registration becomes automatically confirmed.At the hearing, your ex might try to argue that the alimony order isn’t legitimate for some reason. You should point out to the judge whether your ex has previously paid alimony. If so, then this shows that your ex previously thought the order was legitimate.
 You may have to continually register your alimony award if your ex continues to move. Always try to stay in touch. If a month passes and you don’t get paid alimony, then immediately contact your ex-spouse.


Having a wage withholding order can help. For example, your ex might work for one company but move around to many different offices. If he or she gets paid from one central office, then they will continue to withhold money from your ex-spouse’s wages.
 When an ex-spouse deliberately refuses to pay, it can be difficult to force them. One action you can take is to ask the court to find your ex in “contempt.” Contempt actions differ depending on your state, so you should consult with an attorney.


You can find a divorce attorney by visiting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.Money might be tight. However, most attorneys will meet with you for a consultation and advise you about how to bring a contempt action. They might charge $100 or so for a half-hour of advice.
Once you have the name of someone, call them up and ask to schedule a consultation. Also ask how much he or she charges.
 You should write down the dates when you should have received alimony but didn’t. If you sent your ex an email or letter asking where the money is, then make a copy of the communication. You want to show the judge that you haven’t been paid.


If you managed to get a wage withholding order in place, then your ex might not be paying you because he or she is deliberately refusing to work.
 The purpose of contempt is to coerce your ex-spouse into paying your alimony.However, not every court has power over your ex-spouse. Instead, you need to find the right court to bring your contempt action.


Identify the state where your ex failed to pay alimony. For example, you might have divorced in Texas. Your ex immediately refused to pay alimony and then moved to Nebraska. You probably need a Texas court to give you a court judgment for the unpaid alimony for the time your ex was living in Texas.
However, if your ex stops paying once in Nebraska, then you can bring a contempt action in Nebraska after you register your alimony award in that state.
 Go to the court and get the forms for a contempt hearing. There will probably be several, such as a “motion” and a “contempt hearing order.”Ask the court clerk for everything.


You can also look online. Many courts post their forms on their website, which makes access easy.
 Provide all information requested. If something doesn’t apply to you, then write “N/A” or “not applicable.” When you finish your forms, you can ask the family law facilitator or self-help center to check them.


Once you have completed everything, make several copies. One copy will be for your records and another copy will be sent to your ex. Take your copies and the original to the court clerk. Ask to file.You may have to pay a filing fee, which will differ by court. If you can’t afford the filing fee, then ask the clerk for a fee waiver form.
 The judge will want to hold a hearing before deciding whether contempt is appropriate. You should ask the court clerk for a hearing date when you file your forms.You will probably be responsible for telling your ex-spouse about the hearing date. Generally, you can fill out a Notice of Hearing form, which you can get from the clerk. Alternately, there may be space on your motion or other form for you to write in the hearing date.
Each court schedules hearings a little differently. Work with the court clerk to schedule a date.
 You have to give your ex-spouse notice of the contempt hearing and a chance for them to be heard by the judge.Accordingly, you should send a copy of your forms to your ex.


You should use the same methods of service that you used when you told your ex you were attempting to register the foreign alimony decree.
 Your ex-spouse may file a written response and send it to you. For example, he or she might ask the judge to modify the alimony award. You should read this document closely so that you understand what your ex-spouse is arguing.


If you hired an attorney, then the document will be served on your attorney. Ask him or her for a copy.
 The judge will want to hear from both sides. In some courts, you can have witnesses testify, although other courts won’t allow witness testimony.The judge should tell you his or her process ahead of time.


As the person bringing the contempt motion, you have to show the judge that your ex-spouse was aware of the alimony order and refused to follow it.
Your ex can offer excuses, such as he or she can’t find work or is too sick to work.
 Whoever wins the hearing is often tasked with filling out the “order,” which is what the judge signs. You have to accurately summarize what the judge has found.For example, the judge might fine your ex-spouse a sum of money or jail them for deliberately refusing to pay alimony. After filling out the order, you present it to the judge for their signature.


Make sure that you get a copy of the signed order for your records.

