


Learn about the nutritional needs of infants before rushing out to purchase a variety of food with which to prepare baby food. Infants require a different combination of vitamins and minerals than adults do. Without information about the ideal combination of infant nutrition, consumers may end up purchasing food that will not provide their babies with the adequate level of significant vitamins and nutrients.
Examine the many resources available for new parents with regard to healthy food items that provide the nutrients that infants need to grow healthy and strong. Check online periodicals, parenting and child nutrition websites, the book store and even the library. After you understand the nutritional needs of your baby, you can begin preparing a baby food menu.;
, Prepare a baby food menu that will act as a guideline when you begin preparing your own baby food from scratch.

Include a variety of sweet and savory foods to feed your baby in one sitting.
Consult your pediatrician to determine just how often your baby needs to be fed and how many different food items and the quantities of each should be fed in a single infant meal. Once you have determined this, you can prepare baby food menus just like you would prepare a menu for the rest of your family. An example of a baby food menu might be apples and bananas in the morning, chicken, rice and sweet potatoes at lunch, and green beans and turkey in the evening.



Be sure to purchase food items that have no noticeable defects, which can be a sign of substandard food.
Don't purchase too much of a single food item because baby food may spoil before you get the chance to use it.
 You can either boil foods to be used in baby food, steam them, or bake them. Once the food is cooked thoroughly, you can begin the pureeing process.


Make sure all vegetables, meats and grains are thoroughly cooked before using the food item in baby food.
Consider cooking certain fruits that may also benefit from cooking such as apples or pears.



Place foods in the blender that pair well together. Realize that everything you put in a blender will combine to make one type of baby food.
Consider your babies taste preferences and prepare baby food accordingly. Some babies prefer single foods in a baby food while other babies like combinations of flavors.
Follow the general baby food preparation rule and mix two parts food to one part water, then puree until well combined. You can add more or less water depending on your desired consistency.
 If you are making baby food ahead of time, it must be stored in airtight containers in the refrigerator. You may also be able to freeze some baby food mixtures if they are frozen in containers which are impermeable to freezer burn. Baby food that is stored in the refrigerator should not be kept longer than one week.
 Include a list of baby food recipes as well as your child's response to the various items you prepare.


If your child does not like the taste of a specific food, you can try to find another food with an equivalent nutrient content.
For example, if your child hates the taste of broccoli, you might consider preparing a spinach baby food instead and gauging your child's response to that food item.

