 When a cat enters kill mode, a flimsy cage won’t stop it. While there are steps to follow that will reduce the likelihood of your cat becoming unnecessarily aggressive, it is still worthwhile to have a cage for your guinea pigs that guarantees their safety from demise by tooth and claw.


Recognize that your cat is also capable of seriously harming your guinea pig without intending to do so.As such, your guinea pig needs an area where they are completely safe, even if only from some overzealous rough-housing.;
, If possible, you’ll want to keep your guinea pigs in a safe room where your cats are not regularly allowed. If you do not have sufficient space to allow this arrangement, choose a location for the cage that will prevent your cats from hanging out on or around the guinea pig enclosure.Always keep all cat toys and guinea pig toys separated in your house. If you have a guinea pig area, keep all of their worldly possessions in that area, and do not store or allow any cat stuff in that area.
Disallow your cat from sitting beside or resting on top of your guinea pig’s enclosure at any time.
 Especially if one arrives after you’ve already had the other for a while, allow the new arrival to acclimate to your home before introducing them to each other. They will already be able to smell one another’s presence. Let the suspense build a bit.


Wait at least a week before introducing a cat and a guinea pig. Technically, you just need to make sure they are not able to touch one another or make eye contact. To be safe, don’t allow them to see one another at all., Before actually introducing your pets, acclimate your cat to the guinea pig’s scent. There are several ways to do this. The intent is to associate things your cat likes, such as food, with the guinea pig. This may seem counterintuitive, but the cat will not think of the guinea pig as food – instead, it will think the guinea pig smell indicates that other (and more appropriate) food is nearby.Place the cat’s food just outside the door of the room in which your guinea pig lives.
If your cat gets amped up outside the guinea pig’s room, remove them. Do so in a jovial, relaxed manner – you don’t want to indicate punishment, you just want to distract the cat from its overzealousness.Place a wash cloth that you rubbed the guinea pig with near the cat’s food bowl. Once your cat is entirely comfortable with the wash cloth (no longer nervously or excitedly sniffing it from time to time), use the washcloth to stroke the cat as well.
Use the same cloth to go back and forth between your pets, stroking each right after you stroked the other. As you do so, be relaxed and high spirited. Send the vibe to each pet that everything is awesome!

