 After the baby is delivered, the natural response of the uterus is to contract to tighten the uterine muscles and then expels the placenta. Once the placenta is completely expelled, the uterine contractions work by compressing the bleeding vessels in the area where the placenta was attached.On the occasion the uterus does not contract enough to suppress the bleeding, uterine atony develops. The blood vessels bleed intensively and cause hemorrhage. Bleeding after delivery can also be accounted from placental fragments that are left attached.
 Some women are more vulnerable to postpartum hemorrhage than others. Conditions that might lead to postpartum hemorrhage include the following.
 It is a condition wherein the placenta detaches from the uterus at an early stage. Usually, the placenta which is a structure that nourishes the growing baby is naturally expelled from the woman’s body as soon as the baby is born. If it detaches from the inner wall of the uterus too early, heavy bleeding may occur because damage in the inner structure of the placenta may cause blood to spill out from it and as a result, the blood volume inside the uterus may increase. The body reacts by expelling excess blood through vaginal bleeding in order to begin the healing process (Weiss, R., 2014, August 2).
 A condition wherein the placenta is situated near or covers the entire cervical opening. This can interfere with the normal delivery of the baby because it may block the opening. As the baby nears term, his or her head is slowly being fixated at the cervical opening and the placenta may compress itself against the baby or other structures near it.


Further compression can lead to rupture and blood leakage. The body now reacts by expelling excess blood through vaginal bleeding in order to begin the healing process.
 The uterus becomes excessively enlarge due to increase amount of amniotic fluid or a large baby weighing over 4, 000 grams (8.8 pounds). Because of this enlargement, the pressure builds up inside the uterus and can lead to rupture.As a result, blood leaks out of the ruptured structure and the body reacts by expelling excess blood through vaginal bleeding in order to begin the healing process.
 Carrying more than one baby with more than one placenta in the uterus can overdistend the uterus. If sufficient pressure builds up inside the uterus because of overdistention, rupture may occur.


The body will respond by expelling excess blood through vaginal bleeding and begin the healing process.
 These conditions are experienced by women during pregnancy. The blood pressure elevates and can lead to the rupture of blood vessels. Blood leaks out of the ruptured structure and the body responds by expelling excess blood through vaginal bleeding and begin the healing process.
 Mothers can experience labor for more than a day. Because of this, the contracting uterus may be pushed to its limits and may be ruptured. Blood leaks out of the ruptured structure and the body responds by expelling excess blood through vaginal bleeding and begin the healing process., There are certain drugs that are given to mothers to trigger labor that are forms of oxytocin which stimulates contraction of the uterus.


If these medications are given in high amounts, the uterus may contract beyond the normal leading to rupture. This leads to vaginal bleeding as the body removes excess blood and begin the healing process.
 In cases where there is difficulty in delivering the baby, some health care professionals utilize instruments to assist in safe delivery. These instruments may cause injury or trauma to the nearby tissues and lead to bleeding. Blood leaks out of the ruptured structure and the body responds by expelling excess blood through vaginal bleeding and begin the healing process.

