 If possible, you should have evidence of any physical violence you have suffered. Although it might be difficult to think clearly after a violent episode, you should gather the following evidence, which could be helpful for your case:Photographs of bruises or cuts on your face or body. Photographs can be helpful, even if you take them after a few days have passed.
Photographs or other evidence of the damage the abuser caused your property.
Medical records. Bring copies of medical records which show the abuse inflicted on either you or your children.;
, If you have been harassed, stalked, or verbally intimidated, then you should get evidence of that intimidation as well. Look for the following:Threatening communications, such as letters, emails, notes, or phone messages.
Any evidence that a person is stalking you, including videotape or photographic evidence.
Your written memories. After any incident with the person, sit down as soon as possible and write down your memories. Where did you see the person? Did he or she say or do anything? Were you frightened? It’s okay to take some time and get your thoughts together, but write down your memories as soon as you feel up to it.
 You should also get copies of any police reports filed after a violent incident.The judge will want to see them.


To get a copy of a police report, visit the station for the town or county where the abuse took place.
 If someone witnesses the abuse, then you should ask the person whether he or she will attend your hearing. You can have witnesses testify on your behalf.


Be sure to tell the witnesses the date and time, as well as the location, of the hearing.
Witnesses can also testify by affidavit. An affidavit is a sworn statement. Typically, you should have included an affidavit with your original petition for a restraining order., You can get a temporary restraining order by going to the appropriate courthouse. Generally, you can get an order from a courthouse in any of the following counties:where you live
where the abuser lives
where the abuse happened
any county where you and the abuser had family court cases

, Getting a temporary restraining order should not be difficult. Most courts have tried to make the process as simple as possible. Toward that end, many courts have created “fill in the blank” forms you can use to petition for a restraining order. One of the forms should be the “petition.” On the petition, you will explain why you need the restraining order. You should stop into the court and ask the clerk for the form.


Typically, you need to fill out a separate form for a temporary restraining order and for a permanent restraining order. Be sure to tell the clerk that you want to file for a temporary restraining order.
You also might need to fill out other forms, like a Notice of Hearing.If you have children, then you should also get forms for requesting child custody and child support. You are entitled to support during any separation from the parent of your children. Ask the court clerk for the correct forms.
 You should print as clearly as possible. Use black ink or type using a typewriter. Make sure to provide all requested information. If you ever have a question, don’t be embarrassed to ask the clerk. He or she is trained to help you fill out the forms.


Some forms can be completed online by typing the information into a PDF and then printing the form off. Use whatever method is convenient for you.
The petition form will ask you why you need the restraining order. Be sure to include specific incidents of violence or harassment when filling out the form. Specifics are more convincing than generalities.For example, “My boyfriend hit me twice last week—on Monday, around 7:00 and last Thursday, when he came home drunk at midnight” is more persuasive than “My boyfriend is violent.”

, You need to sign every document that you submit to the court. Check your form to see if you also need to get the form notarized.


If you do, then you need to find a notary public. Typically, there should be a notary in the courthouse. You can also find a notary public in most large banks or county offices.
You will need to show the notary acceptable methods of personal identification. Generally, a valid state ID or a valid passport is sufficient.
 You should make several copies of your petitions and take the copies and originals to the court clerk.Ask to file. The clerk should stamp all copies with the date.


Typically, you will not be charged a filing fee. However, if you are, then ask for a fee waiver form if you cannot afford the fee.
Ask the court clerk if you need to return to the courthouse later in the day to pick up your temporary restraining order. Courts handle this process differently. Some courts might mail it to you while others will have you return at the end of the day to pick it up.
 Even if you get a temporary restraining order, the judge will hold a hearing before giving you a permanent restraining order. Accordingly, you should ask the court clerk how to schedule the hearing.
 You need to give the abuser a copy of the petition, as well as other information. The papers you receive from the clerk might state the deadline, but you have no reason to wait. Ask the court clerk for acceptable methods of service. Generally, you can serve a copy in the following ways:You can have the sheriff make delivery. Often, they will deliver for free if you got a domestic violence restraining order.
You can hire a process server. This is a private business which makes deliveries for a fee. You can find process servers in your phone book or on the Internet. They typically charge $45-75 per service.
You can have someone 18 or older deliver the petition. This person cannot be protected by the restraining order.
 Some courts will require that the person making service on the abuser complete a Proof of Service (or Affidavit of Service) form and return it to you. You must then file it with the court.You should keep a copy of this document for your records. In case the abuser claims never to have received notice of the restraining order, this will serve as your proof that he received it.
 If the judge grants the temporary restraining order, then you should give copies to the following:Keep one copy for yourself. Carry it with you at all times.
Store another copy in a safe place, in case you lose the copy you carry with you.
Give a copy to the security officers in your office or apartment building.
Give a copy to any place where the abuser has been ordered not to go. This might include your workplace, your children’s school, a daycare, etc.
Send a copy to anyone else protected by the order. For example, if your elderly parent is protected by the order, make sure she has a copy.
 Once you get your temporary restraining order, you will want to read you. You must understand precisely how the order restrains the abuser. Typically, restraining orders can order the following:The abuser cannot come within a certain distance of you and your children. Often, he or she cannot come within 100 feet of you.
The abuser must move out of your house.
The abuser cannot contact you directly or by using third parties.
The abuser cannot possess a firearm.
 If you think the abuser has violated the restraining order, then you should contact the police and tell them. In particular, you should call the police if the abuser tries to contact you. The police can enforce any “no contact” provision in the restraining order by picking up the abuser.Violating a restraining order is often a criminal offense. The offender could face jail time or steep fines.Violating the restraining order is also a civil offense. The judge can punish the abuser by fining him or her or holding the abuser in contempt. Contempt can also result in fines or jail time.
 You should check with the police to see if they will inform the court that the offender violated the restraining order. If the police do not, then you should bring the violation to the court’s attention.


You may have to file some sort of a motion with the court. However, you should stop into the court clerk’s office and ask how you can inform the judge that the abuser violated the temporary restraining order.
Typically, you will file a “Motion for Contempt.” In the motion you explain to the judge how the offender violated the restraining order.The court should have a form motion for you to fill out.
 Your temporary restraining order will only be good for a limited amount of time. If you still need protection from the abuser, then you will need to attend a hearing before the judge.


You should get a permanent restraining order if you are still afraid of the abuser. Even if you think the abuser has moved away, it is still a good idea to have the protection offered by a restraining order.
You might want to consider not getting a permanent order if you are in the process of getting back together with the abuser.
 You should give yourself plenty of time to get to court and find parking. You will also probably have to go through courthouse security.


Be sure to turn off all electronic devices before you enter the court room. You don’t want anything to beep or make a noise while you appear before the judge.
Plan on arriving at least 30 minutes early.If you are late and miss your hearing, then the judge can dismiss your petition. You will then have to start the whole process over again.
 Judges expect people to be dressed in a professional and conservative manner. This means you should wear dark colors (like brown, blue, or black) and that your clothes should fit you. Clothing that is too tight is distracting.


Men should try to wear a suit. If they don’t own a suit, then they should wear dress pants, dress shoes, and a shirt with a color. Preferably, a man should wear a button-up dress shirt with a tie.
Women should try to wear a skirt suit or a pant suit. Alternately, women can wear conservative dresses or dress slacks with a blouse.
For more information, see Dress for a Court Hearing.
 Once you arrive at court, you should check in with the clerk. You should tell him or her your name and that you are here for your hearing.


If you are afraid of the abuser, then don’t be afraid to let the clerk know that fact.A courtroom officer might stand between you and the abuser during the hearing.
 When your name is called, go to the front of the courtroom. You will have an opportunity to tell the judge your side of the story. Remember that what you say should closely track what you put in the petition for a restraining order.


Speak in a clear voice and look at the judge. Take deep breaths if you need to calm your voice. For tips on how to talk to a judge, see Address a Judge in Court.
Don’t take too much time describing your side of events. Aim for telling the judge why you need the order in three minutes or less. You can write out bullet points of what you want to say.Ask the judge if he or she wants to see the evidence you have brought. You can say, “I have a picture of my face after that attack if you want to see it.” Wait for the judge to ask to see your evidence. You can then hand it up to the judge or give it to the judge’s bailiff.
 After you tell your side of the story, the defendant will have a chance to go. You will need to listen quietly and not interrupt.


It may be difficult to listen without getting angry, especially if the abuser makes outrageous lies about you. Remember, however, that the judge is expecting the abuser to back up his story with documentary evidence, just as you backed up your story with evidence. If all the abuser has is lies, then the judge probably won’t believe him.
Instead of interrupting, you should take out a piece of paper and write down things the abuser says that you want to respond to. When the defendant finishes talking, you can ask the judge, “Your Honor, may I respond?”
Then you can go down through your list and counter every lie made by the abuser., After both sides have presented their evidence, the judge will issue a ruling. Usually, the judge will issue the ruling from the bench immediately after the close of evidence.


However, if the case is particularly complicated, then the judge might delay ruling on the case. The judge can do this in a couple of situations. For example, the abuser might need to get a lawyer. Also, the judge may need more information.Get the judge any requested information as soon as possible.
 If you win your petition for a permanent restraining order, then you may have to reduce the judge’s oral judgment to writing. This is called filling out the “order.”


Usually, the courtroom has blank order forms you can use. Ask the clerk or judge.
Sometimes the court personnel will draft the order for you.Simply ask who should draft it and where you can get the order form.
Some petitions have order forms included in them. In this situation, the judge will just check off a few boxes and sign his or her name.
 You should give copies to the same people you gave copies of any temporary restraining order. Tell them that you now have a permanent order and that it replaces any emergency order that you had.


If the abuser didn’t attend the hearing, you may have to send him or her a copy. In some places, the sheriff will serve a copy on the abuser.
The court should also send copies of the order to the local police.You should double-check that the clerk will send this to the police. If not, then you should send a copy.
 Some restraining orders may last indefinitely. However, the restraining order may also be for a set period of time, e.g., one year. If the order is good for one year, then you should contact the court before the year is up and apply to have the order extended.


You will have to fill out different forms, but the clerk should be able to get them for you.

