 Quarterbacks have to be smart on the field. A quarterback has to remember every single play in the playbook and do it correctly. Not only do you need to know coverages and plays but also how to read them. You also need to know every play in the playbook and how to perform it. Only one way to do this and that's study, it might be long and boring but it's crucial to become a great QB.;
, Quarterbacks need to control the game. There is no room for error in a football game so quarterbacks need to keep their heads up. Make sure to be a leader during practices too. Your team won't respect you if you only goof off during practices and then try to tell them what to do in the game.


Make sure to always be calm and collected. If you make a bad throw or your team starts losing, don't freak out. You need to be the leader of the team and be able to rally your team and get them back into it.
 You'll need to throw the ball far and be accurate when you throw. You need to have great arm and leg strength. In order to throw far and on target, develop strong arms and strong legs to step into the throw. Ways to work on these are push ups, crunches, pull ups, etc.


The stronger legs you have, the better the footwork, and you'll have increased accuracy in passing, and even more throw power.
 You must be able to read coverages, and see mismatches.
 You must make your throws before the receiver makes his break/cut so that the ball gets to the receiver as soon as he gets open.
 Accuracy is one of the most important attributes to being a successful quarterback. You need to be able to throw on target and on the move. A great way to build up your accuracy is to throw between tires, or at certain objects.
 Speed is not critical, but is useful. Sometimes a QB will find a big defensive gap and decide to run instead of pass. But if you can barely run, this will be very little help. Practice by running ladders or doing a daily exercise. It will build your ability very quickly.
 When playing a game, it is important to know who's open or if you need to run. You can build your awareness in many different ways. Being on a team or practicing with friends never hurts.
 You must be able to read a defense. That way you don't get sacked for a loss or even fumble.
, If you're not as fast as Michael Vick, do not try to dance around in the pocket. Hit the open receiver or get rid of the ball.
 Instead, focus calmly and throw it away to a safe area, or just wrap the ball and take the sack. Sometimes it is better to just take the 5–10 yard (4.6–9.1 m) loss then take a chance and get intercepted.
, No QB is perfect. You will miss some or turn some over. It's fine, it happens. Just move on and keep your spirits up.
 If you listen to the defense pre snap, then you can listen for clues that they're going to blitz. If you're running, then you should change it to a pass. But if they call an audible, see what formation they are in. If they are in a nickel and you're passing it, change the pass to a run.
 In order for any of these tips to work at all, you need to have people you know you can rely on to take a ball to the end zone, and do it with confidence. You can do this by meeting after games and talking with your running-back, wide receivers, linebackers, etc. and gain their trust as well as vice versa.