 Almost all modern computers are equipped with a drive that can write CDs. You may run into an issue with an older machine, but in general if the computer was made within the last 10 years it can probably burn. Netbooks without an optical drive will need an external drive connected in order to burn.


If you want to burn audio CDs, you will need CD-R discs. These can be written to, but cannot be rewritten. CD-RW discs can be rewritten, but many readers will not be able to read these so they should be avoided if you are making an audio CD.
More expensive CD-Rs may last longer and may be prone to less error. The most popular brands are Memorex, Phillips, and Sony.
While you can burn an audio DVD, there are very few devices which can read these. Avoid burning an audio DVD if you want it to work in as many devices as possible.;
, CDs are burned from existing playlists. Click File → New → Playlist. You can give your playlist a name, which will be the name that displays when the CD is inserted into a reader.


You can create a new playlist in Windows by pressing Ctrl+N or on a Mac by pressing ⌘ Cmd+N.
 Once you've created your playlist, you can start adding tracks to it. Click and drag songs from your Music library onto your playlist.


Pay close attention to the playlist length. Most audio CDs can hold up to 74 minutes of music while others can go up to 80 minutes.
 before you burn, organize the songs on the playlist so that they are in the order that you want them to play on the CD.
 Click File → Burn Playlist. This will open the Burn Settings window. Make sure that "Disc Format" is set to "Audio CD".


If you want compatible readers to display song information, check the "Include CD Text" box.
iTunes will set a 2-second gap between each track by default. You can change this to 0 or any other value you prefer. These seconds will count against your total play time.
Lowering the write speed from maximum on older computers can help prevent errors while burning.
 Depending on the speed of your CD burner, the burn process can take several minutes to complete. Once it is done, your CD will most likely be ejected., After the burn process is complete, you can test out your new CD. If it sounds good and all your tracks play correctly, you can label it and share it or use it yourself.

