 Put the mask over your mouth and nose. Secure the mask by placing the elastic bands around your ears. Make any adjustments necessary so that it is comfortable and you can breath. Once you have the mask secured, put on your safety gloves.If the bands are designed to go over the back of your head, secure them behind your neck and the back of your head.
If there is a nose piece on the mask, adjust the nose piece so that it is comfortable and you can still breath.
You may also want to wear goggles or glasses to protect your eyes.
 Pour 100 grams of distilled water into your large glass bowl. Put the 68 grams of lye into the distilled water. You should avoid doing it the other way around; in other words, don’t put the water into the lye. You should do this procedure outside and far away from any children or pets.Sodium hydroxide lye or “lye” is common ingredient in cleaning products. It is dangerous because it can burn your skin.When you add lye to water, you create a reaction that causes a rapid temperature increase and fumes. You should not inhale the fumes created by this reaction.Wear proper safety equipment when you add the lye to the water.
 Using a spoon or other implement, mix the lye into the water. You will notice the mixture getting cloudy. Leave the mixture in a secure location away from children and pets for twenty minutes. Once it has cooled down, it will look a bit more transparent., Stir the witch hazel into the mixture for two or three minutes until all of the ingredients are combined., In a large bowl, combine all of the oils including the olive oil, coconut oil, rapeseed oil, castor oil and shea butter. Using your hand held mixer, combine the oils in the bowl. The oils should mix together into a smooth and slightly thick liquid., In a large bowl, carefully pour the mixture of water, lye and witch hazel into the combined oil mixture. You will need a sturdy metal spoon to mix the ingredients., Using your hand held blender, mix all of the ingredients together for a few minutes. You will know it is properly combined when the liquid takes on the texture of light mayonnaise., Once the mixture has the consistency of light mayonnaise, you can add one tablespoon of activated charcoal powder, a teaspoon of green tea extract, half a teaspoon of citric acid, five drops of vitamin E and twenty drops of rosemary essential oil., Blend all of the ingredients together with a hand held blender. When the mixture takes on the consistency of a normal mayonnaise, you can stop blending., Lay out your soap molds on a flat working surface. Using a ladle, transfer the soap mix into each of your soap molds. Cover the molds with a layer of plastic wrap. Finally, cover them with a clean kitchen towel. After twenty-four hours, you can take off the plastic wrap and the towel but you will have to leave the soap in the molds., One week after pouring the soap mixture into the molds, you can take them out of the molds. Place them on a drying rack and leave them to dry, exposed to the air, for one month. Although you may choose to air dry the soap for a shorter period of time (e.g., one week), it will dissolve easily and will not last as long.