 Establish a time to spend together without distractions. This can be a romantic date, but it can also be a movie or dinner night at home. Avoid other activities where you may see people you know. Do not invite anyone else to spend time with you during your designated time.


Turn off your phones and forbid checking email. Focus on your shared time together.;
, It’s easy to assume that all your feelings in a relationship should be about love and adoration. In order to establish trust, however, you need to express the full range of emotions. This includes negative or neutral emotions as well.


When you talk, don’t force yourself to stick to positive emotions. Letting her know that you are a complete person will create a better sense of trust and intimacy.
 You may not realize that you are talking nonstop, that you interrupt her, or that she may feel uncomfortable. If you don’t leave space in the conversation for her to talk, she won’t be able to be able to express herself, and she will feel ignored.


Sometimes silence is enough to get someone else to talk, so don’t be afraid to be quiet. Other times you will have to prompt her to express herself. Ask questions and make sure that she has time to answer.
 If you are only touching her when you are interested in sex, she may feel as though you are only interested in sex. Practice touching her casually and without sexual undertones.


Touching can be sensual and not sexual. Run your fingers through her hair, touch the small of her back, and hold her hand. You can express a lot of love non-verbally by practicing this kind of touch.
 Relationships are a give and take.

If you are overly needy and demanding, this may cut into time that you could be spending together in a more pleasant way.

Don’t ask for things and then act ungrateful. Always thank her for what she does for you.
Complaining sometimes comes off as needy. It may sound like you are trying to get her to solve your problems. Venting is okay, but don’t overload her with negativity.

