 The word “pesticide” is an umbrella term for herbicides, insecticides, fungicides, and more. They came into use in the 1960s and are used to kill weeds, insects, fungi, plant diseases, and rodents that damage crops, lawns, and gardens. Since their introduction, researchers have documented widespread pesticide contamination in soil, waterways, groundwater, the air, animals, plants and even humans.Research has also shown that pesticides can kill “keystone” species they aren’t meant to target, such as earthworms, spiders, termites, honey bees, and micro-organisms like bacteria that are critical links in the food chain.For instance, honeybees and wild bees pollinate 71 of the 100 crops that constitute 90% of the world’s food supply. Yet since 2007, between 20-30% of all honeybee colonies in the U.S., Canada and Europe have been wiped out each year.The most recent research shows that one class of widely used crop and lawn/garden pesticide (called neonicotinoids) is directly linked to the drop in honeybee colonies.In 2013, the EU issued a 2-year ban on three of the neonicotinoids used on flowering crops attractive to bees. Several member countries, however, lifted the ban for certain crops.While the U.S. has not instituted a similar ban, environmental organizations are pushing heavily for one. You can help by joining and/or donating funds to these organizations.
 Research by the U.S. Geological Survey found that urban waterways were just as contaminated, and in some cases more contaminated, with pesticides than rural waterways. In fact, pesticides were found in 99% of water and fish samples taken from urban streams. The levels also often exceeded those used as guides for the protection of aquatic life.There are ways, however, that you can avoid making the situation worse by reducing or eliminating your use of pesticides in lawn care.


Do not treat your lawn with pesticides. Many people use lawn care companies that spray their grass lawn with pesticides that limit or eliminate the growth of weeds and the presence of insects. Eliminating this type of treatment (as well as abandoning the monoculture of the grass lawn) can go a long way to improve your local biodiversity.
Aerate your lawn when the soil is compacted so that water, nutrients and air can seep in and promote root growth. Water it well before using a mechanical core aerator, a hand aerifier, or a spading fork to create 1/4-1/2” diameter holes about 4” deep every 4-6” inches apart in your grass. Remove the soil cores and leave them on your lawn, then apply grass seed and/or fertilizer., You can eliminate weeds by pulling them, smothering them with ground cover like clover and several layers of newspaper, or pouring vinegar on them. You can also create physical barriers like edgings and retaining walls, plant flowers and garden crops that will beat out weeds for sunlight, water and nutrients or maintain a thick lawn to crowd out weeds., Maintaining a diverse garden can control pests naturally. You can also include plants throughout and on the perimeter of your garden to repel insects. Good options include marigolds, aster, cosmos, garlic, chive, savory, rosemary, petunias, thyme, rue, nasturtium, tansy, dahlias and euphoria.


Allow natural predators like ladybugs, ground beetles and the praying mantis help you take care of problems.
Use physical deterrents to deter pests. Staple tarpaper into the shape of a cylinder and place it around the base of an affected plant. Wood ashes mixed with water to create a paste can be applied around the base of trees to ward off borers that attach to trees.
 Many items you’d find in your kitchen can help get rid of bugs on plants. Mix 1 tablespoon of peppermint castile soap and a 1/2 teaspoon of cayenne pepper with a 1/2 gallon of water and spray on infested plants. Use chili powder to get rid of ants or drench their mounds in boiling water.You can also remove bugs by hand; by spraying soapy water on plants; by setting traps or bait boxes with a nonvolatile chemical like boric acid; and by dusting boric acid in cracks and crevices to get to ants, cockroaches and silverfish.
 If you are encouraging local biodiversity by shopping at a farmer’s market, be sure to ask your local farmers about the nature and quantity of pesticides they use.Buy from farmers who limit pesticide use and make it known that you prefer to buy pesticide-free foods. Spending money on a product you support is like voting with your wallet; food producers will change their practices to meet the demands of conscientious consumers.
 If you are unable to shop at a farmer’s market, try to buy organic foods at the grocery store. While organic foods may not be 100% pesticide-free, they are held to standards of minimal pesticide use (including a long list of banned fertilizers and pesticides)., Genetically modified (GM) crops arose in part to accommodate increasing human demands on natural resources. In particular, Roundup Ready crops were designed in 1996 to resist poisonous glyphosate – the active ingredient in the weed-killing herbicide Roundup. By 2008, over 90% of all U.S. soybean crops were Roundup Ready, and over 60% of corn and cotton were as well. This type of monoculture farming has greatly benefited large agribusiness, but it has also devastated family farming and led to decreased biodiversity.


The latter can also be attributed to the development of Roundup resistance among Roundup Ready crops and the resulting surge in use of the herbicide – from 25 million pounds per year for soybeans, corn and cotton in 1996 to more than 135 millions pounds per year in 2007.Like neonicotinoids, studies have found that glyphosate has contaminated waterways, soil, air, groundwater and our food.
Additionally, it’s led to declines in beneficial insects, disruptions in the human endocrine system, links to cancer and kidney disease, and may even cause human DNA damage.