 This is one of the most common ways people remove facial hair. It works best when you don't have that much hair to remove. One or two dark hairs on the chin? Tweezing is the best way to go.


Sterilize the ends of the tweezers with rubbing alcohol before and after plucking to avoid infection. Stretch the skin gently around the area that you want to pluck. Grip the hair near the root, and then firmly pull the hair.
Plucking facial hair is inexpensive, but time consuming. It can also be painful and lead to ingrown hairs if the hair breaks off underneath the skin. You can avoid ingrown hairs by pulling the hair gently as opposed to yanking it out with the tweezers.
Hair regrowth after plucking can occur in 3 to 8 weeks.;
, Apply a shaving gel or foam to the chin or upper lip. Glide the razor across the skin in the direction that the hair grows.


You can also use an electric razor for wet or dry shaving. Be careful or you could cause small cuts. It can be hard to use a razor on some areas of the face, like the chin.
Hair regrowth after shaving is fast, though. Hair can return in anywhere from a few hours to a few days. , Threading is becoming an increasingly common way to remove facial hair. It's often used to shape the eyebrows, but people who do threading can also remove your facial hair with the procedure.


The cosmetologist will twist a cotton thread around the hairs on the desired area and then pull them out in rows.
One benefit of threading is that, unlike waxing, it doesn't inflame sensitive skin. The hair will grow back in a couple of weeks.
Some salons now offer threading. Look in the phone book or ask your favorite salon.
 Laser hair treatments are very useful for getting rid of that unwanted hair. The laser gives off beams of heat and light to the roots of the hair and stops the hair from growing after a period of time.


To get the end result it will take 9 or more months but is much more worth it. It is more expensive at first, but in the end you save money. One of the downsides to laser hair treatment is that it can be very painful. A plus side is that it can permanently remove the hair.
You will probably need to go for repeated treatments to fully destroy the hair. Laser hair treatment works best on people with light skin and dark hair.
 Electrolysis should be done in the salon. This is a tedious process that is best for small areas of hair removal, such as above the lip.


Electrolysis is done with a small needle. An electric current is delivered into each hair root, one-by-one, permanently destroying the hair.
White or blonde hair can be removed with electrolysis, unlike laser treatment, which works better with darker hair and light skin. You will need to go for the treatments until the hair is destroyed.

