 Since RA is an inflammatory disease, you can help reduce this process by taking over the counter pain meds such as ibuprofen and naproxen. This will help relieve the pain associated with these skin conditions as well as joint pain associated with RA.


Take these medication with water and food. Be sure to take the dosages recommended on the label. If you have underlying stomach or kidney diseases, seek expert advice before taking these drugs. These drugs can worsen your condition if you have an underlying condition.
 You can purchase non-prescription strength steroid cream from many drug stores. This will help reduce the inflammation process when applied to the affected area. Use as directed. For added benefit, apply a bandage, gauze or dressing over the area after applying cream. This will help reduce the risk of infection.


Remember, the cream can help relieve the inflammation but is not considered a cure for the disease.
 Several studies seem to show a connection between certain foods and the inflammation that characterizes this autoimmune condition.Below are a list of foods/supplements thought to help reduce inflammation.


Omega-3 fatty acids (fish oil): This is a type of fat that has been shown to reduce inflammatory proteins (C - Reactive protein and Interleukin 6) in the body. Many foods that contain Omega 3’s are fish (such as salmon, tuna, and cold water fish). Eat at least three to four ounces, twice a week.

In addition there are supplements in the form of capsules that you can take as well from your drug/vitamin store.


Olive oil: This fat contains healthy monounsaturated fat, antioxidants and oleocanthal, a compound that can lower inflammation and pain. Take two to three tablespoons per day for cooking or in salad dressings or other dishes
Fruits and vegetables: They are packed with antioxidants, which support the immune system and may help fight inflammation. Eat at least 1½ to 2 cups of fruit and two to three cups of vegetables per meal.
Eat nuts and seeds (walnuts, pistachios, pine nuts, almonds). These contain inflammation-fighting monounsaturated fats. Eat 1½ ounces of nuts daily (about a handful)
Eat foods with fiber. Fiber lowers C-reactive protein (CRP), a substance in the blood that indicates inflammation. Getting fiber from foods lowers CRP levels more than taking fiber supplements. Foods that have carotenoids, the antioxidants that give carrots, peppers and some fruits their color, are quite good at lowering CRP.
 Cookies, chips and other snacks can be high in unhealthy fats, which are linked with inflammation. Canned goods such as vegetables and soups are often high in sodium, which boosts blood pressure.


Look for low sodium options, or go with fresh or frozen vegetables.