 Always treat people the way you would like to be treated. Use respectful language, make eye contact with your server, and say "please" and "thank you" when making requests.
 If someone in your party has a food allergy, let both the host and your server know. If you have a physical condition that prevents you from sitting comfortably in a booth, politely but firmly make your preference known when you arrive, rather than at the time the staff tries to seat you.
 Servers pay attention to their customer's body language to determine when tables are ready to order, when customers have a request, when people have finished eating, and so forth. It’s important to send the right signals to get the kind of service your require.Put down your menu when you are ready to order. Servers assume that as long as people are still looking through the menu, they have not made a decision yet.
If you would like a drink refill, place your empty glass or cup at the edge of the table where the server can clearly see it.
If you have a problem with your meal or need something, stop eating and try to make eye contact with your server, or signal him with a quick wave.
 If there are certain ingredients you are avoiding, ask the waiter about their presence before ordering a new dish. If you aren't sure if you will like something, ask the server to describe it for you before making a decision. It's better to get information ahead of time than to wind up with something you don't like.
 You are likely to get better, more efficient service if the members of your party group their requests together. If someone flags the waiter down to ask for ketchup, ask your party if anyone else needs anything at the same time. The more you can plan ahead, and make special requests at the time you place your order, the more likely they will be efficiently accommodated., If something is amiss with your order, or a mistake was made, recognize that it was most likely not your server's fault and remain calm and clear when explaining the problem. Customers who complain gracefully are much easier to deal with and more likely to have their concerns addressed promptly by the staff.If your server does not respond appropriately to your complaint, calmly request that a manager come and speak with you.Be firm, but avoid making a scene.
 Tipping appropriately is always a good idea, but it is especially important if you plan to be a repeat customer at a restaurant. Don't badger your server and threaten to dock his tips if he makes mistakes. Do learn the appropriate tipping customs in the area where you are dining, as these vary widely by country and region, and tip accordingly.