 If you’re driving, hit the road when their nap time begins, or start driving at night so the kids will be asleep. This can minimize car squabbles or upsets.If you’re flying, this can be a bit trickier. Make sure the kids are fed, slept well, and not in the middle of naptime.


Ask about the other kids’ schedules and needs and plan travel around all the kids as much as possible.
 If there are lots of kids, plan for lots of bathroom breaks, snack breaks, and moving around. Kids may start to get antsy or cranky if not given opportunities to stretch their legs. Plan to stop every few hours to accommodate these needs.You may want to divide the cars by children’s age group so that younger kids sit together and older kids sit together. This may minimize squabbles and make break times more predictable based on their needs.
 Create special travel bags for the trip that include snacks, extra clothes, something to drink, and activities for the kids. Bring fun, easy to eat snacks (that aren’t entirely messy), juice boxes and plenty of water, diapers, and anything else that may be necessary in the car. If children need medication, make sure it’s handy so you don’t have to go digging for it. Pack plenty of toys and make sure each child has several toys to choose from.Consider swapping the children’s toys so that your children play with the other children’s toys and vice versa. This is almost like getting new toys but is much simpler. Just make sure the children agree to this first.
 When lots of people are involved, it’s difficult to manage setbacks, delays, and unexpected events. Even when you plan months in advance, you can’t plan for road closures, car issues, or health problems. If you have several adults available, delegate responsibilities. Do your best to remain calm and take care of any needs.


For example, if a child is sick and needs immediate care, have one or two adults accompany the child and have everyone else continue with the plans.
Pack extra food and water in case of emergencies. You may want to pack blankets, too.

