 Cover a clear, flat surface with a clean towel to catch any water or polish that might spill.
 If your marcasite is set in silver, make sure to use gloves to prevent fingerprints from tarnishing., This will be your primary cleaning tool, so make sure it is clean and free of rough spots., Marcasite can be cleaned with either a dry or slightly damp cloth; damp cloths may help clean the jewelry from tougher spots of tarnish or dirt., Use gentle, careful strokes.
 If you’re using a damp cloth to polish the stone, make sure to use a separate, dry cloth to dry it immediately after. , Marcasite stones are often set in silver, which you might choose to clean as well. Make sure to use a separate cleaning cloth so that the polish does not damage the marcasite. If you use a cloth, you can purchase a special silver cloth or use a soft cotton T-shirt. Use long, back-and-forth strokes that follow the grain of the silver.
If you use a silver polish, apply a small amount to a cotton ball, pad, or cloth and gently polish it across the silver. Popular silver cleaners include Hagerty Silversmith’s, Blitz, and Earth Friendly products. Use a Q-tip to get to small, tighter spaces in the jewelry.
 This is especially important if you've used a damp cloth or any water in during your cleaning., Marcasite tends to be fragile, so it’s best to keep your cleaning routine simple and non-intensive.If you feel your jewelry needs a deeper clean than just water or dry polishing, consult your jeweler.
 Marcasite gems are secured using jeweler’s cement, which loosens if it comes in contact with dish detergent or is submerged in water.,

Set up your workspace. Have paper towels ready in case of spills or mistakes.
Dab a small amount of glue on the back of the gem and carefully place it in its setting.
Adjust the fit of your stone before the glue dries. This is usually within 5-10 minutes, depending on the brand of glue. Let the piece dry overnight before wearing it.
Popular jeweler’s glues include E-6000 or Beacon 527., They will built up occasionally around the marcasite or the silver setting around it, which means your marcasite piece is in need of a deeper cleaning.