 Having positive relationships with others is a crucial component of being able to cope with being different. We need social connection, and to feel like we fit in somewhere, in order to have a positive sense of well-being.People are drawn to positive and confident individuals. You will need confidence to face your fears and meet new people.


Use positive self-talk. Avoid blaming yourself or beating yourself up.Examples might include thinking, “What a loser! I can’t do anything right!”
Try mindfulness.Mindfulness can help individuals become nonjudgmental and more accepting of themselves. Simply notice everything around you. What colors or objects do you see? What do you currently feel? What do you hear? Be aware of your own thoughts, feelings, and surroundings.
Everyone has something that makes them feel cool and perfect. So do it. Buy cool clothes, sing, dance, act - whatever makes you feel awesome.
 When you feel different and possibly social rejected, it can help to find a group of people who are similar to you (in culture, ethnicity, religion, interests, disability, appearance, values, etc). Everyone needs to feel a part of a community to have a sense of happiness and well-being.Join a club or class of like-minded individuals. Some examples include: science, math, drama, dance, choir, yearbook and student government.
Try playing a sport at school or for fun such as: basketball, volleyball, football, soccer, track, cross country, water polo, tennis, dance, or cheer-leading.
Try Meetup.com, where you can identify any type of group you want including: hiking, painting, video gaming, rock-climbing, and many more. Make sure it is safe and if you are a minor ensure that your parent or legal guardian is aware.
 Authenticity is important in making positive connections with others. Nobody wants to interact or connect with someone who is putting on a facade. Be your very own unique self. Avoid changing your personality (talking or acting in a certain way) to try to fit in.


Scream when you want (and won't get in trouble), run everywhere, make up crazy songs. Do what you like to do! Don’t change for anyone else, only if you want to yourself.
If you are quiet, be quiet. If you're a hippie at heart, then be a hippie.
Create your own style. If you truly love Abercrombie, wear it, but don't wear it because everyone else is. If you like jeans and dresses, wear them.

