 If your apples came with a waxy coating, the chocolate may not stick. Boil 6 cups (1.4 liters) of water with 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of white vinegar. Dip each waxy apple into the mixture for 5 seconds, then pat dry.If the sticks are hard to insert, make a shallow cut in the top of the apple first with a sharp knife. Make sure that the apples are secure on the sticks.;
, The apples will chill as you prepare the chocolate. This will help the melted chocolate harden faster once you dip the apples into it.
 If you don't have wax paper, lightly coat the baking sheet with cooking spray instead. This way, the chocolate won't stick to the baking sheet.
 Fill a saucepan with 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of water. Place a heat-safe glass bowl on top of the saucepan. The bottom of the bowl should not be touching the surface of the water.
 To help the butter melt faster, cut it into small cubes. You can use any type of chocolate you want: white, milk, or dark. If you bought colored bakers chocolate, it may have different melting instructions; follow the directions on the bag instead.
 Don't let the chocolate get wet, or it will seize. Also, don't let the chocolate burn, or it will have a bad taste. This will only take a few minutes.
 Get your apples out, and be prepared to start dipping. The chocolate will start to harden quickly.
 Roll it around the chocolate to coat it evenly, then lift it out of the bowl. Give the stick a twirl to help the chocolate coat the apple more evenly. It will also help get rid of any excess chocolate.
 You can also shake some sprinkles over the apples to make them more colorful. When shaking sprinkles onto apples, try to do it over a paper coffee filter. The filter will catch the sprinkles, and make it easier to funnel them back into the jar when you are done., Work quickly, as the chocolate will start to harden. If the chocolate begins to harden, simply place the bowl back onto the saucepan, and warm the chocolate up again.


When placing the apples onto the baking sheet, remember to leave a little space between each apple so that they don't stick together.
,