 This is the most effective way of keeping a cat out of a space you don't want it in. If the room doesn't have a door, put one on as soon as you can.


Be aware that this provides a physical barrier to the cat's entry, yet the cat may still try to get in.
By denying the cat access to a room that it wants to go into, you may increase the cat's stress. This can inadvertently shift bad behaviour to another part of the house.
Ideally, only deny access as an emergency measure whilst seeking the advice of a qualified animal behaviourist or your veterinarian.;
, It can be hard to keep a cat out of a room it wants to get into, so you are going to have to act fast! It's a good idea to try to distract the cat with toys and treats so you can enter the room with enough time to shut the door behind you.
 It may be hard to create a physical barrier that will keep all cats out, but try to make a barrier designed to your specific cat's agility. For instance,e while baby gates will not work for all cats, if your cat is only slightly interested in the room or your cat is old or not agile, a small baby gate may deter your cat from entering the room.
 Only allow the cat to roam inside on your terms, at your convenience, when you can shut as many doors as you'd like. This way, you don't have to worry about the cat's whereabouts when locked away snugly in its own house. However, this is severely limiting the cat's territory which can lead to stress. Stress can manifest itself as destructive behaviour, inappropriate urination or defecation, or indeed some cats will become ill with bladder problems.


To minimize this risk make sure your cat has plenty of room to roam. Provide high perches for the cat to sit on and look around, hiding places so the cat can have privacy when necessary, and litter box, food and water bowls.
If the run is outdoors, also make sure there is adequate protection from wind, rain, and direct sun.
Make sure the cat has mental stimulation, so this includes providing toys, spending a minimum of two, ten minutes play sessions a day with the cat, and giving the cat plenty of attention., If you scold a cat, he or she will do it again. If the "game" your cat is playing has no merit, it won't bother again.
 If it is essential the cat does not scratch at the door, try siting a canister of compressed air with a motion detector trigger, beside the door. When the motion detector picks up the cat it releases a blast of compressed air which does not harm the cat, but gives him a fright. The cat then learns to associate that door with an unpleasant experience and will be more wary about approaching.

