 The back of your bathroom door is a frequently underused space. But this is a great place where you can install extra towel racks. You could also purchase organizers with adhesive backing and stick these to the inside of the doors of your cabinets to boost your bathroom storage capacity.

Though these kinds of organizers are frequently small, they still work great for things like lipstick, cotton swabs, lotions, eyebrow pencils, toothbrushes, and more., Drawers stack, which will allow you to use more of the vertical space in your cabinets. Too often, items clutter the bottom of cabinets while the upper space is unused. Drawers, or stackable shelves, will help you make better use of this space., Items can be easily pushed to the back of a cabinet and lost or forgotten. For this reason, you may be under-utilizing the space in the back of your bathroom cabinets. A lazy susan is essentially a tray that rotates on a base, so you can spin the tray to reach items in the back of your cabinets more easily., These kinds of shelves often fit right into the corner of your shower, where they are out of the way but still convenient. They are perfect for holding soap bottles and loofah, and will prevent bathing supplies from crowding the floor of your shower or edge of your tub.

Some variations of tower shelving hang from the shower itself instead of fitting into the shower's corner. This variety may be even better for especially small showers., There are many pre-made cabinets, available at hardware and furniture stores, that wrap around your sink to increase your storage space. If this option is a little outside your price range, you could buy a decorative curtain and install it around suitable sinks with storage space underneath (like pedestal sinks), and then store bathroom items there.

You can improve storage space behind your curtain even more by adding stackable shelving beneath your sink as well.
Baskets are an inexpensive household item that work well in place of stackable shelving for storing items behind your sink curtain., Buy a second shower rod and install it above head height along the wall opposite of your shower curtain. Once the rod is securely in place, you can hang light bathing supplies from it in a suitable, waterproof bag.Water will collect in your waterproof bag over time, so its best to choose one that is mesh or has drainage holes at its bottom so excess moisture drains and the bag dries quickest.
In many cases, you'll be able to insert the shower rod between bag handles to hang it. In other cases, you may need to use a durable rope/thread, like paracord, to fasten bags or supplies from the extra shower curtain rod.

