 If you fear falling, you may limit your life in a way that makes it less enjoyable. A normal trip to the grocery store or taking your dog on a walk may induce feelings of anxiety like never before. Your fear of falling may lead to inactivity, disability, and even falls. Fearful older adults may limit their activities, which can make their muscles more frail, leading to an increased risk of falls. Instead of limiting your movement, take a different approach. Remove rugs, improve your lighting, and make modifications to your home (like installing railings or grab bars). Don’t let your fear of falling ruin your quality of life. While it’s good to be cautious, stay active and keep moving.;
, As you age, you may experience compounding health problems. These problems can affect your health every day. For some, poor health can lead to feelings of anxiety. Even thinking about your medical condition may fill you with fear. You might even think that a new diagnosis means only bad things will happen to you from now on.If you’re having fears about your health, ask direct questions to your treating physician.


If you fear the side-effects of medications, ask, “What side effects might I experience with this medication? What can I do if that happens?”
If you have anxiety about your medical conditions, ask, “How will this affect my health? How can I prevent limitations?”

, You might start to notice problems with your memory as you age. Learning new things may be more difficult, and remembering names or information can be challenging. If you’re worried about your memory, there are things you can do to help improve it. Eat a healthy diet and do some exercise. Quit smoking and keep your mind sharp by doing activities like sudoku or crossword puzzles.Speak with your healthcare professional if your memory loss is significant. They may have some recommendations for you.
 As you age, you may begin to fear death coming closer to you. While it can be easier to ignore death when you’re young or in shining health, it can be more difficult as you age. It’s up to you how to approach death, but it can be helpful to confront death. Some people approach it intellectually, others through a faith or spiritual practice that brings them meaning to life.It can be difficult to see friends and family close to you dealing with death and dying. If their experiences fill you with anxiety, you are not alone. It’s normal to have many, often mixed emotions when grieving, and it’s okay to express your feelings as they occur., Many older people worry about money and whether they will have enough to support themselves or whether they will leave enough for their families. Don’t be afraid to ask for assistance regarding finances. You can find professional help such as working with a financial planner or attorney, or reach out to your family for help in managing day to day expenses. Create a budget and stick to it. Consider allowing a trusted family member to manage or monitor your accounts.If you are afraid of being scammed, run financial decisions by trusted friends or family members and don’t be afraid to get a second professional opinion.
 Aging adults may experience a greater level of social loss as friends and family members pass or decline in their function. You may fear being isolated from your friends and family due to losses in your own mobility. Loneliness can lead to feeling sad or depressed, so it’s important to stay connected no matter your age.If you fear being isolated, alone, or lonely, take steps to ensure a happy social life.


If you live alone or far from your family, connect with them regularly through emails, phone calls, or video calls.
Connect to a social network through game nights, your local community center, or religious or spiritual traditions.

