 Double your efforts by using the pressure of the foam roller together with specific stretches. Lying on the roller as you pull one leg towards your knee can relieve pain and tension while stretching your lower back muscles.Sit on the floor and place roller on your lower back just above your hips. Lean back and hug your knee. Pull your knee back towards your chest while using your other foot to roll up to just underneath your chest. Repeat slowly 10-12 times and then switch to the other side.
 Another stretch commonly associated with yoga is child’s pose. This is a great lower and upper back stretch. Using a foam roller with it can allow you to stretch your back muscles much more deeply.Place the foam roller in front of you with your hands on it. Then sit your hips back towards your ankle. You may want to spread your knees apart for a better stretch. Exhale and melt your arms into your roller. You should feel a good stretch in your lower and upper back.
Hold child’s pose for as long as you like.
 In most cases, lower back tightness is not due to an issue with the lower back muscles. Instead, it’s often other muscle groups, such as the hip flexors, that cause the pain. Using your foam roller to massage your hip flexors can help stretch out your lower back.Locate your hip flexors at the front of your upper thigh and pelvis. Then place the foam roller under your hip flexors. You can use your hands to hold up yourself on place the foot of the leg not being rolled on the ground. Gently roll your body forward and backward for 15-90 seconds to massage the front of your hip and pelvis.
Keep your pelvis relaxed and breathe normally to get the best stretch.
 Just like the hip flexors, tight glutes—or butt—muscles can also cause a tight lower back. Using a combination of the foam roller and body positioning, you can stretch out your lower back and glutes.Sit with the foam roller underneath both of your glutes. Then lift your right leg and put your ankle over your left knee. You should already feel a stretch. Shift your weight slightly onto your right hip and roll back and forth for 10-12 passes.
Repeat on the other side.

