 Some people have normal fears of things, some have intense fears, and others have phobias. If your phobia doesn’t affect your life in a significant way, then you may not need psychotherapy. However, if your phobia keeps you from doing normal everyday things, then you should seek help.The fear caused by a phobia may affect your day-to-day activities. For example, if you are afraid of dogs, then you might avoid walking around your neighborhood out of fear that you might encounter a dog.
Keep in mind that even if a fear does not affect you on a daily basis, it may still affect you in significant ways. For example, if you live in a large city, and you are afraid of heights, then you might avoid tall buildings out of fear. Therefore, the phobia may limit your job opportunities, social opportunities, and/or living arrangements.;
, Phobias can sometimes lead to panic attacks or panic symptoms. If your phobia ever causes you to experience panic, then you should seek therapy. Some of the symptoms you might have include:difficulty breathing
racing heart and/or tightness in your chest
trembling
dizziness
sweating or feeling hot
turning sensations in your stomach
feeling anxious
feeling detached or unreal
being afraid that you might go crazy, pass out, or die

, Psychotherapy is an effective treatment for phobias.During your therapy sessions, you will talk one-on-one with a mental health professional. Some of the mental health professionals who provide psychotherapy include psychologists, counselors, and psychiatrists. Psychotherapy helps you to confront your phobias and work on developing effective coping skills so that your phobia will be more manageable.Through psychotherapy, you will learn more about your phobias and the circumstances and thoughts that may have caused it.
Psychotherapy includes counseling, talk therapy, psychosocial therapy, and other kinds of therapy.
 Overcoming and confronting your phobias is a process. There is no quick fix. Psychotherapy can help you learn how to stop letting your phobias control your life, but it may take a while. However, some people start to feel better after just a few sessions.Keep in mind that because you are facing your fears and pushing yourself outside of your comfort zone, you may feel bad instead of better at first. This is normal and it should not be a reason to quit. Overcoming phobias can be a hard and stressful experience. Just remember, each time you confront your fears, you’re making progress.
 There are lots of different ways to find a therapist, but you should use your resources to help make the process less overwhelming. Some things that you can do to find a therapist include:Asking your doctor for a referral. If you are unsure about how to get treatment for your phobia, then ask your general practitioner for a referral to a therapist.
Checking with your insurance company. Your insurance company may pay for a number of therapy sessions if you see a therapist that is in your network.
Asking friends and family members. If you know someone who sees a therapist, ask how he or she likes the therapist.
Searching for a therapist on the internet. Many mental health services have websites that give bios about therapists and information about their services and practices. You can also search for therapists via professional association websites.
 Before you look for a therapist, you may want to learn about different kinds of mental health professionals and so that you can look for one who will be able to meet your needs.Psychiatrists (M.D., D.O) are medical doctors who can diagnose and treat mental health problems with a combination of medications and psychotherapy.

Psychologists (Ph.D., Psy. D, Ed D.) are mental health professionals with a doctoral degree in psychology. These mental health professionals can treat mental health problems using talk therapy. Psychologists do not usually prescribe medications, but some may work with doctor so that they can prescribe medications.

Licensed clinical social workers (L.C.S.W) can provide talk therapy.

Licensed professional counselors (L.P.C.) can diagnose and treat mental health conditions using talk therapy.
 Make sure that whatever psychotherapist you see has the proper licenses and certifications to practice in your state. Research the psychotherapist’s education, certifications, background, and licenses. Each state has its own certification standards, so check to see if the therapist meets these regulations.You should also check to see whether or not a therapist you are considering has had any complaints.
If you are seriously considering someone to be your therapist, make sure that you call and ask about the therapist's fee structure to make sure that you can afford the fees.
 Before you decide to work with a therapist, you may want to schedule a meeting so that you can meet the therapist and ask questions. While it is important to share your symptoms with your potential therapist, you can also use this appointment to ask questions. Some questions you might want to ask at your first appointment include:How long have you been practicing?
How much experience do you have helping people with phobias?
What types of treatment methods do you use to treat phobias? Are these methods effective?

, Most therapists use a combination of different therapeutic approaches depending on your situation. Some approaches that you therapist may use include:



Cognitive behavioral therapy. CBT helps you confront and address negative thoughts along with the distorted feelings, perceptions, and ideas you have about something. The goal of CBT with phobias is to take control of the way you react to your phobia by working on the thoughts that lead you to feel how you do.Exposure therapy. Avoiding the source of your phobia can make the phobia worse over time. Exposure therapy helps you face your phobia to lessen its control over you.Exposure therapy works in stages. For example, if you are afraid of heights, you may start by looking at photos taken from high places, watch videos, and then look at a tall building in person. After that, you may slowly progress to going up in high buildings.Psychodynamic therapy. Psychodynamic therapy works on gaining insight into your phobia, fears, and anxieties. This therapy works on any unconscious thoughts or reasons for the way you feel. You work on understanding your thoughts and gaining control over how you feel and think.This therapy involves talking with your psychotherapist. You will discuss triggers that cause your phobias, then discuss events or reasons in your life that you may have these phobias.

