 There aren't any hard and fast rules when it comes to knitting needle requirements for working with certain types of yarn. Choose a yarn that you enjoy and realize that chunkier yarns will knit up faster than thin or fine yarn. The same is true of your needles. If you'd like a larger looser blanket, work on larger needles.


Consider using size 19 US or 15.0 mm needles and super chunky yarn to create a large blanket that comes together quickly.;
, Find the end of your yarn which is usually tucked into the middle of the ball of yarn. Make a loop near the end of the yarn as though you're going to tie a knot. The long end should be on top of the short end. Fold the top loop over to the inside of the loop. Pick up the loop and pull it through tightly. Slip this loop onto one of your knitting needles and pull the end to tighten it.









You'll know you've correctly made a slip knot if you can can simply continue pulling the loop and it comes apart.
 Hold the needle with the slip knot in your right hand. Drape the working yarn over the palm of your left hand so your fingers can close into a loose fist and grab it. Wrap your thumb around the yarn so that it threads behind your thumb (if your palm is facing you). Use the point of your needle to thread underneath your thumb. Pull the needle through so that the yarn is lifted off your your thumb and onto your needle.
 Cast on until you have 14 stitches on your needle. This will eventually be an edge of one of your patchwork squares. Each square will measure about 20cm (7.5 inches). Transfer the needle with the stitches to your left hand so you can begin knitting.Continue grasping the yarn in your palm with your fingertips, this will keep it out of the way and create tension so that you can quickly cast on.
 Hold the needle that doesn't have any stitches on it in your right hand. Insert the tip of this needle into the stitch closest to the tip of the other needle.


You should insert it under the stitch so that the needle goes from front to back and forms an "X".
 Grab the working yarn with your right hand and wrap it around the right needle so that it's in between the needles. Slowly pull the right needle down and through the yarn on the left needle.









You should keep the working yarn between the needles while you do this.
 Your right needle should now be on top of the left needle. Pull this stitch off the left needle by lifting the right needle up and away from the left needle. This will transfer the stitch from the left needle to the right needle.








Try to work near the end of the needles so that the stitches don't become tight on the middle of the needles. But, make sure that they're not so close to the ends of the needles that the stitches fall off.
 Knit each of the stitches that you cast on until you come to the end. This makes a complete row of garter stitches. Transfer the needle with the stitches to your left hand and continue knitting them to make another row. Knit rows until your square measures 20cm (7.5 inches).








Make sure you knit into the stitches that are looped onto the left needle, not the stitches of the row you just completed.
 Keep the needle that has your knitted square in your left hand. Knit two stitches onto the empty needle in your right hand. You'll use these stitches to cast off the rest of the square that's on the other needle. You should always have two stitches on the right needle.Casting off or binding off will work the square off of the needles. This means you'll be able to take it off the needles without worrying that it will come undone. You'll be able to sew this square to another completed square when you assemble the blanket.
 Push the tip of the left needle into the first stitch on your right needle. This should be the first stitch that you knit on this needle., Use the tip of the left needle to lift the first stitch over the second stitch. This means you'll be lifting the stitch and sliding it off of the right needle. You should now have only one stitch on the right needle.
 You'll always need two stitches on the right needle so that you can lift up and over a stitch to cast it off. Continue casting off the stitches until you reach the end of the row.








You should have a completely empty needle and only one stitch still on the other needle.
 Remove the needle from the last stitch. You should see a big loop. Hold onto this so that it doesn't come unraveled and use scissors to cut the working yarn. Leave about an arm's length of yarn when you cut it. Take the yarn and tie it through the loop, pulling it tightly.








You'll still have extra yarn tailing from the end of your square after you've tied it off. You'll use this to sew the squares together.
 You can make the blanket as large as you like, keeping in mind that you'll need to knit more squares. For a large square blanket, you might want to use seven squares across by seven squares down.Consider laying out your squares on a large surface so you can arrange them, especially if you used different colored yarn. Alternate the squares so that the rows are vertical next to a square where the rows are turned horizontal.
 Select the squares you'll be sewing together. Take a large sewing needle and thread the yarn from a square's tail. Adjust the square so that the square you're sewing it to is turned opposite.








For example, if the square with the sewing tail has rows arranged horizontally, the square you're sewing it to should be arranged vertically.
 Take the threaded sewing needle and insert it into the stitch of the square that's laying next to it. Pull the needle so the yarn tightens. Insert the needle back into the square with the tail you're using. You should be stitching the two squares together by going back and forth with the yarn.








Continue doing this till you reach the end of the squares. The two squares should be completely sewn together now.
 You'll be left with tails of yarn on your squares that you won't need to sew into other squares. Take your tail and thread it onto the needle. But, instead of using it to connect to another square, simply weave it in between the knots on one square's edge. Make a knot in the yarn and cut it off so that it doesn't come undone.








Weaving in the end can prevent a loose end from unraveling and can make your knitting look more polished.
 Continue sewing together squares until you have seven squares in a row. Create seven of these rows total so you can stitch together every row and make a large blanket. Or, make a smaller blanket by using fewer squares. You can also make a rectangular blanket by making the rows shorter than the blanket is long.Consider adding beads and other decorative objects to your knitting. You could also just sew on the beads afterwards. Also consider adding knit flowers, leaves, or decorative edging.

