 A good way to make your boyfriend miss you is to create special memories together that he will not want to forget. This could mean surprising him with a special gift, like an item of clothing he has always wanted, or planning a special date to see a band he really likes.









Keep the relationship spontaneous and exciting by planning surprise activities that you can do together. This will allow you and your boyfriend to spend quality time together and build memories that will serve as reminders of how enjoyable your relationship is.
 Be extra romantic and write down your feelings and emotions in a letter for your boyfriend to find later on his pillow, in his bag, or in his car. Use nice stationery and be as intimate and honest as you can. Seal the letter and leave it somewhere where he can find it easily. When he finds it and opens it, he will think of you and miss your loving presence.









You can also send him a loving text via your phone, and remember to wish him good night or good morning, especially if you are apart from each other. This will help you both to maintain a strong connection to each other and show your boyfriend he is always on your mind.
 Find a way to surprise and treat your boyfriend now and then. Prepare his favorite meal, give him a massage, or allow him time to focus on his own hobbies or passions. This will show him how generous and loving you can be. Doing things he enjoys can be a good reminder that your relationship is valuable and he will miss good treatment from you when you are away.









Make sure that you do not neglect your needs in order to meet your boyfriend’s needs. Just try to find little ways to surprise him now and then so that he will be more likely to miss you when you are not with him.
 Leaving a small item at your boyfriend’s house may remind him of you when he least expects it. Try leaving an earring, hair clip, or some other small items that will remind him of you when he finds it.









Leaving an earring behind can be subtle and symbolic. Earrings are a pair, so leaving one behind implies that that the pair will come together again just as you and your boyfriend will come together again.
Avoid leaving behind anything too essential. Your house keys, wallet, or driver's license are necessary parts of your daily life, so you will need to turn right back around to retrieve them. This will not give your boyfriend enough time to miss you.

