 Not all dogs have a wet nose all the time. While a wet nose does increase a dog's ability to smell, as the moisture helps the dog hold onto smells, it is a myth that all healthy dogs have a moist nose all the time.A moist nose allows a dog to smell better because it absorbs scents, allowing the dog to process the smell more thoroughly.Just as you should regularly assess the state of your dog's body, usually done while you are petting or grooming it, it's a good idea to keep an eye on your dog's nose over time. That way you will be able to determine if your dog's nose has changed over time.;
, A dog that has been lying in the sun will usually have a dry nose. The heat of the sun will dry up a moist nose rather quickly. However, if your dog's nose is normally moist it will return to that state quickly after the nose returns to its normal temperature.


The nose and the pads of your dog's paws are two places on a dog's body that can sweat, meaning that they are locations where a dog can get rid of excess heat. If your dog is hot, moisture will evaporate off of its nose, cooling it down., Just like a dog that has been laying in the sun, a dog that has been near a heater may have a dry nose due to the heat. If you are concerned about your dog's nose, but you know it has been laying near a heater, keep an eye on its nose for a few hours after it has moved away from the heat.


If your dog is not ill, the nose should go back to its normal moisture once it has cooled down.
If your dog is panting, that is also a sign that your dog is overheated. This can be a clue that your dog's dry nose is related to heat, and not an underlying illness., One simple and common explanation for a dry nose is that your dog is dehydrated. Make sure that your dog has access to water at all times, especially if it is outside on a hot day.In many cases, your dog can be dehydrated because it is not drinking enough water. Watch how much water your dog is drinking. A healthy dog should be drinking about one ounce of water per pound of weight every day. This means that, for example, a mid-sized dog weighing around 60 pounds should be drinking between a quarter to a half gallon of water every day.Dehydration can be caused by a variety of illnesses as well. If your dog seems to be drinking enough water but it exhibits signs of dehydration, such as excessive panting, dry nose, gums, and mouth, lethargy, and a change in personality, then it should be taken to a veterinarian for evaluation.Dehydration can affect the nose because the nose is used for cooling down. Unlike a human, who can sweat all over, a dog only sweats from its nose and the pads of its paws. If your dog is dehydrated, it won't be able to move moisture to its nose, which cools the dog off as it evaporates. Thus, dehydration will diminish the dogs ability to cool itself off.
 A dry nose may not signal a problem but a cracked nose, especially one that has scabs or sores on it, does signal a problem. If your dog's nose is so dry that it has cracked and looks infected, you should have it looked at by a veterinarian.You will need to be able to judge whether your dog's dry nose is extreme or not. If the nose seems tender, such as your dog being more sensitive than normal to it getting touched, then there may be a problem.
 Changes to the color of your dog's nose may signal that is has a skin disorder or that its nose was sunburned. Dogs that have pink noses can be sunburned, leading to a red nose. If you know that your dog has been in the sun a lot, you should treat the change in color as a sunburn.If your dog's nose is sunburned then you should cool it down when you can. Apply a cold compress to the area.If your dog does not seem to be in pain, then you can usually just let the burn heal naturally. If it is in pain, then you may need to get medicine from your veterinarian to treat the injured area.
Consult with your veterinarian about a sunscreen that can be used on your dog in the future, as well as a treatment that can calm the existing burn. Using sunscreen on a dog with a light-colored nose can prevent serious skin problems, such as skin cancer.
Changes in the color of your dog's nose can also signal skin disorders related to hormone imbalance, allergies, or infections. If your dog's nose changes color and the dog has not been out in the sun, signaling that it is not sunburned, then you should have the dog checked out by a veterinarian., Discharge coming from the nose, in combination with a dry nose, can signal that your dog is sick. This is especially true if the discharge is yellow or green, and not clear as nasal discharge should normally be.If your dog has an especially dry nose combined with nasal discharge that is not clear, take your dog in to its veterinarian for a check up. Your dog may have an infection that could be cleared up with medication.
If your dog has a dry nose and clear nasal discharge it probably just has a minor cold. You should monitor the condition to make sure it doesn't advance, such as the mucus changing from clear to yellow or green and, if you are concerned, call your veterinarian to get advice about whether your particular dog should get looked at by a veterinarian.
 If you cannot identify the cause for your dog's dry nose, take your dog to a vet. There are many reasons that your dog's nose could be dry, so getting an expert opinion can be important.


Your veterinarian may or may not be concerned about your dog's dry nose. Feel free to ask any questions you may have, including whether the dry nose should be a cause for concern.

