 Consuming more fruits and vegetables everyday helps reduce the risk of colon cancer while providing other beneficial effects to your health. Fruits and vegetables, like strawberries and spinach, are rich with nutrients, fiber, and cancer fighting antioxidants.If you have a sweet-tooth, try and replace processed sugars with natural sugars found in fruits.
Replace processed carbohydrates with vegetables, like carrots or parsnips.
 Fiber is essential to counter-acting carcinogens and helps fuel the resident bacteria already present in our guts. Taking care of your colon by eating fibrous foods like whole grains, lentils, apples, and broccoli will reduce your risk of colon cancer.Try whole wheat or seeded breads instead of breads made with processed and bleached wheat.
If you think you are not eating enough fiber, try a supplement like Metamucil.
 Red and processed meats contain a combination of potentially harmful elements, from the particular type of iron present in red meat to its carcinogenic effect when being cooked at high temperatures. Avoiding red and processed meat will greatly reduce your risk of colon cancer.Think of red meat as a garnish to a vegetable heavy dish if you find you cannot live without red meat.
Many processed meats, like hot dogs, bacon, salami, and some lunch meats, contain sodium nitrite, which turns into a carcinogen during digestion., Alcohol can be heart-healthy in low doses, but it can also increase the risk of cancer when consumed consistently. To drink in moderation and lower your risk of cancer, limit your alcohol consumption to no more than two drinks a day for adult males, and no more than one a day for adult females.A single drink amounts to 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1.5 ounces of distilled spirits (liquor)., Smoking not only increases the risk of serious diseases like heart disease, emphysema, and stroke, but is also a major cause of at least 14 different cancers, including colon cancer.Consult your healthcare professional about smoking cessation products.
Many over the counter smoking cessation products are available at pharmacies and grocery stores.
 If you are 50 to 69 years of age, ask your doctor about taking a low daily dose of aspirin. Doing this for 10 years may reduce your risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD) and colorectal cancer, according to recommendations from the US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF).This may not be appropriate for everyone, especially if you take other medication or have other medical conditions, so make sure you talk to your doctor first.
 Both calcium and Vitamin D can help reduce the risk of cancer. If you are having difficulty eating enough calcium and vitamin-rich foods, look for supplements in a powder, pill, or capsule form.If you live in an area that does not get frequent sunlight, you may benefit from Vitamin D supplements.
Whole milk is a great source of both calcium and Vitamin D.

