 The first part of working through your emotions is to figure out what you're feeling and acknowledge it. In other words, you can't deal with what you're feeling until you know what it is. After you've had a hard day of insensitive comments, spend some time thinking about how it's made you feel. Once you can articulate it, you can start moving forward.


You might feel angry, sad, or hurt. Whatever you feel, that's ok. Figuring out your feelings can help you process them and move forward.
If you feel that your hurt feelings have progressed into feelings of depression or anxiety, or if you fear you may be developing body image issues, seek the support of a therapist or counselor.
 Even if you do deal with the comments directly, you may need someplace to vent about what people have said. A journal can be the perfect place to let some of those emotions out. You could also write what you wish you would've said to someone who caught you off guard.After venting, be sure to include some positive affirmations about yourself and your body. Remind yourself that your body is doing incredible work right now, and that pregnancy does not last forever.
 You can be emotionally vulnerable during pregnancy, and it can help to lean on others when you've had a hard day of insensitive remarks. A partner is an obvious choice for support, but a friend or even a parent can work just as well.Just tell them what's going on and how you're feeling. Unloading can help.
You may want to ask your partner to help you address the comments when the two of you are together, which can take the pressure off of you to respond. Let them know you need their support, especially if you are worried your emotions might make it difficult for you to respond.
 That is, you don't want to punch the offender in the face. However, you can punch a pillow later, if that will help you feel better. You could also scream once you're home or stomp your feet. Do whatever you need to do to let out some of that anger.Make sure not to do anything too strenuous. You don't want to hurt yourself or the baby.

