 Open Google Chrome on your computer and visit the Google Chrome Webstore at https://chrome.google.com/webstore.;
, Type in “Hangouts” on the search text field on the upper lefthand corner of the Web Store page and hit the “Enter” key on your keyboard to start searching. A list of search results will be displayed on the page.
 Scroll down to the “Extensions” part of the search results and click the “Free” button beside the Hangouts name. Confirm downloading by clicking the “Yes, I trust it” button on the Confirm New Extension popup.


A small pop-up will appear on the bottom right-hand corner of your screen notifying you that the extension has been installed. A small Hangouts window will also appear on this same section of your screen. This is the Hangouts Chrome extension.
, Click the “Sign In” button on the Hangouts extension and the Google Accounts login page will open on a new browser tab. Enter your account’s username and password on the fields provided, and click the “Sign In” button to log into your account.


The Hangouts extension will display all your current conversation threads, just it does like in Google +.
If you don’t have an account yet, you can get one by clicking the “Create Account” link and filling out the sign-up form with your personal details.
 Type in the name of the contact you want to start a chat with on the search text field at the very top of the extension.
 Select the name of the contact from the search result to open a new chat window right beside the Hangouts extension at the bottom of your screen.
 Type the message you want to send on the text field and press the Enter key on your keyboard to send it.


The message will appear on the chat window.
 To end Hangout session, just click close (x) button on the top right-hand corner of the Hangout/Chat window and it will close out.
 To restart the conference again, select the thread you want to reopen from the list displayed on the extension and its Hangout chat window will appear again.
 This is on the righthand side of the message field; clicking it will open an explorer window.
 Navigate to where the photo you want to share is located and select the photo you want to send

, Click the “Select” button to send the picture to the chat window.
 Click the smiley icon on the left-hand side of the message field to open the sticker tray.
 Click on the sticker you want to add to the message text field,

, Press the Enter key on your keyboard to send it.
 Click the add contacts icon (profile of a person with a plus sign beside it) on the upper left-hand corner of the chat window to open your contact list.
 Select from the list of contacts the people you want to add to the chat window.
 Click the “Add people” button to confirm adding selected contacts.
 Click the video camera icon on the upper lefthand corner of the chat window (right beside the add contacts icon) and the video conference window will appear.
 Wait for the other members to answer to begin the video call.


To exit the video call window, just click the close (x) button on the top righthand corner of the window and the conference will terminate.

