 A balloon valance holds its shape because it has a rod pocket at the top and at the bottom. Once in place, you stuff tissue paper inside the valance to create a "poofy" effect.


Mount the brackets. Since a balloon valance is not only meant to cover a drape but also needs extra space for the tissue paper "stuffing," use extra long (9") brackets. Mount them at the same height and 1"-2" outside the brackets for the drapes. Mount the brackets for the lower rod where you want the bottom of your valance to sit.
Hang the valance. Once the brackets are installed, slide the valance onto the rods through the top and the bottom pockets on the valance. Bunch it up evenly across the rods and then insert the rods into the brackets.
Create the balloon effect. Stuff the valance with tissue paper to create fullness. If hanging more than one balloon valance, make sure the look is uniform.
 These are essentially just small drapes; like pinch pleat drapes, they're distinguished by openings next to each pleat on the back side of the valance into which you'll insert hooks that will attach to your rod.


Hang the rod. Since your valance will cover your drape at the top, choose longer (6") brackets to allow room for your drape underneath. Mount the brackets at the same height and 1"-2" outside the brackets already in place for your drapes. Once brackets are in place, insert your rod.
Hang the valance. Place drapery hooks/pins into the openings alongside the pleats on the back of the valance. Insert the hooks into the carriers attached to your drapery rod. Begin at one end and insert the first hook in the top hole of the end bracket. Wrap the valance around the bracket at the end and place each subsequent hook into a carrier and keep moving unused carriers towards the other end of the rod. When the valance completely covers the rod, insert the last hook into the top hole of the end bracket.
 These are long pieces of fabric (usually 6') that frame a window and can be hung many different ways.


Install scarf holders. If you want your scarf valance to dip down in the middle of the window, you'll need two holders; if you want it to rise up, you'll need three. Measure 3" on both sides of your casings and install your scarf holders there. If you're using three holders, measure 4" above the exact center of the window casing and install the additional holder.
Hang the scarves. Thread the scarf through the holders to create the look you want. Make sure that the scarf length on one side of the window is even with the length on the other side.

