 Any make up or hair supply store will have a variety of choices when it comes to hair relaxers. You could even try your salon (or their supplier) for access to other products. But what it really comes down to is choosing between a relaxer with lye and a relaxer without lye.


Products without lye are most commonly found when it comes to home applications. The downside of this product is that it can leave your hair dull and damaged (like normal, everyday straightening).
Make sure you know what you're getting into! Once you straighten your hair with a relaxer, it will not be able to hold much of a curl. If you want to have super curly hair sometimes, this is not the way to go!;
, You'll want to protect your skin, clothes, and hands as you handle this product. Throw on an old t-shirt, disposable gloves (should come with your kit), and an old towel over your shoulders.
 Usually hair relaxer kits come with a couple different packets of creams or pastes. Follow the directions on yours. Use a wooden spatula if you have one available.


Let the product sit for a few minutes before you start using it. This helps everything combine and fuse.
 That's Vaseline, by the way. You want to protect your skin from soaking in the chemicals. Just a thin layer on all edges of your hairline will do the job.


It's important that the relaxer doesn't get anywhere other than your hair. It's not good for your skin, and definitely not good to eat or get in your eyes!

, You don't want to slather a chemical all over your head without doing a test first! What if you had a reaction? So grab a small section of hair at the bottom of your neck and do an experiment first.


Apply relaxer to the section (not including parts that have already been treated in the past). Leave it on per the instructions or until you see results. Wash off the relaxer and dry. Do you notice any breakage or damage? If all is well and good, continue. If it's not, do not use this product any further.
 It's incredibly important that you only leave the hair relaxer on for the appropriate amount of time. Whatever it says on the box is the maximum amount of time the relaxer should be soaking into your strands. Any more could do serious damage.
 Now that your experiment is over, you can start applying to your whole head. Work in small sections, starting at the root and going to the tip, applying as evenly as possible. Don't get any on your scalp!


Only work with hair that hasn't been previously treated. If you're just doing a root touch-up, just work with the roots.
 If you have a wide-toothed, plastic comb, go through your tresses, evening out the relaxer. This helps make sure every strand is getting its due on all sides, and from start to tip. Keep your eyes on the clock, though!

, When the time is up, rinse your hair well, getting rid of all the relaxer. Some relaxers takes on a color so you can easily see where it is. Then, shampoo with the shampoo from the kit, and rinse that out, too.


Take a good look when you think you're done. Did you get everywhere? If you didn't and there's still residue, it could cause damage -- so be thorough!

, Many products include a leave-in conditioner with the kit. This will help seal the hair and prevent damage from rearing its ugly head. Make sure to get all the layers of your hair! Then, towel dry.
 Tada! Straight hair -- almost too easy, huh? Now all you've gotta do is learn a whole bunch of straight-hair styles.

