 Pharmacy technicians assist pharmacists with dispensing medication and other health care products to patients.You will need to count and measure medication and manage the inventory of the pharmacy. You will also need to complete pharmaceutical dosage forms on a full or part time basis.
As of 2012, the median annual wage for pharmacy technicians was $29,320. Employment of pharmacy technicians is projected to grow 20 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than average for most occupations., To pursue a career as a pharmacy technician, you will need to have a high school diploma or equivalent level of education.
 Make sure the program is at an accredited vocational/technical college or online program. This program will prepare you for the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board exam or the PTCE.Many colleges and websites offer online pharmacy technician programs. This will allow you to keep your current job and study at your own pace.
During the training program, you will learn the names of drugs and their uses, how to dispense medications and how to determine correct dosages.
You may also learn customer service skills, record keeping skills, and ethics.
 If you decide not to enroll in a training program through a college, you can enroll in a program offered by a pharmacy. If you go for this option, you will be trained with the exact skills needed to be an employee of the pharmacy that is doing your training.You will need to be at least 18 years of age to become a pharmacy technician.
Check that the training program at the pharmacy is designed to prepare you for the PTCE exam.
PTCE certification will be required if you want to work at another pharmacy in the future.
 Most states and countries require all technicians to pass the PTCE exam. It is a computer based multiple choice exam that contains 90 questions, 80 scored questions and 10 unscored questions. About 1 hour and 50 minutes are allotted for the exam.The PTCE was developed by experts in the pharmacy technician practice and asks questions on pharmacy laws and regulations, medication safety, and pharmacy inventory management, among other topics. There are several practice tests available online to prepare you for the actual exam.You can also complete PTCE practice questions to give you a sense of what to expect from the exam., The following requirements must be met to be a certified Pharmacy Technician (additional requirements may apply according to state):A high school diploma or equivalent educational diploma like a GED or foreign diploma.
Compliance with the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board’s policies.
Full disclosure of all criminal and State Board of Pharmacy registration or licensure actions. This means you have a clean criminal record and follow the PTCB’s Code of Conduct.Once you have completed all these requirements, you can apply to be certified online and take the Pharmacy Technician Certification Exam (PTCE).The cost to apply for certification and take the PTCE exam is $129. Candidates who successfully apply will schedule an exam appointment, and once they receive a passing grade, will be considered certified., If you trained at a pharmacy and have logged hours of experience working in the pharmacy, talk to your supervisor about a possible full time position.You can also look at online job sites for any open positions.
Network by letting your college or training course instructors know you are looking for a position as a certified pharmacy technician.
You may want to also consider applying to a wide range of companies and organizations. As a licensed pharmacist, you can work in a hospital, a community pharmacy, an outpatient clinic, a nursing home, or a pharmaceutical organization. You are also eligible to work at pharmacies across the United States.

