 Go to http://www.skype.com/en/features/skype-buttons page to generate your Skype button and use it on your web pages to help people contact you through voice calls or instant messaging easily.


You can embed this button using the self-generated HTML code of Skype. Your visitors will see a Skype icon with the word “Call”, “chat” or both.;
, Click on the button “Create your Skype button” at the bottom of the page to generate your Skype button HTML code.


You can also go to this code generator page directly at http://www.skype.com/en/features/skype-buttons/create-skype-buttons.
 You need to put your Skype username and select different appearance settings to generate the code for your button.


Click on the required field below the title “Enter your Skype Name” and type your Skype username there.
Mark one of the boxes “Call” or “Chat” or both to indicate the option of communication. Your selected option will be shown on your Skype button. Through selecting the “Call” option, people can call you with a click only. Using the “Chat” option will allow people to start a conversation with an instant message.
Click on the drop-down “Blue” menu to select your preferred Skype button color. The default color is blue, but you can also choose “White” for your button. Just click on the color to set it. Remember, your Skype button background is transparent, so you can place it on any color or background. You should see the preview of your button on the right corner of your page.
Click on “32px” that appears to see the drop-down menu of different pixel sizes of your Skype button. There are different sizes from 10px to 32px. You can choose one of them.
The default size is 32px.
Check the preview of your customized button on the right corner of your page.
 Copy the generated code from the code box below.


To copy the code, click on the box and your code will be highlighted. Right-click and choose “Copy” from the list.
 Open your web page in editing mode and select “HTML” on HTML page editor. To paste the button code in the selected area of your web page, right-click and choose “Paste.”

, Click on the “Save” button to activate the Skype button on your web page.
 Load your web page in a new browser tab to see the new Skype button there.

