


Well fitting bras and panties are a must to avoid awkward lumps and bumps under clothing. Take the time to get measured at a specialty store to get under garments tailored to your shape.
Try shape-wear for under skirts, dresses, and blouses to smooth your stomach and thighs. Many offer variations of camisoles and shorts to fit your needs.
Don’t be afraid to indulge yourself with a pretty lacy bra or pair of panties. Feel confident about what you have on underneath it all.;
,


Outfit yourself with at least one pair of good fitting jeans, simple t-shirts, button-up blouses, a pretty skirt, and a few plain cardigans.
Solid colors and low-maintenance patterns are good to have in any style of clothing, and are flattering to all wearers.
Layering creates interest and is easy to do. Top off any outfit with a simple sweater or jacket for added depth.



Black is the most slimming of shades, but don’t rely on it too much. Find clothing in colors you prefer, no matter the hue.
Often time’s plus-sized women are warned of the woes of wearing white; ignore that! White can be flattering to any size woman when worn in a flattering style.
Don’t hide under dull colors. Just because a color may be dark or smoggy doesn’t mean it makes you look smaller; contrariwise, bright colors don’t necessarily make you stand out or appear larger.



Shapeless clothing is exactly that – shapeless. Don’t wear loose-fitting clothing to try to hide your body. The baggy layers will end up making you appear larger.
Your clothes should fit your body, but not cling. Anything too tight will accentuate any unflattering bumps you may have.
Search for clothing with ruching and wrapping-patterns. These will fashionably cover up any problem areas you may be concerned about.
Tailors are an oft-forgotten but incredibly handy tool. Don’t be afraid to take an article of clothing you love and get it altered to better fit your shape.
 Try looking in Torid, Modcloth, Nordstroms, Target, and Forever21 for styles that fit any age group, size, and budget.

