 Ask the photographer if he or she has any suggestions, but make sure that you don't let them control what you wear. You want to feel comfortable! Sometimes, higher end photographers may have a wardrobe stylist to assist you on the day of the shoot.;
, Too many actors try to come up with something that makes them look really good (clothing AND makeup), but they forget the key point about the whole thing: you want to be yourself. They come to the headshot session wearing these brand new clothes that make them feel slightly out of their comfort zone, and it shows in their photographs.
 Too many actors forget to eat on the big day and wind up feeling more uncomfortable because their belly hurts. I usually suggest eating something right before heading to the session, especially if it is planned to last a few hours.
 Study the layout and the equipment, just as you would arriving in a new theater for an audition or on a film set. Thinking about things like this can get your mind out of worrying whether or not your headshots (that you are paying over $100 for) will come out good.
 If you don't tell him that you feel uncomfortable with the big pimple on your face, you might look more uncomfortable in the pictures than if you had told him about it and he said not to worry, reassuring you that he can remove it in Photoshop (putting you at ease).
 Don't think about trying to look good for the camera. Even though you might get some good pictures by smiling at the camera and acting for it, it will show in the pictures that you only look two dimensional. You have to show that you have the third dimension to your character and self. You want the casting director looking at your photo to see something different about you, something that makes him stop and think. He needs to see that there is more to you than just a face smiling for the camera.
 But sometimes, if you can't afford to pay upwards of $200, you will have to make do with a more inexperienced photographer, one who might not be as good at getting you smiling. Just try thinking about some happy or very funny memories while you look into the camera. It will get you smiling and bring out that third dimension right away.
 Try to make even the photographer laugh! If you can get the photographer laughing (or another emotion) from your expressions, chances are you'll get a winner headshot. The photographer is the first person seeing the images, and you'll be able to tell right then and there how a third party will react when seeing your headshot. If you try to bring out emotions from the photographer, chances are you will become much more comfortable with him and having your pictures taken, and it will show.
 The first half hour will probably be spent getting to know the photographer, and you will still be uncomfortable in those pictures. As time goes on, however, you'll become much more comfortable with the situation, and the pictures will get better and better.
 Stay relaxed and don't think too much about it. The key is to show the casting director who is looking at your headshot that taking headshots is not the only thing you do. You are a three dimensional person who is completely comfortable with yourself in any situation, and can give them what they need in a performance.
