 As a first step to be certified by the Project Management Institute (PMI) you need to become a member of PMI. It is not a mere step in grabbing the PMP Certificate. The reason why most of the Project Managers go for PMP Certification is because it gives them the top-rank and makes them stand out of the crowd. Apart from these, PMI membership gives you free access to various e-Reads and to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) 5th Edition. You will have room to share your ideas with the job forums and gain some expertise. Also, you will be delighted with some discounts on PMP Exam fees.
 Now that you are a member of PMI. You get access to various books and knowledgeable resources. Reading the book alone will earn you the PMP Certificate? No. You got to be trained well on the concepts and processes of Project Management and report 35 contact hours to PMI. That is where you need to consider the assistance of a Registered Education Provider of PMP Course.
 Once you are trained in all the Project Management processes, apply for the PMP Certification Exam with PMI. You can apply for the exam either online by filling the online application form or on paper. You can also download the PMP Application form, fill it up and send the application through email. If you are a PMI member, you exam fee costs $405, whereas for non-members, it is $500. That is the reason it is always recommended to be a member of PMI.
 After your application is qualified, you need to book your slot with Prometric Testing Center to take up your PMP Exam. You can choose the nearest testing center at your convenience. The best part is, Prometric will conduct Practice Test in the same manner as PMP Exam before the schedule to help you get over with the fear. Once you take your Practice Test, you will be all set to confront your PMP Exam with full confidence.
 At last, take up your PMP Exam with confidence and succeed in a single shot. To be safe, you have to get 150 right answers out of 175 testable questions, which can be attained with the effective training provided by a Registered Education Provider approved by PMI.
