 You may be walking in a way that is putting extra pressure on your calves. For example, you may be walking on your toes instead of stepping onto your heel and your toes. Try walking by stepping first on the heel and rolling forward towards the toes.You may not even realize that you walk on your toes. Ask a friend to observe you walking and get an honest opinion.
For an exaggerated motion, you can even curl up your toes a bit when you're exercising. For example, if you're doing squats, try to lift your toes off the ground and put your weight on your heels for an added effect.
 If you wear high heels frequently, you may have muscle imbalances in your legs that are causing them to look disproportionately large. You may want to stop wearing high heels until these imbalances are corrected.

Resistance exercises like lunges and squats might help correct the muscle imbalances caused by wearing high heels too much.
 While stretching will not slim down your calves, it can help maintain proper joint alignment. This may affect the way that your calves function. Some good stretches you can do for your calves include:

Touch your toes. Sit with your legs close together and slowly lean forward as you reach your hands toward your toes. Move towards your toes, as far as is comfortable, until you feel a burn in your calves. Hold for 15 seconds.
Wide stance stretch. Stand with one leg stretched in front of you with the other leg behind you, separating your legs as far as is comfortable. Bend your front knee and keep your back foot flat on the ground. Look straight ahead as you continue to elongate that back calf muscle. Hold for 10-15 seconds.
Step stretch. Stand with one foot flat on the ground, with the other foot flexed straight out in front of you, with about half your foot planted over the top of a stair. Lean forward and feel the stretch in the calf of the planted foot. Hold this pose for 15-20 seconds and repeat it on the other side.

Downward facing dog pose. Lie on your stomach with your hands under your shoulders and your feet behind you. Use your hands to push yourself off the floor, shifting your weight to your heels. Your body should be making a reverse "V" shape. Hold for at least 25-30 seconds.

