 Automatic transmission cars should be in “park” and standard transmission cars should be in first gear.


Please find a safe location, away from traffic, to park your car as you work.;
, To gain access to the brake lines you will need to remove all four of your car's wheels. To do this raise the car on four jack stands, remove the hubcaps, loosen the lug nuts and remove all four wheels.
 The brake fluid reservoir or master cylinder reservoir is located under the car hood. To find the brake fluid reservoir open the hood and locate a small container - usually light colored with a black cap - on the driver’s side of the car. This is the brake fluid reservoir

, To clean the brake fluid reservoir, first remove any old brake fluid from the reservoir. To do this, remove the reservoir's lid and use a turkey baster (or similar siphoning system) to remove all of the old brake fluid from the reservoir. When the reservoir is empty, use a clean cloth to remove any sediment from the interior of the reservoir.


Be very careful that you do not spill any brake fluid on your car's painted surfaces, as brake fluid will damage your paint.
Dirt particles can contaminate brake fluid and cause brakes to fail. This is why it is important to clean out the reservoir.
If you find upon opening the brake fluid reservoir that the brake fluid is low, you likely have a leak in your brake lines. The brake system is a closed system and you should not lose brake fluid over time . This problem should be addressed by professionals.
 Once the reservoir is clean, refill it with new brake fluid to the fill line. When filled, replace the lid of the brake fluid reservoir.
 Pump your brakes (press your brake pedal down) 15 or more times. This will work down the clean brake fluid.
 Locate the bleeder valves, near where the tires once were. Wipe off any debris from the bleeder valves and loosen their caps using a box-end wrench.


You may need to use penetrating oil (WD-40) to loosen the bleeder valve caps.
 Start with the brakes furthest from the brake cylinder, usually the back right brakes. Locate the brake line's bleed screw and slide one end of the clear tubing over the nipple on the bleed screw . Submerse the other end of the tubing into a few inches of clean brake fluid in a disposable container.


You want to submerse the tubing in clean brake fluid to prevent air from being sucked up into the braking system.
 Get a helper to slowly and evenly press the brake pedal to the floor and hold it down. The helper should signal "down", as they continue to hold the pedal down .
 While your helper is holding down the brake pedal, open the brake lines by turning the bleeder bolt a quarter turn. When you do this old brake fluid will travel down the tubing into the waste bottle. As this happens the brake pedal will settle further down under your helper's foot.


Failure to hold the brake down while the bleeder bolt is open, will suck air into the brake system . Do not do this. Make sure that the brake pedal is down when any bleeder bolts are open.
 When fluid stops flowing, close back up the bleeder valve. Only after the bolt is closed again should the helper release the brake pedal.
 After the bleeder bolt is closed again, signal to the helper to release the brake.
 Repeat the steps, "Depress the brake", "Open the bleeder bolt", "Close the bleeder bolt", "Release the brake" on the same brake line until the brake fluid runs clean. This may take 10-15 repeats. After the brake fluid runs clean, close the bleeder bolt for a final time.


After every five repeats make sure to top off the brake fluid reservoir. This is important, otherwise you risk sucking air into your brake system.
 Repeat the "Bleed the Car Brakes" section on the other three brake lines, left-rear, right-front and left-front, until the brake fluid runs clean.
 Make sure no brake fluid has spilled on the rotors or brake pads. If any has spilled, use brake cleaning spray to remove it.
 Replace all four wheels and hand-tighten the lug nuts. Engage the parking brake. Lower the vehicle to the ground and tighten the lug nuts. Replace the hub caps if present.
 Tap the brake pedal a few times without the motor running until all the slack in the line is removed. Go for a slow test drive to see if the brakes are functioning correctly before going for a long drive.

