 The old saying, "If you don't know where you're going, any road will get you there" is just as true even if you are following multiple tasks.;
, In your honest assessment, is multitasking necessary? Is it going to help you get more done? Or is it only going to result in your doing multiple things slowly or badly?


If your manager or someone else is asking you to multitask and you feel it is counter-productive or unsafe, try explaining your concerns.
 Let it be known that you prefer to have time to yourself for an hour or two each day, and use that time for intense tasks that require your full concentration.
 Do not expect to have the full focus required to learn a new activity or perform a difficult or complex task.
 You can't schedule every interruption, or predict how many times the phone will ring in an afternoon, but you may be able to select your tasks and have in mind a general sequence of events to complete them but avoid needless repetition or redundancy.


Start longer or more involved tasks first. Fill in the gaps with shorter, well-defined, or self-contained tasks.
Think about whether there are resources to manage and distribute, other than your time and attention. If you are baking multiple dishes, each one will need time in the oven. Can you put them all in together, or must they go in some sequence?

, If you know there will be a big rush in the afternoon, start early to set up and prepare. If you've ever seen restaurant staff wrapping flatware in napkins at 3pm, you've seen a good example of working ahead in action.
 If you anticipate frequent interruptions, factor that in when you plan for how long you expect everything else to take.
 Jugglers may have many objects in the air, but they usually manipulate only one at a time.


In terms of tasks, alternating rapidly may mean figuring out ways to switch between tasks cleanly. Perhaps that means identifying or even building in times when a task does not need your direct attention (such as when laundry is in the washing machine or a casserole is in the oven). That may also mean setting a timer or alarm, or making a mental or written note to remind yourself to pay attention to a task again when the time comes.
 If you're multitasking to be more efficient, don't spend time doing extra things. The exception is a background activity to help pass the time if a primary task is dull, mechanical, or routine. For instance, if listening to the radio or an audio book helps with the tedium of painting a wall, go for it.
 Especially if they're routine tasks, try to perform them only in as much detail as they require. This doesn't mean you should turn out sub-standard work. Instead, look for inefficiencies and improve what you can.
 For instance, you may find that reading and listening to speech both use the same type of focus. Instead, try pairing a physical task, such as ironing clothes, with a mental task, such as listening to the radio.
 Especially if the multitasking consists of dealing with frequent interruptions (such as a ringing telephone), choose tasks that can be easily paused to do concurrently.


When you do pause, pause consciously and do what you need to, to remind yourself to resume.
When possible, pause at natural pause points. This may be the end of a page, or the beginning of a waiting cycle.
 That is, do the larger project as a priority, but do basic, filler tasks any time you find yourself waiting for information or inspiration on a larger project.
 Have something with you to do, especially in places you anticipate waiting (the airport, post office, or dentist's office). Reading is an easy, portable task. Carrying note cards or a notebook to jot ideas is also a good idea.
 Take breaks when you need them, especially to balance rushes. Multitasking may require intense focus, and may not be an activity you can sustain indefinitely.

