 Understanding glaucoma in detail can help patients adhere to a treatment plan. Glaucoma is a group of diseases which damage the optic nerve.Glaucoma can be caused by an increase in eye pressure, but it can also occur without an increase in eye pressure (known as low-tension or normal-tension glaucoma). The treatment of glaucoma is focused on reducing the pressure in the eyeball, called the intraocular pressure (IOP) or eye blood pressure. This should be done with medical supervision.


In a normally functioning eye, a fluid called aqueous humor is produced in the posterior (rear) chamber of eye. It then travels to the anterior (front) chamber of eye by passing the pupil where it exchanges contents with the cornea and lens. It exits to the system where the recirculation will cycle through the eye again.;
, There are two main types of glaucoma: open angle and closed angle. Both types of the disease are characterized by progressive optic nerve damage that is sometimes related to an increase in eye pressure inside the eye, called intraocular pressure., The two main types of glaucoma have completely different symptoms. The symptoms of open-angle glaucoma include tunnel vision, or the gradual loss of peripheral vision. The symptoms of acute closed-angle glaucoma include eye pain, nausea and vomiting, sudden loss of sight, blurred vision, light halos, and red eyes., Open-angle is the most common type of glaucoma, responsible for 90% of cases of glaucoma. In open-angle glaucoma, there is either a lack of cells in the trabecular network, the cells that are available are not functioning correctly, or the trabecular meshwork may be partially clogged, causing slower than normal drainage of aqueous humour. Without an exit for the fluid, the result is an accumulation of aqueous humour in eye, thus increasing the intraocular pressure. This results in a suffocating optic nerve. The complication of this is diminished vision ultimately leading to blindness if left untreated.Some symptoms of open-angle glaucoma are slow or gradual vision loss and painless change of vision.
Many people do not have any other symptoms; therefore, it is important to maintain eye doctor appointments to regularly test the pressure inside your eye. Diagnosis cannot be made without testing IOP., Closed-angle glaucoma is caused by aqueous humour accumulation causing a bulging iris, thus physically obstructing aqueous humour drainage. Unlike open-angle glaucoma, it is a painful situation. Generally, it is acute in nature; however, chronic cases are also possible.


This is a medical emergency and you should be immediately taken to the nearest medical facility.
Patients with open-angle glaucoma should be cautious when administering eye drops, because any drops that dilate pupils can result in closed-angle glaucoma. Before administering drops ask an eye care professional if it is advisable. If you do experience pain with drops and vision changes, go to the nearest medical facility and inform your doctor., Understanding risk factors for glaucoma can help patients keep an eye on warning signs and symptoms if they are at higher risk. Those who are older than 40 are at a higher risk of developing glaucoma. This is due to the natural aging of cells in the trabecular meshwork, making them more prone to accumulation of aqueous humour. Diabetics are twice as likely to develop glaucoma than non-diabetics.


Environmental stress can also become a factor. Exposure to pollutants, such as smoke or UV light, without proper protection can cause an increased amount of free radicals. Free radicals are molecules that have unstable electrons — they have an odd, unpaired electron. This unstable molecule attempts to stabilize by attacking a healthy molecule, trying to steal an electron. This turns the attacked molecule into a free radical, an so on. Eventually, this reaction can damage the cell.