 Be a bartender, waiter, waitress, bouncer or even a manager. Being industry as they call has its many perks. You get into some clubs free just for working in the industry, especially if the door guy at that club frequents yours’. You may get drink discounts or even free drinks. Being in the industry and knowing people is the first thing to being a V.I.P. Maybe you want to stand out at a top shelf club in St. Louis. Well, knowing who works there and who frequents your club or bar from there helps a lot.;
, That normally $5 beer only costs you $3 but tip the bartender or waitress the two bucks you would have saved. They are more apt to remember you and people who tip might get special treatment in those times you need it. It is impressive to friends or clients if you get special treatment at a place. Things like getting your table before anyone else at a restaurant or maybe not paying the ridiculous cover charges at clubs is impressive not only to friends and client, but to people who are waiting in line as well. Tipping the door guy for letting you in for free is a great way to get the service time and time again. He will remember you, trust me.
 Not just on a Friday and Saturday, but in the middle of the week as well. This way you can learn more about the people who cater to you when you are there. Ask them to come to your club. Give them the treatment that you would like or at least to your ability. If it is slow ask them to sit and chat get to know the person. Get to know there first name and remember it. This way if you see them somewhere other then work you can say hello. They may not remember yours but remember theirs. It impresses people if you remember there name. Also if you have a waitress, waiter or bartender that you see on a regular bases ask if they are there that day as you go in and sit in their section or their end of the bar.
 The weird looking man sitting two seats down from you at the bar may look like a pedophile, but he may be the owner of that club you are trying to get in. Industry people usually hang out with industry people. Working in bars and clubs you live a vampire life style, working nights and sleeping days. It is easier to hang out with friends on your same schedule, then people who work normal nine to five jobs. Being nice will go along way, Get free concert and sports tickets, free admission to clubs, and even free nights out on in the town just for being nice to people. Remember though not to take something for granted or abuse the privilege.
 If you are going to rub shoulders with the elite of the area you need to dress the part. I am not saying anything less then Gucci won't do. Have style. You don't need to drop two thousand dollars on a over price suit. A-listers don't always wear suits and ties to go party. Most of the time this would be slightly over dressed. If you are planing on going to a plush club wear a nice sports jacket or stylish evening jacket both with a pocket square. This could be worn with jeans or dress slacks depending on the clubs dress code. Style will go along way into getting you in to the V.I.P area in a lot of places. If you look like you belong in there then you are more than likely to end up there. Specially if you have done all of the above.
 Look for awesome drink specials Why pay five or six dollars a beer when you get that same beer for one or two dollars. They may not have everything you want, maybe they play blues or country music instead of the thrash metal you love. For a dollar a bottle listen to country, plus we all know country girls are great looking. If Tuesday is the day they have a drink special visit the club on a Monday or Wednesday when they are less busy and make friends with the staff there. This way they know who you are when you come in on Tuesday and receive better service.

