 Make sure to line up the sides of the bag so that the handles are parallel to each other. Pay attention to the way you orient the handles, as they play an important role in the folded triangle's structure.


This is easiest to do on a hard, flat surface like your kitchen counter.
If you're especially dexterous, you can try folding a triangle in the air without a flat surface. Just keep in mind this will be fairly difficult and you may just end up frustrating yourself. If you can't do it now, you may want to try again after you've had some practice folding.
Do your best to get all of the air out of the bag. Run your hands across the bag to smooth it out.;
, Start by folding the bag in half so that the two handles perfectly overlap. Fold it again in the same direction, this time lining the edge opposite the handles on top of the other. Repeat this process until the entire bag has been folded into a roughly even rectangle the same width as the base of its handles. It should look like a narrow strip.Be sure to flatten the bag and squeeze the air out of it after each fold. The flatter the bag is, the easier it will be to fold into a triangle.
The number of times you'll need to fold the bag lengthwise will depend on its size and the shape of its handles. This step typically takes a total of two or three folds.
 Choose a corner of the bag at the edge opposite the handles. Fold the corner over to meet the other side to form a triangle.


Flatten and smooth out the triangle you've just formed.
At this point, the overall shape of your folded bag should look like a rectangle that shares one shorter edge with a much smaller isosceles right triangle.
 Take the free corner of the triangle and fold it inwards, turning its base into a new crease.


The overall shape of the bag should once again be a narrow strip or rectangle.
This method is similar to the technique used to fold a flag.
 Repeat the last two steps, rolling the triangle along the length of the bag. Keep going until you reach the near end of the handles. Make sure to leave enough of the bag unfolded for one last triangle fold.


You should be making a new isosceles right triangle to add to your "stack" of triangles with each fold.
Don't forget to smooth and flatten every time you fold. If your triangle is too puffy, it will not hold together.
 Make one last triangle fold, wrapping the tail of the bag around. Carefully stick the loose end into the pocket formed by the "roll" of triangles. As always, smooth out your triangle for the neatest, most stable shape possible.
 Turn the rest of your bag collection into triangles. Now that your bags take up much less room, they should be a lot easier to store. You can keep them anywhere you'd like. You can neatly arrange your triangles in a basket on your kitchen counter or simply toss them into a bin under your sink. The choice is up to you.
 As pretty as your triangle bags are, you can't use them folded up like that. Whenever you need a bag, start by taking a triangle and untucking the loose end. Hold the bag by this edge and shake until it comes completely undone. Depending on how tightly you wound the bag, you may need to put some elbow grease into it.

