 Hospice is an alternative to euthanasia if your pet has been diagnosed with a terminal condition or there is nothing else to be done for your older pet. Veterinary hospice helps you meet your pet’s needs so they can live out of the rest of their days instead of getting put down.The goal of hospice care is to keep your pet comfortable.;
, Veterinary hospice care is not a service where you send your pet to live in a type of "dog nursing home." Hospice care is in-home care where you are the main caregiver. The veterinarian teaches and instructs you, but you manage all aspects of your pet's care.


Vets can make house visits to provide emergency medical care or do a check up if the dog is unable to travel to the veterinarian office. However, the vet will not administer medication or shots, help you clean wounds, or deal with other issues.
 Since you are in charge of your pet's hospice care, you should look at your life and decide if you have the time and energy to devote to your pet. You should think about your family, too. Would they be willing to help you out, or will you be the one caring for your pet?


You should also decide if you have the money to devote to this care.
Hospice care can be a wonderful way to say goodbye to your pet, but it can also be emotionally difficult for you. Decide if you can handle giving your dying pet hospice care during their final weeks or months.
 You should only choose hospice care for your pet if they are not in serious pain. If they are in serious pain, you should instead discuss other options, like euthanasia, with your vet. Try to figure out if your pet is in pain, and decide the best course of action to minimize their suffering.Your pet may not whimper, whine, or cry if they are in pain. They may not stop eating or drinking, either. You may not notice any common signs of pain.
Instead, your pet may experience respiratory signs, like panting a lot or having trouble breathing and gasping.
Your pet may experience behavior changes, like hiding away and not being as social. They may not want to move.
Your pet may become more picky about the food they eat.
 Losing a pet is difficult. Pet hospice care can help make your pet’s last days and weeks more comfortable and dignified, but you should make sure you are not prolonging your pet’s life because you can’t let go. Talk to your vet about whether or not pet hospice is a good idea for your pet.Take into consideration your pet’s suffering, life expectancy, and quality of life. You want to make sure you are thinking about what is best for you pet, and not what is best for you because you can’t let go.
 Euthanasia is a procedure where your vet helps your pet have a gentle and humane death. The pet is sedated, and then given medication to end their life. Your vet can advise you on whether or not this is the option for your pet.Euthanasia is a good choice if your pet is primarily suffering and no longer enjoying life.

