 Anxiety often happens when you’re worried about the future, which means you’re not taking advantage of the present moment. Return to the here-and-now by focusing on your body, which is always present, even when your mind is far away. Practice some mindfulness by engaging your senses. Bring awareness to one sense at a time, then move onto the next one.For example, start by noticing everything you hear and tune into the noises you often tune out. Do this for about a minute, then move onto your sense of smell. Pay attention to any smells you encounter and do this for another minute. Focus on each sense one at a time until you finish.;
, If you’re feeling anxious and cannot seem to get your mind off of death, pull back a moment and focus on your breath. Breathing is an easy way to refocus yourself and enter a calm state in your body and mind. It’s one of the easiest ways to slow down and regroup.


Try this: inhale for four seconds, hold it one two seconds, then exhale four seconds. Repeat until you feel calm, about six to eight breathing cycles., While meditation is good for anxiety, you can meditate on death to help you feel more calm about it. Get in a calm, relaxed state by sitting down, closing your eyes, then start your meditation. Imagine yourself on your deathbed and talking to the people you love most. What would you say?During your meditation, embrace loss instead of pushing it away and recognize that loss is inherent throughout life.
 Especially if you’re actually nearing the end of your life, it can be helpful to talk about the fears you have about death and dying. It can be a difficult conversation to have, but it is important to talk about. Find someone you trust and have a discussion with them. Let them know how you feel and what you think.Discussions about death and dying don’t have to happen all at once. If you want to talk about death and dying, find someone who is willing to have an ongoing conversation with you.
 If your anxiety about death consumes you and you feel like you cannot deal with it on your own, it might be time to see a therapist. A therapist can help you work through problems and help you confront your fears in a safe way. Especially if you’re scared to talk to family or friends about your fears, a therapist can provide a confidential space for you to process your thoughts and emotions and help you build coping skills.Find a therapist by calling your insurance provider or local mental health clinic. You can also get a recommendation from your physician, family, or friends.
 Depending on your needs, you may wish to join an anxiety support group or a group for people confronting death. It can be helpful to talk to people who have similar feelings and fears as you do and realize that you’re not alone. You can also give and receive advice, support, and encouragement.Find a support group by calling your local hospital or mental health clinic. You can also join an online support group.
 Many people experience a close-call with death themselves or experience a loss that spurs them to enjoy life and live it fully. Whether this is your experience or not, it’s never too late to give life your all and live fully. Do the things you want to do, even if they’re scary. Live life on your terms and take control.


Think of something you’ve always wanted to do, but feels scary to you. Challenge yourself to do it! Maybe you’ll love it and pick up a new hobby, like paragliding or dance classes.
Take big steps like traveling or starting a new career. Or you can take little steps, like talking to a stranger or trying a new restaurant.
 Much of spirituality centers around what happens after you die and gaining a sense of comfort in what happens after this life.Most spiritual traditions talk about what happens after death and not to fear it. If you’re interested in spirituality, explore what feels right to you.


You may wish to join a religious organization, attend meditation classes, or explore your options until you find one that fulfills you.
 Many people have a fear of death, so it can be interesting to hear how they cope with it. Talk to people around you about their beliefs about death and how they cope with any anxiety. Ask them about their beliefs and how they help or hinder their attitude toward death.


You can say, “I wonder about death and what will happen. Do you think about that, too? How do you deal with it?”

, You might fear death because you don’t understand it or fear not knowing. Much like the future, what happens in and through death in unknown. If you believe in a higher power, notice how your beliefs affect your attitude toward death. Ask yourself if you’re living in a way that’s aligned with your beliefs.If you don’t know your beliefs about death, spend some time reflecting. What do you believe? How does that make you feel?

, Thinking about death often makes people feel uncomfortable and even depressed. Yet, the more you think about death (even just five minutes each day for one week), the more comfortable you become and the less fearful you feel. Be willing to enter into a space that is unfamiliar and scary knowing that you’ll be okay and perhaps even grow from these thoughts and feelings.While thinking about death can initially make you feel depressed, over time it can help you lift your depression.

