 If your dog zigzags during walks, your walking etiquette may be to blame. Dogs take behavioral cues from their humans, and your dog may not know which side you prefer if you alternate sides while you walk. Dogs need consistency to ensure good behavior, and that includes which side you walk your dog on.Make a choice and be consistent. Whether you walk your dog on the right side or left side, make sure you stick with that side for every walk while you train your dog.
 Using a short leash can be very helpful during training. Give your dog just a little slack, but not so much that your dog will be able to switch sides or weave between your legs. As your dog's training progresses you can work your way up to a normal leash length.You can either buy a short leash, or simply keep your dog's leash reeled in to a shorter length.
 Teaching your dog to heel may help break him or her out of zigzagging on walks. When you train your dog to heel, you reinforce the importance of following your lead and staying close to your body.Stand at your dog's side and hold the leash in the hand closest to the dog. Carry a reward (either a squeaky toy or treats) in the other hand.
Hold the reward above and just ahead of your dog's face so your dog can see it.
Say "heel" and start walking. Make sure your dog walks in step with you and follows the reward.
Any time your dog gets distracted, squeak the toy or hold the treats right in front of your dog's nose. Do this just long enough to regain your dog's attention and get back in step with one another.
Every time your dog walks in step for 30 seconds, give your dog a reward (either play time with the toy or a treat). Gradually extend that length of time for your dog, and eventually you'll be able to get your dog to heel without treats.
 Loose-leash walking involves training your dog to walk as fast or as slow as you do. If your dog runs ahead or lags behind, using treats and stopping the walk can help teach your dog to follow your lead and defer to your desired speed.Any time your dog starts pulling, stop walking forward and take a few steps backwards.
As you step back, call your dog in a happy tone of voice. Give your dog a reward when he or she returns to your side.
Give your dog rewards every three or four steps that he or she stays in synch with your pace.
Gradually increase the number of steps your dog needs to take to get treats, then progress to random rewards once your dog has learned how to keep pace with you.

