 Bragging stimulates the same part of the brain as eating and having sex, so it’s hard to resist the urge to share. Bragging feels so good that your friend just can’t resist the urge.When your friend starts to brag, try to engage them in another pleasurable activity that you both enjoy, such as sharing popcorn at the movies or cooking a delicious meal together.
If it feels like your friend’s bragging is putting down your child, remind yourself that they’re not even thinking about your kids because they’re focused on their kids., Modern parenting causes people to feel as though raising their child is a project, so they feel like they need to show their progress by telling people of their child’s accomplishments.Your friend’s bragging may stem from this need to have you approve of the hard work that they’re putting into raising their child.


Recognize your friend’s hard work as a parent, and then shift the subject by suggesting that they’ve earned a break. You could say something like, “I saw that Katie won the talent show last Friday. You must have spent hours helping her rehearse that dance. You’ve certainly earned our girls’ night out tonight.”
Steer clear of topics that trigger your friend’s insecurities. For example, if you know that your friend feels bad about allowing her toddler to eat dinosaur shaped nuggets, don’t bring up the juice cleanse you’re starting because it will remind your friend of her parenting worries, causing an urge to brag., Some people focus on their child’s achievements to deal with their own feelings of inadequacy, sadness, or disappointment. A parent who is struggling to find success in their own right may find it easier to live through their child’s achievements.Your friend may feel like their career is going nowhere. If your friend unhappy in their job, they may project any job dissatisfaction onto hopes for the child, hyper focusing instead on accomplishments such as scoring a goal at a soccer game or getting an “A” on a paper.
Your friend may be living through their child’s feats. Was your friend the high school football star who never got to make it to the pros? Or did your friend originally want to go to medical school but didn’t pass the MCATs? When some people fail, they turn their efforts toward making their children into a success so that they can take part in that accomplishment., Could your behavior be contributing to your friend’s compulsion to brag about his or her kids? People love to talk about themselves, even if there is an incentive to talk about others.It’s possible that you’re unconsciously bragging, too.


Think about what you’re saying to your friend. Listen for things like, “I’m so excited about this new project at work!”
Do you like to talk about your own kids? If you discuss your kids, then expect your friend to discuss theirs.
If you don’t have kids, ask yourself if you’re talking too much about your child-free life. It’s possible that you are putting your friend on the defensive., When a child truly does accomplish something important or display genuine talent, celebrate alongside your friend. We should want to see our friends and their children be successful, so congratulate your friend when they truly have a reason to brag.