 Place 1 cup (227 g) of softened butter into a large mixing bowl and beat it with an electric mixer until it's light and fluffy. This should take about a minute. Beat in 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract, 1/3 cup (35 g) of unsweetened cocoa powder, 2 tablespoons of milk, and 1 cup (125 g) of the powdered sugar on low speed. Keep beating the frosting on low and add more powdered sugar until the frosting is thick enough to spread on your cupcakes.You may need a total of 2 to 3 1/2 cups (250 to 437 g) of powdered sugar.
 Arrange 24 baked and completely cooled cupcakes on your work surface. Use an offset spatula or a knife to spread an even layer of frosting over each cupcake. This will make a base for you to pipe more frosting for the turkey.You can use any flavor of cupcake. Try vanilla, chocolate, yellow, red velvet, or spice.
 Break off the bottom 1/3 of a Nutter Butter cookie and discard or eat the excess piece. Do this for 24 cookies so they'll be easier to insert into the cupcakes. Dab a little bit of frosting near the rounded part of the cookie so the decorations will stick to the turkey face. Place 2 candy eyes (from a 50-count package) on the frosting and stick a piece of candy corn (from a 22-ounce package) below it for the beak. You can also tear a small strip of red fruit leather from one package to stick next to the beak.To make beaks that are entirely orange, you could cut the candy corn pieces to remove the white and yellow ends.
 Open 24 Oreo cookies and discard or eat the pieces that don't have the frosting. Lay out the 24 pieces of Oreos that do have frosting on your work surface. Press 5 pieces of candy corn around into the frosting so that it creates a fan of tail feathers. Repeat this for each Oreo cookie.The narrow white part of the candy corn should be pointing towards the center of the cookie.
 Take one of your decorated Nutter Butter cookies and insert it on the cupcake half nearest you. Take one decorated Oreo cookie and insert it behind the Nutter Butter cookie. Sprinkle chocolate candy sprinkles between the two cookies to give the appearance of small feathers.You'll only need to insert the cookies about 1/2-inch deep. If you're worried they won't stand up, you could push them deeper or spread more frosting to hold them in place.

