 If you are the type that is somewhat squeamish about eating exotic foods, it may help to remind yourself that escargot has long been considered a delicacy. Each snail is prepared according to specific, time tested methods. Edible snails are generally:


Raised on a rich diet of clean, nutritious food, like cereals, fruits, and leaves.
Purified before preparation through several days of fasting.
Fed with flour post-fast to enrich flavor.
Prepared for consumption.;
, When the escargot is served, especially if it is served as an appetizer, you should receive a plate, snail tongs, and snail forks. The plate your escargot will be served on should have several indentations, in which the escargot are placed after cooking.
 In the event that you are not provided snail tongs, as is the case at some restaurants, you should grasp the escargot by its shell with a napkin.Then hold the shell over your plate and prepare to extract the meat.
 Now that you've grasped your escargot with either your snail tongs or your napkin, you should take your snail fork and insert it into the mouth of the shell. You should be able to see a small piece of meat inside the shell.Pierce the meat with your fork and pull or twist firmly until you feel the it come loose. Then you should pull the meat from the shell.
 Some restaurants may have deeper escargot trays and may have liberally doused the tray with sauce instead of providing you with a separate sauce dish. With the meat still on your fork, dip it into the sauce provided.As you eat your escargot, note the similar texture it has to other mollusks, such as clams and mussels.
Different from sea-dwelling mollusks, snails lack a briny flavor, which allows the herbs and spices used in its preparation to shine through.
 Most traditional butter and garlic preparations of escargot pair best with white wines.Crisp wines with mineral accents are good options. Some wines recommended by experts include:


Sauvignon Blanc
Riesling
Chardonnay (unoaked recommended)