 Visit http://www.shell.us/motorist/shell-payment-cards.html to apply for a personal card. Choose the card that you would like to apply for and then click on that card. Scroll down the page and click apply online. You will then be sent to the Citicards website.You must be at least 18 years old in the US or at least 21 years old in Puerto Rico. You will also need a valid Social Security Number and a Photo ID number.
 You will need to enter your personal information that includes: email address, name, date of birth, home address (no P.O. box), city, state, home phone number , annual salary, any other income, resident status (own, rent, other), monthly rent/mortgage, Social Security number, Photo ID type and number (Driver's license, State ID, other).


You may add an authorized user to the account if you like. An authorized user will have permission to make purchases with your card, make payments, request a balance transfer, change address, get account information, report the card as lost or stolen, and initiate billing disputes.You can also decide to manage your account online when you fill out this application.
 Online applications usually give an instant decision on a Shell credit card. If not, Shell contacts applicants by mail within 30 days. Shell credit cards are mailed within 14 days of application approval.


It may take longer to process your card if you do not fill out all the information.
 You must be an Authorized Officer (e.g. General Manger, General Partner, Owner, Vice President, Treasurer, President/Chairperson)of the business to apply for the card. Both the business and the Responsible Individual are individually and jointly responsible for the charges and balances on the account. You must provide the following information: legal name of the business, name that you would like to appear on the card, business street address (no P.O. box), city, state, business phone number, Taxpayer ID, year your business began, number of basic cards, and the personal information of the Responsible Individual. You will also need to enter the business billing information (contact name, phone number, and billing address).You must fill out the Detailed Billing Formimmediately after you submit your online application and fax it to 1-800-767-1325. If you do not turn in this form in time, your business application will not be processed properly.
You can apply for a business liability only account if you meet any of these criteria: corporation with more than $1 million annual sales and in business for at least 3 years, government entity, or a non-profit organization. You must download a separate applicationand fax it to 1-800-767-1325. If you have questions call 1-866-783-2049, Monday - Friday, 9:00 am - 5:30 pm EST., You may receive an instant response when you apply. If you do not receive an instant response, you will be notified by mail within 30 days. Once your application is approved, you will receive your card within 14 days.