 Get out of the house and take a trip somewhere to have some fun. You don’t have to have a particular destination in mind. Rambling helps clear your mind and get your thoughts in order.


Hit the road. Take a drive to the far corners of your town or beyond. Travel along the back roads to observe buildings, structures and landmarks you never would have seen otherwise. Jot down any places you might want to revisit in the future. Road trips also offer a chance to visit locations related to your family history. Go to the beach. Beaches offer everything you could want out of a great day – sun, surf and the warm beach sand. Even if the weather is on the colder side, a walk along the beach gives you a great place to think.
Find a trail to hike. Much like the beach, hiking offers a great place to collect your thoughts. Nature and other green space is also healthy for the mind and body. , Get your friends together for a fun activity that doesn’t necessarily result in drunken revelry. A fun night out bowling or playing skee-ball is something that anyone can enjoy, while still providing the option for drinks if desired. You can also hit up a specialty restaurant that you’ve always wanted to try.


There are a variety of leagues dedicated to casual games such as skee-ball or kickball that can provide a perfect new opportunity for your birthday. You might even decide to make a habit of playing! , Gather up some friends and hit up the bars for a classic birthday celebration. If you’re looking for a quieter experience, head to some smaller dive bars, or take the night on solo.


Let people know it’s your birthday! It’s a great way of scoring some free drinks.
Make sure you have safe transportation to get home. Take a taxi service or public transportation such as the bus or metro if you have been drinking a little too much.
Some taxi services offer special rates for birthdays or other events. Make sure to call ahead of time.
 Travel to a local vineyard with some friends to sit back, sip some wine, and celebrate your birthday with an air of sophistication.


Research common wine tasting techniques prior to visiting to get the most out of your wine experience. There are techniques dedicated to maximizing the taste, aroma and even atmosphere of your wine. Areas particularly well known for wine offer wine tours, a guided educational (and delicious) tour through all of the area’s vineyards. Such tours can accommodate groups as well – a great opportunity if your friends are wine lovers. , Birthdays are a perfect excuse to take part in these thrill-seeking activities. Even better, many sky diving or bungee jumping groups offer a discount if you come in on your birthday.


Make sure someone takes pictures of the occasion. Who knows when you’ll next jump out of a plane that’s 12,500 feet in the air?
Plan to spend the whole day skydiving. There are several safety measures to take into account, including weather concerns and a pre-jump class, before you get into the air. , Take a spontaneous trip to see some of your family members and see if they want to go out for a bite to eat. We usually settle for a phone call or a birthday card from our family members, but a visit can show them how much you care.


If your family lives far away, arrange for a gathering of the whole family. Plan ahead to make sure everyone can take the time they need to travel.
 Arrange to spend your big day with that special someone in your life. You can try out a few of the other activities featured on this list, but limit it to your partner for a more intimate experience.


There are plenty of ideas for toeing the fine line between birthday bash and romantic date. For example, go on a picnic and follow it up with a brewery tour. 