 Men can have hydroceles for many reasons, the three most common of which are inflammation, infection (such as a sexually transmitted infection), or injury to one or both of their testicles. It can also be caused by injury or infection in the epididymis (a coil-like tube at the back of the testicles which is responsible for the maturation, storage and transport of sperm).Sometimes, a hydrocele can also be formed if your tunica vaginalis (the membrane-like covering that covers your testes) collects too much fluid without being able to get rid of it.
To differentiate hydrocele from other testicular pathology, such as cancer or hernia, shine a flashlight on the scrotum and see if the scrotum transilluminates (allows light to pass through the mass). To do this, dim the lights and shine a bright flashlight at the scrotum.If the scrotum transilluminates, then the mass is a hydrocele.
 A hernia can cause a hydrocele. However, this form of hydrocele generally presents itself as swelling higher up in the scrotum. To put it in perspective, this sort of swelling is about 2 to 4 centimeter (0.8 to 1.6 in) from the base of the scrotum.A hernia occurs when an organ protrudes through the tissue that normally contains it.In the case of a hydrocele, it is not uncommon for a piece of the intestine to protrude through the abdominal wall into the scrotum and is known as an inguinal hernia.
 Filariasis is a tropical disease that is caused by filarial worms get into a person’s lymph vessels. These worms are also the cause of elephantiasis. Instead of abdomen fluid, these worms cause a hydrocele to form that is actually filled with cholesterol and can be referred to as a chylocele.If you live in the United States and have never visited Asia, Africa, a Western Pacific Island or any part of the Caribbean or South American, then you do not need to worry about this. However, if you live in any of these places or have spent time in these areas prior to your hydrocele development, you should visit a doctor as soon as possible.
 If you have a hydrocele, it is generally best to visit a doctor because a hydrocele could indicate more serious problems.Before your appointment, write down any recent injuries around the genital area that have occurred, any symptoms you have had (e.g. pain or difficulty walking), any medications you are taking, any inflammatory conditions of the scrotum, and when the hydrocele appeared.

