 If you have stains from pets or other animals on your concrete, try an enzymatic cleaner like OxiClean. These types of cleaners target and help to break down protein in stains.You should apply these types of cleaners directly to the stain without diluting them with any liquid and then let them soak into the stain.
However, it can take up to a few days for these types of cleaners to break down the stains on your concrete.
 Oil-based cleaners like Goo-Gone and WD-40 are great for stains made by non-washable crayons. Spread on the cleaner and let it soak before scrubbing at it with a short, stiff-bristled brush. Then rinse with water., If you have concrete stains made by grease, laundry detergent can help remove them. Make a paste of powdered laundry detergent and water for grease stains. Apply the paste to the stain, cover it tightly with plastic wrap (you can tape the edges to your concrete surface), and let it soak for 24 hours. Then scrub and rinse., For oil stained concrete, cover the affected area with a clay kitty litter and grind it in with your feet while you’re wearing old shoes. Let it sit for up to 24 hours and then sweep up the kitty litter and rinse it away., If you have plants on or near your concrete patio, the moisture they trap under their leaves can leave mildew stains.


Mix 1 quart (slightly less than 1 L) of bleach with 3 quarts (slightly less than 3 L) of water. Add 1/3 cup (237 mL) of laundry detergent and mix the solution well. Apply the solution with a stiff-bristled brush and let it soak until the stain turns white. Be sure not to let it dry.You can also try moving your plants to another area of the patio, and letting the sun and air clear the mildew away naturally.
 If you have algae on your concrete, you can use undiluted distilled vinegar and a stiff-bristled brush to clear the stain. If you have a larger area affected by algae, you can also try filling a liquid fertilizer applicator with pool chlorine and spray it through a garden house., If you don’t want to scrub or apply a cleaner, you can use a pressure washer to clean most dirt and debris off of your concrete. Keep in mind that the pressure is very high, so avoid aiming at any plants, which will be destroyed by the force of the water.This method will remove dirt and debris but not grease.

