 If you are diagnosed with a sulfite allergy, you will want to familiarize yourself with the long list of items that may contain sulfites. Talk to your doctor about your medications to ensure that you are not taking anything that contains sulfites. You should also determine what foods and drinks are safe for you to ingest. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration created a detailed list of common products that contain sulfites.Although you will not memorize them at first, you eventually begin to recognize what foods to avoid.
Consider printing off the list of the foods containing sulfites and carry it with you. This will help you avoid them while you are out.
You can find a copy of the FDA’s list at http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu/fy731
;
, Check the nutritional label on and any food before buying or eating it. In the United States, the FDA requires products containing a certain amount of sulfites (more than 10 parts-per-million) be labeled appropriately. Be sure to check the label while you are buying groceries, that way you avoid wasting money on a product that may be unhealthy.Although some foods have naturally occurring sulfites, there have been no recorded instances of people having allergic reactions to them.In the United States, check nutritional labels for sulfur dioxide, potassium bisulfite, potassium metabisulfite, sodium bisulfite, sodium metabisulfite, and sodium sulfite., As a rule of thumb, avoid most canned or processed foods, which contain high levels of sulfites. Any pickled or preserved items will have high sulfite levels, as will most processed baked goods. Wine and beer should also be avoided since sulfites are often used to control fermentation., When you eat out, be sure to inquire about how your food is prepared. Although the FDA banned sulfites from fresh fruits and vegetables in restaurants, unlabeled products are still used. Ask the waiter or manager to check the packaging that your food came in to see if it contains sulfites.At a restaurant, avoid any potato product that has had its peel removed. It likely has high levels of sulfite. When dining out, you should only eat baked potatoes that still have their skin. , The easiest way to avoid sulfites is to buy and cook your own food. Purchase foods that are low in or have no sulfites and then prepare them at home. This will ensure that your food is not getting cross-contaminated with items containing sulfites. For those with severe allergies, this may be the only way to avoid coming into contact with sulfites.The FDA prohibits the addition of sulfites to fresh fruits and vegetables. The FDA also prohibits the addition of sulfites to red meat.Consider growing some of your own produce to eat from a home garden.

