 Many events and situations can trigger a stress response. A major life stressor can include living through a natural disaster (like a flood, hurricane, or earthquake), ending a relationship, starting a new school or job, or the death of a loved one. A stress response can also occur due to multiple events such as marital problems or school problems. Adjustment problems can occur from recurrent events (like going to chemotherapy or driving in a car after an accident) or continuous events, such as living in an unsafe neighborhood., Problems with adjustment can manifest as physical symptoms. Some common symptoms include trembling or twitching, heart palpitations, and physical complaints such as stomach aches, headaches, and general aches and pains in the body.Notice if you have any of these symptoms and think back to when they started. Did the symptoms begin around a stressful time in your life? This may be related to stress response syndrome.
 You might feel nervous or tense, or find yourself crying frequently. Other symptoms include depression, anxiety, worry, and tension. You could also feel hopeless, sad, or helpless.You may also withdraw from people or social events or isolate yourself from others frequently.


Notice major shifts in your emotional functioning as related to stressors in your life. Did any emotional symptoms occur right after the event? Did they come gradually over the first months after an event? Emotional symptoms can onset immediately or over time.
 Some people experience behavioral changes as a result of experiencing distress. You may experience impulsive behavior such as impromptu shopping trips. Or you may experience defiant behavior, such as not wanting to follow directions or listen to authority.Children and teens may experience behavior changes more often than adults, and may act out their feelings. This can include skipping school, engaging in fights, or other negative behaviors., Adjustment disorder is characterized by severe and extreme distress following a specific event or chronic events. To qualify as a disorder, the symptoms must be more severe than expected.The symptoms also impair occupational, school, social, or personal functioning.It is normal for a healthy person to experience stress during a job change, divorce, big move, or other life event. However, stress response syndrome is much more severe than a typical reaction to these events.
To qualify for a diagnosis, the symptoms must not be related to normal grieving for a loss.
 To qualify for a diagnosis of stress response syndrome, your symptoms must clearly result from a stressor and appear within three months of a stressful event.Generally, symptoms occur as a direct result of a specific stressor, although can result from chronic or multiple events.


If symptoms of an acute stress response endure more than 6 months past one single event, a diagnosis of stress response syndrome is less likely and another diagnosis may be warranted., Acute symptoms exist no longer than 6 months or less and typically resolve once the stressor is removed or distanced.An acute stressor can include starting a new school or moving somewhere different. Chronic symptoms last more than 6 months and may result from chronic stressors or stressors with lasting effects.These can include living in an unsafe place, enduring a tragic and total loss, or enduring continual pain or violence.
 If you are diagnosed with stress response syndrome, this means that you do not have symptoms of other stress-related psychological diagnoses. For example, the symptoms cannot be explained better through another diagnosis, such as PTSD, depression, or anxiety. Any symptoms you experience can clearly be traced back to a stressor and not an ongoing mental health problem.If you have ongoing anxiety or bouts of depression, any symptoms of stress response disorder remain clearly outside of those symptoms.
The stress response is not post-traumatic stress disorder.
 If you have a stress response syndrome, you may be at a higher risk for suicidal thoughts and/or behaviors.If you are concerned about your safety, call emergency services. You may also dial a suicide hotline or phone a friend or family member to talk to and help you.


Take any suicidal thoughts or behaviors seriously.
For more information, check out How to Recognize the Warning Signs of Suicide.
 If you suspect that you have a stress response syndrome, avoid using any substances. You may be at a higher risk for substance use or abuse. When dealing with stress, using drugs, alcohol, and other mind-altering substances is not a healthy way to cope. When experiencing severe stress, stay away from all substances, as they can cause more damage in the long-run.Avoid taking pills or painkillers if they are not prescribed to you at this time.
 Stress response syndrome can prolong any existing medical problems or disorders. It can also interfere with medical treatment.If you have a health condition, make sure you receive adequate treatment and keep up with medications, visits to your medical provider, and any necessary care you may need.


This can help ensure that your illness is not prolonged.
 If the stress response syndrome does not decrease, a therapist or psychologist may evaluate you for another disorder.For example, if your symptoms persist, your therapist may assess you for major depressive disorder, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, or another diagnosis that best suits your symptoms. Having a proper diagnosis aids treatment and guides the path of recovery.


For instance, if you develop nightmares related to the stressor or experience flashbacks, you may receive treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder.

