 Open mic nights are a great opportunity for an aspiring jazz singer to get a feeling for what it's like to perform in front of a crowd. Look for opportunities at local jazz cafés and bars.


Bring sheet music for the musicians that play with you or create a set of traditional jazz standards that they most likely already know.Make sure you've practiced the songs you want to play before going to an open mic night.
 A booking agency will sometimes be able to get you paid gigs at parties or events. Search online for booking agencies specifically catering to jazz near you. If you live in a smaller town, there's a possibility you'll have to go into a nearby city unless jazz is popular where you live.


Contacting an agency is a more viable option if you don't have many networking connections in jazz music.
Most booking agencies will require that you submit high-quality samples of your vocals and a headshot., Advancements in microphone technology allow jazz singers to inject subtle singing techniques that suit themselves to the genre. Whispering or singing in a breathy way is a technique that many jazz musicians utilize.Pick up a good microphone from a music store or find one online.


Your voice will sound differently over a PA system. Make sure to practice with a microphone before performing in front of a crowd.
Some of the best brands for jazz mics include Shure, AKG, and Neumann., A set is series of songs that you sing during a performance. Make sure to practice all of the songs you plan on performing and perfect them. Also, think about how your set will affect the listeners. The flow of your songs should take the audience on an emotional journey. Make sure to start and end with something strong., If you want to get known in the jazz world, then you need to develop a unique style that will set you apart from other performers. It's important that you inject your style into the music that you play. Sing in your unique way and dress in a way that will leave an impression.


Famous jazz musician Billie Holiday was known for her intimate but intense approach to songs and she was able to develop a new jazz style by changing the tempo and phrasing of a song.Jazz musicians often have an elevated creativity and are usually good at thinking in unique ways when it comes to music.