 It’s a good idea to talk to professors about your interests, especially professors in your field of interest. Not only have they been through the process of obtaining a PhD, but they know other professors and institutions in the field. They'll have inside tips to prepare you for the workload, and may even be able to write a letter of recommendation for you.Don't approach any professor at random. Look at the department you’re interested in, review who is teaching what, what their specific area of study is, and then contact them. For example, if you’re interested in linguistics you would go to the linguistics department website and look under the faculty tab. Here you will find a bio for each professor that can help you choose one or two professors to talk to.
If you send an email, start with “Dear Professor Smith,” then ask if you can meet to ask questions about pursuing a PhD in linguistics. Sign the email with a cordial closing like “sincerely" and your name.
If you go to their office hours, show up when the hours begin, politely knock on the door (even if it’s already open), and introduce yourself. You can say something like, “Hello Professor Smith, I am John Public and I’m interested in getting a PhD in linguistics. I’d like to ask you a few questions about the process. Is this a good time for you?”
Don’t try to talk at length with the professor after class. They likely have another class or something already scheduled. What you can do, however, is inquire about setting a meeting, and then follow up with an email about the details.;
, Grad students can talk about how they prepared and what they actually do in grad school. They’ll also likely have solid tips on how to study and survive the increased amount of work


A good way to meet a current grad student is to contact a professor and ask for a list of people who would be willing to meet up with you. Then you can email the student directly to ask if they would be free to meet up over lunch or a cup of coffee. During the meeting be sure to thank them for taking the time to meet with you. Most importantly, you need to come with a list of questions you have about grad school, and also be open to listen to any advice they have to give that isn’t on your question list.
For example, you might ask “how much does grad school cost, and how do I pay for it?”, or inquire about what is required of them. You might also ask, “what are the best and worst things about grad school?” And also, “how do you handle the workload?”

, You don’t have to know the specific subfield, but you should at least have a decent idea what you want to study. For example, you don’t exactly need to know you want to study sociophonetics, but knowing you’re interested in linguistics is crucial.


Make sure you also think about whether you want to get a PhD to work as an academic (i.e. a professor) or in the private sector.Both paths can be rewarding, but the prep work can be wildly different. For example, an associate professor teaching psychology at a university will require a significant publication record, but going into private practice or working for the government requires much less.
 Professors looking at your undergraduate transcripts will want to see that you’ve worked hard from start to finish.


Do you remember the semester you decided to take the extra class, suffered the loss of your childhood pet, or thought sleeping through geology was a good idea? The group of professors on the selection panel will understand one or two grade discrepancies on your transcript. After all, they were undergrads too. The panel will be less likely to overlook frequent or repeated bad grades and withdraws (classes marked by a W on your transcript), even if they are in non-major courses or general prerequisites.
To work as hard as you can, do homework and study on a daily basis. When you don’t understand the material, go to your professor’s office hours with specific questions and examples of what you don’t get. Also, don’t be afraid to go to the tutoring center or hire a private tutor. This will provide detailed, first-hand help with the course material.
 You will generally need to complete two types of classes to be well prepared. These are general education requirements (or Gen Ed classes) and the classes needed to complete your specific major (major classes).


General education classes are designed to provide a well-rounded, general education that gets you ready for more specific courses. These classes are required at the University level for all students to complete. For example, you’ll likely need to complete freshman level English classes, a few science courses, and perhaps writing classes.
Major classes are more specific courses that the major or department requires. If you’re a language major, you’re likely required to take a general linguistics class, several survey courses in literature and culture, and depending on the state you go to school in, you’ll have to pass a language-specific written and oral test. These requirements are put in place to make sure that you will be ready to take graduate-level courses and perform well.
Many universities also offer cross-listed classes, which are courses open to both graduate and undergraduate students. Take a few of these to get an idea of the work you’ll be doing. This is also a great way to meet grad students and make your introduction.
 Some schools require a GRE or other exam to be considered for acceptance, and usually require a minimum score. If you take the exam and don’t perform well, you can always study and take the exam again.


There are several ways to prepare for the GRE or other important entrance exams. The most obvious but often overlooked is to work hard throughout your undergrad education. This means study early for each class and study often.
Many people find it helpful to buy test preparation materials to study for the exam. For example, you can purchase GRE prep manuals from Kaplan, ETS, or The Princeton Review. You can usually find online or in-print materials available. Often the materials can be used in conjunction with a class that is meant to prepare you for the exam. These same companies also likely have courses available.
If you’re looking to seal the deal, try hiring a tutor who is trained in test preparation. There are several national companies like Wyzant, Varsity Tutors, and Sylvan who have tutors trained in this area. It’s also likely that there are many local companies who offer the same services. Finally, check with your college or university’s student services center, as they may have several on-campus options.
 Every PhD program will require that you submit letters of recommendation with your application, and they usually want three. For this you want to ensure you ask a current or past professor for a letter, but only if you have done well in their class. Don’t ask the teacher whose class you got a C in.


You need to ask the right person. Ask a full-time faculty member who is an assistant, associate, or full professor. Many times the person teaching your introduction course, the principles of economics class, or the first 4 or 5 semesters of most language courses is a graduate teaching assistant, and their letter will not carry as much weight as would that of a faculty member. Ask for letters of recommendation usually toward the end off your junior year, when you’re filling out the applications.
Give the person at least three weeks to write the letter if possible. Professors usually have to teach, perform research, grade, serve on multiple committees, advise students, and go to department meetings, so providing sufficient time is best. However, if an important grant or new opening at a PhD program comes up and you’re in good standing with your psycholinguistics professor, go ahead and ask politely for a letter of recommendation. The worst thing they could say is no.
 The economics graduate program you want to get into will place more emphasis on the economics and finance classes you took, and less emphasis on your courses in Basket Weaving or Yoga for Beginners. The best practice is to satisfy the requirements for your college major and program, and go beyond the minimum to earn a minor. Better yet, try a double major or double minor. Often the prerequisite courses are the same, leaving a smaller amount of classes to take.
 PhD programs sometimes require you to know an additional language other than your native language. For those seeking a PhD in a language, you will need to have some level of proficiency in two languages beyond your native tongue. Besides, being bilingual carries with it a host of positive correlates, one of which is making you look better to your potential program.Several options exist for learning a new language. One of them is to take classes in a language at the university you are already attending. You can also take courses at private language schools in your area, study with language learning software like Rosetta Stone or Fluenz, use a language learning app on your phone like Duolingo or Babbel, or hire a private language coach.
Regardless of which option you choose, be sure to bolster your skills with practice. You can practice your language skills by watching movies, listening to music, joining a local club or society, and hiring a conversation partner.
 Becoming familiar with your future field will carry a lot of weight in your application. What’s more, your supervisor or research advisor will make an excellent person to write letters of recommendation. Note that research differs from field to field. For example, in the natural sciences (biology, physics) you will perform laboratory research, while the humanities (English, Spanish, literature) and social sciences (linguistics, sociology) you will likely never enter a science lab, rather perform individual investigations.


You can get research experience by applying for part-time positions in a laboratory, department, or a related job outside the university. For example, if you want to study cognitive development, you can apply to work in a psychology lab, a medical center that specializes in cognitive disorders, or even volunteer in the psychology department.
Other opportunities include paid or unpaid internships, which can be found in a variety of places. For example, legal offices, court houses, large medical centers, museums, and many more places usually have many openings. Be careful though, these positions may fill fast, so be on the look out.
 For example, if you want to go into oceanography, learn how to handle small boats. If you’re studying to be a teacher, get a job tutoring on the side, or writing activities for a textbook company.
 You’ll need to learn how to better organize your time, be more efficient, and adapt better critical thinking skills. Graduate level work requires an enhanced version of your current brain.Taking classes at the next level is the point at which you switch from a consumer of information to a producer of information.


There are a lot of ways to improve organizational skills. For example, focus on a few skills at a time, like improving time management.You can also work on learning to set priorities, doing what’s more important first and saving less crucial tasks for later., You’ll likely need to apply for a PhD program at the very beginning of your last year of study, and in some cases, the summer before. This means you should start thinking about programs as early as possible, even at the end of your sophomore year or beginning of your junior year, and make sure you have your application completed on time. Schools will not usually extend a deadline without a very good reason.

