 All children need discipline and they need to learn that bad behavior comes with consequences. ,For discipline to be effective at changing behavior, it must be consistent. Your child will know the rules and the consequences for breaking the rules. The consequence happens the same every time the rule is broken.

In addition, the consequence applies whether the misbehavior happens at home or in public. Consistency is vital, and a lack of it can lead to a child developing confusion or willfulness.
It’s crucial that all caretakers are on board, disciplining the same way. When there is a weak link amongst the adults in the child’s sphere, that weakness will be exploited every time. He or she will “shop for a better answer” or play the “divide and conquer” game. Be sure that the babysitter, Sunday school teacher, daycare or after-school provider, scout leader, grandparents, and other adults who have charge of your child are on board with your desire for consequences that are consistent, immediate, and powerful.
Don’t backtrack on consequences. If you threaten a dire consequence, and the bad behavior occurs, follow through on the promised punishment. If you don’t follow through, your child won’t listen the next time you try to coerce good behavior or prevent bad behavior. This is because you’ll already have a track record in his or her eyes., The consequence for a problem behavior has an immediate impact. It is not delayed. Persons with ADHD often struggle with time concepts,so postponing a consequence has no meaning. It invites an explosion if the child gets a forgotten consequence for a previous infraction that might as well have happened a year ago.,, If the consequence for speeding was paying a fine of a buck for every mile per hour over the speed limit, we’d all speed constantly. This is not a powerful enough consequence to change our behavior. We tend to monitor our speed to avoid a $200 ticket plus higher insurance premiums. The same applies to children with ADHD. The consequence needs to be powerful enough to act as a deterrent.,, Your anger or raised voice may cause anxiety or send a message that your child can control you by getting you angry. Remaining calm and loving will convey the message you want. Before taking action, do a self-check to make sure you are responding in the way you want to respond., Your child may ask you ten times to have a special privilege and you say no nine times. But if you finally give in at the end, the message sent and received is that being a pest will pay off. , Some kids crave attention badly enough to behave badly so they’ll get it. Instead, reward good behavior with an abundance of attention but consequence bad behavior with limited focus lest your attention be interpreted as a reward! , Don’t argue or vacillate. Once you give a specific instruction, it is to be followed without exception, because you are the boss. If you allow your child to argue, he or she sees that as an opportunity to win. Thus, you lose. , Don’t talk until your child is focused on you. Make sure your child is making eye contact with you. If you assign a task, make the instructions brief and have him repeat it back to you. Wait for the job to be completed before distracting him with anything else., Many parents use timeout systems but they frequently are not used properly. How many times have you seen a child sent into a timeout for a specified number of minutes then released, time having been served. Instead of a timeout being a prison sentence, use this time as an opportunity for the child to self-calm and contemplate the situation. Then, he or she will discuss with you how this situation came about, how to resolve it and how to prevent it from happening again in the future. You’ll also talk about consequences if it should reoccur.

Choose a designated spot in your house where your child will stand or sit quietly. This should be a place where he or she cannot see the television or otherwise be distracted.
Designate an amount of time to remain quietly in place, self-calming (usually not more than one minute per age of the child). As the system becomes more comfortable, the child might remain in place simply until he or she has achieved a calm state.
Then ask permission to come talk it over. The key is to allow the child time and quiet; give praise for a job well-done. Don’t think of timeout as a punishment; consider it a reboot.
 You need to become as adept at foreseeing the future when you have a child with ADHD. Anticipate what problems you might encounter and plan interventions to prevent them.Help your child develop cause-and-effect and problem-solving skills by troubleshooting possible problems together. Make it a habit to think about and discuss possible pitfalls with your child before going to dinner, the grocery, a movie, church, or other public places. 