 Don't throw everything out at once, unless you absolutely can't stand the artist. Make a plan to gradually get rid of everything in a timely manner. You may realize that you don't want to throw things out after all. Moderation is better, and you may regret it if you get rid of all of your things. Try this gradual plan:


To ease the first feelings, vent by choosing a picture of the artist that you don't like as much. Crumple it up and throw it away in a trash can that you can't see into.
In a few days, choose your least favorite CDs, movies, etc., and give them to a friend so you can still use them if you decide you want to.
In another 2 days or so, if you still have strong feelings, gather up three to five more of the things you have of them and discard. Throw away paper, and donate or sell CDs, books, and movies.
After about two weeks have passed, if your feelings are still there, then it's a good chance that you will never like this artist again. Get rid of everything you have of theirs, except for your favorite special thing. Hide this somewhere, or send to a relative or friend to keep for you.
Once a month has passed, you can either destroy that one special thing, or you may decide you want it back.;
, You always need someone to look up to and be a fan of, so try to find one.


Look for one that sings songs or acts in movies that are a style you like (western, horror, etc.)
Look for one who just all around appeals to you. Don't settle for halves, or you'll just be doing this all over again in a few weeks.
 If anybody asks, just say that you grew bored with what they're doing. Don't use them as a vent for your feelings, and don't let anyone pry into your business, or put you down because you don't like them. It's not anyone else's business which celebrities you like and don't like.
 You have a right to develop your tastes as you see fit, so don't abandon the music and films you've loved because of popularity. Don't abandon them just because someone puts you down (see the last step). You have a right to like who you like and it isn't anyone else's business.

