 You can use the packet of self-service forms provided by the Indiana state courts if you and your spouse don't have any biological or adopted children and you have an agreement on how you will divide your debts and property., The forms and instructions are available online. You also can pick up paper versions of the same forms at the clerk's office in your local courthouse., The packet includes five forms that you must fill out to ask the court for a divorce. Detailed instructions on how to fill out each form are included in the packet.You can type the information directly into the forms, or you can print them and write in the information required with a black ink pen.
The Appearance by Unrepresented Person in Civil Case form lets the court know that you want to start a civil case and you don't have an attorney.
The Verified Petition for Dissolution of Marriage and Agreement sets forth the agreement you and your spouse have made, and asks the court to approve that agreement and grant you a divorce.
The Summons notifies your spouse that you've filed for divorce and that he will have to file an appearance as well if he wants to participate in the case.
The Verified Waiver of Final Hearing lets the court know that since you and your spouse agree to all the terms of the divorce you've waived your right to a final hearing.
The Decree of Dissolution of Marriage is the final order the judge will sign that will formally end your marriage and outline your agreement regarding issues such as division of property and child custody., Once you've added the correct information according to the instructions provided, print the completed forms. Contact your court clerk or review your local rules to find out how many copies you should make or if your court requires any additional forms.A light green form is available for any confidential information, such as Social Security numbers, so that information does not become part of the public record of your case. Since you don't have any children, you shouldn't need to file a green form at all., Since you're opening the case, you'll sign each of the forms you've filled out in the blank for "petitioner.", To start your case, you'll need to take the originals plus all copies of your appearance, verified petition, and summons to the clerk's office.

The clerk will charge you a filing fee ranging from $132 to $152. The fee varies from county to county.If you can't afford the fees, fill out the form for a fee waiver and file it with the clerk as well.
Once you've paid, the clerk will give you a case number and process your forms by stamping them with the filing date., You must send your spouse, or his attorney if he has one, a copy of your file-stamped forms. The easiest way to do this is to send him copies using certified mail.

You can also complete service by hiring someone from a private process serving company or by contacting the Sheriff's office.
Different counties have different preferred methods of service, so ask the clerk what would be the best way for you to do this., Indiana judges can enter temporary orders, but they cannot finalize a divorce until at least 60 days after the initial petition was filed. If the court is really busy, you may have to wait longer than that., After the waiting period, take the originals and the copies of your completed and signed waiver of final hearing and decree of dissolution and file them with the clerk. The clerk will forward the decree to the judge to sign.

You need to bring at least three copies of the decree along with two pre-addressed stamped envelopes. When the judge signs the decree, one copy will remain at the court, while one will be sent to you and the other to your spouse., Since you waived your final hearing, you'll receive your decree in the mail after the judge has signed it.