 If you want to place your child in a shopping cart, only use the area in the cart designed for the child. This helps increase your child’s safety. Never let your child ride inside the basket. This may cause the cart to tip over.You should also refrain from letting your child ride on the outside of the cart. This may also cause the cart to tip to one side.
Don’t let your child ride under the shopping cart. Some children like to lie on their stomachs or backs on the shelf beneath the basket. This may lead to your child getting their limbs, hands, or fingers caught in the wheels.;
, Many shopping carts come with a safety belt or harness attached to the seat. This device can help keep your child in the seat and prevent them from climbing or falling out of the cart when you are not looking.Make sure to secure the belt or harness so your child cannot slip out accidentally.
If the cart has a broken or missing belt, choose another cart.
 Your child has a higher likelihood of remaining safe if they sit in the cart at all times. Many shopping cart accidents occur because a child stands up in the seat.When your child stands up, they can fall out of the cart or cause the cart to fall over. Standing changes the distribution of weight and may make the cart tip forward.
 Many stores have special carts made for parents with small children. These carts are designed to be safer for the child by providing an area closer to the ground for the child to ride. If the store offers these carts, choose them instead.Often, these carts have a built-in plastic car attached to the front of the cart for the child to sit and play in.
 Infant carriers or car seats that are placed on top of the cart can make the cart unbalanced and tip to one side. Even if the carrier looks like it will fit or there are clips, you shouldn’t do it. This places your child in a risky place because the carrier is not stable in the child seat of the cart. The carrier can easily fall out.If you need your infant carrier, place it in the large basket of the cart.
 When choosing a cart, make sure to choose a cart that seems in the best working order. Do not choose a cart that has uneven wheels or that wobbles. This can affect the balance of the cart and increase the likelihood of an accident.