 Do you want to write a poem? Do you want to write a short story? This step may take some time, and you should be relaxed while you think. You won't be able to think properly if you're anxious about something or if you generally have other things on your mind. Try to be physically and emotionally comfortable, as much as you can.;
, Think about nothing much. In fact, do something relaxing or go for a walk. By not thinking, inspiration often occurs to you of its own accord., without trying to be "looking for something". Just think deeply about your surroundings. Remember, if it drives any emotion whatsoever, it probably is a good source of inspiration.
 You can focus on other things whilst waiting for inspiration to come. In fact, it shouldn't even be classed as "waiting". Just be prepared. You don't need to sift through thousands of "inspirational" quotes or "motivational" posters. Remember, just to be relaxed.
 Do you think corporate tycoons think up their million-dollar business plans in 5 minutes flat? Of course not. Trying too hard to find inspiration will make you end up stressed with a headache, or at most with a sloppy idea.


Don't over-think things. If you have an idea or feel inspired, hold onto to just that. Keep what you have as simply as possible. Don't be constantly trying to expand it; instead, just relax and think about it in its current form.
 Your source of inspiration may not be made of matter. Often, the most inspirational of concepts or ideas can be found only in your mind. Think of a certain memory you have of a circumstance or situation. Also, think of things that you feel strongly about or of moral opinions that you may have. War, religion, politics, relationships, death, etc.
 All ideas start as tiny seeds in a person's mind. Of course, many of them die quickly. Try to plant as many of these seeds as you can by enriching yourself with media. Listen to music, watch videos, read books, analyze articles and try new things every day.
 Try listening to some classical pieces or relaxing sounds. Instrumental music will help you concentrate better, but you may find inspirational lyrics in some songs. Try both and see which type works best for you.
 Try to recall thoughts that you have had that you found particularly interesting, and branch out from those thoughts with more complex analysis. For example, if you thought of a cool way to get around, decide just what makes your transportation work.
 Then imagine yourself observing this idea from the outside. See the idea as a whole, and note how it makes you feel. Don't pursue your inspiration if it doesn't interest you. For example, just because something football-related inspires you, if you're not interested in football, let it pass or even tell it to a friend who is interested in football.
, When something gets hard or tedious or you just decide you've had enough of it, leave it alone and come back to it later. Don't just abandon it. This way, if you feel like it at another time, you can always come back to it. Keep all of these ideas in one place and in no time you should have a reservoir of old, interesting ideas that you can look back on.
 If you're messy with your time, you're going to end up with a messy head. Create yourself a timetable to manage your time and organize what you need to do. This will help you get on top of everything, even in those sticky situations where your "to-do" list is sixteen pages long.
 Fill out your idea, and find a place for it in your work!

, Don't get in over your head. Think about what is achievable, think about which of these things you would be proud of achieving, come up with a reasonable solution for reaching this goal and then set out on it. By accomplishing these goals, you'll be proving that you can accomplish the things you want to and you'll hopefully have something to show for your efforts.

