 Attach the yarn to your hook using a slipknot. Work a chain of six chain stitches, then slip stitch the first and last chain together to form a ring.


If you do not know how to make a slipknot, slip stitch, or chain stitch, please see the "Tips" section of this article for instructions.
 Work 12 double crochets into the center of your ring to complete the first official round. Join the first and last stitch together with a slip stitch before advancing to the next round.


For instructions of working a double crochet, please see the "Tips" section.
 Make two chain stitches. Double crochet twice into the next stitch of your previous round, then continue double crocheting twice into each stitch after that until you reach the end of your round.


Working two double crochets into one stitch can also be called a "double crochet increase."
Do not repeat the initial "chain two" at any other point in this round.
 Chain two. Double crochet once into the next stitch, then work one chain stitch, and repeat this pattern until you reach the end of this round.


Note that the initial "chain two" should not be repeated a second time in this round.
 Chain two. Work two double crochets (or a double crochet increase) into the next stitch, then repeat as needed until you reach the end of the round.


Do not repeat the initial "chain two" of this round.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 2-inch (5-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to knot off the work, then weave any excess yarn into the back of the project.


This step completes the body of the fish. You should have a standard round dishcloth at this point.
 Choose any point along the outer perimeter of the fish body and tie on the yarn for your tail. Attach the yarn to the hook using a slipknot.


Work one single crochet into each of the next nine spaced to form a foundation for the tail.
Chain three, then turn the work before continuing.
Work one double crochet into the first space and two double crochets into the space after that. Repeat as needed until you reach the last space.
Chain three, then turn again.
For the final row, work one double crochet into the first space and two double crochets into the space after that, as you did for the previous row. Repeat until you reach the end of the row.
Cut the yarn, leaving a long tail. Pull this excess yarn through the loop on your hook to fasten off the fishtail, then weave any remaining excess into the back of your work.
 Flip your fish over so that the back side faces you. Fold the body in half with the tail centered along one side. Find the point along the opposite side of the body aligned to the center of your fishtail and count two spaces down. Tie the yarn for the lip to that space, then attach your hook with a slipknot and prepare to crochet the lips.


Working up along the side of the fish body, make a single crochet into each of the next four stitches.
Flip the fish over to the front. Chain four, then work four double crochets into one space.
In the next space, work one single crochet. If you do not know how to single crochet, check the "Tips" section.
Work five double crochets into the following space.
Cut the yarn, leaving a long tail. Pull the excess through the loop on your hook to knot the fish lips and weave the remainder into the back of the work.
 Fold the body of the fish to find the center top of the circle. Attach the yarn to the body and to your hook, then crochet the fin. When finished with the top fin, repeat this procedure to find the center bottom of the body and work the bottom fin.


For each fin, work five single crochets into the body, moving from right to left. Turn the work, then chain three.
Work one double crochet into the first space and two double crochets into the next space. Repeat across the row, then chain three and turn the work.
Work one double crochet into the first space and two double crochets into the space after that. Repeat across the row to finish it.
Cut the yarn and draw the excess through the loop on your hook, tying it off. Hide the remaining yarn in the back of the work.
Once you finish the top and bottom fins, your project is complete.

