 Credit card companies like to advertise, and you might be advised that you are “pre-screened” or “pre-approved” for credit. This means that the card company has reviewed your financial data and targeted you as an ideal applicant.Getting a pre-approved offer means that a credit card company has already looked at your credit score, borrowing history, and other details. The offer may also be customized for your age, income bracket, or personal interests.
Pre-screened cards are almost always approved – but not necessarily with the APR and terms advertised in the mail-out.Some companies also advertise with “Invitations to Apply.” These offers are not pre-approved and are not firm offers of credit. You may be denied., Make sure to look over the offer and all the terms. Unlike at a bank, you won’t be able to ask someone about these details in person. Read the offer carefully and especially for fees, interest rates, and minimum payments.


Unfortunately, credit card scams are common. Be sure that you recognize the company.
Don’t fall for promises that you’ll get a credit card if you have poor credit and never pay anything up front.Find a card that works for you. Look for rewards programs and perks that you can use, consider how widely retailers will accept the card, and read the fine print.\

, You can also take the initiative and look for cards on your own. This will allow you to shop with companies like Capital One, Chase, Citibank, and Discover, compare perks and details, and inform yourself more widely.


There are now online resources that bring together cards so you can review them and shop for the best option. These sites also let you select your preferences, whether a low APR, a travel points program, or cash back offer.Look for cards that target your credit situation or age. For example, you can search for cards that are good for students or seniors or even cards for certain professional organizations., Some department stores and retailers offer consumer credit cards and will give you a sales pitch at the checkout counter. Sounds too easy? It may be. Consider the terms carefully before signing up.


Store credit cards often carry high interest rates and give less perks than normal credit cards. They may also not be accepted as widely.A store card can work for you if used wisely, however. For instance, you can benefit from discount offers if you shop at the store regularly or make big-ticket purchases there. A store credit card or gas station credit card can also help to build up your credit if you make your payments on time. If you decide to get one of these cards, be sure to pay off charges immediately to avoid the higher interest rate., Whether online, in-person, or by mail, make a formal application once you’ve decided on a card that works for you. Again, give correct details about you and your financial situation.


Email offers will come with a link to the online application. You can also call the toll-free number or fill out the paper application if your offer came in the mail.
Provide any offer codes when you apply for the card. Most letters or emails will have a code including letters and numbers to access the specific offer made to you.

