 Morning sickness can be a difficult aspect of pregnancy, as the associated nausea and vomiting is both unpredictable and unpleasant. However, learning about ways to control it can help pregnant women better manage morning sickness for a more comfortable pregnancy.

Try eating smaller, more frequent snacks.
Avoid anywhere there are extremes of odors, such as the butcher's, the perfume counter, the fish market, a smoky room, moldy areas, etc.
Keep healthy nibbles with you at all times. A small bag of crackers is easy to carry in your purse, and many women find them to be helpful in minimizing nausea.
Some women find it best to eat a piece of toast or similar bland item before getting out of bed in the morning. Keeping a box of saltines or other bland crackers by your bedside can be an easy way for you to have a soothing bite before getting up.
Avoid processed foods and stick to healthy sources of food (protein, complex carbohydrates, lots of green and leafy veggies).
Go to bed earlier; avoid stress.
Ginger, lemon and lavender can help, in tea, aromatherapy or edible forms.;
, As a result of the physiological changes associated with the growing baby, many woman suffer from constipation during pregnancy. This constipation can be better controlled by consuming specific food and drink and performing exercises that can help.

Another issue you may find yourself having to deal with is constantly wanting to urinate. This can cause earlier-than-desired sleep interruptions! If you experience this discomfort, you'll find it's usually in effect during the first 13 weeks or so of pregnancy and then again in the third trimester. Don't dehydrate yourself though; instead, drink a lot during the day but less in the evenings to try to alleviate many toilet trips during the night. Then again, it is a form of training for what's to come.

If you experience burning or stinging sensations when urinating, speak to your doctor; you may have a urinary tract infection.
 Learn to maintain a schedule of going to the bathroom to help eliminate hemorrhoids associated with pregnancy., Tiredness is a commonplace issue for many pregnant women. By learning to control your sleep schedule, you can better manage your tiredness during the day.

Learn to love naps. Nap when you're home, over the weekend, during a lunch break. Again, this is more training for what's to come! Also, get others to help more with housework, any lifting/shifting/moving heavy items, grocery shopping, etc. At work, ask for reduced travel or changed tasks if you feel too tired as a result. Avoid going out at nights, as this can increase your tiredness; meet up with friends and family on weekends or for lunch instead.
If you're already a mom, nap when the children do. Ask a neighbor or friend to mind the kids for a bit while you catch up on some lost sleep.
 Pregnant women frequently suffer from back pain because of the physical stress of carrying a baby, but there are steps that help better control the discomfort.

Avoid standing or sitting for long periods of time. If this requires changes in your routine, then ensure that the changes occur.
Wear flat shoes that have excellent support. Visit a shoe clinic if you don't know what good support in a shoe is all about.
If you must lift things, always bend from your knees.
Don't twist or jerk around, especially not suddenly.
Get someone else to put other children into backseat car restraints.
Use warm (not hot) baths to relieve backache.
Use warm heat packs or warm hot water bottles to relieve backache.
Talk to your doctor if nothing is helping you.
 Massage techniques geared toward pregnant women can ease pain, and are easy to teach to a friend., Physical therapy, yoga and rhythmic body movements can all help pregnant women overcome pain associated with the round ligament during pregnancy., If you get a fever while you're pregnant, learn how to reduce your fever safely to prevent putting yourself and your baby at risk.

Ask your doctor for safe medications. Some medications that you'd consider safe when not pregnant can be harmful to the growing fetus, so always check before taking anything.
 Take an empty glass and pour an adequate amount of baking soda (around a teaspoon) into it. Pour room temperature water into the glass, filling it. This will leave the water a whitish color. Drink in small amounts, and drink whenever you have heart burn, and/or before a meal/snack.