 You can play the game online within Facebook or on your mobile devices. Launch it, then hit the “Play” button.;
, When the game maps loads, navigate through it until you see 169. Hit the button for the level to begin.
 Once you’re in, analyze how your board is laid out. You have two columns of chocolate at both sides blocked by columns of meringues. Five columns of candies are in the middle. Focus on the candies. Do you see good moves to quickly get a Striped candy or any special candies you need?

, If you don’t like your board, go ahead an exit. You won’t lose any lives as long as you haven’t touched any candy yet., As much as possible, delay the chocolates from eating your candies. The chocolates are blocked by the columns of meringues so you are safe until you remove the meringues. Start making your candy matches and combinations in the middle to avoid taking out the meringues.
 All the three combinations you need requires a Striped candy. Work on getting this first. Put four similar candies in a row to generate a Striped candy. Once you have a Striped candy, you can go for the combination that’s easiest to achieve.
 You need three combinations to complete the level. You need to match a Wrapped candy and a Striped candy; two Striped candies; and a Striped candy and a Candy Bomb.


Making another Striped candy—Repeat putting similar candies four in a row to generate another Striped candy.
Making a Wrapped candy—A Wrapped candy is a special candy that results from matching at least three vertical and three horizontal candies forming a plus, T-shape, or corner-shape. This one’s more challenging and difficult to get compared to a Striped candy.
Making a Candy Bomb—A Candy Bomb is a special candy that results from matching five candies in a row. It can be difficult to get, but not impossible. You just have to work on getting the right candies in place to swap with to form the five-in-a-row.
 It is ideal that you get the two special candies you need for a combination next to each other. Either you form it in the perfect place or you move and drop it to where you need it to be. Once you get the special candies side by side, switch them immediately to match them. Do not let another move go without doing so. You might lose the chance and the candies may shift after your next move., This isn’t a time-limited level, so you don’t have to hurry. Take a good look before doing a move. 35 moves can be a lot.
 There’s no chocolate machine in this level, so you only have the chocolate on the board. Although the chocolate are blocked by the meringues in the beginning, it is inevitable that they will break out. Intentionally or unintentionally, you will make matches next to the meringues that will clear them. Once an opening is left by a meringue square, the chocolate will start to come out. Pay attention when this happens.
 You can break the chocolate by making a match right next to it. Do not let the chocolate spread all over your board. It will be very difficult to complete the level if it does. Stop the chocolate early before it spreads all over. Do not, however, waste all your moves clearing it out. Your priority is still making the combinations needed to complete the level.