 Try to avoid chatting with your friends that sit nearby, and if possible, move to a seat away from them! Avoid passing notes and give your teacher your full attention. Your eyes should be on them at all times, and it shows them that you are paying attention and willing to learn. Have your notebook out on your desk with a date, name, and notes, and be sure to listen to keywords your teacher mentions to know what to write down.;
, Choose an appropriate time to ask, perhaps when the teacher has finished speaking and is preparing the next activity or after class. If you ask intelligent, focused questions the teacher will realise you're interested and engaged. Your questions and honesty about your knowledge's limits will encourage your classmates to ask questions when they're struggling. You can be pretty sure that someone else was wondering the same thing too!

, Try to phrase your correction subtly- Why do we...?, I know when I did this with the Athletics Club we did it slightly differently; why is that, what's the difference?, What's the difference between (the term they gave) and (the term you believe to be correct)?. Embarrassing the teacher will make them feel insulted or defensive. Correcting them and being wrong is very embarrassing and makes you look like you're very unpleasant and a bit of a know-it-all if you do it often. If they don't agree with you or answer your question with the answer you think is wrong, nod and say thank you. Look it up at home and find evidence that answers the question one way or another.
 The more you talk, the more familiar you will get with people and become their friends. Try to remember their names and greet them by name. Remember their hobbies and interests and any special event that they told you about. Ask them about it the day after. Major brownie points if you can find a way to be a part of their hobby! Even if you're not into the same things you could ask how they got into it, ask for advice or say you'd love to learn more about it or try it out. Make everyone feel special! (EG Hey Diarmuid, how was your football match?, Hi Claire. Have you read any good books lately? I was hoping to get a good one as a present for my sister whose birthday is this week and I hoped you might be able to advise me.)

, People respect dedication and determination and will respect and admire your academic ability. It will also please your teachers and enthuse them to work harder to teach you-and thus your classmates -if they feel that their efforts are going to good use and will pay off. Never show off your good grades or belittle people who do badly and never, ever laugh at people who don't know something. If they're having a really hard time, talk to your teacher or ask them if they want help with anything, but be discreet and don't let other classmates in on what you're doing.
 This will help you to get along well with people. If you ask a favor politely people would be happy to help.
 Everyone has some fantastic personality traits so let people see yours. Occasionally have a joke to show your humour but be careful not to belittle anyone or their beliefs - remember, it's only funny if everyone is laughing. Show how kind and considerate you are by helping a classmate having a hard time or offering to carry textbooks for the teacher. Show you're thoughtful and deep by occasionally talking to other people about their beliefs and compare them to your own, but be respectful and never undermine their or your point of view.
 Be a good team player and work hard at the activity. You might be there to make friends but some people could take the activity seriously or want to succeed. Have a laugh at training but knuckle down and work hard to get your skills and fitness up before a game as well so you're a great asset to the team both on and off the pitch.
 Don't trail them, just say hi or talk to them when you run into them and get into small talk until you become friends with them. Make sure not to join a clique that excludes others. Be nice to everyone but don't be creepy.
 You would have to make your personality interesting so that no one gets bored when they talk to you.
 Helping is the best way even if you hate someone help them and you would notice that their opinions about you would change.
