 When cleaning a pocket knife, you should always wear rubber gloves. They protect your hands from getting cut by the blade. You'll also be using certain oils or cleaners that can cause skin irritation. You can buy rubber gloves at most supermarkets., You'll need certain supplies to clean a pocket knife. Get the materials ready before you begin the cleaning process.


For the initial washing, use mild dish detergent. The soap you use for day-to-day dish washing is probably fine. Just do not use dish soap intended to be used in a dishwasher as it's too harsh for knives and can cause rust and other damage.You'll need some kind of household lubricant to remove rust. WD-40 tends to work well on pocket knives. You'll also need household oil to lubricate the knife after washing. You should be able to find household lubricant and oil at a hardware store.You will need a soft sponge or a toothbrush for the initial washing. To deal with rust, a nylon pad is necessary. You'll also need a soft, clean cloth to dry the knife when you finish cleaning., When you're ready to clean a pocket knife, open the knife completely. Some pocket knives, like Swiss Army knives, might have multiple utensils attached. Make sure the knife is completely open so all portions are cleaned.
 First, spot clean the knife with regular dish detergent and a sponge. Lather the sponge in warm, soapy water and clean off the blades of the knife. If you notice anything stuck on the knife, squirt dish detergent directly on the spot, let it sit for a few minutes, and then resume scrubbing., If you have rust that needs removing, use the household lubricant. Spray all rusty areas and let the lubricant sit on for one minute. Then, take your nylon pad and scrub the blade until the rust disappears. You may need to add additional household lubricant on stubborn spots. Once you are done, rinse the knife off with clean running water., Dry your knife off with a clean cloth. Then, add a few drops of the household lubricant to the knife. Rub in with another dry cloth until the knife is shiny and clean in appearance.