 While decongestants can relieve your sinus congestion, they also increase your heart rate and can elevate your blood pressure.Decongestants also interfere with your body's ability to regulate its own temperature, while over-the-counter pain relievers can thin your blood.
Particularly if you're engaging in aerobic exercise, this can be a potentially dangerous combination because it may cause palpitations and/or symptoms of a heart attack or ischemia.
If you're taking a prescription allergy medication, you should continue taking it as prescribed. However, make sure at least an hour passes between the time you take your allergy medication and the time you exercise.If you're starting a new exercise program, talk to your doctor first to make sure it's okay.
Never take products that contain ephedra or ephedrine while exercising.;
, Greek yogurt contains probiotics that lower histamines in your body that cause the itchy, watery eyes, runny nose, and sneezing you experience during an allergy attack.Eating yogurt regularly may actually help your immune system function more normally, rather than over-reacting to allergens and making you feel sick.
Yogurt is a simple food that is easy to digest, and also includes protein and other nutrients that make it a good pre-exercise snack. Include fruit such as bananas in your yogurt to get a good blast of potassium, which can help prevent muscle cramps.Yogurt recommendations include those with at least 15 grams of protein per serving. These include products from Dannon, Oikos, and Chobani, like Chobani Simply 100 and Oikos Triple Zero.
 Whether you're exercising inside or out, staying well hydrated is important if you want to keep your allergy symptoms at bay. This is especially important if you're taking an allergy medication, which often dries you out.Drink water regularly throughout the day to make sure you're well-hydrated before you begin exercising.
Sip water while you work out, rather than guzzling – the liquid sloshing around in your belly could make you nauseous, especially if you are also dealing with allergies.
Keep in mind that if you're breathing through your mouth due to a stuffed-up nose, your mouth and throat may be dry even through you're not dehydrated. You may want to use a spray for dry throat and mouth, or suck on a lozenge. Just make sure you don't have a lozenge in your mouth while exercising – you could choke.
Take a 32 oz water bottle with you when you work out so that you have it by your side at all times.
 Wearing a hat and sunglasses can reduce your direct impact with pollen if you're exercising outdoors. This can significantly decrease your allergy symptoms, particularly itchy, watery eyes.Sunglasses will keep the pollen out of your eyes, while a hat will keep it out of your hair. Since pollen does rest in your hair, a hat is helpful for keeping long hair out of your face and eyes while you're moving.
You also may want to consider wearing a particle mask when exercising outdoors, particularly if pollen counts are high.
Put your hat in a plastic bag before you enter your home to keep from bringing all that pollen inside with you.
 Warming up your cardiovascular system for between 5 and 10 minutes not only helps you avoid injury, but also can help decrease your allergy symptoms during your workout.An effective warm-up will get your heart rate up and improve your circulation, which helps move all that mucus and congestion out.
Your warm-up doesn't have to be complex. Five minutes of jumping jacks followed by five minutes of leg stretches, for example, is sufficient if you're going for a run.
 Doctors recommend allergy sufferers fit at least 30 minutes of cardio into their daily routines. Strengthening your cardiovascular system is especially important if you experience significant allergy problems, since you face an increased risk of heart disease.Jogging is an obvious way to get your cardio workout. If the idea of running outside during peak allergy season gets you skittish, consider using a treadmill.
When the treadmill gets boring, there are other options for a good cardio workout, including step machines or bikes.
Aerobics classes also can offer you a good variety to your workout as well as a chance to meet and socialize with like-minded people.
Try not to overdo it, though. Keep in mind that an extreme routine could exacerbate your symptoms or result in exercise-induced breathing problems.
Don’t forget brisk walking as means to rehabilitate the heart while dealing with allergies and exercise routines.
 Strong, deep breath is fundamental to yoga and pilates practice. Even though some poses may be difficult to get through if you have sinus pressure or a runny nose, the breath can ultimately decrease your symptoms.If you do decide to take a yoga or pilates class, focus on the breath above all else. Breathing in through your nose decreases the amount of pollen coming into your body compared to breathing through your mouth.
Do standing poses or sitting poses that keep your head above your heart. Choose a resting pose, such as the lotus pose, that allows you to remain upright.
However, maintaining good breathing may be difficult if your nose is clogged. In these situations, you may want to consider taking an allergy medication an hour to 30 minutes before your class starts.
 Particularly if your symptoms are severe, an aquatic environment may be the ideal workout environment for you. At an indoor pool, the air is humid and warm, which is easier to breathe.If your local gym or fitness center has water aerobics or similar classes at an indoor pool, take advantage of those.
You also can go to a local pool and simply swim laps without having to go to a class or engage in any specific training.
Another way to use the pool is to walk the lanes. You may want to buy aqua shoes and ankle weights, and walk the lanes of the pool. This will lessen the strain on your joints and help you exercise easier. This is a great way for elderly people and people who are obese/overweight to fit in their exercise.
 The steam from a hot shower will help loosen the mucus that's clogging up your sinuses, giving you further relief from your allergy symptoms. If you work out in a gym, take advantage of the steam room.After a hot shower or time in the steam room, stand under cooler water for a few minutes. The temperature change will loosen the mucus in your air ways further and allow you to take some clean, clear breaths.
Showering immediately after exercise also cleanses all the pollen off of your body, especially if you were exercising outside.
Don't skip washing your hair, since pollen can collect there – especially if you use sticky hair products.
 Stretching is important regardless of whether you have allergies, but it's especially important if you want to exercise when dealing with allergies and reduce your most problematic symptoms.Dealing with allergies can leave you fatigued, and feeling stiffer than you normally do. Stretching can help you avoid injury as well as make you feel less achy.
Make sure you're thoroughly warmed up before you do any stretching to avoid potential injury.
 If you don't yet know for sure what's causing your symptoms, you need to find out. An allergist can help find exactly what pollens or other substances cause you problems.When you go to the allergist, ask for a skin-prick test. It will show whether you're allergic to various common allergens.
The allergist may prescribe you a medication to control your symptoms. Even while on medication, you still should take care to assess the environment where you're exercising and limit exposure to triggers.
If you are prescribed an allergy medication, talk to your doctor about your exercise routine. They may prescribe something different based on your activities, or advise you on how long you should wait to exercise after taking your medication.
 Especially if you plan to exercise outside, you can minimize your exposure to allergens by following the weather regularly in the hours leading up to your planned workout. You want to know temperature and humidity, as well as pollen counts.You typically can get accurate, up-to-the-minute forecasts for your general location by checking online at a website such as weather.com.
Generally it's good to exercise outside right after a rain, which tends to decrease the pollen in the air. However, avoid exercising after thunderstorms, which can have the opposite effect.
Humidity between 40 and 60 percent generally is ideal. For outdoor exercise, you'll do best when the humidity is as close to 40 percent as possible.You also want to stay indoors on hot, dry, windy days, when countless pollen is blown through the air and is virtually unavoidable.
Cold weather is a trigger for asthma, so you have to be careful during the winter if you suffer from this condition. If cold weather is a trigger for your asthma, then always cover your face with a scarf or mask.Also, you may want to keep your albuterol handy!

, If you're accustomed to a morning run, you're exercising when pollen counts typically are at their highest, which can exacerbate your symptoms.Mid-afternoons tend to have the lowest pollen counts, so that can be the best time to fit in an outdoor run.
Evenings tend to have lower pollen counts than morning hours, but check the levels locally before heading out.
If your work schedule prevents you from exercising when pollen counts are lowest, you may want to move your workouts indoors during peak allergy season. This is generally during the spring, but will vary depending on where you live and which particular pollens trigger your allergic reaction., Pollen is highest in open fields, especially if it's a windy day. If you're allergic to mold, you'll have more problems near lakes and other bodies of water.If you live near the coast, take your exercise to the beach where pollen counts will be at their lowest.
Other good outdoor spaces include paved tracks, such as the one surrounding the football field at your local high school.
 Even if you're working out at a gym, you can still experience severe allergy symptoms if the air isn't filtered properly or there are a lot of dust mites or other indoor allergens.A controlled environment can enable you to complete your exercise program without suffering significant allergy symptoms. Come early and allow your system to adjust before you warm up and start your routine.
Avoid gyms that have a front door that opens directly outside, as allergens can easily make their way inside.
Make sure that you wipe down the gym equipment before and after you use it to make sure that it is free of germ and allergens.

