 A qualifying child must be your son or daughter, foster child, half brother or sister, stepbrother or stepsister, or any of their descendants. They could also be an immediate family member like a brother or sister, half brother or sister, stepbrother or stepsister, or a descendant like a niece or nephew. To qualify as dependents, students must be under the age of 24 at year’s end, younger than you (or your spouse, if you and your spouse file jointly), and provide less than half of their material and financial support.If the student is your child and permanently and totally disabled, they can qualify as your dependent at any age.
For example, perhaps your wife’s eight year old son from another marriage lives with you and your wife. Assuming he is going to school, he is a student who you could claim as your dependent.;
, If a student is not your qualifying child, they might be a qualifying relative. This type of dependent cannot be your qualifying child or the qualifying child of another taxpayer, and must be related to you. A qualifying relative might be a stepfather, or stepmother, uncle or aunt, or in-law. Your relative does not have to live with you.


A full list of potential qualifying relatives is available at the IRS website (https://www.irs.gov/publications/p17/ch03.html#en_US_2015_publink1000170951).
For instance, if you and your wife are supporting her mother, and she is going to school but unemployed, she is a student who could be claimed as your dependent.
The qualifying relative’s annual income must be less than $4,000.
 You cannot claim a student as a dependent if you yourself are a dependent of another taxpayer. You can’t claim a married individual who files a joint return as a dependent except where the joint return is filed simply to claim a refund of withheld tax income or estimated tax paid. You cannot claim anyone as a dependent unless they are US citizens, nationals, or resident aliens, or residents of Mexico or Canada. Finally, you cannot claim a student as a dependent unless they are your qualifying child or qualifying relative.For instance, if you host a foreign exchange student from China for a year, you cannot claim them as a dependent.
 To determine dependency status of the student in question, you’ll need to consult certain documents containing information regarding a number of issues.You will need to know the citizenship, marital status, residence, and income of the person you’re thinking of claiming as a dependent. You’ll also need to know what your relationship to the student is and how much support you’ve provided them.


For answers to these questions, the best option is to ask the individual directly. You can ask them by email, over the phone, in person, or via text message. Collect copies of relevant documentation like W-2 forms and passports in order to validate the student’s answers.
 A student, to the IRS, is an individual taking full-time classes at one of three types of institutions: a school with regular teaching staff and course of study, an on-farm training center with a regular staff and course of study, or an on-farm training center run by a state, county, or local government agency.The IRS does not define what constitutes a “full-time” class load. Not all schools define full-time school in the same way. Use the definition of full-time which your student’s school uses in order to determine if they are attending school full-time. For instance, if their school defines full-time as 12 credit hours per semester, and they’re enrolled in 8 credit hours, they are not technically a full-time student and thus cannot be claimed as a qualifying child dependent under the stipulations describing students.
The student must attend classes at least some part of any five months of the year. The months need not be consecutive. For instance, if your student attended school from January through April, and another semester in June and July, they would meet the five-month requirement.
Part-time students might still be able to be claimed as dependents, but they must be younger than 19 years old at the end of the year for which you’re filing taxes.
 The IRS has ruled that a student can be claimed as a dependent by a parent or guardian if they reside with the parent or guardian for more than half of the year. If the student in question lives with you less than six months of the year, you will not be able to claim them as a dependent.


Use a calendar to calculate if the student in question lives with you for more than half of the year. Many students of divorced parents, for instance, share their time unevenly between the two and will only qualify as a dependent for one parent.
Residential status is determined by asking where the child lives. If your student spends the day with you but then goes to his other parent’s house at night due to your work schedule, you still qualify as his primary caregiver and can rightly claim him or her as your dependent. Similarly, if your student’s registered address with the school is your house, you are the primary caregiver and can claim him or her as a dependent., If you want to claim a student as your qualifying child, they cannot procure more than half of their income for the given year. For example, suppose your child is in college and has a part-time job. If you’ve provided him or her with $6,000 for food, housing, and other miscellaneous expenses (including school-related expenses), and they have a part time job in which they earned $4,000 over the course of the year, you can claim that student as your dependent (provided they have met the other qualifications which designate someone as a qualifying child).
 For tax purposes, a student can only be a qualifying child dependent if, at the end of the year, they were under 24 years old. If your child turned 24 in August, for instance, they cannot be claimed as a qualifying child dependent. Also, the student you want to claim as a dependent cannot be older than you (or your spouse, if you're filing jointly).


For example, if the child you're claiming is your wife's 20 year old sister, and you and your wife are both 21, you can claim the sister as a dependent. If you are 19 and your wife is 21, but you do not file taxes jointly, you cannot claim the sister as a dependent, even if she is in school and you and your wife support her financially. Your wife, however, could claim the sister as a dependent whether she files taxes jointly with you or alone.

