 If you can limit yourself to one carry-on bag and eliminate the need to check in any luggage, you will save yourself a world of time and hassle. It may sound daunting - but seasoned travelers swear that one small bag provides easily enough space for the travel essentials, you just need to cut-down on any non-essential items.Limiting yourself to carry-on luggage makes the process of traveling much easier - you will get in and out of any airports you use a lot faster, and enjoy the convenience of having all of your travel essentials directly on hand throughout your flight. You will also avoid the risk of incurring charges on overweight check-in bags, particularly on smaller local airlines.
Packing a single small bag also has its advantages once you reach your destination. You will be a lot more flexible when it comes to moving from place to place, making it easier to take advantage of any opportunities or adventures that come your way. You will also appear as less of an easy target to pick-pockets and con artists.;
, Create an extensive list of all the things you think you might possibly need for your trip. Consider clothes, toiletries, medicinal items, swimwear, business attire, outdoor equipment, entertainment, electronics and anything else you can think of. Then consider this list with a more critical eye and really think about which items are really essential for your trip and which are more "just in case". Cross off any non-essential items, as you won't be taking them with you.Remember - unless you're travelling to the Antarctic, a remote area, Ascension Island, the Sahara desert or other especially far flung place, you will almost certainly be able to buy any additional items you need at your destination, in case of an emergency.
Once you have whittled down your list to a bare minimum, you must promise to stick to it. If you deviate from your list at all, things may spiral out of control and you'll end up trying to pack the kitchen sink.
Even if you think you might be saving yourself a possible expense by packing your scuba gear, forget about it. The hassle of lugging a heavy case around won't be worth it.
 Airlines have pretty strict regulations on the volume of liquids each passenger is allowed to take with them on board. So if you're sticking with carry-on, it's best to invest in travel-size versions of your "can't live without" products. Shampoos, moisturizers, toothpaste and certain items of make-up all fall within this category. Place these items in a clear plastic toiletry bag or zip-lock bag so you can conveniently clear them through security.


Be aware that most airlines follow the 3-1-1 rule. The bottles containing the liquids must be 3.4 oz (100 ml) or less, they must all fit within one, 1 quart transparent plastic bag, and the total volume of liquids contained in the bag must not exceed 1 quart.It is also possible to buy empty travel-size plastic bottles relatively cheaply, into which you can squeeze your favorite products from their full size-containers at home. Just make sure to label each bottle so you don't get confused!

, People almost always pack more clothes than they end up wearing, so however many outfits you think you'll need, pack less.Think about how many days you'll be away for and what activities you plan on doing while you're there. Also consider what the weather will be like once you're there - if the weather has consistently been at 90 degrees for the last month, you're not going to need more than one sweater.


You'll definitely end up wearing some items more than once, so think about clothes that you can mix and match. For example - for every one pair of shorts you bring, pack two or more tops that will go with them, as you won't need to change your shorts everyday.
Pack clothes that can be adapted to suit the situation - try packing a simple dress that can be worn casually with flat sandals and a sun hat throughout the day, or dressed up with heels, a belt and some jewelry at night.
Find out whether there is a laundromat near your accommodation - if there's one within easy reach, you will be able to wash your clothes, thus increasing the number of times you can wear them!
Remember that it's not the end of the world if you end up needing to buy a couple of cheap t-shirts or a rain jacket while you're away - and chances are you won't need to. When travelling light, always pack for the best case scenario, not the worst case., It's reasonable to need hiking boots, trainers a day shoe and evening shoes. Shoes are the heaviest, bulkiest items that you will need to bring with you while travelling, so try to limit yourself to the absolute minimum. Women in particular may find this step difficult, given their love of having the perfect shoe for every occasion, but try to think about what's really necessary.If you're going on an action-packed sports holiday, you're hardly going to need a pair of high-heels. A small, light-weight pair of pretty flats will get you through any situations where you need to get slightly more dressed up, such as in a restaurant.
If you're going on a business trip, pack appropriate shoes for any meetings you have to take, along with comfier, more casual pair to wear while travelling or during down time. Don't forget your trainers if you want to hit the gym.
Don't pack your running shoes unless you are absolutely sure that you will be exercising while you're away. If you're going on a relaxing, indulgent holiday to a sunny destination, will you really get up at 7 am every morning for a 5 mile (8.0 km) run? Unless the answer is a resounding "yes", you're running shoes are taking up valuable space.
 Did you know that they have supermarkets in Europe, Australasia, North America, South American and Africa? And pharmacies? And fashionable clothes stores? As mentioned earlier, unless you are travelling to Outer Siberia, it's unlikely that there are many items you won't be able to find wherever you go. So unless you're particularly picky about the type of hair conditioner or shaving gel you need to use, leave these items at home and just pick them up when you get there.


Buying as you go may seem like an unnecessary expense, but it will help you to significantly cut down on weight and free up some extra space in your bag. It's all about priorities!
Remember that many large brands are universal - you should be able to find Gillette shaving cream, Colgate toothpaste and Pantene conditioner no matter where you are in world - or at least something very similar.Alternatively, you can see this as a chance to try something new!
If the worst comes to the worst and you can't find a particular product, ask yourself how the locals manage to live without it. Do they have some kind of alternative? Or is just an unnecessary comfort? Travelling light may require some sacrifices! Consider it an adventure.
 Packing just one versatile accessory can work wonders when it comes to packing light. Make sure that it will go with as many of your planned outfits as possible and that it serves a definite purpose. For example, a large, decorative scarf can serve as a funky accessory to wear around your neck, can be worn in place of a cardigan if draped around your arms and shoulder, can turn into a make-shift sarong at the beach, can be worn as a head-scarf to protect your head from the sun, or can serve as a pretty belt, if worn around your waist!

