 Duct tape comes in a variety of colors. You may buy your duct tape at a hardware store or find a greater variety of colors and patterns at an arts and crafts store. You may also find unique designs online.;
, Create fabric out of duct tape by cutting 16 strips of duct tape that measure 32 inches (81.3 cm) long and 2 inches wide. This will create 2 sheets of fabric, one for each panel of your tie as conventional ties are commonly constructed using two panels., Place the strips on a flat surface with the sticky side up. Lay one horizontally and the next one beside it but overlap the edge slightly. Continue to do this until you have four strips wide., Place strips of duct tape over the four adjoining strips so that the sticky portions face one another. Measure and lay down each strip with purpose as the tape will be difficult to adjust once two sticky faces are pushed together. Once you have 8 strips, 4 on each side, you finished a single panel of fabric., A traditional tie is composed of 2 panels that make up the top of the tie and the neck portion. Create a second panel of fabric for the second part of the tie by, again, overlapping 4 strips of duct tape and closing the panel with another 4 strips., Choose a tie that is a size you’re looking for, don’t choose a thick tie if you want a thin tie. Smooth the fabric so that it lays flat onto one of the panels., Use a pencil or sharpie to trace the tie but be careful not to stain your cloth tie. Make sure that you press hard enough to see the outline but not hard enough to puncture the duct tape. Felt works well but may easily be smudged if not careful., Each panel should be use for a different part of you old tie. Use the second panel for the neck portion of your tie. Again, spread the fabric out flat onto the second duct tape panel., Using a pencil or marker, trace the skinny portion of your tie onto the second panel of duct tape fabric. If your tie is skinny the entire length, the neck portion is the part of your tie that will be closest to your chest and most likely covered by the other portion of fabric., Use scissors to cut out both pieces of your tie from the duct tape fabric. Cut carefully as you do not want to damage the main pieces. If you used a marker, you can choose to include the outline to give a bold silhouette., Tape the ends of the tie that will be closest to your face. Depending on the design you have chosen, the end of your tie may be angled. In this case, the points of your tie should be away from your face, pointed toward your feet and not be taped together.It is common to use the same color duct tape to tape the 2 portions of your tie together; but, you may want a contrast and use a different colored tape., Use markers to let your creativity shine. Whether you create stripes, patterns, logos, or words, markers are a quick way to add flair. You may also add stripes by using a few strips of different colored duct tape. Cut them at the angle and size suitable for your tie.Use a sharp utility knife to create complex patterns or intricate designs.Be sure to only decorate a third of the way up so that the decorations doesn’t get obstructed by your collar or peeled off., Measure your duct tape and your neck before cutting. In case you’re trying to make an comically large or small bow tie, adjust the measurements once you’ve perfected the technique. , The ends should slightly overlap as they come together at the center and the duct tape should now measure about 4 inches (10 cm) in length. Measure and lay down each strip with purpose as the tape will be difficult to adjust once two sticky faces are pushed together., Create an accordion as you fold the piece 3 times. You should now be able to see your bow tie come together. Cut a small strip of duct tape to create the center of your bow tie. Leave enough length to fold over the center of the accordion while leaving enough space for the neck piece.Create a small a small loop. This will both secure your bowtie in place and complete the traditional bow tie design as the accordion sides flare out.
 Use measuring tape to make sure you create a neckpiece that is both snug and comfortable. Cut a strip of duct tape to your neck measurement and fold it into quarters so that there is no sticky side remaining. Put the neck piece through the bow and maneuver your bowtie into place.
 Pick up sticky velcro from your local arts supply store and attach it to either end of your neck piece. Do not tie your neck piece as it may ruin the material and overall look. Sticky velcro is easy to apply and adjust. Use a mirror and stick the ends together to complete your look. 