 Tap on the gear icon on your home screen to open the Settings menu.;
, The option is located on the left side of the screen. Tap on it. Here, you can choose a wallpaper that will be shown on the lock screen and the menu screen. You can also adjust the brightness of the screen.
 Tap on “Choose a New Wallpaper,” then choose images either from the default themes that iPad has or your camera roll.


Select an image and you will be shown a preview of the image.
Tap “Set Lock Screen” to set the image as the lock screen wallpaper.
Tap “Set Home Screen” to set the image as the home screen wallpaper.
 Adjusting the brightness is useful, as it can save energy when on low settings and prevent eyestrain. Just slide the bar on the menu to adjust the screen’s brightness.


It is best to set the brightness to just around the middle of the bar.
, You can change the ringtone for Calls, Alerts, New Mail, Sent Mail, Texts, and Tweets. Tap on each option to select a ringtone from the iPad’s custom sounds.
 You can also change the ring volume that the iPad will emit by sliding the volume bar either left (lower volume) or right (high volume).
 It is easier to determine how much battery your device has left with a numeric representation. Toggle this by tapping on the General option in the Settings screen, just above “Wallpapers & Brightness.”


Look for “Battery Percentage” and tap on the button to turn on the numeric percentage. If you want to turn it off, tap it again.
 To prevent other people from accessing the information in your device, you can set a passcode. You use this passcode every time you unlock the screen or turn on your device.


In the Settings menu, look for “Passcode,” and tap on it.
Enable Passcode and enter a 4-digit code. This code is what you will use to access your iPad, so it’s best to memorize the code you input.
 Don’t want to be constantly alerted to new e-mails, instant messages, and other notifications? You can turn this feature off by going to Settings > Mail, Contacts, Calendars > Push Notifications > Off.
 You can organize the apps in the home screen by tapping an icon until it starts to wiggle under your finger, then dragging it to other apps to create a folder to contain these apps.


Tap on the folder to rename it.
You can also tap, hold, and drag an icon around the screen to re-arrange its placement.
 If you’re using the iPad for gaming purposes, you can connect and register to Apple’s Game Center. Just tap the Gaming Center icon and sign in with your Apple ID.


Before you tap on the Gaming Center icon, make sure your iPad is connected to the Internet.

