 If you want to be grunge, spend some time familiarizing yourself with various grunge bands. You should listen to well-known grunge bands that started the grunge movement in the early '90s. You can listen to grunge music on accounts like Spotify, or buy grunge albums off iTunes.Nirvana, Pearl Jam, Alice in Chains, Sound Garden, Stone Temple Pilots, and others are all iconic grunge bands. Try listening to them in your spare time to get a sense of grunge music.
Pay attention to the lyrics. Many grunge artists sing about nonconformity and social issues. These things are major aspects of the grunge attitude and lifestyle. In addition to listening to the bands, you can read the lyrics online to try and get a sense of what different songs mean.
You should also learn a bit about the artists behind the song. Reading interviews or watching them online can give you a sense of the opinions and philosophy associated with grunge culture. You can also get a sense of grunge style by observing how people act and behave.;
, An important aspect of grunge culture is the idea of nonconformity. People associated with the grunge culture do not care about what others think. If you want to be grunge, you should strive to be yourself.However, it can be difficult to be non-conforming in middle school. Cliques are a major component of your average middle school, so you'll have to take efforts to be an individual.Find friends who are genuine. Choose people who you genuinely like, and you feel are kind and supportive of you. These kinds of people are more likely to allow you to be yourself, and will not expect you to follow certain styles or trends to be cool.
Speak up. If you feel like your friends are beginning to become a clique, point this out to them in a calm and respectful manner. You do not have to be rude, but it can be helpful to point out you feel excluding people due to difference is hurtful.
Sometimes, you may feel like you want to change. That's OK. You may want to work on bringing your grades up or having a better outlook. It's normal to change your style, opinions, and beliefs when you're young. Don't feel like a desire to change is against the grunge/non-conformist attitude. As long as you're changing for yourself, and not to appease a group, you're still thinking for yourself and therefore adopting a grunge culture.
 A lot of grunge culture is about challenging the status quo. Social movements like feminism, environmentalism, and other political ideas are often of concern in grunge culture. Spend some time educating yourself about social issues and forming your own opinions if you want to be grunge.Start watching the news. Watching the news with your parents can help expose you to a lot of issues going on in the world right now. Try to formulate opinions on things like gender issues, LGTB rights, the environment, and other issues that dominate political discourse.
Read opinion pieces online. Opinion pieces and polemics are often written with the goal of educating another person, while trying to influence their thoughts. Reading a lot of opinion pieces, from opposing sides, can help you see multiple sides of an issue, allowing you to have an informed opinion of your own.
 While grunge culture can be fun to emulate in middle school, keep in mind that there are some negative aspects of grunge culture. Social alienation, sadness, and depression are often aspects of grunge songs and the grunge mindset.While it's normal to feel a certain amount of angst and alienation as an adolescent, if you're feeling depressed or alienated for a long period of time, you should talk to someone. It's important to seek help if you're feeling sad. You can be grunge without having to feel alienated or alone.

