 Notice any changes in the person’s physical appearance. Physical signs are very common among people who abuse meth, unlike with other drugs which may have more subtle effects. Use your observation skills. Do you notice anything different about how the person looks? Any physical illness or complaints? Some common physicals signs of meth use are:Excessive weight loss due to low appetite.
Dilated pupils.
Eyes looking droopy, tired, or having dark circles (this can be due to loss of sleep).
Eye twitching.;
, Meth can adversely affect teeth, turning them brown and causing decay or "meth mouth."The person may also have red or sore gums because of damage caused by meth.


This may look like rotten or browning teeth.
The person may also have missing teeth.
You can look up pictures of meth mouth online and compare.
 You will notice track marks on the person's arms if the drug is being injected, or nose bleeds if the drug is being snorted. There may also be burn marks on the person's lips or fingers if the drug is smoked using hot glass or a metallic pipe., If a person is using meth, they will often give off a very bad odor. This is due to a combination of the drug use itself and the person forgetting to wash while they are using. Sometimes the odor is similar to the smell of ammonia., Meth users often start to look old before their time because their skin is damaged, becoming rough and itchy, and their hair can start to fall out., Skin lesions are very common in meth users due to compulsive scratching at the face.Look for open sores on the face.
Observe if the person picks or scratches at his face.
The lesions often become infected and result in sores and scars.
 Meth users are more prone to diseases, including high blood pressure and heart diseases. They may also pass away at an early age as a result.The following medical issues can be caused by meth use:


Hypertension, or high blood pressure.Tachycardia, a rapid heart beat.Hyperthermia, or a body temperature that is above normal.Heart attack, stroke, seizures, and renal/liver failure can result from large doses of meth.Respiratory symptoms, such as bronchitis, if meth is smoked.Risk for HIV and hepatitis C increase due to risky sexual behaviors and needle sharing.