 If you feel your business and another business have a similar approach to customers or have products that would complement each other well, consider forming an alliance. The alliance is different from a merger as you will not be taking over the other business or combining your assets. Instead, you may feature the other business’ products and vice versa so you can both appeal to a different market. For example, if you have a restaurant, you might advertise that you get your vegetables from a locally owned farm. You may also collaborate on a new product with the other business that you roll out together and promote, doubling your customer base.There are five main types of business alliances:A sales alliance: This is where you make an agreement with another business to sell products or services that complement each other.
A solution specific alliance: This is where you and another business make a formal agreement to develop and sell a particular product or service together.
A geographic specific alliance: This is where you and another business agree to market certain products and services in a specific geographical area.
An investment alliance: This is where you make an agreement with another business to combine funds to create a shared investment.
A joint venture: This is where you make an agreement with another business to share control, profit, and loss in a specific economic undertaking.
 The U.S. Federal government is the largest buyer of goods and services in the world. You can tap into this huge market by bidding on a government contract. If you win the bid, your business would be supplying the government, which would require an expansion of your existing business. Though securing a government contract can be a lot of work, it could also be worth it. Often, business flourish long term when they have a government contract.Look into the Business Matchmaking Program, which is designed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Small Business Administration (SBA) to help match businesses with government contracts. You can also work with your local SBA and your local Economic Development Agency to determine if your business could qualify for a government contract.
 Licensing your business products can be a useful, low-cost option, especially if you have a service product or a branded product. It is also a low risk option, as it does not cost as much to license your product as it would be to product and sell your product on your own.You will need a licensing partner to agree to license your product. Products have a higher chance of being licensed if they can be linked to existing entities that are popular, such as a TV show, a brand, or a sports team. This often means that the product already has a built in audience or is appealing to an certain demographic and may be worth the investment.Look for companies that provide products or services similar to your products and reach out to them about licensing your product.

