 Just like you cannot play an Xbox One game on an original Xbox, changes in hardware and software prevent older or cheaper computers from playing some games. All games will be labeled with both the "Minimum Specifications" needed to run the game and the "Recommended Specifications" for the most enjoyable, smooth performance.


If your computer is new, chances are good you can run all older games. The only possible exceptions are only top-tier, graphic intensive titles like Crysis.

If your computer is already running several games, it can usually run the games from a similar era.
 You can easily check the diagnostics of your video card through the start menu. Simply open the Start menu, click "Run," and type in the program "dxdiag," which will spit out a diagnostics report on your video capabilities. On the game's website, there will be a list of supported video cards as well. If DxDiag doesn't work, you can also check your card manually:


Open the "Control Panel."
Click "Displays" then "Change Display Settings in the leftmost bar.
Click on "Advanced Settings"
In the window that pops up, make sure you're on the "Adapter" tab. You should see the name of your video card. You may need to go into "Advanced Settings" to see your DirectX level., The processor and the number of gigabytes (GB) of RAM that you have determine your computer's speed. You can check both from the same screen:


Right-click on "Computer" or "My Computer" from any Window or screen.
Click on "Properties."
Scroll down to "System" to see your processor and available Installed Memory (RAM).
Check if your processor is accepted for the game you want to download., To check your hard drive, open up a Window's Explorer window. Find you main hard drive on the left-most bar and right-click it. Choose "Properties" to see how much space you have left.


You can use any hard drive to download a game. If you wanted, you could attach an external flash or hard drive you can download the game to that. However, you'll need it plugged in every time you play, and it may run slowly.