 The intervention group often asks the person to accept treatment or offers to help find a solution to the problem. Examples of addictions that may warrant an intervention include:


Alcoholism
Prescription drug abuse
Street drug abuse
Compulsive eating
Compulsive gambling
For other mental health concerns (such as depression, anxiety, or suicidal tendencies), an intervention can be too embarrassing or misunderstood.
For someone that is a harm to themselves or others, calling 911 is the best option - no intervention needed.;
, Basic human rights allow a person to ask for and accept help. Those same rights allow a person to reject the help they might need. The person may not think they have a problem, but their demonstrated behaviors tell you otherwise. Part of your role will be to help convince them that they need the help and need to accept it.
 Prior to the intervention, develop at least one treatment plan to offer to the person. Make arrangements ahead of time if the person is going to be escorted to the mental health facility directly from the intervention. The intervention will mean little if they do not know how to get help and does not have the support of loved ones.
 Help comes in many forms, and must be forced sometimes. It is a hard decision to make, but one that is necessary if the person’s mental condition has spiraled out of control and the person’s life is in danger.While an intervention will likely be overwhelming to the person, the intent is not to put the person on the defensive.


Those who will participate in the intervention should be carefully chosen. The person’s loved ones can describe how the situation is affecting them.
You will likely have to ask the person to attend the meeting at the location where the intervention is supposed to take place without revealing the reason.
 Be prepared to offer specific consequences if the person rejects seeking treatment. These consequences must not be empty threats, so the person’s loved ones should consider the consequences to be imposed if she does not seek treatment, and be willing to follow through.
 Participants should prepare specific examples of how the loved one’s behaviors have hurt the relationship. Often, those staging an intervention choose to write letters to the person. A person with a mental illness may not care about their own self-destructive behaviors, but seeing the pain her actions inflict on others can be a powerful motivator for seeking help.


An intervention may also include the person’s colleagues and religious representatives (if appropriate).
 Contact several mental health facilities and inquire about their services. Don’t be afraid to ask specific questions about their daily schedules and how the center handles relapses.


If an intervention is not necessary, assist the person in researching both the mental illness they are suffering, and recommended therapy and drug treatment plans. Be supportive and allow the person to feel in control of the impending activities.
Tour the suggested programs and keep in mind that the more receptive the person is of the treatment plan, the better the chances of successfully managing their illness.
 If the person is admitted to an in-patient treatment program, there will be rules for visitation that will need to be clarified. Understand that you need to allow the person to participate on her own without influence from anyone on the outside. The staff will inform you when to visit and the visit will likely be deeply appreciated.
 This serious procedure varies from state to state, but in general, involuntary commitments are either judicial or emergency and require input from a doctor, therapist, and/or the court.Often, after a suicide attempt, temporary commitment is mandatory.


Every person has the right to the least restrictive treatment, which isn’t always the most beneficial treatment.
Here is a link you can use to look up specifics and what is required on civil/judicial commitment by state: http://www.treatmentadvocacycenter.org/get-help/know-the-laws-in-your-state.
 Do this in the district where the person has a residence. Ask the clerk for the proper petition forms. You can complete them there or take them home and return at another time. Once the forms are complete submit them to the clerk.


You will be asked to describe the behavior the person is exhibiting that would support this person being formally committed to a mental facility.
 If there is not a reason for immediate commitment, a hearing will be scheduled, and the judge will make the final determination based on any evidence presented. Once the papers are filed, you will have little direct influence on what happens though you will likely be called upon to testify at the hearing.


The person may be ordered by the court to undergo a mental health evaluation, which may or may not result in the court ordering treatment. If so ordered, the person may be committed to receive treatment or ordered to undergo supervised outpatient treatment.
 The person in question may have serious problems with being placed in an inpatient mental health facility. If there is not an immediate resolution, and you feel you are in potential danger, seek a restraining order against the person to restrict her contact. If she violates that, you can ask the police and mental health professionals to intervene.
 The person has the right to get a second opinion, and if not completely impaired, will likely argue that she should not be committed. Be prepared to talk about the situation with her attorney, health care professional, or other advocates.


If it comes to this, it would be wise to secure the services of an attorney yourself.
 Be aware that the person may get released from the mental health facility without you knowing, or being prepared. The person’s demands and demonstration of “healthy” behavior, a doctor’s orders, or lack of insurance coverage can be reasons for early release.


You can sometimes block a premature discharge by strong advocacy such as pleading your well-documented case to the doctor in charge. If you're truly committed to this course of action, you will need to be a strong voice for yourself. If the person is somebody close to you, remember that this is in everyone's best interest in the long run.
Cutbacks in both services and staff have significantly shortened hospital stays. If you can participate in discharge planning, insist on real, demonstrated signs of progress, real, insurance-authorized supports for recovery, and real protections for you and the person.
 If you are seeking immediate commitment and there is no immediate danger, you will likely be required to provide evidence to justify your request. This may be the statement of a licensed physician, or sworn statements by other witnesses that the person in question could be a danger to themselves or to others.


If the judge agrees, local law enforcement will detain and escort the person to the local mental health facility, and a hearing will be scheduled for further resolution.
 Whether it is a first time occurrence, or there is a history of situations requiring the authorities, be confident in your assessment of the severity of the situation. Emergencies are not a time to feel embarrassed or coy when the situation involves a person with a mental illness. It may be a matter of life or death.


Describe the situation in a calm and detailed manner. Be very clear about the situation, and do not increase the likelihood any potential threat. Law enforcement personnel are trained to prevent injury or death to others; however, tragic consequences can occur at the expense of the person with a mental illness.
 Make it clear that this person deserves compassion and respect to avoid potential harm.


It will be up to you to ensure that all parties are aware that the person suffers from mental illness. This will help avoid potential unfair treatment and harm to the person.
 Be helpful to those trying to provide assistance. The person is likely to be agitated, upset and afraid of being taken away. Who wouldn’t be? The consensus is that you are all working as a team to help this person get the help she needs.You will need to reassure the person by saying, “These people are here to help you and they want the best for you. I want the best for you too. I know this might seem scary, but this will all work out.”
If a crime has been committed the person will likely be taken in and processed.
If the person violates a restraining order the police will arrest the person. They may bring in an emergency services team, which will include a physician who can commit the person.
 If it is appropriate to ride in the emergency vehicle with the person to the hospital, then do so. Drive or get a ride to the hospital where they are taking the person for evaluation. You will need to be present to provide essential health related information they will need to perform a psychiatric evaluation.


This might be very difficult, but you must find the courage to help this person.
Keep in mind that you would appreciate the same accommodation should something like this happen to you.
 The moment is difficult when you realize that the only way the person can be helped is if they admit her for further evaluation. An emergency hospitalization for mental illness in a treatment facility will be temporary in nature. There are many things to be considered. Depending on the circumstance, a person can be held involuntarily for 72 hours or longer., Once the person is committed, you will have limited time to organize and put a plan into action. Where will the person stay when they are released? Are children involved, and if so who will they stay with? What out-patient treatment will the person need? Are there any support groups or organizations that can provide guidance?


Although the person might be held for a 72 hours period, they may be released early and without your knowledge. Anticipate this and ask the doctor or nurses, “If she is released prior to the end of the 72 hour hold I need you to contact me as soon as possible.”
They may not share this information if you are not family or authorized to hear private medical information per HIPAA regulations., The person may be very close to you: a parent, spouse, or child, perhaps. If she has a mental illness, you're not hurting her by having her committed—you are giving her an opportunity to heal, or at least get the treatment she needs. You are also doing this in a way that will prevent her from causing physical or emotional injury to others.
 If you are struggling to manage the stress and anxiety related to helping a friend or loved one with a mental illness, find someone to talk to who can help. Psychologists and Psychiatrists are available in your local area and can be located through the American Psychological Association and the American Psychiatric Association.
 Once released, a person who must manage mental illness will need structure in her life. You can be a big part of making that happen. A welcoming attitude might be exactly what the person needs. Every person has a need to feel a sense of belonging, and you can foster that for the person., It is important that she takes her medication, and attends therapy or support group meetings. These are likely to be a requirement of any treatment program.


Help the person be accountable to her program. Ask her if there is anything you can do to help her stay committed to attending. Be kind, but don't let her slack off.
 Be resourceful if the person needs your help in the future.Mental illness is a disease therefore it can be managed, but not cured. Relapses will most likely happen, and everyone involved should not consider a relapse a failure. However, treatment will be needed following each relapse.


Once you go through the process of helping a person with a mental illness, you will have the know-how, confidence and information necessary to help others.
 You must understand that many others have felt exactly what you are feeling and have struggled with getting a person with a mental illness the help they need. Fight the urge to push yourself to the outside where you might isolate yourself and not get the help that you need.

