 The days of thinking it acceptable to keep a pet rabbit in a small, isolated “hutch” are past. Rabbits need a dry, clean, ventilated, safe, well-placed, and relatively roomy home to thrive.


Modern outdoor “hutches,” with multiple levels and/or rooms, are suitable for pet rabbits. You can also construct your own bunny home. Look for plans online, but make sure the home will be secure and relatively weather-tight.As one example, you can create an exercise pen (or “rabbit run”) for your bunny to use daily out of wooden framing, rabbit fencing, and a plywood top and bottom. It should be at least 8’ L x 32” W x 32” H to give your rabbit enough room to run and hop about., As noted, domesticated rabbits can die simply from the shock of seeing a predator, so making sure other animals can’t get in and your bunny can’t get out are essential.


If you’ve ever had wild rabbits invade your flower bed or garden patch, you know they’ll eat just about anything. So, especially if your rabbit ever runs free in your enclosed yard, avoid having poisonous plants around. Also, anywhere your rabbit will be, take care to secure electrical wiring and keep it out of tooth-range.Regarding plants that can be toxic for rabbits: the list is actually quite extensive, so consult it carefully. Just a few examples include: aloe, begonia, daffodil bulb, Easter lily, and geranium.
 When it comes to an outdoor rabbit home, dampness leads to dirtiness leads to sickness, such as the “fly strike” mentioned elsewhere here.Give your rabbit home a roof that resists rain — it can be plywood, corrugated panels, or even plastic sheeting or a tarpaulin. Repair and replace the roof as necessary to keep the rain out.
During heavy rain or snow, consider moving your rabbit (by having a mobile home or second home) to a drier location such as a porch, garage, basement, or just in the main house. A bad thunderstorm can frighten a pet rabbit to death, so bring it in if possible.
 If you’ve spotted wild rabbits near your home in the summertime, they’ve probably been lounging in the shade or in a hole they’ve dug in your yard. Rabbits like to stay comfortably cool year-round.Place your rabbit’s home in a shady area, and/or provide shade with a roof or screening material. Make sure the enclosure is well-ventilated to prevent overheating, however.
You can also try freezing plastic water bottles and nestling them in the straw flooring. This will provide your rabbit with some cool spots to lounge.
Make sure your rabbit always has a fresh water supply in warm weather.
 With a properly insulated and protected home, rabbits can withstand the winter cold, although you may consider just keeping them inside — at least at night — during the coldest time of year.Before winter arrives, repair the rabbit’s home, taking special care to fix any leaks or damp spots. Damp is bad, and damp and cold is especially bad for rabbit health.
Add additional bedding as insulation. You can also line walls and floors with layers of newspaper. Consider covering areas of fencing with plastic sheeting, and covering the home with a tarp or blanket at night. You want to reduce drafts and hold in warmth, but make sure you allow some ventilation.You can purchase special heaters for a rabbit home, but make sure any electrical wiring is out of reach. There are also special bunny heating pads, or you can just nestle (securely closed) plastic bottles full of warm (not hot) water in the bedding several times per day.
Check on your rabbit friend more often than usual in cold weather. Make sure its water supply is not frozen, and provide extra food to give it the energy it needs to fend off cold weather.