 Novices tend to attempt a large number of kills upon starting the game. This is likely to be unsuccessful and frustrating.
 Your KDR (kill:death ratio) can start off poorly but improve by the end of the match., You can achieve an accurate shot this way, even with recoil. Find a secure area mainly in buildings and try to blend in with your environment to hide from your enemy., Hold your grenades under cover for at least 2 seconds before throwing. This reduces the amount of time enemies have to move away from them., Be careful of enemies who hide in corners and wait for you to enter a room., Make it your first priority to take out enemy helicopters with whatever weapon you have. Stay in an empty area while doing so to avoid enemies., They tend to blow up!,, There will be seemingly immortal enemies. There will also be players who have impossibly powerful weapons., Change your classes and see which one works best for you., It is possible to work as a team, even without direct communication. Do not expose your team's cover. Be patient and wait for your teammates to pass you, if necessary. Do not get in your teammate's way while he is attacking someone. Sticking with your team can have long-term benefits. If your team splits up, find cover or proceed individually/in a pair and kill the enemy team one by one., Crawl or crouch to avoid your enemy's radar. Use a silencer on your gun to prevent enemies from locating you after you take shots. Try the UAV jammer., Camping, or staying in one area until enemies come into sight, is a good strategy at times. However, do not stay in one spot for too long. Sometimes the enemy will die, spawn, and approach your location., If you're unsure whether a room is safe, throw either a stun grenade, flash grenade, fragmentation grenade, or smoke grenade before entering., Look for kills.,, You most likely do not need to sprint as soon as you re-spawn., The more you die, the more points the other teams receive., Keep them a decent distant from your position. Enemy grenades can detonate your own Claymores., This saves ammunition.,,, If you have UAV or if enemies are advancing on you, use some footwork. Instead of taking every enemy head on, it's easier to go around and surprise your enemy., Use your right stick to point in the enemy's general direction once they're in sight, then make the shot with your left stick.,, Follow them and see what they do in certain situations.,,, Or, stab them in the back.