 A solid resume is important to landing work in any field. Spend some time working on writing a resume when you seek out employment.


Learn about resume format. Resume designs should be neat and eye-catching without compromising legibility. Websites like Pinterest often post unique resume designs. You can also download free templates online. Being creative can set you apart. However, as a public adjuster is a less creative field in terms of design you should stick to a more formal look for your resume.Be consistent with formatting choices throughout your resume. If you use bullet points to talk about your experience for one job, use bullet points to explain job responsibilities throughout your resume.Include relevant information. This is not limited to work experience, such as internships and apprenticeships. This also includes any relevant coursework you took, such as public adjusting courses at a community college. List any licenses or certifications you hold. If you've done any volunteer work that might be related to the position you're looking for, include it in a section titled something like "Additional Experience."Keep your specific goals in mind. If you want to work in worker's compensation, for example, include your law firm internship in college. If you volunteered at a rally for worker's rights, include that. If you're part of any organizations related to helping workers, or if you're a standing member of any labor unions, these would all be good things to include., You can find job postings through many online databases. You can also have access to postings if you're a member of the National Association of Public Adjusters. Networking can also be a great means to landing a job. Keep in touch with past employers and colleagues. Let people know you're looking for work as a public adjuster and to pass along job positions and possible positions to you.
 Make sure you know good interview skills in the event you get a callback about a job. Having confidence and being well informed about the position can help improve your chances of landing a job at any company.


Use nonverbal communication skills during an interview. Maintain eye contact throughout the interview. Nod and smile as the interviewer talks to maintain that you're listening. Maintain good posture to convey confidence.Dress professionally. If you're not sure of a company's dress code, always err on the side of caution. Wear business professional attire for an interview. Dressing up can help convey that you're serious about landing the position.Research the company before going into an interview. Make sure you have some sense of a company's goals, history, and ethics. Spend some time browsing the company website prior to an interview to learn this information.Always ask questions at the end of an interview. Do not stick to questions of logistics, such as, "When can I expect to hear back about the position?" Ask open ended questions that convey an active interest in the company. Questions like, "How would you describe your company's culture?" or "What do you like about working here?" are helpful.