 When you mix natural skin lighteners with exfoliants, you can create a mask that lightens the skin by both taking off the dark top layer of cells and lightly bleaching the fresh skin underneath. Try a mask made with lemon juice, honey (a natural moisturizer that offsets lemon's drying effects), and a teaspoon of ground oatmeal. Apply it to your face and anywhere else you want, leave it for 20 minutes, then wash it off.


As you wash off the mask, use the tips of your fingers to make gentle circular motions. The ground oatmeal will scrub the top layer of dead skin from your face, revealing lighter skin underneath.
If you have dry skin, use cucumber instead of lemon. Apply a mixture of equal amounts of cucumber juice and honey on the face and full body for 15 minutes, then wash it off.
 This is a good treatment to try if your skin is on the oily side, since it helps to cleanse the skin as well as lightening it. Mix 2 teaspoons of oatmeal powder, a pinch of turmeric, and a few drops of lemon juice to make a thick paste. Apply to your skin and leave it to dry. Wash off mask with water using gentle circular motions to exfoliate your skin as you go.
 Papaya fruit contains an enzyme called papain that helps exfoliate the skin, making way for new skin cells to emerge. It also contains vitamin C. Choose a green papaya to make your mask, since that's when the papain is most concentrated. To make a papaya mask,


Peel and slice the papaya.
Put it in a blender and blend it into a smooth paste.
Apply it to the skin you want to lighten.
Leave it in place for 20 minutes.
Rinse it away with warm water.
 They both contain alpha-hydroxy acids that gently exfoliate the skin. Mix plain, sugar-free yogurt or whole milk with enough ground oatmeal to make a paste, then apply it to your skin. Leave it in place for 20 minutes, then rinse with warm water using gentle circular motions.


It's important to use full-fat yogurt or milk, since skin doesn't contain the necessary enzyme.
You can also simply dip a cotton ball into the yogurt or milk and apply it to your skin, without using the oatmeal as an extra exfoliant.
 Rosewater has properties that make it a great tool for gently lightening dark circles and other darker areas of skin.To make a rosewater mask, combine two tablespoons of milk with one tablespoon of lemon juice, one tablespoon of gram flour, and 2 tablespoons of rosewater. Mix the ingredients together and apply as a mask. Leave it in place for 20 minutes, then rinse it off.
 This is a great exfoliant that's gentle enough to exfoliate the skin without scratching or stretching it. Take 2 tablespoons of gram or wheat flour and make a paste using as much water as needed. Apply it to your face in an upward motion. Leave to dry completely, then wash your skin with warm water and pat dry. This helps remove dead skin cells.

Add 1 tablespoon of lemon juice or 1/2 tablespoon of turmeric for enhanced effect.
If you have dry skin, add 1/4 tablespoon of fresh cream to the mask.
 This is a skin repair and lightener in one:

Take one tablespoon of turmeric powder. Add two teaspoons of gram flour. Mix this with water or rosewater.
Apply ten to fifteen minutes, and rinse off.
Do not use soap while using this.

