 Ask questions about a few simple things, such as "What were you doing last week?". If they answer without any hesitation, it is quite possible that they are lying., Try to make sure that what your friend says are actually lies, and not their version of reality. This may sound odd but if your friend truly believes in their fantasy world, this can be a sign of a mental disorder or condition and they may need help, not scolding for dishonesty.
 If your friend told you one thing the day before, then told you or a friend a completely different story the next day, this is a clear sign that lying is going on. Don't react meanly, just get ready to call your friend out on the lies.


Take it nice and slowly when trying to work out what your friend is really up to. Let them keep lying until you are absolutely positive that they are a liar.
 You could simply say that you think that they are lying about X or Y.


Say something like "Well, that doesn't sound like what you told X. You told X and now you are telling me . Which is really true?".
 If you yell at your friend, or falsely accuse them of lying, that will upset them and may cause them to lie even more. Moreover, your actions become no better than theirs if you act all high and mighty and yell instead of listening to their side of things. Stay calm and be willing to listen to their side of the story.


Don't be the source of additional angst in your friend's life. Lying is often a response to other pressures in life and you may just be someone who can truly listen and help your friend get through a bad patch. However, you have to be willing to do so genuinely.
Do not involve other people. This can make your friend refuse to do anything to change for fear of being outed. Moreover, it could get your friend into trouble for lying. Keep it between you and your friend. Possibly you can help your friend overcome the need to lie, possibly you can't but it's best to keep it between both of you. Of course, if it's a lie about something to do with breaking the law, then you do need to tell others but this article is assuming it's not as serious as that.
 If you don't like the response from your friend or feel that they are just going to keep on lying to you, consider breaking the friendship. If you have a "friend" who lies intensely, try to pick friends who are more honest and don't feel the need to continuously lie to your face.

