 Invite friends and family to the cook off at least two weeks before you are planning on hosting it. This way they will be more likely to attend, and they will know not to make other plans for the day of the cook off., Before inviting guests, you should decide what dish or dishes you want for your cook off. You can either ask your guests to make a variety of dishes or you can hold a cook-off that features only one kind of dish. There are upsides and downsides to both.If you are holding a cook off with only one kind of dish, it makes it easier to judge the dishes against each other, but there won’t be as much variety for your guests.
If you host a cook off with different dishes, it makes it harder to judge, but your guests will leave feeling that they have had a full, satisfying meal.
Common cook off foods are chili and barbecue. Try to pick food that is tasty, but that isn’t that difficult to make.
You can make categories like “sides”, “entrees” and “deserts” to judge by if you don’t want everyone to cook the same food.
 Tell any friends or family that you see at work, school or social events. Say that you are interested in organizing a cookout. Give them the date for the cookout and ask if they can make it.


Say something like, “I’m thinking of hosting a cookout on Saturday the 14th! It would be great if you could be there, either as a cook or a guest. Do you think you’ll be able to come?”

, You might not be able to see all your potential cookout guests in person. If there are people that you want to invite but don’t see on a daily basis, email or call them. Tell them about the cookout as well as the date and time you have in mind, and see if they want to come., It could be that your friends know people who are fabulous cooks! When you are contacting friends and family, tell them to feel free to invite anyone they think would be interested., Make a post on Facebook or another social media site to spread the word about your cook off. Even if you have contacted all of your closest friends, there probably are other people that you can reach through social media who would be interested.Post something like, “I’m holding a cook off scheduled for Saturday the 14th! Let me know if you’d like to participate or come as a guest to sample some delicious food!”
If you want to keep the cook off small and you think you already have enough people coming, you can hold off on posting on social media.
 Since the cook off is a competition, you will need to have someone to judge. Find someone, or a couple of people, who are chefs, restaurant owners, or have some kind of job or experience in the food industry. You can offer them an incentive like a gift card or small amount of money to judge the cook off.If you cannot find anyone, instead plan to have all your guests act as judges by casting their votes for their favorite dish.

