 It is one of the biggest mistakes you could make and there is nothing more sickening than to see a girl trying to act tough in front of a guy when they're failing dismally. Plus, most guys don't go for that; they usually get the wrong impression, because if they like you back and you play hard to get, they may think you don't like them.;
, Start a conversation with a friend about something you know the crush is interested in (if they're around) and speak louder than normal if necessary (not too loud). If he/she joins in, that's great! Listen to what he/she says and keep talking normally. If he/she doesn't, casually turn around and ask him/her, "Hey, don't you like , too?"

, Treat him/her like a person, not just a crush. Treat him/her like one of your friends! If he/she needs a pen, offer to let him/her borrow one of yours. If he/she's looking tired or sick or sad, ask if he/she is okay or what's wrong. She'll/He'll appreciate your kindness.
 Laugh if you hear something funny, but laugh like a normal person. If you hear something stupid, but sort of funny, smile, but sort of roll your eyes as if to say 'How stupid.' Don't act ditzy or as if you can't do anything. Be strong. Be smart. And never, ever act dumb.
 Do you have a band you like a lot (make sure it's not a boy band!)? Then mention the name of the group around your crush, talking about a great song they have or something. If she/he looks interested, ask if she/he wants to borrow the CD. Things like that. Be sure to look out for things that he/she likes; you might have something you both love that you can talk about.
 Don't go out of your way to look hot or sexy or stunningly beautiful just for him, but wear clothes that you like and that look good on you. Wash your hair. Take care of your skin. Exercise. Brush your teeth. Don't wear anything too revealing, as he might get the wrong idea. When you get a haircut, ask the hairdresser to recommend a style that she thinks will work well for you. He might notice and say so!

, Try as hard as you can to be yourself. Don't talk sweety-sweet or tough or anything. Don't talk too much; two sentences at a time unless you're telling a story or something that he looks very interested in hearing. Try to make him laugh, but don't go overboard with jokes. Let him talk. Listen to what he has to say and ask him about it later. Laugh at his jokes even if they're not funny if you do a bad fake laugh smile. Do not talk with your mouth full.
 Then after he replies you can give your opinion and you could get into a good conversation. If you're afraid of talking to her/him just do it most likely he/she will like it, if he/she is in a conversation just join in.
 If he makes a move that shows SOMETHING, he likes you.
 Don't pretend he/she is an alien you can't talk to. They're a person just like everyone else. They will think you are friends and gradually like you more (If they don't already like you!)

