 Look at pictures of this hairstyle, and decide exactly how deep you want the blonde layer to go. It could stop at your crown, or go all the way to the back of your head.;
, Depending on the natural or dyed color of your current hair, this could take up to three processes. Because bleach is so harsh, let your hair go unwashed a day longer than you usually would - the excess oil will stop the bleach from damaging your hair as much.


Purchase a bleach kit at your local beauty supply store. The higher the number on the package, the stronger the stuff. 20 volume is good for dark blondes and light to medium brunettes, while anyone with darker hair would probably be better off with a 40 volume developer.
Use a fine-tooth comb or pic to part your hair. Run a clean line from one ear to the other, wherever it is that you want the blonde to stop. Tie the lower portion in a ponytail so it's out of the way.
Apply the bleach. Wear gloves to protect your hands, and use a hair coloring brush to apply the dye.
Set a timer. Because you could destroy your hair if you leave the bleach in too long, set a timer for exactly as long as the instructions in the bleach kit indicate.
Wash out the dye in the shower, using water that's as cold as you can stand. Avoiding warm water will keep your blonde from turning brassy.
 If you're going for an ultra-platinum or white blonde look, you'll need to use a purple toner on the bleached section of your hair. Again, this can be found at your local beauty supply store.


Wait a few days after you bleach your hair. Too much trauma at once can severely damage your hair.
 Dying the hair on the back of your head might be more difficult than dying the front portion, so consider enlisting the help of a friend. You can purchase the dye (semi-permanent or permanent) at a beauty supply store or big-box store.


Use a pic or fine-toothed comb to part your hair along exactly the same line you used to bleach it.
Tie up the bleached portion securely on the top of your head, and cover with a plastic shower cap. Make sure the edge of the cap hits the part you combed out between the sections.
Start applying the black dye. Start at the root of the hair, and be extremely careful that you don't hit the bleached portion at all. Have a friend help you with this part.
Wash out the dye. Keep the shower cap on the blonde portion of your hair as you rinse out the black dye. Wash it in ice cold water if you can - the dye will last longer.
 Color processing is hard on hair, and bleaching is especially harsh. Compensate for this by using a shampoo and conditioner designed specifically to moisturize color-treated hair. Avoid blow drying or flat ironing your hair when you can.

