 Making a paper model is similar to making the clay model, except your layers will be made using different sized circles of construction paper. To make this model you will need four pieces of different colored (brown, orange, blue, and white) construction paper, a geometric compass or circle stencils of four different sizes, a glue stuck, scissors, and a large poster board.


The finished size of your paper model depends on how large you want to make it.
Using a compass to draw the circles is an easy way to make perfect circles and easily vary the sizes.
If you don’t have a compass, you can find four circular shapes to use as stencils for each layer of the Earth.
Use textured paper to make your model stand out.
 Draw four circles of varying sizes on the different colored construction paper. Make the inner core white, the outer core blue, the mantle orange, and the crust brown. Use the compass or your circular stencils to make shapes according to the following dimensions:


Inner core: diameter of 2 inches
Outer core: diameter of 4 inches
Mantle: diameter of 8 inches
Crust: diameter of 8.5 inches
These dimensions are just suggestions, you can make the circles any size you would like as long as you make the mantle the largest layer and the crust the thinnest layer., Once you have drawn the circles, take a pair of scissors and carefully cut each circle out. Try to cut as close to the drawn line as possible to make sure each layer is circular. Stack the layers from smallest to largest so you can clearly see the various layers on top of each other.


Place the brown crust down first, then place the orange mantle on top of that, then the blue outer core, then the white inner core.
Use the glue stick to glue each layer down.
 Glue the four-layer Earth model to a larger poster board. Make four labels and glue them down next to the appropriate layer: Crust, Mantle, Outer Core, Inner Core.Include interesting facts about each layer. Add information about the composition of the layer, the average temperatures, and any special features that each layer has.


Try to relate your interesting facts to discussions that you may have had during class.

