 If person is unconscious or unstable, make a stretcher to carry the person. You can use two poles or some blankets or improvise a stretcher out of whichever materials you have available.Find two sturdy poles, tree branches or other straight pole-like objects and place them parallel on the ground.Take a cloth roughly three times as big as the stretcher should be and lie it on the ground. Put a sturdy pole a third to half of the way along the cloth; fold the section over the pole.
Set the other pole on the two pieces of cloth, leaving enough room for the injured person and enough cloth to fold over this second pole.
Fold the cloth over the pole so that at least one foot of cloth encases the second pole. Take the rest of the cloth and fold it over your poles again.
If you don't have a large cloth or blanket, use blankets, shirts, sweatshirts, or any other cloth you may have available. Do not give up your clothing if this will in any way hamper your ability to assist the person.Check to make sure that the stretcher you’ve fashioned is as secure as possible so that you don’t drop the person., If you don’t have the materials to create a stretcher, you can also fashion one using the hands of yourself and your fellow rescuer.This can provide a more stable position to the person, especially if she is unconscious.The person should be on the ground and the rescuer with his hand closest to the the injured person's head should place his hand under her head for support.
Under the the injured person's chest, at about the level of the lower sternum, each rescuer should grasp for the hand of his fellow rescuer. The rescuers should then interlock their hands for a stable surface.The rescuer with a hand closest to the injured person's feet should place his hand under her legs.Squat down and gently lift the person and move her out.
 If it is available, use a chair to carry the injured person. This is an especially effective method if you and the other rescuer have to climb stairs or navigate narrow or uneven territory.Either pick up the person and place him in the chair or have him sit in the chair if he is able.The rescuer standing at the head of the chair should grasp the chair by the sides of the back with her palms facing in.From here, the rescuer at the head can tilt the chair on to its rear legs.The second rescuer should face the person and grasp the legs of the chair.If you have a longer distance to cover, you and your rescuer should separate the person's legs and pick up the chair by squatting down and lifting., If a chair is not readily available to help your carrying efforts, you and your fellow rescuer can make a chair using your hands. Whether a two- or four-handed seat, you can effectively move the injured person with these seats.A two-handed seat is most useful for carrying people longer distances or for supporting an unconscious person.Squat down on either side of the person. Slide one arm under her shoulders, resting your hand on the shoulder of your partner. Slide your other arm under the knees of the person and grasp the other rescuer’s wrists. Alternatively, you can both make a "hook" with your hands by curling your fingers in toward your palm, then hook your hands together.
Lift up from squatting, lifting from your legs and keeping your back straight, and begin moving forward.A four-handed seat is most useful for carrying those who are still conscious.You and your fellow rescuer should grasp each other's wrists — he should grasp your left wrist with his right hand, and you should grasp your right wrist with your left hand. Your right hand should grasp his left wrist, and his left hand should grasp his right wrist.Your hands should form a square shape when locked together in this configuration.
Lower this seat to a height that allows the injured person to sit. Make sure to lower the seat using your legs and not your back to minimize your risk of injury and ensure stability.Have the person drape her arms over your shoulders.
Stand using your legs, keeping your back straight.

