 Support their head securely, either with your palm or the crook of your elbow. Walk around, or try rocking the baby back and forth, either very gently or a bit more quickly (but without sudden jerks or whipping motions)., While employing the “colic carry” or with the baby stomach-down on your legs, try massaging their middle and lower back. This may help relieve gas, and can provide soothing comfort regardless.You can also try massaging their stomach while they are being held or are lying face-up. Use circular motions, as if trying to nudge the trapped gas upward or downward., While your baby lies on their back, lift their legs and gently mimic the up-and-down motion of a bicyclist pumping the pedals. This alternating motion may help release gas pressure that could be contributing to their colic cries., Just as a warm soak can soothe your stress, it may help your baby as well. Wipe your infant down with a soft washcloth dipped in warm (not hot) water, or add some comfortably warm water to a baby tub for a calming bath.Never leave a baby alone in or near a bath, no matter how little water is in the tub.
Always check the water temperature yourself to prevent scalding.
 Despite the mystery that still surrounds colic, it may be related to the ongoing development of an infant’s digestive system. Some foods that the mother eats — e.g. spicy foods, or potential allergens — may transfer to the breast milk and cause additional discomfort. Try avoiding a single type of food for three days or so, and see if baby shows any signs of improvement; if not, try another.Adverse reactions to milk or soy might also be related to colic symptoms, so if you are giving your baby formula that is milk-based, you may want to try soy-based for a week to see if that helps (or vice versa).
Talk to the pediatrician about formula and food recommendations.
 If baby begins to calm down slightly, try giving them something to suck on, like a pacifier or your finger. Gradually reduce the jiggling, shushing, etc. as they calm. If you’re lucky, baby will drift off to sleep as you place them in their crib., Herbs like fennel, chamomile, and thyme have been used for generations to give colic relief. A spoon before and after every feeding might help. Look for recipes online.


Always consult your baby’s doctor first, however; don’t assume that “traditional” equals “always safe.” For instance, star anise is typically discouraged now because it may introduce potentially dangerous toxins., It may seem crazy, but using a rectal catheter like the Windi might relieve your baby of painful gas that could be contributing to the colic cries. The catheter reaches past the cramped muscles of the baby and releases the pent up gas.

Used properly (e.g., not inserted more than intended), the product should be as safe as a typical rectal thermometer. But you may want to consult your baby's doctor first.
Even if it is probably harmless, there's little evidence that it will actually help. Unfortunately, this is the case for most presumed colic remedies.