 When you want to protect your home, you do not have to choose a dog that can physically protect you. Often, the noise that a dog makes when someone attempts to enter your home is enough to make them reconsider their plan.


Deterrent dogs need to be loud, alert, and can be trained to respond to potential threats.
Dogs that act as deterrents can come in any size and do not have to be large like a guard dog.
 A deterrent watchdog will bark loudly and often to alert you that someone is attempting to enter your home. They also help to deter potential intruders who know that loud dogs can let everyone know that someone is there.Loud dogs can alert everyone around that an intruder is present.


Golden retrievers are the loudest breed of dog; their barks have been recorded at 113 decibels. Hounds like beagles and blood hounds have deep and low barks that bellow. Their barks are loud and echo, which is helpful to alert others in the case of a potential intruder.
 Dogs that are laid back and easy going are not well suited to watchdog duties. You want to choose a breed that is alert and protective by nature. These dogs are constantly on guard and on the look out for potential threats. Many of these dogs have been bred to become alert over centuries, like the Rottweiler who is known for guarding Roman armies during wartime while they slept.Here are some breeds that are known for being very alert: Chihuahua, miniature schnauzer, dachshund, Rottweiler, and Samoyed., While guard dogs tend to be on the larger size, deterrent dog breeds can come in any shape and size. Small breeds that are known for being “yappy” and bark frequently can be good watchdogs, just like a larger breed with a loud bark can. Determining what size breed works best for you is a decision that should be made in your lifestyle, home size, and preferences in mind.


Some small yappy breeds include Chihuahuas, Yorkshire terriers, Maltese, and Pomeranians.
Medium size dog breeds include cocker spaniels, basset hounds, and beagles.
Larger dogs include golden retrievers, German shepherds, and Siberian huskies.

