 It will be easier to practice parking with fewer obstacles in your way.


When you are practicing, you will want to do this in a parking lot that isn't crowded.
As you are learning, you might make mistakes.
In an area with no cars, you are unlikely to hit anything as you practice your parking skills.
This isn't just a good idea for people learning how to drive. If you haven't driven in a long time, it is a good idea to practice parking and driving a little bit before going long distances.;
, You want your vehicle to be in the right spot, away from other cars and the right distance from your spot so you can cut your wheel correctly. 








Make sure there is at least 5 or 6 feet between your vehicle and any other parked cars.
If there aren't any cars in the spaces near you, try to judge a 5 or 6 foot distance away from them.
This is so that when you are parking, you can use the rest of the steps for cutting your wheel correctly.
 This will let other drivers know you are going to park. 








Drive forward slowly until you see the center of the parking space you want to use.
Be aware of other drivers. Don't take a space someone else has been waiting for.
Make sure there is no one trying to back-out of a nearby spot as you are driving forward.
 You should do this once you see the center of the parking space. 








Make sure your car is still about 5-6 feet from any other cars or empty parking spaces as you begin to turn.
You will want to turn the wheel about a half of a turn.
Make sure there are no carts or other objects in the space.
Move forward slowly into the space. Come to a full stop when your car is in the spot the whole way.
Make sure your car is in the spot entirely to avoid getting a ticket.
 You can do this once your car is stopped.









You want to make sure your wheels are straight so you can back out of your spot straight.
You can also straighten out your wheels just before you back out.
However, it is best practice to do this when you park.

