 Newborns typically have no awake/asleep schedule beyond a constant repetition of feeding, sleeping, soiling their diapers, and crying for another feeding. At some point between one and four months, though, you may find that your baby stays awake for longer stretches and seems to want to sleep for fewer but longer periods.Ideally, from about four months to one year of age, a baby will want to take two naps per day and sleep fairly well through the night. In reality, though, the situation will vary widely from baby to baby. That is why observation is such an important step.
If your six-month-old seems to want to take three naps per day, or one longer and one shorter nap, or just one longer one at midday, use that information to help build the nap routine that is most likely to work for both of you.
Check out Put Your Baby on a Nap Schedule for more on the importance of observation and the process of building an individualized nap routine.
 Babies show that they’re tired in many of the same ways anyone else does. Look for droopy eyes, rubbing of the eyes, fussiness or crankiness, reduced alertness, and dozing off. Take note of when these signs appear, whether there seems to be a time (11 am and 4 pm) or activity (one hour after feeding) pattern involved, and how long after the signs appear that your baby tends to fall asleep.Your ultimate goal is to be able to anticipate the tiredness and put your baby down just as sleepiness sets in. A baby who isn’t yet tired is unlikely to nap without a fight, and an overly-tired baby may fight drifting off to sleep just as vociferously.
 If you baby is a naturally consistent daytime napper, part of your job is already done. If this is not the case, though, that doesn’t mean you cannot help guide your baby into a relatively consistent nap schedule. It may take some more work, but establishing a fairly consistent naptime pattern is worth the effort for both of you.If your baby wakes up at roughly the same time each morning (say 7:00), you can work to set up good napping conditions at regular times in the late morning and mid-afternoon (perhaps 11:00 and 3:30, respectively). If your baby wakes up at different times each morning, your might try to start the nap routine four hours after that day’s wake-up time, and then again four hours after that. In this case, the time of day of the naps will change a bit each day, but the length of time between wake-up and naptime won’t.
 Most babies are adept at recognizing signals, so set up a regular pattern of signals that indicate that naptime has arrived.The pattern, for instance, could be: a gentle massage; a story; rocking; nursing; singing; and placing your baby down for the nap.
Be aware that no one pattern works for every child, though. Expect to go through some trial-and-error to find the right process that gets your baby ready to sleep in a timely and effective manner. And, ideally, if you can get by with fewer “sleep associations” (say, rock — song — bed), the easier the daily process will be.

