 When using a telephone or ATM keypad, each number is associated with three letters. Determine what your PIN spells out on a phone or ATM keypad. Instead of trying to remember a series of meaningless numbers, it may be easier for you to remember this word.For example, the PIN 3474 is the word “FISH.”
You can use a website like Phone Spell to determine what letters correspond with your number.
If you have the option of creating a PIN, you can also use a word that is meaningful to you and convert it into a number.
 Determine the letters associated with your PIN numbers using a keypad or Phone Spell and use those letters to create individual words. Each number has three letter options so it should be easy for you to develop a sentence that you can remember and helps you remember your PIN. These words can be anything, so long as they help you remember your number.For example, 2275 can be CASL or Cats Always Sleep Long.
 You should generally avoid writing down your PIN. However, if you are simply unable to remember your number, you can try encrypting it with false numbers. When you write down your PIN, try interspersing it with numbers that are not part of it. This will make it more difficult for others to use your number if your information is stolen. Try sticking zeros between each number. For example, 1234 becomes 10203040.
You can also use the next number up. For example, 5678 becomes 56677889.
 If you have to write down your PIN, a more advanced method for disguising it is by using Modular Arithmetic. In this method, numbers wrap around and work in a similar way to how we calculate time on a clock. For your pin, you will want to use a module of 10, meaning that 10 is actually zero. In this system you can add or subtract a certain number from each number of your PIN and create a new number that your write down. In this system all that you need to remember is the number that you have chosen to add or subtract.For example, if you decide to add 5 to each number of 2275, your encrypted pin would be 7720. 2+5= 7; 2+5=7; 7+5=12-10=2; 5+5=10-10=0

, When you write down your PIN, make small changes to it that only you are aware of. Try changing only one number. This will be enough to make it worthless to an identity thief.


For example, if your PIN is 4569, write it down as 4579.

