 Keeping your feelings bottled up can be damaging over time. Sometimes just talking about your feelings can make them go away or decrease. Talk to someone who cares and understands you, or at least, whom you trust; it can make a big difference.
 Journaling can help you to understand your feelings of emptiness better and it is also a great way to relieve stress.To get started with journaling, choose a comfortable place and plan to devote about 20 minutes per day to writing. You can start by writing about how you are feeling or what you are thinking, or you can use a prompt. Some prompts you might use include:When did you first notice your emptiness? How long has it been there? How old is your emptiness?
What emotions do you experience when you are feeling empty?
Are you prone to feeling empty during certain times or in certain places? What do you notice about your environment when you are feeling most empty?
What kind of thoughts do you have when you are feeling empty?

, Depression manifests differently in different people, but low mood and feelings of emptiness or worthlessness are very common symptoms.Depression can come in waves, where you feel okay for a while and then very low for weeks or even months, or it can be more of a steady feeling. Depression is also very common; about 6.7% of US adults experience major depressive disorder. Women are 70% more likely to have depression than men.If you think you may be experiencing depression, you are not alone. Seek treatment from your physician or a mental health professional if you experience any of the following symptoms of depression:Persistent feelings of sadness, anxiety, or “emptiness”
Feeling hopeless or pessimistic
Feeling guilty, worthless, or helpless
Unusual irritability or restlessness
Changes in your mood or behavior
Loss of interest in things you used to enjoy
Fatigue
Changes to sleep habits
Changes to your weight
Thoughts of harm to yourself or others
Aches and pains that do not appear to get better with treatment

, Bereavement is another common cause for feeling empty. While the deep feeling of grief is most common after the death of a loved one, it can be a response to any loss, including the loss of a pet, loss of your job, experiencing your children moving out, loss of your health, or any other significant life change.Feelings of loss and grief can produce a variety of other emotions, including sadness and emptiness, and they can also affect other areas of your life, such as appetite, concentration, and habits.If you have experienced a loss or change that may be causing feelings of grief and emptiness, consider sharing your feelings with someone you trust, such as a friend or loved one.You may also benefit from seeing a counselor who is trained in handling bereavement.While many people believe there are “five stages” of grief, this is actually a misconception. Elisabeth Kübler-Ross’s “five stages” -- denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance -- refer to her work on death and dying in 1969. However, Kübler-Ross used these stages to describe a person’s feelings regarding his or her own death; they are not a scientific framework for all grief.You may experience all, some, or none of these stages, and that is okay -- your grief is uniquely your own, and each person mourns differently., Use of certain substances is another common cause of emptiness. Substances such as alcohol, illegal drugs, and misused prescription drugs can cause physical dependence on them. This can have a serious effect on your mood, thoughts, and behavior.Often, people fall into using these substances because they feel like there is a “hole” in their lives that the substance can fill.If you think you may have a trouble with substance use, you are not alone: in 2012, about 7.2% of the US population was diagnosed with Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD).Many others suffer from Substance Use Disorder, which involves other substances, such as marijuana, stimulants like cocaine or meth, hallucinogens like LSD, and opoids like heroin..If you are worried that you may have a problem, ask yourself the following questions. In the last year, have you:


been in a situation where you ended up using more of the substance than you intended to?
tried unsuccessfully to cut down on using the substance?
spent a lot of time using or trying to obtain the substance?
experienced cravings to use the substance?
had to use much more of the substance to get the same effect as when you first started using it?
experienced withdrawal symptoms such as trouble sleeping, shakiness, clammy skin, irritability, depression, anxiety, nausea, or sweating?
experienced the substance interfering in your daily life or responsibilities?
continued to use the substance even if it was causing trouble for family or friends?
stopped participating in things you used to enjoy in order to use the substance?
used the substance in dangerous situations, such as driving or operating machinery?
Addiction has a strong hereditary component. For example, relatives of people who have alcohol abuse problems are more likely to experience addiction issues themselves, independent of whether they even knew each other.If you are struggling with a dependence on drugs and/or alcohol, talk to your therapist about this problem. You may need to be treated for addiction in order to stop feeling empty., People who suffer from BPD often report feelings of emptiness. People with a personality disorder experience persistent patterns of unstable feelings and behavior that cause distress or social impairment. People with BPD have trouble regulating their thoughts and feelings. They are prone to reckless behavior and have poor impulse control. Their relationships with others tend to be unstable.About 1.6% of US adults have a diagnosis of BPD in any given year.BPD can be treated effectively with professional guidance.If you experience any or several of the following signs of BPD, consult with a mental health professional:


You make extreme efforts to avoid abandonment, which may be real or imagined. You often believe that you will be abandoned or separated from a loved one. You react negatively, such as becoming extremely angry or fearful, even when the separation is temporary (such as your spouse going to work). You are very afraid of being alone.
You alternate between idealizing and demonizing people you have been in relationships with. People with BPD often begin relationships by putting the other person on a pedestal, seeing them as perfect or ideal. After some time, you begin to think the other person does not care enough about you or contribute enough the relationship. Your relationships are commonly unstable.
You have an unstable sense of your own identity. People with BPD struggle with maintaining a stable sense of themselves, their identity, and their self-image.
You are very reckless or impulsive. This is especially true of self-harming. You may do reckless things such as drunk driving, gambling, substance abuse, or risky sexual behavior.
You frequently consider self-harming and make suicidal threats. You may harm yourself through things such as cutting, scratching, or burning. Or you may threaten to hurt yourself to gain attention from others.
You often experience extreme mood swings. These moods shift frequently and are often very intense, such as moving from joy to despair.
You experience chronic feelings of emptiness. You may often feel empty or bored, or like you need something to do.
You have trouble controlling your anger. Many things are likely to provoke your anger, and you respond with outbursts that may include bitterness, sarcasm, or verbal outbursts. You are particularly likely to be angry if you believe someone is uncaring toward you.
You sometimes feel paranoid about others, or don’t feel as though your environment is “real.”

, Meditation can also help you to get in touch with your feelings of emptiness and begin to understand them better. Research has shown that 30 minutes of meditation per day can help change behavior and brain function.To get started with meditation, sit in a quiet place, close your eyes, and focus on your breathing. Use the following questions to help you develop your understanding about your emptiness through your meditation.


Notice how you are feeling in the moment. Do you feel any sense of emptiness or lack, such as a lack of worthiness, clarity, understanding, or a lack of peace or love? Accept that you have emptiness in the moment.
Notice how you experience emptiness. Where do you feel the emptiness in your body? How much space does it take up?
Consider your emptiness. Does it bring up memories from the past? What emotions are present as you notice your emptiness?

, Talking to a therapist about how you have been feeling can help you to understand and work through your feelings of emptiness. Your feelings of emptiness may indicate that you are depressed or that you might have another underlying condition. Particularly if you show signs of depression, substance use problems, or BPD, you should seek help from a mental health professional.


Treatment for depression is often two-pronged, using psychotherapy and, if necessary, prescription medication such as SSRIs (Prozac, Zoloft, Lexapro) or SNRIs (Effexor, Cymbalta). Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) and interpersonal therapy (IPT) are both effective at treating depression. CBT teaches you how to identify and reduce unhelpful patterns of negative thinking and learn ways to think productively and helpfully. IPT focuses on helping you work through relationships that may be causing you problems.Several types of psychotherapy are helpful to work through grief, although complicated grief treatment (CGT) appears to work best for people who have struggled with grief for a long time.Treatment for alcohol and substance use disorders often focuses on individual and group counseling but may also include medication if necessary. CBT is commonly used to treat alcohol use disorder.Treatment for BPD is psychotherapy using Dialectical Behavioral Therapy (DBT). DBT focuses on learning to identify and regulate your emotions, tolerate stress, apply mindfulness, and interact with others in a healthy, productive way.You will learn ways to cope with your emotions, as well as social skills to help you interact with others.

