 Some kids, like some adults, are simply naturally slender and have trouble putting on weight. However, you should try to rule out other reasons for your child's difficulty in gaining weight.Children are notorious for being "picky eaters," but if your child simply has little interest in eating, that could be a sign of some sort of medical or psychological issue. A hormonal or metabolic problem such as diabetes or an overactive thyroid can sometimes be the cause of poor weight gain.
Gastrointestinal or other problems may make eating uncomfortable, or undiagnosed food allergies could be at play.
Some medications can reduce appetite, so consider this possibility if your child is on medication.
Unfortunately, even pre-teen children can develop eating disorders due to factors like peer pressure.
Your child could also just be excessively active, and simply be burning more calories than he or she takes in.;
, If your child is receiving regular medical check-ups, the pediatrician may be the one who informs you that your child would benefit from increasing his or her weight. But never be afraid to raise the subject if you are concerned.As mentioned, food intolerances or allergies, digestive problems, and a range of other medical issues can sometimes be the cause of a child being underweight. Your child's physician can help diagnose and treat such problems.
That said, most often the issue can be improved by changes that you and your child can make at home. But the advice of a medical professional is always beneficial.
 Dealing with an infant who needs to gain weight will of course be different from an older child. While serious causes are rare, normally the issue lies in feeding technique, breast milk production, or gastrointestinal problems.Always consult a doctor if you are concerned your infant is underweight. The physician may order tests for your baby or refer you to a feeding specialist (to observe feeding technique) or a pediatric gastroenterologist.
Remedies will vary based on your infant's particular situation, but may include: supplementing breastfeeding with formula (if milk production is insufficient); letting the infant feed as often and for as long as he/she desires (thus avoiding rigid scheduling); changing formula brands (in the case of an intolerance or allergy or increase the calorie content); or introducing solid foods a bit earlier than the typical age of six months. Occasionally medications for acid reflux may be prescribed.
Early life weight gain is essential to long-term health, so shortfalls should always be addressed with appropriate medical advice. Below-average weight gain can almost always be reversed and result in no lasting problems.

