 Any water or liquid that is left to sit on your floor can cause the linoleum to become loose or warped.


Use a damp mop, a soft rag, or paper towels to wipe up spills from your floor. Abrasive pads or sponges may cause scratches or mar the appearance of the linoleum.;
, Commercial cleaning products that contain chemicals such as ammonia can permanently discolor your linoleum flooring or make pits in the flooring surface.


If the spill cannot be cleaned with water alone, add mild liquid dishwashing detergent to the water. This will create an effective, mild cleaning solution that can clean tough spills and won't damage your floor.
 Although the natural properties of linoleum make the flooring resistant to dust and mites, sweeping can maintain your floor's appearance.


Use a soft broom or vacuum cleaner with soft bristle attachments to remove loose debris such as dirt or dry food remnants from the floor.
Place welcome mats at doors that lead outside to prevent shoes from tracking in an excessive amount of dirt onto your linoleum flooring.
 Linoleum can often be marred by scuff marks or black marks left by shoes.


Rub a pencil eraser over the black marks until they disappear completely.
Apply between 2 and 3 drops of baby oil to the scuff marks if a pencil eraser does not effectively remove the marks.
Allow the properties of the baby oil to penetrate the black marks for between 2 and 3 minutes, then use a soft rag or paper towel to wipe and clean up the solution.
 Scratches and burns can be buffed away using a nylon cleaning brush.


Rub your nylon brush in soft, circular motions over scratches and burns in the linoleum to buff the flooring and remove the scratches.
If scratches still remain on your linoleum floor surface, you many need to contact a professional linoleum floor specialist who can replace the affected section of your floor.
 The properties of and application instructions for linoleum wax solutions will differ depending on the product's manufacturer.


Purchase a linoleum wax solution from a retail store that specializes in home repair or linoleum flooring.
Apply the wax solution to your floor using the instructional method printed on the packaging. You may be required to wax your floor once or several times per year.
If you need to shine your floor in between waxing sessions, add a few drops of baby oil to warm water, then use the solution to mop your floor. The amount of baby oil you add may differ depending on the surface area that needs to be shined.

