 Novelty is an excellent cure for boredom, so try to listen to new things. Borrow someone else’s music. Turn on the radio. Use online streaming services to listen to random music that you have never heard before., Find a book, a newspaper, or a magazine. Take the time to learn something more about the world or familiarize yourself with some famous literary characters. It might take you some time to get interested in the story, but often by the middle of the book you won’t be able to put it down.Consider bringing a book with you wherever you go.
Keep a list of books you want to read.
If you can get to the library, there should be enough choices for you to find something decent. If you don't know what to read, ask the librarian for suggestions!

, If you have some time on your hands, it might be an opportunity to cook a large batch of food that will keep you fed for a while. Consider something that will keep and can be snacked on without reheating, like hummus, pesto, and cookies.If you are using your parents’ kitchen, be sure to ask permission before using.
Don’t cook without supervision unless you know how to properly handle food and understand how to cook safely.
Alternatively, you could try making nut butter or pickling vegetables.
 Exercise is good for both your physical and mental health.Try weight lifting. If you don’t have weights or a gym membership, just go on a job around the neighborhood, do sit ups, and push-ups.
 If you have played all your video games to death, set new, challenging goals to meet. If you are watching TV, experiment with a show you’ve never watched before or put on a classic movie that you’ve always wanted to see.
 Most animals enjoy socializing. It will be good for their health and your bond with the pet. Play catch or a game of chase. For smaller, animals, try to build a maze to give them a chew toy to play with.
 Cleaning may seem boring, but it is something to do. You can also make it more fun by turning it into a game. Time yourself and see how quickly you can clean your place. Put on music to keep yourself energetic. You can even put on some light body weights and a step counter to turn cleaning into exercise.Consider organizing. Find an old pile of things you don’t use or a closet you run away from in fear and bring order to the chaos. Put all of the things you no longer want in a separate pile so that you can take them to a charity later. If you do this right, you’ll be helping out those in need, finding things you’ve forgotten, and turning unused space in your home into something useful.