 A car is a big investment for most people, and by making your prankee believe that his car window has been destroyed, you can get a hilarious response out of him. You'll have some cleanup after you set up the prank, but to perform it you'll only need:


Car window (similar to the prankee's car window)
Gloves (recommended; optional)

NOTE: cheap car windows can likely be purchased from your local junkyard or salvage shop. You might even be able to get staff to help you choose the right kind of window by bringing them in on the prank!

, You don't want to be accused of theft at any point during this prank, so you should only do this with close friends. While the prankee is otherwise occupied, like right before he wakes up in the morning, snag his keys and unlock his car. Then:


Remove anything of value from the car. You don't want anything to be stolen because of your prank!
Roll down one of the windows of his car so that it is completely inside the door and cannot be seen.
Shatter your window carefully and quietly. Then use your gloves to spread the glass around the door of the rolled down window and a little bit inside the car to make it look realistic., To get the best response out of the prankee, you might want to agitate him by getting upset with him over his car being broken into. You might point out that at least he didn't have anything valuable in the car - an excellent tactic if you've removed something valuable from the car the night before when setting up your prank.
 With the window rolled down, the prankee's car will be vulnerable to actual theft. You'll either need to keep an eye on it so it isn't stolen, or time your prank so that the car is only left unattended for a few moments before your friend comes out and sees it.


You might arrange for your friend to drive you somewhere the morning of your prank so you know exactly when the both of you will be headed to the car.
Don't perform this prank before the prankee leaves for work. Shattered glass can be dangerous, even if his car window isn't actually broken.
 Since you were the one pranking and had fun at the prankee's expense, you should be the one to clean up the mess of your prank. Use a vacuum cleaner to suck up little bits of glass that are scattered on the inside of the car and sweep up any shards outside the car as well.

