 Make sure that you are logged in with the Twitter account that you want to connect to your Facebook account. You will be authorizing your Twitter account to post to your Facebook wall.;
, This will open your Account menu. Click Settings to open your account settings page.
 This will open your Twitter profile settings.
 Scroll down to the bottom of the page until you see the section titled "Facebook". Click the button to open a new window.
 If you are already signed in with Facebook in your browser, then you will see your Facebook name and profile picture. Click Okay to proceed. If you want to sign in as a different user, click the arrow in the top-right corner of the window and select Switch User.


If you are not logged in to Facebook, you will need to enter your username and password. Once you click the Log In button, your profile picture will appear in the window. Click Okay to proceed.
 This will include your public profile information, your friends list, and your birthday.
 Clicking Allow will let Twitter post your tweets to your Facebook profile. If you click Skip, you will need to allow it before any posts appear.


You can set the privacy settings for your Twitter posts by clicking the drop-down menu and choosing the group that you want to share with.
 Once you click Allow, the Connect to Facebook button will be replaced by your Twitter profile picture connected by an arrow to your Facebook profile picture. This lets you see that the connection has been successfully made.
 If you run a Facebook page, you can link to it so that your tweets appear on it. This can be especially useful for businesses and artists. Only those posts that are direct retweets or that don't contain an @-mention in them are the only posts that can be shared to Facebook from Twitter.

To allow posting to your page, click the “Allow posting to one of your pages” link beneath your Twitter -> Facebook connection.
A window will appear asking you to allow Twitter to post to your page. Click the Allow button.
Select your page from the drop-down menu. Make sure that the “post to my Facebook page” is checked.
 Once you have allowed the connection, you can test it out by sending out a new tweet. If your connection was successful, you should see the tweet automatically appear on your timeline.

You won’t receive any notification that your tweet was posted to Facebook. After connecting your accounts, all of your tweets will automatically be posted to Facebook.
If you no longer want your accounts linked, go back to your Profile settings and click the “Disconnect it” link next to your Twitter -> Facebook connection.