 Calming classical music or jazz has been shown to lower heart rate and blood pressure and decrease stress hormones. There is evidence to suggest that, in therapeutic situations, music can be more effective at prompting relaxation than verbal stimuli (which is distracting) because music is processed primarily in the non-verbal sections of our brains. ., Aromatherapy utilizes essential oils derived from various herbs, fruits, bark, and flowers. In doing so, aromatherapy can positively affect mood and emotions by making a connection between your olfactory senses and the limbic system in your brain.Lavender and lemon are two of the most popular oils used for relaxation and stress relief. Check online or talk to an aromatherapy specialist to determine which additional scents or blends might work for you.
In an aromatherapeutic massage, the essential oil is placed in “carrier oil”—an unscented or lightly scented oil—that is safe for skin application. As the massage oil is heated through the friction of the massage, the aroma of the essential oil fills the air.
Aromatherapy burners can be purchased and placed in any room in the house. Some are plugged into outlets, while others fit around the tops of lamp light bulbs. The heat from the bulb releases the calming essential oil scent into the room., Restorative yoga poses, such as the child’s pose or the corpse pose, may ease stress by helping to focus on the breath and promoting total physical relaxation. Power poses such as the eagle pose help ease stress by focusing the practitioner on balance while stretching tight shoulders and backs., Dancing is another great way to release those endorphins and calm your nerves. Dance has many health benefits, including better physical fitness and increased memory (think about all those ballet positions!), but is also valuable as a social activity. Whether you are learning in a class or dancing with a partner, you are interacting socially, and endorphins and good mood tend to be shared among social dancers.