 Learn to release tension on a regular basis. Tension keeps you from noticing chance opportunities and experiences.Try to reduce the amount of stress in your life. To release tension, try meditating, going for a walk, or meeting up with friends.


If you feel anxious, figure out what's making you tense. For example, if you're worried about oversleeping and missing the bus for work, make a backup plan. Arrange backup transportation in the event that you do oversleep and then stop stressing about it.;
, By listening to your gut, you're allowing things to happen without trying to rationally control the outcome. This means you're open to chance opportunities and outcomes.


Intuition is just one part of allowing chance to change your luck. You can't completely control events, but you can follow a hunch that might have rewards., One of the biggest things you can do to change your luck is to expose yourself to new, chance opportunities. If you do the same thing everyday, you're limiting those opportunities. Changing your routine can be as simple as changing your route to work, talking to new people, or meeting up with friends at a new venue.Changing your routine may also make you happier, since you're less likely to become bored with a repetitive routine. Random experiences will create new opportunities.
 Constant updates and messages can stress you out, make you feel lonely, and even make you envious. Avoiding social media will prevent you from comparing your luck and life with other people's situations.If you find it difficult to stay off of social media, try being active, enjoying nature, learning something new, listening to music, or exercising., Scientific studies have shown that luckier people have open minds and seek out chance opportunities.Chance opportunities are those random encounters that seem to benefit lucky people.


The good news is that by opening your mind, you're more aware of the chance opportunities.
 Rather than focus on the negative outcome, appreciate any positives. For example, if you got into a car accident and needed costly car repairs, focus on how lucky you were to walk away uninjured. In doing so, you're creating your own good luck, simply by changing your outlook.


On a similar note, be grateful. Some studies have shown that reflecting on things you're grateful for can make you happier and luckier., Consider your dreams and set achievable goals to get you closer to meeting them. These goals will create opportunities and new experiences which are critical for changing your luck.Working toward future goals prevents you from getting stuck in a rut of a routine and exposes you to new people and situations.
 When you're optimistic, you tend to view things positively, even if it's an outcome you don't want. In being optimistic, you can view a negative situation in a positive light.


For example, imagine tripping and breaking your arm. An unlucky person would focus on how bad luck made him fall, while a lucky person would instead think how lucky he was that he broke his non-dominant hand.
 Believe that you have the power to change your situation. Start by addressing what's upsetting you and decide what you need to do to feel better about it. Whether it's financial, a relationship, school, or work, realize that you have the ability to turn the issue around positively.


By changing your problem, realize that you have the power to effect change. You're not subject to the whims of luck or superstition.

