 Towns, cities, libraries, schools, recreation centers and the like often have free events. Check your local museums, parks, and the like for special Open House days or other events that offer free admission.;
, Outside parks, forests, state land, and the like are often free and offer a lot of fun activities like swimming, nature hikes, camping, kite-flying, and the like. Be sure to check out special events like free workshops, guided hikes, stargazing parties, and more.
 You have to cook dinner; why not do it together? A family cooking project: chocolate chip cookies, barbecuing, making smoothies, making applesauce, is low cost and is fun. For the kids, there are some great "food craft" projects that they'll probably enjoy, like creating brightly colored rice or pasta to eat or making fruit sushi.
 When was the last time you played catch with your Dad? Played chess with your stepmother? What about something simple like rocks, paper, scissors or tic tac toe?

, Get your family involved in a project, such as building a tree house out of scrap lumber, painting the living room, creating a family scrapbook, and more.
 Each member who's old enough to choose can designate a film for the evening to watch together. (Be sure it's appropriate for everyone). You might have forgotten how much you loved "The Wizard of Oz" until your little sister picked it out.


You probably have tons of videos and DVDs that you haven't watched in a while, or can record any number of movies on your recorder.
Libraries often have a wide variety of free movies FREE.
 Classics like "Charlotte's Web", "Alice in Wonderland" and more can be enjoyed by the whole family.
 What's something that you or your parents did in the past for fun, that you haven't done lately?

, Is there sports equipment, games, art projects, and more that is disused in the attic, closet, garage, shed, and so on? Maybe it's time to try out those roller blades again, or set up the telescope in the backyard, play a game of croquet, and take your uncle's old canoe out on a trip.?

, Donating your time to worthy organizations can be fun, educational, and a great bonding experience.
 Sometimes an organization will give a family a free pass if they can show financial hardship. Also, volunteering may give you free admission to museums, events, classes, and more.
 Have everyone in the family find a few tricks to perform.
 It's easy to whine, "there's nothing to do"...how about actively looking for something new to do...whether you think it'll be fun or not. For instance, you might find in the local newspaper there's an African dance demonstration for free. Will it be fun? Who knows--but give it a try.
 This can be a fun, thoughtful way to meet everyone's fun. On a rotating basis, each person has a day in which he or she is the "special person" and everyone else pitches in. For instance, if your father loves golf (even if you don't)maybe your family can create a putting green in the yard.

