 Choose neat, clean clothes that fit you comfortably and match each other. You may want to follow popular fashion, or create your own style. If you look like you care about yourself, others are more likely to care about you.


Personal hygiene is important. Make sure you brush your teeth, use deodorant, and wear clean clothes. If you choose to wear makeup, get adult help or find some tutorials, so that you understand how to apply it.;
, If you use a wheelchair, get one with awesome colors, or decorate it yourself. If you're autistic, stim to your heart's content. If you act comfortable with your disability, others will be comfortable with it too.
 This is where you can meet new people who share your interests.
 Do activities and attend events like sports games, school dances, the library, concerts, museums, car shows, church, the zoo, or just about anything. You could even volunteer for organized community projects, like cleaning up the park, taking care of public gardens, or help in a soup kitchen.
 People love it when you treat them nicely. Learn how to listen well, and always assume the best of others.
 Most people with disabilities have special gifts. If you are good at a sport, go ahead and try out for the team. If you are good at music, learn to sing or play an instruments. If you have artistic talents show your art in art shows or on the Internet.
 Some people won't understand you or your disability, and that's all right. They aren't worth your time. Instead, focus on people who get you, and don't waste your time worrying about everything else. Life is too short to live by others' standards.
 Depending on your school and your disability, these will vary. Here are some examples of accommodations that disabled students could receive:


Extra time on tests
A person who takes notes for you
Access to a social worker, speech therapist, or psychologist (They may also be able to help with social skills)
Using the elevator instead of the stairs
An aide or interpreter
A separate room for exams
Sitting on an exercise ball instead of a chair

, Accept yourself the way you are, and build your self-esteem. This is important for all children and teenagers, but especially for disabled people.


Practice positive self talk. Look at yourself in the mirror, and say "I am a worthwhile human being. Sometimes my life is rough, but I am strong, and I've got this."
Surround yourself with others who believe in you. They are a good influence.
Read articles written by other disabled people. (There are plenty online.) Focus on your specific disability(ies), but also learn about the disability rights movement.
 It will most likely always be there, but it is not your only trait either. Many cool, super smart, successful people, and even celebrities have documented disabilities.

