


Keep a journal of your medical problems and treatments.Bring it with you when you visit a doctor. You shouldn't put off seeing a doctor for something that might be serious to work on the journal, but the journal will help you remember the details of what to tell the doctor about all of your problems and help you keep track of them for more effective follow-up. In one section, or, if you prefer, a section for each problem, keep a diary of each of your problems. Describe the problem and any changes you notice, being as detailed and precise as possible. For pain, write down how severe it was on a scale from 1 to 10 (10 being the worst possible pain you have ever experienced) and how long it lasted. For problems you can see, like a mark or lump, measure and draw or take a picture. If you try a remedy, write down what you did and how it worked. Date every entry. In another section, list your medications, the dates you began and finished taking them, the doses and frequencies, and any side-effects you may have experienced. Include anything that seems at all like a drug, including prescribed drugs, over-the-counter drugs, supplements, vitamins, and special diets. Review your journal before any doctor's appointment.

As an example, here's how to keep a "headache diary".
You could keep the journal on a computer, and even have it automatically transcribed from dictation into your phone.If you're at all unsure about how to describe a drug, bring the doctor the bottle (keep the pills in it to avoid dangerous confusion).


Document your discussion. The next time you see your doctor, for whatever reason, discuss the problems in your journal. Mention the drugs, too, so the doctor can tell if any of them are inappropriate or could cause problems for a particular course of treatment. Write down the diagnosis and treatment plan in your journal. Go over these with your doctor to make sure you understand them. A separate section for doctors' advice, with each entry dated, would help you make sure to keep up with this important information.

Make a file to save any papers your doctor or other healthcare providers such as pharmacies give you, too.


Ask for more time. When making the appointment with the doctor, let the office know if you have lots to discuss with the doctor and to give you a longer time-slot. This shouldn’t require bigger co-pay, but does give them a heads-up for scheduling, so you can be sure to get all of the issues at hand discussed.

With so much to discuss, your doctor will surely appreciate your being on time. Try to arrive early.

;
, During your time with the doctor, tell him if any medications you take may need refilling soon, and ask if they have samples. Sometimes the doctor will have free promotional samples for you.
 Often a drug is available in generic form (the same drug, from a different maker) at low cost, or there is a less expensive substitute available (which could be less expensive for reasons having nothing to do with its effectiveness, or not relevant to your particular problem). These generally don't come with slick promotional materials or samples, but with the savings you won't mind.
 When scheduling a well check-up that requires labs, have the doctor’s office send you the lab slip so you can go in the week before (or when they advise) to have the lab samples taken. By the time you see the doctor the results should be ready to consider at that visit.
 Health insurance provides peace of mind by covering most medical expenses that may come up. But adverse selectionand moral hazard, can make individual health insurance, in particular, very expensive. Perhaps as importantly - or more importantly for routine care - health insurance companies compensate for individuals' lack of bargaining powerwith healthcare providers by negotiating large discounts from often-high list prices.Though an inexpensive policy won't pay as much of your expenses as a costly one, it may reduce the amount to be paid just as well.
There are also "medical discount plans"that provide discounts only, and religious associations that share medical costs on an ongoing basis without any guarantees. These arrangements are not regulated like insurance, so if you're considering one, do your research to make sure that it is what it claims to be and that it is what you want.


You can try negotiating discounts from health care providers yourself, too, upfrontor when you find you can't pay them.
Governments sometimes subsidize health care for the poor. Find out if you're eligible.

