 Deciding to get treatment may feel like giving up or admitting defeat. That is an unhealthy way of thinking about your treatment. Bipolar treatment is very effective and can make your life better. Untreated bipolar is dangerous and can lead to destructive behavior.Be honest with yourself about your bipolar, your symptoms, and your actions. You may be productive in manic phases, but make a list of the negatives. Have you had relationship problems? Participated in unsafe or risky behaviors? Gotten into debt? Left untreated, bipolar can have a negative effect on your life.
 One way to fully accept your diagnosis is to commit yourself to following your treatment. This means you go to your doctor’s appointments, you take your medication, and you make the appropriate lifestyle changes.It is important to continue your treatment even if you start to feel better.


Only going halfway with your treatment is telling yourself you don’t need help because there’s nothing wrong with you.
 When you are searching for a doctor to treat your bipolar, you should find one who specializes in bipolar disorder. Not all psychiatrists, psychologists, and therapists have experience treating the same thing. When you go to the doctor, ask them about their experience treating bipolar disorder.When you are searching for psychiatrists online or through your insurance company, you can usually find a list of the psychiatrist’s specializations in the info section. If you are unsure, contact the psychiatrist’s office to find out.
Ask your general practitioner for a referral for a good clinic.
You may have a treatment team that includes a doctor or psychiatrist who handles your medication and a therapist, psychologist, or licensed social worker who oversees your therapy.
 Treatment for bipolar generally combines medication with therapy. Not everyone responds to medication the same way, so you may try a few different types of medications before choosing the right one for you. Discuss your medication options with your doctor.The medications prescribed for bipolar disorder are mood stabilizers, atypical antipsychotics, and antidepressants.
The aim of medication is to stabilize your moods., Psychotherapy is a common treatment for bipolar disorder. Often, you will receive cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). In cognitive behavioral therapy, you work on replacing negative thought patterns with healthier ones. For bipolar, you and your therapist work on identifying and avoiding triggers, problem solving skills, and managing your symptoms.Another common therapy for bipolar is interpersonal and social rhythm therapy. Interpersonal therapy works on helping you improve your relationships. Improving relationships can help reduce stress, which is a big trigger for bipolar. Social rhythm therapy works on getting your daily routine normalized by helping you adopt better sleeping, eating, and exercising schedules.
 Certain lifestyle changes can help you manage your bipolar disorder. You should get on a regular sleep schedule. Getting enough rest helps keep your mood level. Regular exercising also helps with your symptoms. Exercise is a natural mood booster and can help you feel better.Work on stress relieving techniques. This may include yoga, Tai Chi, exercise, meditation, or deep breathing exercises.
Refrain from using drugs or alcohol. Both of these things can exacerbate mood swings and trigger relapses.

