 Diversity may also be a factor that contributes to an ability to cope well with prejudice.If you are not exposed to different races, cultures, sexual orientations, and religions, you cannot fully accept the diversity that exists in the world. When we really get to know someone is when we stop judging and start listening and learning.


One way to experience diversity it to travel to another country, or even town. Every small city has its own culture including popular foods, traditions, and activities. For example, people in the city may have different experiences than people in the country – simply because of the environment.
 Expose yourself to individuals different from you (racially, culturally, gender, sexuality, etc) whom you look up to or admire. This may help change implicit negative attitudes toward members from different cultures.Even looking at pictures or reading about diverse people you admire can be helpful tin reducing any bias you have toward a group they are a member of (racial, ethnic, cultural, religious, sexual identity, etc).
Try reading a magazine or book that is written by someone different from you.
 Prejudice may occur when previously held ideas are justified through stigma or stereotypes.This may occur because stereotypes are sometimes seen as socially acceptable. We’ve all heard stereotypes – good and bad. Some examples include that blondes are dumb, Blacks are athletic, Asians are smart, Mexicans work hard, etc. While some of these seem positive, they all can be turned into negatives through prejudice. If you expect a group of people to all be the same, then you may judge individuals negatively if they don’t meet your standards, which can lead to discrimination.


One way to avoid justifying stereotypes is to disagree with people when they make a stereotypical comment. An example could be if your friend says, “All Asians are terrible drivers.” This is obviously a negative stereotype, and can lead to prejudice if this person actually believes it is true. You can counter your friend’s stereotype by gently confronting him and saying something like, “That’s a negative stereotype. You have to take into account different cultures and traditions.”

