 Take the lid off of the pot and rinse the underside with hot water. Set the lid aside on a clean towel. You’ll be cleaning this along with the rest of the pot.

Don’t neglect the clean the lid of the pot. Though it doesn’t come into direct contact with your nose, it’s possible for bacteria to infiltrate the pot as used solution is pulled back into it.
 Run a stream of hot water directly into the pot. Swirl the water around to make sure you hit the entirety of the interior. When you empty the water, pour it out through the spout. This will help flush out bacteria and traces of used irrigation solution.A preliminary rinse will wash away most unwanted contaminants and should be performed immediately following ordinary usage.
 It’s recommended that you use a mild cleanser, like liquid dish detergent or antibacterial all-purpose soap. Squeeze the soap into the bottom of the pot, then fill it up about three quarters of the way full with hot water. For best results, leave the soap solution to soak for a few minutes before scrubbing.Never use soaps containing harsh chemicals or astringent agents. Besides being hazardous to put in your body, these compounds are capable of causing structural damage to the device itself.
 Take a clean (or recently sterilized) bottle brush and insert it through the opening in the top of the pot to clean the interior. Gently scour the pot inside and out, covering as much surface area as you can. Scrubbing the pot will loosen unseen bacteria and possible buildup from the irrigation solution, while the soapy water cleans and disinfects.Rotate the neti pot as you scrub to make hard-to-reach spots more accessible.
Don’t forget to go over the inside of the lid with the brush while you’re at it.
 Flush out the spout and the area around the lid thoroughly. Refill and empty the pot repeatedly until the water is completely clear. There should be no soap solution remaining when you’re finished.Tap water may contain chemicals and other contaminants that can be potentially harmful if introduced to your sinuses.When inadequately rinsed, the soap can form a thin film over the inside of your neti pot, causing irritation to your sinuses.
 After rinsing, shake the excess water from the pot and position it upside down so that it can finish draining as it dries. And, of course, leave the lid off to prevent moisture from becoming trapped inside. When your neti pot is fully dry, it can be refilled and returned to action.If moisture becomes trapped in your neti pot, it can lead to the growth of mold and bacteria.
You can also dab the outside of your neti pot dry using a clean microfiber towel. Avoid towels made from cotton or similar fabrics—these can leave behind small fibers that will then end up in your irrigation solution.