 In order to be eligible for the Nutrition Assistance Program, applicants must meet several eligibility requirements. Since the program is meant to assist low-income individuals, Arizona evaluates resources available to the program’s applicants and sets a ceiling on the amount of assets one can have and still be eligible for the program.


Households can have $2,250 in countable resources, such as a bank account, or $3,250 in countable resources if at least one person is age 60 or older, or is disabled.
A household is defined as all of the people who live together and purchase and prepare meals together.
Countable resources do not include a person’s home or lot, or the resources of people who receive: Supplemental Security Income (SSI), Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), and most retirement (pension) plans.;
, Your gross and net income is considered as part of the eligibility determination. Gross income includes a household’s total income. Net income is defined as the household’s gross income minus any allowable deductions. You can calculate the gross income of your household by adding together all of your sources of income for every member of the household for the month. To calculate net income, take the gross monthly income and subtract all of the available deductions for which you qualify. The remainder is your net income. Below is a list of allowable deductions:


Take a 20% deduction from your total earned income.
Take a standard deduction of $155 for household sizes of 1 to 3 people and $168 for a household size of 4 (higher for some larger households);
Take a dependent care deduction when you need care so that you can work or seek training or education.
Deduct medical expenses for elderly or disabled members that are more than $35 for the month if those expenses are not paid by insurance or someone else.
Deduct any legally owed child support payments.
Homeless households can deduct $143 for shelter costs and any excess shelter costs that are more than half of the household's income after the other deductions., Once you have calculated your gross and net monthly income, you must satisfy the income tests for both gross and net income. The tests are based on the number of members of your household.


For a household of 1, you cannot have a gross income of more than $1276 and a net income of more than $981.
For a household of 2, you cannot have a gross income of more than $1726 and a net income of more than $1328.
For a household of 3, you cannot have a gross income of more than $2177 and a net income of more than $1675.
For a household of 4, you cannot have a gross income of more than $2628 and a net income of more than $2021.
For a household of 5, you cannot have a gross income of more than $3078 and a net income of more than $2368.
For a household of 6, you cannot have a gross income of more than $3529 and a net income of more than $2715.
For a household of 7, you cannot have a gross income of more than $3980 and a net income of more than $3061.
For a household of 8, you cannot have a gross income of more than $4430 and a net income of more than $3408.
For each additional member add $451 to the gross income limit and $347 to the net income limit., In order to be eligible for nutrition assistance, you must show that you are registering for work, not voluntarily quitting a job or reducing hours, taking a job if offered, or participating in employment and training programs provided by the State.


Able-bodied adults without dependents must work or participate in a work program for at least 20 hours a week.
Certain people are exempt from the work requirements, including: children, seniors, pregnant women, and people who are exempt for physical or mental health reasons., You are eligible for benefits if you are a legal immigrant and have lived in the country for five years; or are receiving disability-related assistance or benefits; or have children under 18 years old.


Some non-citizens, like those admitted for humanitarian reasons or those admitted for permanent residence may also eligible for the program.
Eligible household members are still able to get nutrition assistance even if there are other members of the household that are not eligible., If you are unsure whether or not you meet the eligibility requirements, you should still apply for the Nutrition Assistance Program. Those reviewing your application, discussed below, will make a final determination on whether or not you meet the eligibility requirements for the program., You may be required to provide a number of documents to help the Arizona’s Department of Economic Security make a determination about your eligibility. These documents may assist you in completing your application and will be required during your eligibility interview (discussed below). You should gather the following documents:


Identification for the person submitting the application (the applicant).
Proof of citizenship and identity for everyone in the household who is applying for the program.
Alien Registration Cards, if there are non-U.S. citizens in your household.
Social security numbers for each person applying to the program or proof that you have applied.
Birth certificates for everyone.
Name and contact information for your landlord or neighbor.
A statement verifying your address and the names of everyone living with you. The statement must be made by a non-relative who doesn’t live with you. The statement must be signed, dated and include that person's address and telephone number.
Proof of all money that your household received from any source in the previous month.
Proof that your employment ended and last date paid.
A statement from banks or credit unions from the previous month, for each member of the household if they have different accounts.
Proof of savings bonds, securities, retirement plans and life insurance.
Proof of rent/mortgage and utility bills (electric, water, gas, etc.) for the most recent month.
Proof of the cost of childcare expenses for the most recent month.
Proof of all medical expenses for those who are age 60 or older or receive disability benefits if they are applying for Nutrition Assistance.
Proof of any medical insurance other than Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System (AHCCCS) Health Insurance programs., There are several ways that you can apply for the Nutrition Assistance Program. As set forth below, each application method requires the same information from the applicants. You can apply for the program in the following ways:


You can complete an online application that you can locate at: https://www.healthearizonaplus.gov/Default/Default.aspx. This is the fastest method for completing the application.
You can download a paper application from https://des.az.gov/sites/default/files/media/FA-001_08-15_English%5B1%5D.pdf and deliver it to one of the local Department of Economic Security offices.
You can locate local Department of Economic Security offices by calling 1-855-432-7587 or 1-855-HEAplus or by using the online office locator at: https://eol.azdes.gov.
You can also request a paper application by calling the above number or by visiting a local office., On your application you will be asked to provide contact information for an adult member of your household. Specifically, you will need to provide:


Applicant’s name, address, and phone number and identify whether the address refers to a shelter.
The preferred spoken and written languages of the household.
The preferred method of contact – email, phone, or by leaving a message., You must provide the name and contact information for someone who knows you well and the name and contact information for your landlord or neighbor. The Department of Economic Security (DES) may contact these people in order to verify that the information regarding your application is correct. When DES contacts this person, the DES caller provides his or her name and title with DES. DES requests the following in the application:


Name, address and daytime phone number of someone who knows you well.
Your relationship to the person who knows you well.
Name, address and daytime phone number of your landlord or neighbor.
Whether you are related to your landlord or neighbor.
The application does not indicate that you are prohibited from listing a relative. However, you may not want to list another person who lives in your home and for whom you are applying for Nutrition Assistance., In order to determine your household’s eligibility, you must provide the following information for each person living in your house:


Full name, including maiden, alias, suffix and other names.
Identify the persons in your household for whom you are applying for nutrition assistance.
Familial relationship to the main contact for the application.
Marital status, date of birth, social security number, and sex., You only need to provide citizenship information for each person applying. This information may include:


Whether the person is a U.S. citizen or U.S. national.
If not a citizen, identify his or her immigration status., You must provide the following federal tax information from your next year’s tax submission:


Whether you plan to file a return and your filing status.
Whether you will claim any dependents or whether you will be claimed as a dependent on someone else’s return., You must describe how your household buys and prepares food. You must also provide information about anyone in your household who buys and prepares his or her food separate from the rest of the household and whether they pay for their own expenses., You must state whether anyone applying for nutrition assistance also needs assistance with medical bills or Medicare premiums in the next three months., Since your eligibility is based on the number of household members, you are asked to explain any temporary absences by any of your household members. Specifically, you must state:


Who will be absent.
For how long.
Their expected return date.
Reason for the absence., You must identify the residency of all of the applicants for the program and specifically whether they are applying for benefits as an Arizona resident. You may need to provide proof of residency., All persons applying for the program must state whether or not they are currently incarcerated, whether they have been convicted and their expected release date.


You will also need to provide information regarding any applicants felony convictions., You must provide the amount that anyone pays for childcare so that a member of the household can work, look for work or attend job training or school., For those in the household who work, you must state where they work, how often and the amount they are paid., You must provide all sources of income other than your employment. This may include:


Social Security Benefits;
Supplemental Security Income (SSI Cash);
Unemployment benefits;
Child support;
Veteran’s benefits;
Payments from natural resources, farming, ranching, fishing, or leases; and/or
Tribal money.
You will also need to explain any changes in income that you expect in the next 12 months. This may include the end of a contract position or seasonal work., For all persons applying for the program, you must describe:


Whether an adult is unable to work because of a medical or mental condition that has lasted or may last 12 months, or might result in death.
You must identify that adult and provide previous employment information.
Identify anyone applying under age 65 that has a disability expected to last at least 12 months and is working.
Identify anyone who needs help with activities of daily living (bathing, eating, dressing, etc,).
 You must set forth any resources that anyone in the household has, such as uncashed checks, money on a pre-paid debit card or retirement accounts., All parties who are applying for the program must sign the document. These signatures may include: the applicant or the applicant’s designee or the applicant’s spouse, if married and living within the same household; or the parent/legal guardian of a minor child., Submit your application online or in hardcopy to: Arizona Department of Economic Security Family Assistance Administration P.O. Box 19009, Phoenix, Arizona 85005-9009., You may be required to participate in an eligibility interview with a local DES employee. You may be required to bring all or some of the documents that you gathered (as described above). At the end of the interview, you will be told whether DES requires any additional proof of eligibility.


Make sure you bring copies of your documents and not the originals.A DES employee will try to contact you to set up an interview by the 12th calendar day after the date of your application.
DES will work with you to set up an interview time that is convenient for you, including during a lunch break or in the evenings.
If necessary, they may be able to conduct the interview via telephone.
Interviews must be scheduled in a timely fashion so that you can receive a decision within 30 days from the date that your application was received by DES., You will be notified of DES’ decision on the following days:


Within seven days from the application date if you qualify for expedited benefits.
No later than 30 days from the date of the application.
You can monitor the status of your application on-line at: https://www.healthearizonaplus.gov/Default/Default.aspx, If you feel that you were unjustly denied Nutrition Assistance, you can file an appeal and ask for a legal review of your case. Under this program, an appeal is called a Fair Hearing. When you request a Fair Hearing, an Administrative Law Judge reviews the agency’s decision to make sure Arizona law and Family Assistance Administration (FAA) policy is correct. In order to request a Fair Hearing, you must:


Complete the Fair Hearing Request Form, located at: https://des.az.gov/sites/default/files/FA-100-PD.pdf.
You must submit the completed Fair Hearing Request Form within 90 days of the mailing date of the decision notice.
You can submit your request form to your local DES office by mail, fax or in person. You can locate your local office at: https://eol.azdes.gov.