 Though this step is not completely necessary. If you decide to dye your hair, try a light platinum blonde.;
, Ever notice how Paris's hair is long one minute, and short the next? If you can't afford to get it cut and get extensions all the time, just make sure you do it differently every day. Alternate from straight to curly, tied up in a high ponytail to in low pigtails. Paris has actually always been short, but she often wears hair extensions. Try to get a plain extension that you can style yourself. The best thing to try is clip-in extensions, you can get them anywhere from eBay to Sally's.
 Don't put too much on. Don't make it streaky and don't let it turn you orange. The point is to look like you just got back from Barbados, instead of looking like you put on self-tanner.
 Paris is known for her great shoe collection. You do not always have to wear heels, as long as if they are really cute flats (tennis shoes have to be cute and clean -- not dirty). Most of your shoes should be pink. Pink high heels are essential. If you're not that comfortable with high heels, cute pink flip flops will work too! Try to get a huge selection of shoes, even if they are not very expensive.
 But make sure whatever you wear, you started it, not anyone else!

, If you make yourself the ultimate party essential, then you will get automatic invites! Be known at a party; as Paris said in episode number 2 of The Simple Life 4: "Don't be a floor hog, stay in the VIP room for a while, or else you will look desperate."

, If you do, you can do whatever you want instead of having one steady boyfriend.
 Don't hesitate to liven up a party or draw attention to you or act a bit selfish and bossy.
 Paris never gives a flying fish about what people think about her. Go ahead and wear a crazy hairstyle, or something that people wouldn't expect you to wear. Be that trendsetter, go do crazy, stupid things, laugh at your mistakes, and you'll be a Paris in no time!

, You always need your girls, to hang with at the parties, talk about those dreadful rumors that just started about you, and of course - the boys! You must have one best friend that you do everything with! Fall out a lot and have a lot of arguments! Be seen everywhere with them, and do exactly the same thing! Never, ever be on your own! This friend is like your assistant, they should follow you and be willing to do anything for you! Don't treat her like rubbish! And make sure she is a brunette, and wears all the latest fashion!

, When you need help with something, (which, if you're really like Paris, would be everything.) Playing dumb isn't always bad. It's actually a good flirting technique. It's what Paris does!

, "That's hot", "that's beyond", and "oh baby" are all good ones! Toss it into any sentence and people will automatically think of you as a little Paris! But whatever you do, don't steal Paris' name; that's just not cool.
 Paris is popular for this,and everyone will think that you're a socialite!

, Everything you own must be pink! Pink is your friend. Like it, and wear it. Everything you have in your wardrobe should relate to pink in some way. Own pink minis, and pink camis. If you are still in school, flaunt your love of pink with folders, bags, pens...all in pink! Make sure everyone knows your fave color!

, Paris style glasses would be pink with diamonds, or white framed! You can find these in most shops! If you want to accessories further, try cool headbands or cute dangly earrings with some sparkle on them!

, Paris has the same pose in 97% of all her pictures, so you need to do the same. Use one that will always make you look great no matter what you are looking like that day. Every time someone wants to snap your picture use that pose.

