 There are some things you will certainly want:


The entire series of books 1-7
The entire series of movies 1-8
Textbooks, etc (Quidditch Through the Ages, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, etc)
A CD of your favorite Wizard Rock songs (or just put them on your iPod)
Merchandise, like the Marauders' Map or the Time Turner
A wand
Posters
Bonus feature disks;
, You can't have a club with only you and your friend! Ask around and see if people are interested. Contact people in your school, the library and bookstores. Once you see that people would want to come to your club, then proceed with the rest of the steps.
 Here are some things to think about:


Where will it be? Find an empty room you can use and make it Harry Potter-ish. Cover the walls in posters, display the merchandise, play Wrock at all times, have a movie playing on some sort of screen, and make everything blue, green, red, or yellow. Try to make it look like a common room, but with all four houses. Find wall stickers of things like the Hogwarts Crest, the Deathly Hallows, etc and put them on the walls.

Think of a special time when you can hold a club meeting. For example, maybe every Monday for an hour after school? And you would also need a place to meet! Some suggestions for places would be a local park, a coffee house or the library. Also, maybe you can alternate places with friends. Like one day you could have it at your friend's house, the next meeting at yours, etc.
 Make posters and hang them up around town and on the local bulletin board. Send emails to all of your friends, informing them about the club! Post on several sources of social media including Facebook and Twitter (along with any other blogs you might have accounts with).
 You can read extracts from the Harry Potter Series, play Harry Potter video games, do Harry Potter trivia and it's better have many members. You're fans; you know what to do, right?

, You want to make sure all members of the group continue to be enthused right from the beginning till the very last meeting, so no group member ever misses any meeting.
 With so many Harry Potter fans out there, there are some people who aren't. Perhaps get them to join the club too.
 You club members shouldn't be the only ones to give feedback and perform duties and stuff.

