 If you are from out of state, you will need to obtain it in the county in which you are getting married.


You have to apply together in person, and there is a 6-day waiting period after the application is submitted.
To be considered a resident, you have to have lived in Wisconsin for at least 30 days before your application, and you can use your license to get married in any county in Wisconsin.
You will have to know, before you apply for the marriage license, when and where your ceremony will take place as well as who your officiant will be.
Bring photo identification and know your social security number. You also will have to show proof that you have physically resided in your Wisconsin address for at least 30 days. To do this, you can use your driver's license if issued to that address, a copy of your lease, or a copy of a utility bill or your bank statement.
You will need to bring a certified copy of your birth certificate from the state or the county where you were born. It has to be legible, and you can substitute a green card or your naturalization papers if you were born outside of the United States.
If it doesn't already include it on your birth certificate, you will need to know your parents' full names as well as your mother's maiden name.
If you were married before, you will need to bring the proper paperwork showing how the marriage ended (e.g. divorce, annulment or death). Note, though, in Wisconsin, you have to wait 6 months after your judgment has been granted in a divorce to remarry.
If you are 16 or 17 years old and want to marry in Wisconsin, you will need a signed parental consent.;
,


Check out the list of wedding chapels and other ceremony sites at http://www.premierbridewisconsin.com/listings.php?category=19.



Check out the wedding reception site locations available at http://www.eventective.com/USA/Wisconsin/Wedding-Receptions.html.
 These can include, but are not limited to, your florist, DJ, photographer, videographer, caterer, officiant or invitation provider.

