 You can make a simple flower with ribbon by forming loops for the petals, and securing them with a stitch or some glue. If you want to try this method you will need to gather up your ribbon, a button for each flower you want to make, some thread and a needle. You can also use a glue gun if you have one.


If you want to make the optional stem, you will need floral wire and floral tape.For this method you should use a heavy double-faced satin ribbon that will keep its shape.;
, Now cut the ribbon strands to the desired length. This will depend on how big you want your flowers to be. Try 13-inch strips for a large flower and 6-inch strips for a small flower. The number of strips you use will also depend on the size of the flower, and how many loop petals you want it to have.









A simple flower could be made from just four lengths.For a flower with a fuller look and more petals, try eight using 8 lengths of ribbon., Now you need to place the ribbon strands down in a star pattern, before making the loops. Start by placing one ribbon in a vertical line down the centre and then placing a ribbon horizontally across the middle of this ribbon to form a cross.









Then you can lay the other ribbon strands in diagonal lines evenly across the cross to create the desired flower pattern.
If you are struggling to visualise the pattern, it might help to think of the asterisk symbol.
Once you have them in a position you like, fix them together by stitching or gluing the centre., Now you can make the strands into the petal loops. Take a strand at one of the ends away from the centre, and fold it up and in towards centre of the flower. Depending on how many strands you are using, you may need to secure a few of the loops before moving on the next one. If possible, just hold the loops in place until you have made them all so that you can secure them all in place at the same time.









Make some stitches through the centre of the flower to secure all the ribbon loops in place., Once you have created all the loops, you can secure them in place and create a nice central point to your flower. Get the button and either stitch it into the centre, or glue it in. Stitching it in will make it easier for you to tie all the loops in together.
 You can add a stem to this flower with floral wire. Bend the wire in half and slide it under the stitches at the back of the central part of the flower. Now the wire should extend down from the centre of the flower and look like a stem.









To finish it off, wrap the floral tape around the wire.
This will give it a nicer finish.