 Washing your hair strips away moisture, which leads to frizz. Try to shampoo your hair no more than a couple times a week. Simply rinse and apply conditioner to the ends on a daily basis. If you’re too intimidated by the thought of cutting out shampoo, try a cleansing conditioner that will gently remove oil while still moisturizing your hair. , When you apply shampoo, only lather up the hair around your scalp. It's the youngest and most oily area of your hair, while the ends are the oldest and driest, so they don't need the same amount of washing.Massage the shampoo into your roots with your fingers and then rinse it out.
 Use a wide-toothed comb to detangle your hair while it’s still wet. If you wait until it starts to dry, this can add to its frizziness.To help prevent breakage, try combing it while the conditioner is still in your hair, then rinse when you’re done.
 Once you’re done showering, gather your hair into a ponytail with your hands at the back of your head and move down the length of your hair, squeezing the water down as you go. This will help excess water run off the ends of your hair to prepare for the towel.
 Do not rub your hair vigorously with the towel. The friction of rubbing not only results in frizz but also breakage. Wrap the towel gently around your hair and squeeze it in various spots to absorb as much water as possible., Slide your fingers through your hair at the scalp, and then run them through your hair down to the ends. This allows the air to work through the hair, decreasing drying time.
 If you want defined curls or waves in your hair as it dries, try twisting several sections of hair around a finger and holding it for a few seconds to create spirals. For a beach waves look, apply an anti-frizz product and scrunch your hair up in your palm before releasing it.


Try wrapping your hair in a loose bun or creating several braids and securing them until your hair is dry. Once you take it back down, you’ll have more defined waves.
 Microfiber is more absorbent than a traditional towel, and it’s gentler on your hair since it doesn’t create the same sort of friction.If you don't have a microfiber towel, an old t-shirt will work as well. Just blot your hair with it the same way you would with a towel.
 Hairbrushes will only add frizz to your thick hair. Find a comb, preferably a wide-toothed one, and use it sparingly, such as only in the shower or when your hair is already wet. Avoid combing or brushing dry hair, especially if your hair is curly, since the resulting frizz could get out of control.
 Apply a detangler, serum, or oil suitable for your hair type to get silky, shiny hair. Try a gel-based product for straight hair and a cream or mousse for curly hair.Do not use products intended for blow drying as many of them are activated by the heat of the blow dryer.


To protect the ends of your hair, apply an anti-breakage serum to them while your hair is still wet.
 While your hair is still wet, saturate it with leave-in conditioner from root to tip, or just from the middle down if you're concerned about excess oil from your scalp. If you don’t have a leave-in conditioner, you can do the same thing with coconut oil, and allow the product to sit in your hair as it dries.This will help restore lost moisture to your hair and eliminate frizz.


Avoid overloading your hair with too many products, since this can make it stiff or greasy., If you want to add extra volume to your roots, gather a section of hair at a time and lift the hair up at the root before sliding a clip in. Do this several times around your part and the crown of your head. Then remove the clips once your hair is dry and enjoy the extra lift.