 Go to http://www.oneworld.com/tools/downloadable-timetables and download the program for your desktop PC.;
, Double-click on the setup file and let the program install.
 Launch the program. It automatically checks for the latest database of timetables for all its flights.


You can also manually trigger an update by selecting Update Data from the menu.
 Observe the different items under the menu. Take note of the different icons and functions of the program on the toolbar.
 Click on the airplane icon on the toolbar. This will let you navigate through the different flight schedules of the different partner airlines.
 On the drop-down list of cities under From and To, select the source and destination cities.


Where are you coming from and where do you want to go?

, Set the date on which the flights would take place.


When do you want to fly?

, The results will display all options that offer flights between the cities you’ve indicated in the From and To that operate on the given date. Data you can see include the following:


Carrier or airline
Departure and arrival times
Connecting cities
Duration
Type of aircraft
Number of stops

, You can filter the resulting flights by ticking or unticking Nonstop Flights, Direct Flights, and Connecting Flights. The results will be automatically updated with those that match your preference.
 From the resulting flights, double-click on a flight to see further details about it.
 Click on the book icon on the toolbar. This will bring you to the Itinerary Manager where you can create, edit, and delete your itineraries.
 Set the Itinerary name; make it short and descriptive.
 Repeat steps in scheduling a flight to find a flight matching your preferences. Once you find the flight, double-click on it to add it to the itinerary.
 Repeat step 3 as needed.
 Go to Itinerary Manager and select the itinerary. The Itinerary Details will be displayed, including all the flights you’ve added with their respective flight numbers, departure and arrival cities, dates, carriers or airlines, different travel legs, and duration.
 Click on the save icon on the right toolbar to save your itinerary.
 Click on the mail icon on the right toolbar to e-mail your itinerary.
 Click on the print icon on the right toolbar to print your itinerary.
 Click on the delete icon on the right toolbar to delete your itinerary.
 Click on the calendar icon on the right toolbar to add all your flight information to your calendar.

