 The Mayo Clinic recommends that people eat 300 milligrams or less of cholesterol per day. For people with heart disease, the recommended amount is even lower, at 200 milligrams per day. You can reduce the amount of cholesterol you eat by:Using egg substitutes instead of eating eggs. The yolk is high in cholesterol.
Drinking skim milk instead of whole milk.
Eating lean meats like fish and poultry.
Avoiding organ meats.;
, These fats increase your cholesterol levels. A better alternative is to eat monosaturated fats. You can do this by:Cooking with monosaturated fats such as olive oil, peanut oil, and canola oil.
Avoiding saturated fats such as butter, solid shortening, sausage, hard cheese, milk chocolate, lard, cream, coconut and palm oil.
Eating lean meats such as poultry and fish. If you eat fatty meats, trim the fat away.
Reading the packaging of commercially prepared foods. Many foods that are marked trans fat-free do actually contain trans fats. If the ingredients list partially hydrogenated oils, the product contains trans fats. Common products with trans fats include margarine and store-bought cookies, cakes, and crackers.
 You can reduce your cholesterol by trimming the fat from your meats and opting for lean meats such as poultry and fish. Some types of fish are even better than eating poultry:Cod, tuna, and halibut have less fat and cholesterol than poultry. Try substituting fish in place of beef, pork, or chicken at least twice per week.
Salmon, mackerel, and herring contain omega-3 fatty acids which are good for your heart.
 Fruits and vegetables are high in fiber and vitamins and low in fat and cholesterol. Try to eat four to five servings of fruit and four to five servings of vegetables per day. A serving is approximately a half a cup of cut vegetables. You can:Substitute a piece of fruit for dessert in the evenings. Healthy alternatives to ice cream and cakes include apples, bananas, and fruit salads. Don't add sugar to the fruit salads because this increases the calories.
Take fresh fruit and vegetables with you to snack on throughout the day. Carrots, peppers, apples, and bananas are easy to bring with you wherever you go.
Start your meals with a salad. By eating the salad at the beginning of the meal, you are likely to eat more of it because that is when you are most hungry. You can keep the salads interesting by putting different combinations of fruits and vegetables in it.
Serve vegetables as part of your main dish. Substitute squash or cooked vegetables for pasta or rice.
 Fiber can help lower cholesterol. In addition, foods that are high in fiber, like whole grains, will help fill you up so that you don’t overeat. Tasty options include:Brown rice instead of white
Whole-wheat pasta
Whole grain bread
Oatmeal
Bran

, Sugar and other simple carbohydrates may increase your risk for having high triglycerides. Triglycerides are additional fatty materials that are in your blood. Eating a low sugar diet will help prevent them from getting too high.Cut sweets like candies, cakes and pastries from your diet.
White flour is also a simple carbohydrate. Reduce the amount of baked goods you eat that are made from processed white flour. This includes white breads and many store-bought crackers, cakes, and muffins.
 Many natural supplements have not been scientifically demonstrated to reduce cholesterol. In addition, it is important to discuss supplements with your doctor because some may interact with other medications, including over-the-counter medications. Supplements are not strictly regulated, so the dosages and ingredients may be be inconsistent. It is particularly important to discuss any supplements with your doctor if you are pregnant, nursing, or treating a child. That being said, some people have reported positive effects from the following:Whey protein
Artichoke
Barley
Beta-sitosterol
Blond psyllium
Garlic
Oat bran
Sitostanol

, Lovastatin is the active ingredient in the drug Mevacor. When it is taken as part of a supplement, it is not regulated to make sure that the dosages are consistent. This means you could be taking a dangerous amount without realizing it.Check the ingredients on any red yeast supplements. If it contains lovastatin, do not take it.
 Niacin is a B3 vitamin that can inhibit production of bad cholesterol, increase your good cholesterol, and lower triglycerides.Niacin must be taken in high doses in order for it to work, so you'll need to take it with the guidance of a doctor, as risks include liver damage, gastrointestinal problems, or glucose intolerance.You may also experience flushing while using niacin (characterized by a warmth, itching, redness, or tingly feeling under your skin). However, as you continue to take niacin, flushing should subside.
Flushing can be made worse by drinking alcohol or hot beverages.

