 Before you film your first YouTube video, you'll need to know what your channel is going to focus on. All content produced on your channel should follow your established theme from day one.For example, you might decide to stick with a horror theme, or you might gravitate more toward titles in the first-person shooter genre.
You should name your channel something memorable that reflects the theme.;
, While your channel's common theme should connect all of your content, that doesn't mean all of your content needs to be identical. In fact, you should find a way to weave your channel's theme through different types of content.


For example, you might specialize in doing "Let's Plays", but you could also add a review component to your channel.
Similarly, you can always add a challenge-based series of videos to complement your standard walk-throughs or Let's Plays.
If you focus on competitive multiplayer, try analyzing your own footage in a live stream or giving other players tips.
 If your videos aren't high-definition with decent sound quality and proper editing, even loyal subscribers won't spend long periods of time watching them. Common equipment you'll need in order to ensure high-quality videos includes the following:A capture card - The equipment you'll use to record your on-screen content. These tend to run around $150.A microphone - Having a dedicated microphone will ensure that your audio is both live during the play-through (rather than added in later) and clear. You can usually find these for between $15 and $120.Video editing software - Even giving your videos a cursory edit to remove awkward or boring parts will do wonders for your video quality. "Wondershare Filmora" is a great intermediate video-editing software option for both Mac and PC users.

An external hard drive (optional but recommended) - Since you're going to be recording and editing high-definition video files, having an external storage unit for your footage will ensure that your computer's long-term performance won't suffer from storing too much data. Backing up your videos to an external hard drive also means you won't have to worry about them being lost if your channel goes down.
 Whether it's once a week or once a day, establish a posting schedule and stick to it. Your loyal YouTube subscribers will look forward to your next post date, so don't keep them waiting!If you have to change the time and/or date at which you'll be posting, address it in a video.
Consider writing down the time and date that you'll post your next video in the description section.
There is such a thing as posting too frequently--you don't want to over-saturate your subscribers' home pages.
 If your YouTube video is only available on YouTube, you're limiting the demographic that will find and view your video. Posting on Facebook, Twitter, and other high-profile social media sites will immediately increase the number of people who stumble across your video.You can also promote your videos on their relevant subreddit.
YouTube-specific sites like ScrewAttack tend to feature up-and-coming YouTube gamers.
 Doing so will both help you improve your channel in a way that the majority of your users will appreciate and demonstrate that you care about you fanbase. Feedback you'll want to look for includes the following:



Games to play - Ask your subscribers for a wishlist of games they'd like to see in the near future.

Commentary style - The way you speak on camera will affect how well-liked your videos are by your subscribers.

Additional content - As mentioned previously, you'll want to vary your content. However, you should run your additional content ideas past your subscribers first.

General feedback - Give your subscribers a chance to tell you what they like and what they don't about any aspect of your channel and presentation.
 In addition to playing the games that your subscribers want you to play, you should also play any newly released title that fits your channel's content theme. You'll at least want to do this in the early stages of your channel since the number of people interested in a high-profile new game is usually going to be higher than the number of people interested in watching you play or review a classic.


The easiest way to process user feedback on which new releases you should play is to use a Google form.
You can usually preorder a copy of the new release in question and receive it the day of its release.
Live streaming your first few hours with the game is a good way to change up the pace of your videos.
 Outside of asking for suggestions or answering questions related exclusively to the content on your channel, you should find ways to engage your subscribers by replying to their comments and contributing information to their analyses.One easy way to do this is to download the YouTube app to your smartphone and respond to comments on-the-go.
Game analysis is often something in which YouTube users partake in the comments section. You can contribute to this analysis or provide one of your own.

