 Load your diet with fresh fruits and vegetables to increase the pH of your urine.Most fruits are alkalinizing (raise pH), but some do this more effectively than others. Some of the best alkalinizing fruits include:Blackberries, strawberries, raspberries, and blueberries
Nectarines, persimmon, apples, apricots, pears, and peaches
Tangerines, limes, lemons, and oranges
Papaya, pineapple, watermelon, cantaloupe, honeydew, and banana
Grapes, raisins, and cherries
Avocado and green olives

, Try to include fresh vegetables in every meal. Increase your portion sizes of vegetables and decrease your portion sizes of meats to help increase the pH of your urine.Some of the best veggies to regularly include in your diet are:Asparagus, celery, and artichoke
Onions, endives, and kohlrabi
Collard greens, mustard greens, and kale
Winter squash, zucchini, and summer squash
Eggplant, beets, and bell peppers
Parsnips, sweet potatoes/yams, and baked potatoes
Broccoli, cabbage, and okra

, Replace a portion of meat in your meal with legumes like beans or peas.These increase your urine pH and provide a good source of protein. Lentils are also a good alkalizer and make a healthy replacement for meat., A handful of nuts and seeds make a great snack throughout the day, and are a good way to get healthy fats in your diet if you cut down on how much meat you eat.Some nuts are especially alkalizing, such as chestnuts, pumpkin seeds, and cashews.

Almonds, sesame seeds, and sunflower seeds also increase your urine pH, though not as much as the others., Rather than cooking with regular table salt, add flavor to your food with tasty herbs and spices that increase your urine pH. Cook with sea salt and black pepper, and include these other flavors in your meals:Ginger root
Parsley
Basil
Garlic
Cilantro
Bay leaves
Cayenne pepper
Soy sauce
Cinnamon

, While eating alkalizing foods, minimize what you’re eating that increases acid in your urine. Meat, poultry, eggs, fish, and dairy are big acid-formers that are common in many diets. Minimize your intake of these by monitoring your portion size – base meals mainly on fruits and vegetables, with only small servings of the above proteins., Alcohol makes your urine more acidic. Drink mineral water, ginger tea, or pineapple or grapefruit juice instead – these all raise your urine pH.Talk to your doctor if you think you need help to stop drinking.
 Take a plant-based dietary product, or “green food” extract. Use it for a week as indicated on the label. This may effectively raise the pH of your urine and increase alkalinity in your body.An example of a product that has been studied is Greens+, a product by Genuine Health from Toronto, Canada.

