 These can be very simple pieces of design with a photo and a few lines of text. Split the costs and work amongst your support group committee.
 You will need to start posting information about your first meeting at least 1 month in advance, to give media and people time to disseminate your information. The following are ways that you can advertise:


Contact local hospitals, doctor's offices and clinics that treat people with applicable disabilities. Tell them about the support group and ask if you can bring fliers to be given to clients or made available in the office.
Post your meeting time on online events calendars. Ask local television and radio stations if they will create a free public service announcement and ongoing listing on their community calendar.
Post your meeting times on community message boards. You can do this online at Craigslist.com or Facebook. You can also pin fliers up to bulletin boards around the community.
Call your local television and radio stations. Ask to be a guest on a broadcast to speak about the need for a disability support group, when your meetings are and what you hope to accomplish. Ask a health care professional to join you as an expert.
Create a press release. If someone in your committee has marketing acumen, they may be able to write a 1-page release on the need for a support group, how the group will help people with disabilities and when the meetings will be. Submit the release to local blogs, radio stations, TV stations, newspapers and magazines.
Attend local health fairs. If you are not offered a free table or booth, ask if a health care company or service will allow you to distribute information at their table for mutual benefit.
 The first meeting may be held to introduce the group and discuss goals. For subsequent groups, consider asking health care professionals to speak, asking companies to present new devices or technology for disabled people or scheduling a therapeutic activity.
 You will need money in order to continue holding your support group, so schedule a fundraiser within the first few months. Fundraisers can bring your group closer together, garner attention for your cause and trigger community outreach efforts.

