 This will cut down on the chances of parasites getting into the diet.Most commercially prepared kitten or cat food will be balanced for nutrition to help the cat’s natural health. These foods are also more likely to be screened against parasite eggs in the mix. Using raw food, making the cat food yourself, or introducing foreign additives risks parasites or parasitic eggs being ingested. Raw food as a high risk of exposing the cat to intestinal parasites and toxoplasmosis.
 Testing and preventative medicine are the only way to eliminate heartworms from occurring in cats. Have your veterinarian test your kitten or cat first to make sure they are not already infected before putting them on a preventative measure.Once a heartworm infection occurs there is currently no way to eliminate their presence completely with treatment. There are a number of preventative medicines you can give to your cat orally or topically.
Invermectin (Heartgard) is given monthly by mouth to a cat starting at minimum aged 6 weeks. This medicine also treats some intestinal parasites. Milbemycin oxime (Interceptor) is also given monthly by mouth to a cat at least 6 weeks old and weighing at least 1.5 pounds. This medicine also treats some intestinal parasites. Selamectin (Revolution) can be applied topically once a month to the cat’s skin starting at age 8 weeks. This medicine also treats some intestinal parasites, and external parasites like fleas and ear mites. Moxidectin with Imidacloprid (Advantage) is applied once a month topically to a cat’s skin once the cat reaches 9 weeks of age and weighs at least 2 pounds. This medicine also treats some problems with intestinal parasites, and fleas and ear mites.
 A fecal test can determine if intestinal parasites like roundworm, cryptosporidium, or coccidia are present.Testing and medication can help control the spread of intestinal parasites like roundworms. But once they are present then treatment and isolation can take several courses to prevent spreading. If you have multiple cats or other pets then the infected kitten or cat needs to be completely isolated until the veterinarian tells you they are clear. Even then it can take several prescription treatments to thoroughly de-worm the kitten or cat. Quarantine should include the infected pet’s food, water, and litter box. Humans can be infected by these parasites so use caution and extreme care with cleanliness. The best prevention is to keep a clean environment for your kitten or cat. Check the cat’s water for cleanliness, inspect food for signs of spoiling, and make sure the cat isn’t eating fecal matter.
Many of the medicines in the previous step used for heartworms also may help control intestinal parasite infections. Check their packaging. There is no known prevention medication for intestinal parasites at this time.
 In addition to regular changing of litter material in boxes you want to make sure the fecal matter Is properly disposed of. Have the discarded litter material incinerated, flushed, or removed from the house quickly. Don’t let other pets use the litter box. Use boiling water to clean the litter box itself.Toxoplasma gondii (t. gondii) is mostly found in North America. It can infect almost any warm-blooded animal, birds, and even humans. Toxoplasmosis can be passed from a pregnant woman to her unborn child and result in a miscarriage or birth defects. Cats are the primary hosts of t. gondii. It tends to be transmitted through contact with the feces. The oocysts (immature eggs) of t. gondii can survive for years outside the body and resist many disinfectants. Initial infection of t. gondii in cats occurs often with ingestion of infected raw meat or prey (uncooked pork or a mouse). Kittens can be infected at birth or by drinking the milk of an infected mother.
This will help avoid exposure to toxoplasmosis and intestinal parasites.
 Feed it commercial cat food instead of raw ingredients or bones. Don’t let your cat scavenge in garbage, roam outside where they could eat or hunt items unsupervised, and/or drink unpasteurized milk.This also helps protect against intestinal parasites.
 This is an overall protective measure for your kitten or cat to reduce the chances for internal parasitic infections.


Keeping your cat an indoor cat will make it less likely your pet will hunt wild prey or eat something raw out of your supervision. Indoor kittens and cats can also be more easily kept away from other infected animals. If your cat needs treatment then they will be more used to staying inside. This will make treatment easier.

