 In the books, her hair is golden blonde. This is only if you actually want to look like Rosalie, not Nikki Reed. If your hair is any blonde but dirty blonde, don't get it dyed. If it's dirty blonde, use John Frieda Blonde Go Blonder shampoo and conditioner, and the lightening spray.


Take some bobby pins, and pull the longest parts of your hair up, and pin them to your head. Straighten, or curl the bottom part. When that's all done, take the bobby pins down, then pull the very longest part up again, and get the part under it. When that's done, do the top part, then pull half of your hair back.
Another look is to just put it in long, wavy curls, as this is Rosalie's normal style.
On I think October 1st, they're releasing Twilight hair products. There's a Rosalie brush to get her waves, and hot curls to get her curls. Buy them.;
,, Make sure when you apply it, you rub it in, and it looks natural. Next, get powder that is the same color, and apply it with a brush, not the pad that comes with it. Then, if you want to get the "just fed" look, get the lightest shade they have in blush, and apply it on the on your upper cheeks.
 If you don't need contacts, you can purchase a pair that only change your eye color and don't change your vision. Choose either gold or black contacts. You can even get both, so that gold means you just fed, and black means you haven't fed in a while.
 Apply it under your eye lashes, and then on top. Make this in an even line. Then get some Liquid eye liner, and put it on your top lids. Start in the middle, with a thin line, and then bring it all the way out to the corner of your eyes. But make this look natural. Then fill in the line in the corner of your eyes. If you aren't good at putting it on your top lids, or you just want a more natural look, put a little more than usual on your bottom lids and squeeze your eyes shut. This will make the eyeliner go on your top eyelids too and it won't look so dark on top. Take an eyelash curler, and curl your eyelashes BEFORE you apply mascara, or you will rip your lashes out. Then apply as much mascara as you can to your top lashes, but none to the bottom ones. It looks much better and more "perfect" when there is no clumps so either smooth it out while it's still wet, or buy a non-clump mascara. Also, buy a mascara that really volumizes each lash.
, Buy pants that are dark, and tight. Wear high-heel shoes with skinny jeans, that looks hot. Rosalie tends to wear white jackets and dark pants, so try to get that look. Some of the things that Rose wears are (simple) designer clothes, but if you can't afford the kind that she wears, just get look-a-likes.
 Make sure it has no sparkles on it! Then apply a cranberry or plum color to your eyes.
 You can find her necklace online.
 Don't stop eating and starve yourself. Just lose weight if you need to. In the books, Rose looked skinnier than anybody else, so you should shoot for that (but do not starve yourself).

