 RCA exposure is painful and can be fatal. Avoid exposure if possible by staying away from riots, protests and demonstrations. If you are committed to the cause espoused in a protest, don't let the threat of RCAs deter you from participating, but if you see police donning gas masks, or if you see RCAs being deployed, get away quickly. If you don't have a compelling reason to be at a protest, don't go: RCAs do not discriminate between protesters and passersby, and it's simply not worth the potential suffering just to satisfy your curiosity.;
, Wear clothes that cover as much of your body as possible, and cinch them down at the cuffs. Gas masks are effective against RCAs, but only if they are working properly--used masks purchased online or in military surplus stores may not function well, and older gas masks have been rumored to have asbestos filters. **This is an un-substantiated claim that has spread widely - HOWEVER, older, US-MADE canisters have been confirmed to have CHROMIUM toxicity. Also, NUMEROUS claims are made as to the "shelf life" of gas masks. ACTIVATED CHARCOAL, the filter element effective against CN/CS gas, HAS AN INDEFINITE shelf life. ** If you don't have a gas mask, you can use a respirator that covers the nose and mouth--make sure you use filters approved for use with paint thinners and other toxic gases. Alternatively, soak a bandanna or other cloth in apple-cider vinegar or lemon juice and tightly cover your mouth and nose with it. Bring airtight goggles to protect your eyes. Swimming goggles work fine as long as they have a good seal. If possible, don't wear contact lenses. Prepare and carry a solution of water and baking soda (the solution should be about 5% baking soda) to neutralize the chemicals on the skin. Avoid wearing oil-based creams or sunscreens, as these aid absorption of the RCAs.
 The key to minimizing both the severity and duration of the effects of RCAs is to limit exposure. The best way to do this is simply to get away from the chemicals.


Walk quickly, do not run, from the area where the chemicals were released. Running may instigate panic in others. As soon as you detect the release of riot control agents move away as quickly and directly as possible. If the chemicals are released in front of you, you should walk quickly straight behind you to get out of range. Try to get upwind of the point of release.
Avoid visible clouds. RCAs deployed in canisters explode into smoke-like clouds, and clouds can also drift and accumulate, especially in low-lying areas or near the ground. Stay away from these clouds, as they have the highest concentrations of the RCA.
Get to high ground. RCAs are heavier than air, and the highest concentrations thus tend to be near the ground. Don't get down on the ground--it's good to stay upright anyway to reduce your risk of being trampled--and try to get to the highest point possible. This could be up a hill, atop a wall, etc.
Leave the building in the case of indoor release. If RCAs are deployed inside a building, get out as quickly as possible. The chemicals don't dissipate as they would outdoors, and the high concentrations can be extremely dangerous with prolonged exposure.
Get inside if possible. While rarely possible under the circumstances, it may be helpful to get inside a relatively airtight building if RCAs are deployed outdoors. Make sure doors and windows are closed, and try to get to an upper floor. Be aware, however, that if the gas already entered the building through an open window, or if a ventilation system is bringing it in unfiltered, you will need to evacuate the building and get to fresh air. Fresh air, especially if a breeze is present, is preferable to the stale indoor air if you have already been exposed to an RCA.
 If your eyes are burning or if your vision is impaired, do not rub your eyes. Remove contact lenses and flush your eyes thoroughly with cold water for at least 10 minutes. Do not put the exposed contact lenses back in.
 Once you are out of range of the gas take off all your clothes that may have been exposed (this usually means everything down to your underwear). If you are wearing a pullover shirt, cut it off rather than bringing it over your head. Do not put these clothes back on. Seal them in a plastic bag and leave the the bag at the scene--hazardous waste specialists generally come to clean up after RCAs are deployed--or take it with you so that you can clean the clothes later.
 Hot water opens the pores, which causes more of the RCA to be absorbed through the skin. Rinse your whole body in cold water for 3-5 minutes--a shower or hose works perfectly--but do not scrub or apply soap yet. Touching your skin will spread the chemicals and rub them in. If you have a neutralizing solution, such as the baking soda solution mentioned above, apply this liberally all over your body, paying special attention to exposed areas or burning, red, or itchy skin. Many RCAs can be rinsed out of the eye with milk. Fill a shot glass about half full with milk, hold it up to the affected eye and tip your head back, blinking a few times to make sure you rinse well. As your rinse, whether with water or neutralizing solution, try to position yourself so that the water runs directly off each part of your body, instead of trickling down from your head to your toes. The water that comes off your body will be contaminated, so make sure not to get it in your eyes or on other people.
 Shower with warm water and soap only after you have thoroughly rinsed with cold water. It's important that you shower; do not take a bath.
 In many cases, you will not need medical treatment, but if symptoms persist once you are thoroughly clean, if you experience severe symptoms or loss of vision, or if you experience pain in your chest, see a doctor or other health professional immediately.

