 One simple solution is to take an oral pain reliever, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen. Follow the directions on the box for how often you can take it.Anti-inflammatories such as ibuprofen may be more effective than acetaminophen because they can decrease irritation and swelling.However, acetaminophen can still be effective for eliminating pain.;
, Ice-cold popsicles provide relief to burning throats, essentially numbing the pain with cold.You can also try other cold treats, such as ice cream or frozen fruit. Even iced tea or cold water can help your throat.
 Throat lozenges are available over-the-counter and are intended to soothe sore throats. Just be sure to get sugar-free if you need to watch your sugar intake.You can use lozenges as often as you need them. Also, try picking ones that have eucalyptus or menthol, as they offer cooling relief., If you don't like sucking on lozenges, you can use a throat spray instead. Throat sprays such as Chloroplasts have both numbing and antibiotic properties, so they can help you deal with a sore throat.To use them, open your mouth wide. Stick your tongue out. Aim the spray at the back of your mouth, and spray your throat., If your food is extra hot, it can increase the irritation of your throat. Make sure you don't eat or drink scalding food while your throat is sore. Blow on it to cool it. Add an ice cube, or stir it around before eating., Drink plenty of liquids throughout the day while you have a sore throat. If you become dehydrated, your throat can become dry, increasing irritation. You don't have to drink just water. Tea and coffee are fine options, too, especially since warm--not hot--liquids can soothe your throat.Men should drink about 13 cups of water a day, while women should drink about 9 cups. You may need even more when you have a sore throat.To soothe your throat even more, add a tablespoon of honey to your tea or coffee., Having a dry throat can cause extra irritation, making your dry throat worse. Try a humidifier if your home is too dry. If the air in your home is too dry, it can hurt your throat more.However, you can get the same effect from taking a very warm shower, and taking some time to breathe in the steam.Close off the bathroom before starting the shower. When you first turn the shower on before you get in, turn it on extra hot so steam can fill up the bathroom. Turn it down to a manageable temperature before you get in. As you shower, breath in deeply, letting the steam into your throat., Cigarette smoke, even second-hand smoke, can irritate the throat. Avoid being around cigarette smoke until your throat heals., Bacteria builds up on your toothbrush over time. You could be reinfecting your throat with bacteria if you use the same old toothbrush for too long.The bacteria enter your body through your gums, especially if they bleed while you brush., Your doctor is the best source to determine the first line of defense. In many cases, you may need a round of antibiotics to help treat your sore throat, depending on the cause., Add a tablespoon each of honey and apple cider vinegar to warm water. Mix it up well. Drink it down.Some people say that this treatment helps relieve a sore throat in part because it kills bacteria. Honey will also provide some relief for the pain.If you prefer, you can gargle apple cider vinegar instead. Mix 2 tablespoons with 1/2 cup of water for gargling. Leave out the honey., Warm up a cup of water slightly. Add a 1/2 teaspoon of salt to it, and stir it in. Use the saltwater as a gargle, as it can help with pain and inflammation.Saltwater can act as an antiseptic, keeping germs from growing in your throat. It can also help remove phlegm.You can also mix 1/2 teaspoon of salt and 1/2 teaspoon of baking soda into a cup of warm water and gargle it the same way., You can likely find the root online or at natural drug stores. Put a tablespoon of the root in a mug, and pour boiling water over it. Leave it to steep for a half hour to an hour.Strain out the pulp. Drink the mixture.Check with your doctor if you have diabetes or other blood sugar disorders, as it can change your blood sugar levels., Some people have luck soothing their throat with licorice root tea. You can find the tea already mixed at the store, or you can mix your own.To make your own, you'll need 1 cup of licorice root (chopped), 1/2 cup of cinnamon (in small chips), 2 tablespoons cloves (whole), and 1/2 cup chamomile flowers. You can find these at natural food stores. Keep it an airtight jar.Pour 2.5 cups of water into a saucepan. Add 3 heaping tablespoons of the tea to the water. Heat up the tea until it's boiling, and then let it cook over low heat for about 10 minutes. Strain off the pulp, and drink., Heartburn can lead to a burning sensation in the throat as acid regurgitates in the back of your throat.Another symptom of heartburn is a burning sensation in the chest that gets worse if you recline. Usually, these problems occur after you eat.You may be hoarse the next day or have trouble with swallowing.Your mouth might also taste sour or metallic if you have heartburn.Sit up. If you're asleep in bed and get acid from heartburn in the back of your throat, the first step you should take is to sit up. Take a drink of water to help relieve your throat.You can also raise the incline of your bed.
Over-the-counter antacids are the first line of treatment for heartburn. They help neutralize the acid in your esophagus and stomach. They work almost immediately. They won't improve your throat if it's already been burned, but they will stop new acid from entering your throat.Patients with persistent pain and discomfort should see a doctor.
 If other parts of your mouth are burning in addition to your throat, you may have burning mouth syndrome. Secondary burning mouth syndrome can be caused by other problems such as hormones, allergies, infections, and not getting the right vitamins. However, with primary burning mouth syndrome, doctors are still unsure what causes the problem.You may also have dry mouth, or your mouth may taste funny. Talk to your doctor and/or dentist if you have these symptoms.This may be the result of facial neuropathy.
 If you have a fever, it may mean you have strep throat. Other symptoms of strep throat include white spots in the back of your mouth on the roof, fever, headaches, and rashes.No cough is seen with strep throat.


If you suspect you have strep throat, see your doctor. Strep throat can sometimes develop into tonsillitis, which is an infection of the tonsils.Treatment includes antibiotics.
A fever along with swollen lymph nodes and a sore throat can be symptoms of infectious mononucleosis, so see your doctor if you have these symptoms, as well.You will be tested with a monospot test and your doctor may see atypical lymphocytes on a blood test. Avoid sports due to possible splenic rupture with impact activities.
 If your sore throat lingers even after treatment, it could be a sign of something more serious, such as a throat cancer. Talk to your doctor if your throat is sore for more than two weeks, especially if you've had a round of antibiotics.Look for unexpected weight loss associated with cancer.
 Sore and burning throats can also be caused by allergies and smoking. The best way to help a sore throat with these causes is to quit smoking or control your allergies by taking an antihistamine.