 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (180 C). Get out one 9 x 5-inch (23 x 13-cm) loaf pan or four 6 x 2½-inch (15 x 6-cm) mini pans. Spray your pan or mini-pans with cooking spray and set them aside., Place ½ pound (about 10 slices or 226 g) of bacon into a large skillet and turn the heat to medium. Fry the bacon and turn it every once in a while. It should become crispy after about 10 minutes. Use tongs to place the bacon on a cutting board. Chop the bacon into rough pieces and set the bacon aside.If your bacon is very greasy, consider setting the fried bacon on a few paper towels before you chop it. The paper towels will absorb the excess grease.
 Put all of the dry ingredients into a large mixing bowl. Use a whisk to mix the dry ingredients together. Set the dry ingredients aside. You'll need:2 cups (240 g) all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
2 teaspoon kosher salt
½ teaspoon ground black pepper

, Place a medium mixing bowl on your work surface. Pour 1 cup (236 ml) of whole milk into the mixing bowl. Add ⅓ cup (80 ml) of extra-virgin olive oil and 1 egg. Beat the wet ingredients together until they're combined.You could use a lower-fat milk, but the bread may not be as tender.
 Pour the wet ingredients into the bowl of dry ingredients. Use a rubber spatula to gently combine the mixtures. Avoid over mixing the dough or it could become tough., Shred ½ pound (2 cups or 226 g) of cheddar cheese and dump it in the bowl of dough. Add the chopped bacon and use the spatula to carefully fold the cheese and bacon into the batter until it's just combined. Spread the batter in the prepared pan., Put the pan in the preheated oven and bake the bread for 45 minutes. If you're using smaller loaves, bake them for about 25 minutes. The bacon cheddar bread should become golden brown on top. If you insert a toothpick to the center of the bread, it should come out clean once the bread is done baking.Let the bread cool for 15 minutes before you tip it out of the pan. Finish cooling the bread on a wire rack before you serve it.

