 Conditioner locks in moisture and helps repel water to prevent your hair from absorbing more water than necessary following a bath or shower.;
, This speeds up the drying process and prevents your hair from being soaking wet immediately following a shower.


Separate your hair into multiple sections and squeeze each section to wring out excess water.
Flip your head upside down and run fingers through your hair to shake out droplets of water.
 Microfiber towels are soft and super absorbent, and can soak up more water than other towels without damaging your hair cuticles.


Separate your hair into multiple sections and blot each section using a dry towel for the best results., The ends of your hair often dry faster than its roots, which tend to finish drying last. When blotting your hair dry using a towel, spend more time on the roots to speed up drying.
 A microfiber brush has the ability to absorb moisture while you brush, whereas wide-tooth combs separate your hair and promote better airflow.
 This allows your hair to dry as much as possible while you’re getting ready and saves time with blow-drying and styling. For example, wash your hair immediately after waking up, then apply makeup, get dressed, and eat breakfast before blow-drying and styling your hair.
 Many commercial hair products such as mousse, lotions, and primers now contain heat-conducting polymers that wick moisture away from your hair. Apply these products to your hair as directed prior to blow-drying or air-drying your hair., Ionic hair dryers with a wattage between 1800 and 1850 can speed up the drying process by as much as 70 percent., Wearing a towel turban while getting ready allows the towel to absorb excess water and moisture from your hair. Replace with a new towel when your existing towel turban becomes heavy and wet.
 This prevents the top layers from soaking up excess water after they’ve already dried, especially when combing or brushing your hair. Flip your head over, then blow-dry the bottom layers before moving on to the top layers.,