 Autumn is the time when winds breeze by to rid of the warm, hot summer. This transition can be unsuitable for some, especially those who lived in potentially warm climate. Try to cope with the cool weather coming, as it's a mere "hint" to winter. If you can learn how to appreciate the chilly climate, you will find the weather wonderful.


Get the proper clothing. Try to find coats/jackets, hats, gloves, sneakers, anything that can protect you from the chilly weather. Your body will get used to the climate soon enough and you won't have to wear as many layers. (This is also a great shopping chance for those who love to do it!)





;
, Autumn is full of vibrant and passionate colors. You might also find some animals preparing for migration, or hibernation. You could find the following:


Animals






You might find some birds flying down South (there are 4,000 species that do so). In case you did not know, autumn is a time for many animals to migrate. You may also find butterflies. Monarch butterflies migrate in huge groups. (The display is very vibrant!).

Birds may include ducks, geese, swallows, swans, and many more! They move in flocks, so it makes wonderful photography opportunities.





Landscapes and Scenery






Autumn is the time when leaves start losing their abilities to create the green pigment from their chloroplasts, the leaves start to die, as deciduous trees lose leaves to stay alive (to save as much food as possible). the leaves then start turning into a wonderful, vibrant color. The trees then start turning into passionate reds, yellows, and oranges. Just sit down, relax, and enjoy the scenery!
Leaves also start to fall on the ground.(Hence the nickname, "Fall."



, This can be especially enjoyable for children. Just make sure the leaves aren't covered in water, it could become messy. You can make one by doing the following:




Find as many leaves on the ground as possible.
Rake them into a large pile.
Make sure there are no dangers in the pile, such as any rocks, pebble, or perhaps a small child...
Run...and jump!




, After that long period of time that you have been waiting for growth, instead of picking summer blueberries, try going to an orchard or field and go apple or pumpkin picking! Apples are just as delicious as peaches to some people, and autumn is the time to get hand picked apples and pumpkins!


You can also make several desserts:

Some things you can make with apples.

Apple Pie
Apple Crumble
How to Make Applesauce
Caramel Apples
Apple Cider
Apple Jelly


And with pumpkins, comes:

Pumpkin pie

Pumpkin Soup

Note: there are many things to harvest in autumn these are just two.
 There are several holidays in autumn (World Wide too). Autumn is a time of festivals and fun! Here are a few:


Halloween
Moon Festival
Oktoberfest
Labor Day
Thanksgiving
How to Celebrate Dia De Muertos (Day of the Dead)
St. Martin's Day
And so many more!

, Sometimes, autumn can have fishing seasons where the natural fisherman can go enjoy his hobbies. Fishing seasons vary in different countries around the world, but surely, you'll be able to find one!

