 The faculty at boarding schools expect a lot from their students. Their goal is to develop students' critical thinking skills and preparing students for college. Boarding schools also offer smaller class sizes. This allows teachers to work directly with each student. When you talk with your parents, mention that:


Your current classes aren't challenging you.
You want to take college level courses.
You would benefit, or be helped by, smaller class sizes., While public institutions continue to cut funding for the arts, many boarding schools have fantastic fine arts programs. Boarding schools provide their students with the time, instructors, and opportunity needed to develop as a musician, artist, and/or theatrical performer. During your conversation, bring up the fact that:


Your current school does not have a fine arts program.
Attending boarding school would increase your chances of getting accepted into a reputable performing arts college or university., Many boarding schools have outstanding athletic programs. Since their teams can afford to compete around the nation and world, their student athletes are more likely to play in front of recruiters from high ranking college programs. They also offer a variety of sports that are not available at every public school, such as squash and equestrian. As you talk with your parents, mention that:


You want to train and compete at a high level.
Playing for this school will help you get recruited by a Division I college or university., Therapeutic boarding schools are ideal for students struggling to cope with and/or recover from a variety of issues, such as substance abuse, eating disorders, severe traumas, and learning disabilities. These institutions offer students all of the academic and extracurricular opportunities of traditional boarding schools. During their time at school, however, certified providers oversee rehabilitation services for students. When you talk to your parents, let them know that:


You want focus on improving your mental, physical, and/or spiritual health.
You want to receive intensive therapy while attending school.