 Whether it's a busy city or a beautiful beach, it needs to be pictured in your mind exactly as you want it. If you need to, you can go for a walk and pick up some ideas and inspiration and take in what things look like so you can paint them well later.

If you decide to group things together, bear in mind how to keep these things looking realistic or "belonging".
Take digital photos of scenes that really appeal to you. These might be exactly what you want to paint or portions of the whole scene. Having an image to remind you can be extremely helpful. Try to take the images at the time of day you're wanting to represent in the painted scene.
Vacation or holiday snaps can be a great basis for a sketch. Just be sure to use ones taken at the same time of day or the final scene might look unusual.;
, Draw the picture just as you want it to be, only using grey-lead pencil for now. Spend a decent amount of time on this preparation, as it will form the basis for your painting and is the time during which your ideas gel for the final scene.

If you didn't or can't take images of your own, you can search images online to see real images of the things you wish to draw. For example, if you wanted to draw a palm tree, search for "Palm trees" to see up close and from afar what they look like.
Have a rubber/eraser nearby, to easily undo any mistakes made during sketching.
 Is it as you pictured it to be? Is it realistic? If not, rub out any mistakes and re-draw those parts again. If you're not happy with your picture but what you've drawn is realistic, add extra detail and look back on texture. For example, an ocean could have peaking waves or a lagoon could have a ripple of a breeze across it; either body of water could be storm-affected or perfectly still, depending on the effect you're trying to evoke. The texture will help you to achieve the feeling you want your viewers to experience., Picture what you had in mind before you started. Is it the same? Do you like what you see? Is it better or worse? Reflect on your drawing and pick up anything you do and don't like. Ask others what they think and what you can improve on., Using the penciled sketch as a guide, begin to paint the scene in the colors and style you wish to use. The paint medium will impact the brushstrokes, level of color and style of your painting, so be true to each.

If the pencil is likely to show through the paint, erase it or make it lighter before painting.
 Keep in mind that many elements, such as trees, have different shades of the same colour.

For a good technique useful for trees, hillsides and water, use different shades to represent changing light. Hold the brush vertically and dab onto the paper down and up in different spots.
 For the shadier parts, make it darker and for the more sunny places, paint it lighter. Making a set of things lighter on one side (lighter on the left side of all trees and buildings) gives a clearer image of where the sun is located, even on dull, greyer days., Add detail to all parts of your picture, as this will make it look much better in the finished product. Remember to add plenty of texture and perspective.

Outlining with black felt tip pen can sometimes be helpful, depending on the paint used. This won't work with oil paints.
 Is it coming along the way you'd like it to? If not, make the necessary adjustments as you go, for it's much easier than having to paint over the whole thing again., Have the canvas scene framed. Show your masterpiece off to friends and family.