 These tools are sometimes referred to as wheel-cutters. The wheels come in different diameters, with the smallest ones being best for detailed work. Wheel-cutters are relatively inexpensive, so it’s worth it to get one of higher quality.


Look for scoring tools that have a sturdy design and a true carbide wheel. The cheaper tools can cost as little as five dollars. Those of higher quality are usually closer to twenty.
You can get glass scoring tools at craft shops and hardware stores. Hardware stores usually carry the more expensive, sturdier models.
 Some scoring tools are meant to score straight lines and others will score curved lines. Select your tool according to the design you have in mind for your mirror.The different handle shapes offer a variety grips. Choose what’s most comfortable for you to hold.


If you have a very small job to do, look for a steel-wheel cutter. They work as well as the carbide wheels, and are even cheaper.
If you are looking to cut a lot of mirror, invest in the self-oiling mirror cutter. It can last longer than other cutters, and is usually easier to use.
 To make a clean break, your measurements and cut lines need to be as precise as possible. Use a straight edge to mark your cut lines on the mirror’s surface. Mark the cut line with a sharpie or white crayon. The cut line will be your guide so that you can accurately run the scoring tool over it in one continuous motion.


The cleanest break lines will be created when you score with one continuous motion of the tool.Always mark your score lines starting at one edge of the glass and ending at the other., Put your mirror on a hard, flat surface that is free of debris. Hold the scoring tool vertically in your hand and line the wheel up at the beginning of your first cut line. Place the straight edge right beside the line so you can score along right next to it. This will give you the straightest, most accurate results.


You can run the scoring tool along the line toward you or away from you. Try both ways to find out which you feel most comfortable with.If you’re concerned that your straight edge might wiggle around while you’re scoring, try using a simple clamp to hold it firmly in place. , With most mirrors, you should hear a screeching sound if you are doing it correctly. If you don't hear that sound, you aren't pressing down hard enough. If you press too hard, you will notice tiny chips collecting around the score. These may get under your wheel and damage or dull your cutter, so brush them away immediately if you see them.


Try to apply an equal amount of pressure for the duration of the score.Avoid lifting your tool up during the process so that you can score the line in one continuous motion., Continue scoring the mirror until you have completely outlined your intended design. Stop every other score or so to brush away glass shards that have collected on the mirror’s surface and on your work surface. Leaving glass chips around while you’re in the midst of scoring can interrupt the accuracy of your cut lines and damage the carbide wheel on your scoring tool.For best results, try to keep your work space as debris-free as possible throughout the process.

