 Aphid damage is recognisable by telltale signs of cottony-looking threads around new buds and leaves. Some aphids prefer older growth. Aphids are also known as "plant lice" and they hang around in bunches, making them easy to spot.;
, Create an aphid spray using a mild detergent and water, or make a soapy garden spray. You could also try the more garlic and onion version here. Spray every two to three days over a period of a week - you must spray the aphids directly for this to be effective. You can also use garlic spray as an effective aphid controller.


Consider using neem oil mixed with water. Or, add neem oil with OHN (garlic + ginger + molasses). Dilute the ingredients in water and spray directly below the leaves (where aphids hide). Spray repeatedly 3 times per week for a plant with serious aphid damage.
 Provided you don't mind quite a bit of patrolling and squishing, you can be very effective at reducing the aphid population by manually squashing them. This is labour intensive and likely you will miss some, but combined with organic sprays, this can be very effective. Wash your hands well with soap after each session, or wear garden gloves.
 Plant your favourite roses or other aphid-attracting plants alongside aphid-discouraging plants. Aphids dislike garlic, chives, onions, mint, petunias. Aphids love nasturtiums. Roses grown with garlic plants or chives are much less prone to aphid attacks and both have a beautiful flower of their own during flowering season.
 Ladybirds (ladybugs) feast on aphids. You can purchase the larvae in packs online or from specialist nurseries. Follow the release instructions carefully - they should be released right near the food (the aphids) and must never be released in an area that has been sprayed with pesticides.
 Depending on how sensitive your plant is and your water usage restrictions, you can blast aphids off the plant with the jet stream of a hose.
 Sprinkle flour over the aphids using a sieve or flour sifter. The flour will coat the aphids and they will drop off.
 Cut-up banana peels or use dried banana pieces for this. Dig the cut-up peel or dried pieces 2.5–5 centimeter (2.0 in) / 1–2" into the ground around the base of every plant that aphids are attracted to. The aphids will soon be gone.

