 When you are terminating one employee rather than a massive layoff, you want to carefully review the employee’s personnel file and make sure that the reason for termination is adequately documented in the record.


For example, if you are terminating an employee for poor performance, you should review the employees performance appraisals and other notations from the employee’s supervisor to make sure that the poor performance was documented.
Make sure that your basis for termination is one that is included in the employee handbook. Some general reasons for termination may include: discriminatory acts towards employees; falsifying records; violation of company policies; failure to perform assigned work; damaging company property; or stealing company funds.
Consider having another supervisor review the evidence in support of termination. By having someone not personally involved with the employee review the termination evidence, you have a greater chance of addressing any potential shortcomings in your evidence and have the opportunity to correct the problem before you terminate the employee., Once you have decided to terminate the employee’s employment, a manager should meet with the employee and outline the reasons for termination. The employee should be told what the company will say to future employers and discuss any of the employee’s obligations to the company such as the protection of trade secrets., Even if you are not required to offer a severance agreement based on the employment agreement, a severance agreement is a good way to avoid future lawsuits brought by the employee. Essentially, you are offering the severance package as consideration for the employee waiving any future lawsuits.


If the employee is entitled to a severance agreement you must uphold your original employment agreement.
When crafting waivers do not attempt to have the employee waive claims that cannot be waived such as Equal Employment Opportunity Commission claims.
Do not engage in any behavior that could be seen as coercive or intimidating.
Discuss the elements of the severance package with the employee.
Offer the employee time to review the agreement with an attorney.
Set forth any non-compete clauses or agreements against working for competitors and disclosing any trade or business secrets.
Include a waiver of all lawsuits by the employee against the company.
Include the specific grounds for termination.
Include a severance payment in addition to any vacation time or salary that the employee is owed.
Make sure that the agreement complies with state and federal laws.
State that the employee must return any company products or business materials in the employee’s possession.