 If you are a driver or hope to become a driver, it might be easier for you to register as an organ donor with your local DMV. The DMV has partnered with Donate Life California in order to make it simpler for residents to join the registry.Note that Donate Life California and the DMV will enter you into the same registry. There is only one donor registry in California.
 If you do not know where the nearest DMV is to you, you can use a DMV finder through the DMV website: http://www.dmv.org/ca-california/dmv-office-finder.php . If you like, you can make an appointment in advance. Otherwise, you can visit your local DMV during office hours and wait in line as directed., You can only sign up for the donor registry through the DMV when you are renewing your driver's license or applying for your first license.Your choice to become an organ donor will be printed directly onto your new license card.


Note that if you have an old DONOR sticker attached to your license, you are not registered with Donate Life California. If you have recently renewed your license or ID and you have a DONOR symbol pre-printed on the card, then your decision has been stored with Donate Life California.
 When you apply to renew or receive a driver's license, you will be given Form DL 44. This form includes a question about whether you would like to join the organ donation registry. Simply check "Yes! I want to be an organ and tissue donor!" in order to give your consent to join the registry. The DMV will pass along your information to Donate Life California.Note that Form DL 44 cannot be accessed online. You must receive this form at your DMV office in-person., The DMV will provide you with your driver's license that indicates your choice to be on the donor registry. You will also be provided with a separate donor card that must be signed by a witness. Having these pieces of identification on you will help a hospital locate you on the donor registry should you approach brain death., When you register to become an organ donor through the DMV, your information will be passed along to Donate Life California. The DMV will have no direct access to your donor profile after you have registered: only Donate Life California is able to store your decision to become a donor. If you ever wish to remove yourself from the registry or update your information, you can do so through the Donate Life California website at https://register.donatelifecalifornia.org/profile/login/ . Simply enter in your driver's license number and date of birth, and you can access your profile.


There might be a 2-week delay between registering at the DMV and being able to see your profile on Donate Life California.