 Insulate your dog from the bright lights and loud noises of storms and fireworks. Bring the dog indoors, and close all windows and doors. Draw the curtains so the dog can't see the flashes. If appropriate (not during an electrical storm) put the TV on with the volume low, to act as a distraction. Remember to act normally and go about your normal business so as to send out the message that everything is OK and you aren't worried., A fearful dog instinctively wants to hide. If the dog chooses to go to ground and hide under a bed or behind a sofa then let it. You may wish to provide additional security by laying a blanket over the edge of the bed to provide additional sound insulation.


If the dog is crate trained, it may wish to go to its crate. Cover most of the crate with a thick blanket so that it is even more cave-like and secure than normal. Place something with your scent on it inside the crate to add to the dog's feelings of security.If your dog is not crate trained then consider doing so as part of your strategy for helping him overcome this fear.
 When a lot of fireworks are anticipated plug-in DAP diffuser in your house beforehand. These devices give off a synthetic dog pheromone that makes dogs feel safe and secure. The diffusers help to give an anxious dog heightened feelings of security, and can diffuse some of its anxiety.
 These work by fitting the dog snugly and pressing against its body. This is akin to swaddling a young baby, which gives a sense of security and safety. For some dogs it takes the edge off of the anxiety and helps to bolster their confidence., Some dogs are so fearful they try to escape, harm themselves, or lose control of their bladder or bowels. If your dog has this type of extreme anxiety then get it checked by your vet. If there is no medical explanation for the dog's extreme fear, then the vet may be able to prescribe medications to calm the dog during the event.


There is no one drug that is perfect, but one useful combination is diazepam and propranolol. Diazepam is a tranquilizer, which lessens the feelings of anxiety, while propranolol is a beta blocker, which prevents the heart from racing. This combination helps to keep the animal relaxed during a scary event.Acepromazine (ACP) sedates the dog but it still experiences the fear. So externally the dog seems improved, but it is still fearful. This is why this drug has fallen out of favor.

