 Keeping the house clean with or without a full family takes a lot of energy and can help develop planning and organizational skills.


If your family chooses to permanently assign cleanup chores, you might do the dishes each night, someone else might do the laundry, and someone else may do the vacuuming.
If you choose to assign cleanup tasks on a rotating basis, you could use a calendar to track who is responsible for what and when. You might write “Bobby, dishes / Sandra, laundry / Mike, vacuuming” on Sunday of one week. The next Sunday, you might write “Sandra, dishes / Mike, laundry / Bobby, vacuuming.”

, Everything should have a proper place assigned to it. After you’ve used something, place it back where it belongs. For instance, put the salt and pepper on the table where they belong, and put dirty dishes in the sink when finished eating. Encourage the rest of your household to do likewise.
 It might be helpful to have a desk or table on which to work. Stock the drawers with small containers containing useful materials like pencils, erasers, and paperclips.


Try to keep your study space free of distractions like TV and video games. This might make it easier to stay organized and focused on your work.
 Set aside time to study for tests and do your homework. Ideally, you should study at the same time each day. Think about your schedule and choose a time when you will feel fresh and motivated to get some work done. The best time to study is usually not immediately after school. Try to wait until shortly after dinner so you have some time to relax, shower, or talk to your friends.


For instance, if you get home at 3:00 each day and like to have a snack and chat with your parents, set aside time from 6:00 to 8:00 or so to work. Extend the study period if you need to.
 Getting enough sleep is always a challenge. Having a regular bedtime and wake-up time makes it easier. Set an alarm clock so that you wake at the same time each morning. If necessary, set an alarm clock to indicate when to go to bed as well.


With a regular bedtime, it may be easier to wake up fully rested and avoid scrambling for your breakfast, books, assignments, backpack, or suitcase.
Adults need to get at least seven hours of sleep each night.Aim to get at least that many hours of sleep. For instance, if you want to be up by 8:00 each morning, be in bed by midnight to allow yourself time to fall asleep.

