 To help your body burn more calories naturally, make sure you're getting enough sleep. When you're sleep deprived it can affect your metabolism and how many calories your body burns.Studies have shown that those adults who get an adequate amount of sleep each night burn about 5% more calories during the day compared to those who didn't sleep enough.Health professionals recommend that adults get about 7 to 9 hours of sleep each night.
That might mean you need to go to bed earlier or set your alarm clock for later in the morning.
 In addition to getting a good night's rest, it's also important to make sure you're drinking enough water during the day. This can affect your weight long-term.


Drinking more water doesn't necessarily help you burn more calories. However, it can help keep your appetite at bay and prevent excess snacking or overeating.Aim for at least 64 oz of clear hydrating fluids each day. In addition, stick to the most hydrating fluids like water, flavored water, sparkling water, decaf coffee and tea.To minimize calorie intake, stay away from liquid calories. Drinking beverages like alcohol, sodas, fruit juice, sweet tea or coffee can work against those 300 calories you burned during your workout.
 If you're working hard to burn 300 calories, try to support that effort by eating well. Keep portions in control to help minimize your total calorie intake during the day.


It's important to measure out your portion sizes. Guesstimating how much you're supposed to eat generally results in overeating. Take the time to use a food scale or measuring cups to track your portions.
For protein based foods, measure out a 3 to 4 oz serving or about a 1/2 cup per serving.For fruits, measure out a 1/2 cup of chopped fruit, 1/4 cup of dried fruit or about 1 small piece per serving.Vegetables have a bigger serving size. Measure out 1 cup or 2 cups of leafy salad greens per serving.Grains should be measured to a 1/2 cup or about 2 oz total per serving. Also, make sure to measure grains after they've been cooked (like pasta or rice)., Keep your metabolism functioning at a higher level by managing your stress. Over time, chronic stress will effect how many calories your body can burn during the day.Recent research has shown that under stress, your body will burn less calories overall because your metabolism naturally slows.
In addition, this stress causes an increase in appetite and the desire for higher fat, higher carb foods.
If you have a stress lifestyle, job or home life, work on managing this stress better.
Consider: calling a friend to vent, going for a walk, doing meditation, listening to music or reading.
If you're having difficulty managing your stress, consider seeking extra help from a behavioral specialist.

