 Will this be a hand-written letter, an email, or a text message? If you do choose to write your farewell letter on traditional paper, investing a couple dollars in some classic stationary is an elegant and thoughtful touch.


Sending a text message is perhaps the most ungracious medium possible. In some cases, this might be absolute perfection.
 Contrary to the dramatic scenes in movies, letter writing should take a bit more effort than tearfully or angrily scratching some words onto paper. An outline is a great way to straighten your thoughts and organize exactly what you want to say before you begin writing. The last thing you want to do is to forget something important, or to ramble on aimlessly.
 Do not be concerned if it takes several drafts; often, the best thought out letters do. Take the time to perfect the letter, as it may well be the last communication you ever have with the recipient. Also, take the time and effort to write neatly and legibly, and to spell everything correctly. This does not change the content of your letter, but it will certainly affect the recipient's final impression of you.
 Before you place your letter in the envelope, or hit the Send button, let it settle. Once it's no longer fresh in your mind, you will find it much easier to correct any mistakes, whether those are simple spelling and grammar errors, or in the tone and content of your delivery. Having a trusted friend look over your letter can be very helpful, too.
 Including some small flourishes to your final correspondence can be a thoughtful and classy way to say goodbye.


For professional farewells to colleagues, your new business card can a nice touch.
For friends and family, a special photograph of yourself or a shared memory is a welcome addition
If the goodbye letter is to a lover, some token of your affection or of your relationship could also be stirring.
 Once you are completely content with your written, reread, and revised goodbye letter, fold it neatly and slip it into an with any pictures, cards, or other mementos. Seal it, stamp it, and drop it in the mailbox or press "send."

