 This is a step by step introduction to the games basics, you will receive a sum of cash at the end of the tutorial as well as the starting money you already have. It is during the tutorial that you should familiar yourself to the interface and menus. Follow the tutorial and then continue to step two of this guide.;
,, You will also have an amount of fuel and you should be making Trithium.



You should also build a Mining Platform, this mines ores that you sell for money(You must remember to sell the ores and restart the mining process every hour), upgrade it to level 3. You should also upgrade your Solar Generator to level 7-8 and Fuel Refinery to level 5-6.
While waiting on these to upgrade, click on the Research Center link, this will take you to the research center. First you should invest in researching Trithium and Ore storage, and then research the first defensive unit called "Crasher".


By now you should be running out of your starting cash, that is if you haven't already, but never fear! Your Trithium Refinery should now be pumping Trithium and your Mining Platform should be drilling ores.
These two buildings are the main income for the game and you will need to keep them upgraded and maintained in order to make more cash.
 The research on the "Crasher" unit should be completed by now, if so click the defense link. Here you will see two units(If you have been following this guide) A "Laser Wall" unit and the newly researched "Crasher" unit. The "Crasher" is $11,700 and the "Laser Wall" is $6,000. As you can see by the Health and Attack stats, the "Crasher" was well worth the 8 hour wait. Build yourself 1 "Crasher" and 10 "Laser Walls", this will cost a bit more than expected($71,700), but it is worth it in case somebody wishes to steal your precious Trithium. It is also a good idea to now start with offensive units.
 Once these are finished being built, upgrade them all to level 2-3. Also update your Trithium and Ore storage to level 3, the ore storage can only be upgraded to level 2 for now.


By now you have probably been waiting quite awhile in between steps for money to stockpile, in order to initiate the above upgrades. So here we need to start upgrading our Trithium refinery once more(if have not already). Upgrade the refinery to level 15, and then wait for the Trithium to stockpile. You also should be selling ores every hour in the Mining Platform.
 Go into the units page and create a few units, but you should know that all the units have advantages and disadvantages. The Air Units are the fastest units and take less fuel, but they have a small cargo hold and are not very strong. The Hovercraft Units are the strongest of all the units and have a large cargo hold, but they are slow and take a lot of fuel, the Land Units are a middle ground between the two.
, Many players think they need to upgrade the Solar Generator every time they upgrade a building, this is not needed! It only takes one level of Solar Generator to every two levels of resource building. Click the Solar Generator link to see if you need more power.)

, As you will have noticed some(most) research topics have requirements that must be met before you can research them, if so then complete the requirements and continue.


By now you might have been playing a few days, because it takes a rather long time to upgrade buildings, stockpile money, research topics Etc. Also at about this time it will be a bit harder to lay down a straight path to upgrade your base, and because of this we are nearing the point where you will have the necessary skills and knowledge to stop using this guide and forge your own path into the world of ZeldereX(which you have probably already been doing).
 If you have not already started attacking other players bases, you might want to look into it, it is a quick way to make cash but it is also a quick way to make enemies.


While we are on the subject Allies and Enemies can be both beneficial and harming.

Trusted Allies will protect you bases if someone attacks you, give tips and hints, establish trade routes with you(Max 5) and all around be you friend. However you should also protect your allies and doing so can make enemies.
Enemies are players who hate your guts and will stop at nothing to attack you and more or less destroy you. You can play the game without Allies or Enemies, but most likely you will be making Friends and Enemies sooner than you think.
 Choose wisely when you decide to start a new base.

