 Hold the tortoise in both hands, being careful not to drop it. Hold the tortoise up high enough to be able to see underneath it. Do not flip the tortoise on its back. This is very stressful for the animal.If the tortoise is too big to lift above your head, try lifting it just slightly off the ground. Then, get down low enough to see underneath it.;
, The shell underneath the tortoise is called the plastron. Taking a look at this part of the shell is often the easiest way to tell a tortoise's sex.If the plastron is indented, or concave, it is most likely male. The concave plastron helps the male to more easily mount the female.
If the plastron is flat or convex, it is most likely female. A flat or bulging plastron helps the female carry more eggs.
 Determining the shape of the plastron might not be easy with only your eyes. You can feel the underside of the tortoise to determine if the shape is convex, flat, or concave.
 This is called the anal scute. The scute will have an indent that is shaped like a "V" or a "U." This indent is just underneath where the tail comes out.A male's anal scute usually forms a wider, more open angle, with the points farther from the marginals to allow the tail to move freely.
A female's anal scute will form a tighter angle, with points close to the marginals. This offers her more protection.
 Don’t hold the tortoise in the air for longer than necessary. This can be stressful for them. Return the tortoise to its usual environment as quickly as possible.
 Not all species of tortoise can be sexed based on the color of their shell. However, in general, males will have somewhat brighter coloration than females. This can be especially true when they are mating.Males are usually smaller than females, too. Red-footed tortoises are an exception. In this species, the males are generally the same size as the females.
 The carapace is the upper shell. In a few species, the shape of the carapace can reveal the sex of the tortoise. If you know your tortoise is one of these species, examine the shape of the shell for clues. For example:Male hinge-back tortoises have more elongated bodies, while the females are rounder.
Male Hermann's tortoises will be a little bit wider at the rear than the females of the same species.

