 Young babies cannot tell us what is bothering them. They communicate with body language, including squirming.


If your baby is particularly squirmy, he or she may be trying to tell you something.;
, For younger babies, it may be because they are hungry, gassy, or tired. A young baby who tugs at their mouth or makes sucking faces is probably hungry, but if they rub their eyes they are often tired.


Older babies are more able to show or tell you their discomfort, but they still follow many of the basic cues of young infants. Knowing your baby’s individual cues and schedule can help you know how to best meet their needs.
 Once you have determined at least one reason why your baby is squirming, do what you can to alleviate that discomfort. This may mean feeding or burping your baby, or waiting until after a nap to change their clothes.


Starting with a baby who is as comfortable and content as possible will help the entire clothes changing process. Of course some babies just love to move and will always be squirmy, in which case you just need to be patient and prepared.
 Your baby may squirm because he or she is hungry. Unless a dirty diaper must be changed, consider feeding your baby before you try to change him or her.
 Your baby may be uncomfortably cold during changes. If the room is chilly, or if your baby has just come out of a warm bath, this problem could be exacerbated.


If possible, give your baby some time to adjust to the temperature before removing his or her clothing.
 Clothing manufacturers try to increase their profits by making baby clothes as cute as possible. Unfortunately, cuteness does not always equate with comfort. Lace collars, elastic cuffs, and stiff material can irritate your baby and cause excess squirming.


If your baby seems to squirm most when you dress him or her in particular outfits, those outfits, and the material they are made of, could be your problem.
 If you have a changing table, it may be the best bet for safely dressing a squirmy baby – it will keep your baby at a comfortable height and allow you to keep supplies handy. Put your elbows on the table, and use your forearms to control your baby’s movements while you change and dress him or her.


If you are not vigilant, an active baby can fall from the changing table. Use one hand to hold your baby in place at all times, and pay attention – you may need to react quickly. Never leave your baby on the changing table, whether it has a safety strap or not. If you need to get supplies, take your baby with you.
 A bed can be a great surface for changing a baby’s clothes – it’s soft, roomy, and not as high as the changing table. Make sure everything you might need is on hand.


If you are also changing your baby’s diaper, protect the bedclothes by placing your baby on a towel.
 One of the simplest and safest ways to change an active baby is to change your baby on the floor. Let your baby roll around a little, then dress him or her as usual. If you will also be changing your baby’s diaper, you might want to protect your carpet by spreading a towel or sheet out.


If your baby is extremely active, you might have to stretch an arm or a leg across his or her stomach in order to complete the change.
 If you do not need to change your baby’s diaper, you can also try holding him or her in your lap. It can be much easier to control a baby’s movements this way. To change your baby on your lap:


Simply sit your baby in your lap, wrap one hand around him or her, and use your knees for extra control. Then change your baby’s clothes as you normally would.
 Always remember to keep your eyes on your child, regardless of where you decide to change your baby.


Follow basic baby safety rules and avoid putting anything dangerous, such as blind pulls, electric outlets, or small items, in the changing area and within your baby’s reach.
 The best choices for active babies are those that must be held with two hands. That way, you will only have to fight with your baby’s legs – his or her arms will be occupied.


It’s generally a good idea to keep a second and third toy available, because squirmy babies will often tire of the first toy while you are still struggling to change them.
 Some babies prefer to imitate you. Offer your baby a clean diaper or the package of wipes to hold while you get him or her changed.
 Mobiles hung on the ceiling work well for small babies because it gives them something new and interesting to look at while you change them.


Rotating mobiles and mobiles that make sounds are especially distracting.
 If you are desperate to keep your baby still during changes, think about allowing him or her to hold something that would ordinarily be off limits. For example, let your baby hold your phone during changes.
 Sing songs, make funny faces, or just talk to your baby. You may be able to keep his or her attention long enough to complete the change.


Try blowing bubbles or even tickling your baby in an effort to keep their attention on you.
 For extremely fussy babies, enlist the help of a spouse or family member to distract and restrain the baby while you change their diaper and clothes.


An older child can also help in the process by keeping the baby occupied while you get them changed.
 To minimize the stress and amount of time it takes to change a squirmy baby, have everything ready before you begin. Gather all of the changing supplies, such as:


A clean diaper, wipes, cream, clean clothes, socks, and shoes.
It can be helpful to keep all diaper changing essentials in a basket to transport to the changing area so you never forget an important component. Keep toys and other items to distract your baby within arm’s reach.
 Take a fresh diaper, open it, and set it near the changing surface. It’s best to do this before you begin undressing your baby.


Doing this will help to keep your baby from rolling or wiggling while you are trying to get set up.
 Place your diapered baby on the changing surface, and, with one hand, grasp his or her legs at the ankles. This way, you’ll have his or her legs under control while you change the diaper.
 Using your free hand, unfasten and remove the old diaper. Move the dirty diaper away from the changing area to avoid it getting kicked by a squirmy baby and making a larger mess.
 Using diaper wipes, clean up your baby before you replace the diaper.
 Keeping one hand around your baby’s ankles, use the other hand to place a clean diaper under your baby’s bottom.
 As quickly as possible, fasten the diaper. It might be easiest to hold your baby’s stomach with one hand and fasten the diaper with the other.


If you are using the floor as your changing surface, you can also keep your baby still with your leg.
 If you know your baby is squirmy and difficult to change, plan their wardrobe accordingly. Clothing with lots of snaps and buttons takes longer to put on and is more difficult with a squirmy baby.


Look for simple shirts and pants, shorts, or skirts with elastic waistband.
 Before you begin changing your baby, put a set of clean clothes nearby. That way, they will be within reach as you struggle to keep your baby still.
 If the outfit is made of more than one piece, start with the shirt. Spread the neck opening with your fingers, and gently pull it over your baby’s head with your hands still inside. If your baby tries to roll, follow his or her movements. Then insert your baby’s arms one at a time, bending them at the elbows and then pulling them through the sleeves.


Try to keep a hand or forearm on your baby’s torso at all times. This will keep him or her still long enough for you to get the shirt on. If your baby does roll or wriggle, try to follow his or her movements.
 Wrinkle one pant leg, bend your baby’s leg at the knees, and then push the pant leg over. Repeat with the second leg. Hold onto your baby as best you can with your hands or forearms.
 Choose clothing wisely. If you have a very squirmy baby, it can help to choose one-piece outfits that button up the front. That way, you can easily open the buttons, place your baby on top of the clothing, thread the baby’s hands through the sleeves, and then pull your baby’s legs through the leg openings. Then fasten the buttons.


In general, it’s better to button or buckle the clothes from the bottom up. Baby clothing is often designed so that the legs come out easily for diaper changes. Once you button the bottom part, it will be easier to button the middle.
 If you have an extremely wiggly baby, you may not be able to get all the buttons and snaps done correctly all at once. Just fasten enough of the outfit so that it stays in place. You can finish it later, when your baby is calmer.
 If your baby wears shoes, find shoes that are slip on or elastic instead of laces that require tying and take up valuable wiggle time.
 After the diaper and clothes change is complete, give your baby a hug and some attention to remind them that changes aren’t that bad. Rewarding them for good behavior with physical touch may help babies get over their squirminess.

