 Small cost beats combined with booster spells and minions is the core strength of the Hunter. It can also set powerful secrets (traps) to eliminate minions on the other side of the board.


Rexxar’s hero power is called Steady Shot. This hero power just costs 2 mana and inflicts 2 damage to the enemy hero directly. Yes, bypassing taunts and other minions. Very powerful in reducing your enemy’s life health points (HP) slowly each turn.
The Hunter’s minions and spells has great synergy. Almost all his beasts affect each other. Some add attack power and health, some add taunt, and some even add charge!
Unleash the Hounds could be the most popular card in the Hunter’s deck for it can summon minions for each enemy minion on the board. Take advantage of this effect once enemy minions are starting to dominate you.
One of the most powerful traps is the Explosive Trap. This secret inflicts 2 damage on all enemy characters – including the enemy hero. This is a very effective board sweeper especially with enemy minions with small HP’s.;
, Lots of Hearthstone players agree that the Hunter deck is one the most powerful decks in Hearthstone. Why not? It is aggressive and very hard rush. Hunter cards work so good together and can be constructed very cheaply.


The Eaglehorn Bow plays a vital role in the Hunter’s deck. Not only does it inflict 6 damage for just 3 mana – it can also prolong its use every time Rexxar activates a secret, which the Hunter has lots of!
Include two secrets in your arsenal. The ever popular Unleash the Hounds and the situational trap Misdirection. Pairing Unleash the Hounds with the Starving Buzzard seems to be the best combo here for it also allows you to draw cards equal to the summoned hounds. Summoning the Timber Wolf surely adds to the injury for it buffs beasts’ attack. These secrets can also benefit the Eaglehorn Bow.
Some opponents will pull out lots of heavy taunts just to prevent your hounds to attack. This is when the Hunter’s Mark comes handy. This spell sets a minion’s HP to one. An easy kill even for a 1/1 hound.
Flare and Tracking will help you draw your essential cards. These spells are low cost and also gives Rexxar quick access to the cards you want to get. As bonus, Flare also cancels all secrets your enemy hero has. Ouch.
Kill Command is an easy 5 damage for 3 cost! Imagine that – with two Kill Commands, you can inflict 10 damage to your enemy (even the hero) as long as there’s at least a beast on your side of the board which is very likely. Now that’s what I call synergy.
Another dual effect card is Nourish. This card can actually be a life saver for it allows you to draw 3 cards or acquire two additional mana.
Some Hunter decks include Animal Companions for instant powerful beasts for just 3 cost. The downside of this is that it can be a random beast. So sometimes it can be a beast that does not actually suit your current situation.
 Neutral minions that help inflict quick and sure damages are welcome to this deck. Not necessarily beasts but still share the synergy of the Hunter cards.


Minions like the Wolfrider and Arcane Golem are easy picks since they are charge creatures with high damage infliction. These are important summons when you are just short of little damage to depleting your enemy hero’s HP.
The Abusive Sergeant for one drop can easily buff a minion to add damage to its attack. Combined with Leper Gnome, it instantly buffs its attack to 4! Add another 2 damage when the Leper Gnome gets destroyed. Not bad for one drop minions, eh?
In case there’ll be taunts in front of you, aside from the Hunter’s Mark, the Iron-beak Owls can help you cancel this taunt effect. The silence effect can also be handy to subdue minions with powerful effects like Ysera.
 The most suiting legendary for the Hunter deck is no other than Leeroy Jenkins, almost a favorite legendary minion for rush decks. It has 6 attack power and has charge for just 4 cost.


Play this along with Unleash the Hounds and it gives you two additional hounds from Leeroy Jenkins’ whelps on the opposite side.
Reserve Leeroy for the final kill, his damage can surely be fatal but he can be very vulnerable since he just have 2 HP. His whelps can easily destroy him on your enemy’s turn so make sure there’ll be no more next turn after Leeroy attacks.

