


This narrows down the pool of potential dance partners considerably, because if he's into swing and you only want to dance ballroom or Latin, your partnership will be short-lived.;
,


This gives you the broadest exposure to different dance styles, lead and follow styles, and also "dance personalities"--that is, each person's individual approach to dance. Not only does this give you context for determining your own personal approach to and preference for dance, it also gives you a chance to decide which sort of dancer you're most comfortable with.
Although the basic steps to any given form of music are fairly universal, the range for interpretation and expression really is endless. So if you meet somebody that says you're dancing wrong, you could be making a mistake--or you just might be dancing with the wrong person.
 Remember, you're going to be spending extended amounts of time with this person, and the occasional creative conflict is inevitable.


The ideal dance partner should also be at about the same ability level as you are, although if you're otherwise compatible, you might be comfortable dancing with somebody who's more or less experienced than you are.
You can always learn new techniques, but personality is difficult to change--so if you have to choose between one or the other, personality trumps ability.
Select a partner who has a similar level of commitment to dancing as you do. In other words, you should be looking to spend similar amounts of time dancing, and have similar goals for your time together, whether they're fitness, competition or performance oriented.
 Wear deodorant and clean clothing.
Avoid eating garlic, onions, or other strong-smelling foods just before you go out dancing.
Keep your own body weight under control. This doesn't have anything to do with whether you're fat or lean. Instead, it means being well-balanced at all times so that you don't have to lean on or fall onto your partner for support.
 Politely make your position clear from the start, and stick with it.


You're going to spend a lot of time together in close physical contact, so developing some sort of friendship is inevitable, and romantic relationships between dance partners are common. That doesn't mean you have to date or be romantic; keeping clear boundaries from the start will help keep all parties involved from getting confused.

