 One of the simplest ways of avoiding looking like a cat lady is to simply not own that many cats. Limit yourself to one or two cats and make sure you can easily provide for the both of them.


Two cats is a great number to own. The cats will keep one another company when you are away from the house, dampening any guilt you may feel for leaving them alone.
Too many cats running around the house tends to increase the chance of behavioral problems in the cats, such as fighting, spraying, or otherwise damaging the environment.;
, Compassion for abandoned cats and other animals lead many to rescue an animal in need, or take one in from the street. Don’t let your compassion for such animals get the better off you. It’s easy to fall into a habit of taking in every abandoned animal you happen upon, and before you know it, you have far too many cats to support in a healthy manner.Join an animal rescue group organization. There are countless cat rescue groups throughout the US. These groups are dedicated to finding homes for cats in need, and often guarantee a “no kill” policy for cats who are kept until they are adopted. Look for your local organizations to see how you can help better the lives of cats without necessarily owning them.Many organizations also need volunteers to help socialize young abandoned kittens. This is a great opportunity to help cats in need without getting in over your head., Many cats (and dogs) find themselves without a home because pet owners fail to spay or neuter their pet. By doing your part and spaying or neutering your cat, you can ensure that more cats are not brought into this world that may not be able to find a home.


Getting your pet fixed also improves the long term health of your pet. Spaying or neutering reduces the urge for your cat to roam, show aggression, and otherwise get themselves into trouble.
Reducing harmful and aggressive behavior will also reduce the overall costs associated with raising your cat over the duration of your time together., Failure to clean the box regularly can cause your cat to start relieving itself outside of the box!Litter boxes should be scooped at least every other day. If you have more than one cat, then you will need to scoop more frequently in order to keep the litter box clean, and your cats happy.


The type of litter box you use is up to you, but choose a size that gives your cat plenty of room to move around in the box. The location of the litter box should not be placed too close to your cat’s food and water, as they dislike being able to smell the litter while eating.Use a fine, unscented litter. Scented litter is harsh on cat noses, and may drive them away from the litter box. Most cats enjoy the feel of a fine litter more than a thicker, chunkier litter. However, a variety of litter types are available to suit you and your cat’s needs, including natural and silica cat litter. Give them each a try to see what your cat likes best.A litter mat placed underneath the litter box can help remove litter from the paws of your cat before they track it all over the house.Ask a friend if your house smells of cat urine. It's easy to get used to the smell of your cats and not even notice if something is out of the ordinary when it comes to how your house smells.
 Failing to clean after your cats is a sure fire way to be seen as a “cat person,” but can also lead to several health risks. Toxoplasmosis is a parasite that is found in raw meat, as well as cat feces. For those who are pregnant or are immunocompromised, toxoplasmosis can lead to severe infection, resulting in headache, confusion, poor coordination and eye problems. This infection can be passed to a mother’s unborn child as well, endangering the life of the child.Wash your hands after changing cat litter to make sure no litter or feces remain on your hands. You wouldn't want a mouthful of litter!
Don’t allow your cat to walk on the dinner table. Cats can drag litter and remnants of their feces around on their paws, potentially spreading toxoplasmosis throughout the house. Clean the dinner table prior to meals if your cat is prone to perching there on occasion.
Toxoplasmosis activates after roughly 5 days, so regular vacuuming and household cleaning helps avoid infection risk from litter dragged throughout the house.
If you are pregnant or immunocompromised, avoid changing the cat litter if possible – have a friend take care of the task. If you have no other choice, wear disposable gloves and make sure to wash your hands afterwards.If you have a cat and plan on getting pregnant, or feel ill or not quite like yourself while owning one, consult your doctor and ask about toxoplasmosis.
Clean up any mess your cat leaves, such as hair balls or any hair that they shed. This helps indicate a demarcation between the owner of the house and its pets. You own the house, not your cat!

, Cat lovers carry the stereotype that their cats are the only love of their life. Keep a circle of friends to balance out your love for your cat. People provide a range of experiences and emotions that cannot necessarily be fulfilled by your pet.


Choose to be social over staying home with the kitty. The reason why having a cat is wonderful is that he doesn’t need to be walked or even taken to the bathroom. Cats are very content being on their own for long hours – capitalize on that fact and go out instead of staying home to cuddle up to your furry friend. He’ll understand if you ditch him for a hot date.
Close human friendship has been shown to improve longevity. Maintaining long term friends also helps reduce loneliness and stave off depression, as well as the chronic conditions associated with depression., Owning a pet is a fun and rewarding activity. However, make sure you pursue interests outside of your cat as well. Staying well rounded and participating in other activities outside of your cat will keep you in touch with others socially and let you meet new people.


Hobbies have a variety of health benefits as well, including warding off dementia and depression.
Create some time in your schedule for a new hobby. Restructure your work/life balance and, yes, give your cat a little alone time in order to create the time you need. The benefits will be worth it., If you only ever talk about your cats, most people are going to assume that you are a “cat person.” There’s no problem with mentioning your cats, particularly to fellow cat lovers, but avoid making them your constant topic of conversation. You may drive away potential new acquaintances this way.


Join a club or group specifically dedicated to the love of cats. This can help give you an outlet to discuss your feelings for your cat with others who share the same sentiment for theirs., Keep the cat theme to a minimum when accessorizing your house and clothes. A few photos of your cat at the office or at home is fine, but plastering cats all over the home will give visitors the wrong idea.


Cat clothing or handbags are cute! However, make sure to think about the rest of your clothing options when you go out shopping. Wearing something that is cat-themed every day will earn you a “cat lady” label from some people.
Keep your home cat-friendly without overwhelming the aesthetic of your house for the sake of your cat. Tall cat condos, a cat bed, a few scratch pads in discrete corners, and some nooks and crannies for your cat to hide in will keep your pet perfectly happy.Your cat should have activities to do while you're out, such as toys or scratch pads. It's also a good idea to have two cats, so that they can amuse each other and not feel lonely.
 Animals with little sweaters or costumes, though cute, may just indicate a skewed sense of priorities regarding your pet. Feel free to spruce up your pet for Halloween or other fun occasions, but regularly spending money on clothing for your cat is excessive.


The exception to this rule is when directed by your vet, such as providing a blanket coat or an Elizabethan collar to stop scratching or biting. These are medical aids, not fashion accessories.

