 Your first reaction after learning that your son/daughter, nephew/niece, student, or athlete is using drugs is probably one of anger or frustration. As a parent, relative, teacher, or coach, you have invested a great deal of time and energy into ensuring that this young adult has a bright future. Drugs can be a major roadblock along a path to greatness, so it's understandable to be upset. Just don't show your initial reaction to the teen. Take a moment to calm down first.


Deep breathing can be done anywhere, anytime. Place one hand over your abdomen and the other on your chest. Pull in air through your nose for about 4 counts. Your belly should expand beneath your hand. Hold the breath briefly, then exhale through your mouth for 4 counts. You should feel your belly deflating like a balloon beneath your hand.Repeat the cycle for a few minutes until you feel your body's natural relaxation response kick in.;
, Before you approach your teen with your concerns, it's a smart idea to do a bit of research. A quick Google search will uncover statistics about teen drug use, the latest research, and even suggestions for supporting teens with addictions.Learning more about teen drug use before the confrontation can help you figure out how big of a problem your teen has and how to help him get help.
Be sure to use authoritative sites like the National Institute on Drug Abuse for Teens. This website has a resource page specifically for parents., Let your teen know that you want to talk to him or her and decide together on a good time when this can happen without interruptions. It may be helpful to take your teen somewhere out of the norm, such as a public park or an ice cream parlor, so that you are both out of your everyday environments.


Talking in public may help you place limitations on the discussion, preventing screaming, slamming doors, or making a scene.
Start the discussion by sharing what you know. Stick to the facts. Then, follow up by showing your concern. Your teen may be defensive at first and deny the problem. Clarify that you know about the drug use and simply want to open up the floor for a discussion.
You might say something like "I love you deeply. I found drugs in your bedroom, and I am disappointed because I have been very clear that using drugs is not acceptable in our family. Drugs can lead to serious consequences. But, I am not here to punish you. I want you to work with me to help you stop using."

, Encourage your teen to talk to you honestly, and avoid saddling him or her with guilt. Remind your teen about his or her positive traits and demonstrate confidence that you believe he or she can stop using and get back on track.For example, your reassurance might sound like "Tim, you are a smart and talented young man. Your father and I have always appreciated all the hard work you put into school and your extracurriculars. I know that person is still in there somewhere."
You might get your teen to open up more by sharing some of your thoughts about why he or she may be doing it (e.g. peer pressure, emotional numbing due to a loss, etc.).
 Let your teen know that you are willing to do whatever it takes to help him or her stop using drugs. See if your teen has any ideas of things that you can do to assist him or her. Actively listen to what your teen says and make a plan to take action.


Teens may use drugs to act out, get attention, or to help them cope with an unstable or high-pressured home life. See if you can meet your teen's needs in a way so that the drug use becomes irrelevant.
For example, if your teen is abusing prescription drugs because she is trying to improve concentration or performance in class, you might try to take some of the pressure away concerning her academic performance. You could suggest that she reduce some of her responsibilities or find a hobby that helps her let off steam.
 Your teen can be feeling a range of emotions associated with his drug use. Find a local mental health therapist or psychologist who specializes in teen drug use. This professional can help your teen process what he or she is going through, figure out the stimulus for the behavior, and develop healthier coping methods.


Don't assume you have the power or skill to help your teen on your own. Your teen needs to see a trained professional in order to truly stop using drugs and address the underlying issue that is stimulating this behavior.If you notice any of the following signs, your teen needs to see a professional right away:Losing interest in activities he/she used to enjoy
Lying about where he/she has been or with whom
Noticing blood shot eyes, dilated pupils, and using eye drops to hide the signs
Isolating him/herself from friends or loved ones
Acting irritable and getting angry easily
Skipping school; having failing grades; or experiencing behavioral issues at school
Noticing the disappearance of money, valuable items or prescriptions



, Talk with your teen about positive activities or hobbies he or she can get involved with that will help boost self-confidence and keep your teen away from undesirable crowds.


Your teen may like the idea of joining a club at school, participating in sports, volunteering or getting a small job.
Also, be sure that you are spending quality time with your child alone and as a family. Feeling accepted within your household can help drug use seem less desirable.

