 Own your personality and your choices. If you make a mistake, admit it right away and do your best to fix it. Avoid blaming your misfortunes on other people.While you can’t always control what happens to you, you can control how you react.
 You cannot expect yourself to improve or make drastic changes if you constantly stay within your comfort zone. You may be close-minded if you refuse to consider new ideas, have ritualized thinking, remain stuck in habitual patterns, or have fear and low expectations. Try to become more open-minded.

Take the time to self-reflect and expand your awareness. Release judgmental thoughts, prejudices, and stereotyping of others.
Become tolerant of others. Learn from them, and try to see their perspective as if you were in their shoes or were looking through their eyes.
 As the ancient Greeks said, “Know thyself.” Focus on the values and goals that are most important to you, and use them to guide your decisions. Don’t let other people pressure you into going against your principles or giving up on your hopes for the future.For example, if you encounter a situation in which you feel disconnected from your own values, pause. Ask yourself, "Am I doing this for me or for them? Does this align with my values?" Go through this process each time to make sure you're being true to yourself.
 Self-actualized people are lifelong learners. Get into the habit of educating yourself about world events and topics you’re interested in. Books, radio programs, newspapers, and documentaries are all good tools for incorporating learning into your daily routine.Try listening to audiobooks during your commute, or watch a documentary instead of a TV show to unwind after work.
 To keep growing as a person, it’s important to have new experiences. Get outside your comfort zone on a regular basis by doing things you’ve never done before, whether that means trying a new-to-you food, listening to a genre of music you’re unfamiliar with, or traveling to a different part of the world., As you work on reaching your full potential, help others reach theirs, too. Consider volunteering for a good cause, mentoring a younger person, or just reaching out to a friend who needs a hand.Selfless acts of charity and kindness can help you step away from your own self-absorption and see the world from a different perspective. Plus, when you help those who are less fortunate than you, you add a deposit into your personal "I feel good about me" account.

