 Aggression and disruptive behavior can alienate your loved one from peers, which can further contribute to the conduct disorder. These strained relationships can also cause teachers and other school staff to reject the child. Parents and families of these students may also alienate themselves from the families of the child with conduct disorder, leading to further isolation.


Make sure that your loved one has a positive role model in their life who can demonstrate healthy behaviors. This could be a family member, coach, teacher, or family friend.
Helping the child establish healthy peer relationships can help all members of the family. One way to do this is by encouraging the child to get involved in structured, supervised activities like positive after-school programs, sports or youth groups;
, Speak to the child in sentences that clearly state what you want the child to do when you are making a request. For instance, you will want to say “Review your geography terms and complete your math homework” instead of saying “Go study”. Additionally, refrain from putting the child down with negative or harmful words. Offer praise when the child completes what you ask, and encourage him to speak to you about what he is thinking and feeling so that you are better able to understand what he is experiencing.Praise may sound like “You did great completing your homework today. Way to go!”

, Children with conduct disorder often lack empathy. Talk to your loved one about caring for others and taking what they feel and think into consideration. Discovering empathy may help your loved one understand why acting aggressively and violently isn’t appropriate. This, in conjunction with other treatments, may help the child during recovery.Modeling empathetic behaviors like showing compassion for others and sharing can help demonstrate empathy to your loved one. You can also get involved in a volunteer opportunity.
 Consult with a doctor about treatments that may be available for you. Having a loved one with conduct disorder can be emotionally draining and can create lots of stress. Taking care of yourself will allow you to care for your child in a healthy and supported manner. A doctor may recommend other types of therapy to treat the anxiety, depression, and other emotions you may feel.Try not to blame yourself for your child's conduct disorder. Remember that it is not your fault that they struggle with these issues.
Exercise, group therapy, and creating relationships with others who go through the same experiences as you may help you to better cope with your situation.
 Seek the help of a mental health provider in order to receive a diagnosis and treatment right away. Your loved one likely won’t receive necessary treatment unless he or she is formally diagnosed with conduct disorder. Remember, without proper treatment, they could experience difficulties as an adult., Talk to a doctor about the potential for other problems your loved one may experience. Children who have conduct disorder often have trouble in educational settings and learning disorders may be the reason.Children with these issues may need the help of special education. Getting appropriate assessment can help determine what other variables may be playing into your loved one’s condition. This can also help you choose which interventions will be most instrumental for recovery.
 Speak with a professional about ways to help your loved one. Treatment typically takes an extended period of time, and can consist of help both in and out of the home.


Home-based treatment programs such as Multisystemic Therapy can help the entire family, and medication may be required for children who have impulse problems or trouble paying attention, or for those who experience depression.,


Doing so can not only help the child recover, but can also develop deep ties and bonds within the family and school. Additionally, the treatment can enhance family skills, like monitoring and discipline.
You may be able to take parent training classes. These can teach you how to react to and manage your child's difficult behaviors.
 In order to truly help your loved one, you must get a thorough understanding of his or her unique experience of conduct disorder. There are various potential causes. Speak with a medical professional to discuss if your loved one has an underlying condition that could contribute to the conduct disorder, such as an injury or another mental health disorder.


Studies show that impairment in the frontal lobe can result in a child having difficulty adapting and learning after negative experiences, which is a common issue with this disorder.Neuropsychological testing, bloodwork, and imaging scans can also help determine if a neurological condition is causing the disorder., Children who experience abuse or neglect are also more prone to developing conduct disorder. In addition, other environmental factors like low socioeconomic status, exposure to aggressive behavior and difficulties with socialization can contribute to this condition.Consult with a mental health provider to consider all the potential causes of your loved one’s conduct disorder. Only after uncovering the source of the problem can you start to address these issues and help the child improve.
 Know that not all hope is lost if your loved one has conduct disorder. Those who are treated early on often overcome the illness. In a majority of cases, affected children grow up into well-rounded adults, but the disorder can potentially affect them later on.


Without treatment, some children with conduct disorder are unable to adapt to the demands of adulthood, have trouble with relationships and holding down jobs, break laws, and behave in anti-social ways.That’s why it’s important to take action in helping your loved one get necessary treatment.
 Talk to parents and family members who are experiencing the same difficulties with their own children by joining a support group for families of children who have conduct disorder.


Conducting an online search or speaking with a professional may put you in touch with support groups in your area or those you can participate in online. Youth support groups may also be available for your loved one.