 To receive a diagnosis of nightmare disorder, your nightmares cannot be explained by another medical or mental health condition.However, an underlying condition may be responsible for your nightmares and treating it may eliminate the nightmares. Talk to your medical doctor about any medical conditions you may have that may underlie the nightmares. Your doctor may run some tests and rule out causes for your nightmares. If a medical cause is found, treat the underlying medical cause.Your doctor can also prescribe new medications, or adjust your current medications if he or she suspects that these medications may be causing your nightmares.Repeated nightmares may be an indication of a breathing disorder such as sleep apnea. Sleep apnea occurs when the body stops breathing while sleeping, then gasps for air. A telltale sign of sleep apnea is loud snoring, followed by a pause, then a snort or gasp. This pattern repeats throughout the night. You may wake up feeling unrefreshed or grumpy in the morning, feel drowsy throughout the day, or have untreatable headaches.Although it is not related to nightmare disorder, PTSD is a common cause of nightmares. Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) affects some people after a stressful or traumatic event. 71 to 96% of people who experience trauma and resulting PTSD experience nightmares. The nightmares may recount major scenes of the trauma.Go to a therapist and get assessed for symptoms of PTSD and the resulting nightmares.
 Using therapy and behavior approaches can be effective in both children and adults. Effects of behavior therapy can have both short-term and long-term effects on nightmare disorders. Therapy can be brief, with just a few sessions in a group or individually.Many kinds of behavior therapy exists. You may practice Exposure, Relaxation, and Rescripting Therapy (ERRT), Lucid Dreaming Therapy, and Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR).
You may learn ways to cope with nightmares, ways to help your mind and body relax before bed, and ways to handle stress better.
 IRT is a practice performed while the individual is awake. While engaged with the nightmare, the person changes the ending of the nightmare so that it no longer is upsetting. Once the ending has been changed, the person replays the nightmare and the resulting ending over and over in the mind. This type of treatment can reduce the frequency of the nightmares.For example, if you constantly dream about driving off a cliff, imagine yourself driving the same road, anticipating the cliff, and the car or bus driving past the location. Then, see the destination up ahead. You may imagine a nice forest or beach where you can have a picnic.
 It’s used to help change or reflect certain thoughts or behaviors. In some samples, many treated with hypnosis were symptom-free following treatment.You may experience a recurring scary dream from a natural disaster. Work with the dream while in a hypnotic state and notice how the recurring dream lessens or stops.
For more information, check out How to Find a Hypnotherapist.
 Medication is generally only used when treating nightmares associated with PTSD. Some medications can be helpful when treating symptoms of PTSD, particularly when nightmares are present. Some considerations in medication include trazodone, atypical antipsychotic medications, topiramate, low dose cortisol, fluvoxamine, triazolam and nitrazepam, phenelzine, gabapentin, cyproheptadine, and tricyclic antidepressants.Keep in mind that many medications have side effects and it may take a while to find one that works well for you.

