 Physical intimacy is important to a romantic relationship. If your partner is a virgin, you may struggle to feel close to him or her. You also want to make sure sexual desires in a relationship are mutually fulfilled. Talk to your partner about alternatives to penetrative sex.


Kissing can be a very sexually stimulating, especially if you kiss your partner on sensitive areas like the neck and the ears. If your partner is not ready to have sex, you can both gain some sexual pleasure from simple kissing.You can also touch your partner in sexually sensitive areas. The breasts, the penis, and the clitoris are all very sensitive body parts. If your partner is open to it, you may enjoy sexual touching instead of actual intercourse. Oral sex can also be a pleasurable activity for you and your partner. However, keep in mind if your partner is abstinent due to moral or religious, reasons he or she may consider oral sex a form of sex.Mutual masturbation is another alternative to sex. This is where you and your partner masturbate together. This can be an arousing form of sex play that does not involve physical contact with your partner.There are a variety of forms of sexual contact and sex play you can engage in without having penetrative sex. The best way to figure out what works for you and your partner is to discuss and explore your options together.
 Many couples find watching porn or reading erotica together an intimate, arousing experience. This can also help you get a sense of what your partner finds arousing. If you have sex at some point in the future, it can be helpful to know what turns your partner on. Talk to your partner about watching pornography or reading erotica together. You can feel intimate with your partner as the two of you can explore your sexual desires together.Keep in mind not everyone is comfortable watching pornography or reading erotica. Remember to be respectful if your partner does not want to participate in this activity.
 Physical contact is not the only route to intimacy. Becoming emotionally intimate is very important in a successful relationship. Talking, listening, enjoying one another's company, and sharing thoughts and feelings can help establish emotional intimacy.Talk to your partner. Engage in activities like long walks, long phone calls, and late night conversations. Go out to a coffee shop for a few hours and simply converse. Be willing to be vulnerable and share with your partner.
Meet your partner's emotional needs. If your partner needs to talk to you after a hard day, try to give him or her your full attention. Provide comfort when necessary. Sometimes, it can be hard to figure out how to best comfort someone. People respond differently to different kinds of feedback and comfort. It can be helpful to ask your partner something like, "What can I do to make you feel better right now?"
Emotional intimacy takes time to establish. The best way to be emotionally intimate is to simply spend a lot of time together. Make time to talk to your partner every day.

