 You don’t have to leave the house to have a spa day. Instead, spend the day pampering yourself at home. Keep on your pajamas and put on a robe. Take a bubble bath and use a scented body scrub. Deep condition your hair with your favorite deep conditioner. Use a body butter on yourself when you get out off the bath. Enjoy a glass of champagne.You should purchase spa day supplies, like body scrubs and conditioner, before your spa day if you don’t already have them at home. Go to your local beauty store and buy whatever products you think will contribute to relaxation.
Facial masks are also great for spa days. They can be bought online or at beauty stores like Sephora.;
, Treat your hometown as if you’d never been there before. Think of all the places you’d recommend to someone visiting your hometown and write them down. Try out some of the things on the list that you’ve never done before. Visit a new restaurant in town that you haven’t been to before. Go to a new exhibit at the local museum.If you’re planning to do this with friends, have everyone contribute at least one idea for the day.
 It seems like local breweries are popping up everywhere lately. Take a tour of a brewery near you to involve yourself with the local culture and enjoy a craft beer. For a small fee, many breweries will take you through the beer making process and provide you with a cup to take home and a beer. Go by yourself or plan a tour with a group.If you don’t drink, you can still go on a tour and opt to not have a glass of beer.
 It’s not necessary to leave the house to enjoy the staycation. Relax and enjoy your time by having a pizza and movie night. You can do this alone or with friends. It’s your choice whether you want to order or make your own pizza. Pick a theme for the movie night, like scary movies or chick flicks, or have everyone pick a movie. Enjoy the movies and pizza with your favorite beverage.Grab blankets, pillows, and your favorite dessert to fully enjoy the evening.
 Maximize your relaxation by staying at home and doing stress relieving activities. Coloring books are usually thought of as being for kids, but adult coloring books have come into popularity recently. Adult coloring books can be found at many supermarkets and bookshops. Buy a pack of colored pencils and spend the afternoon coloring while listening to your favorite music.Make tea and your favorite snacks to enjoy while coloring. You can also put on a movie or television show to watch while you color.

