 Your first best defense is to ensure that the trash can itself is as impenetrable as a fortress to a raccoon. Purchase a metal trash can with a lid that locks in place.


Note that some plastic trash cans have a screw that secures the lid on the can. However, be aware that raccoons can and do chew through plastic bins.If you're not sure what bin to choose, ask a knowledgeable salesperson to help you – be sure to mention that it must be raccoon-proof. Also, special commercial raccoon locks for bins can be bought.

Never leave your trash can exposed by leaving the lid off! That is an invitation to foraging.;
, Alternatively, you can use a chain and lock – raccoons aren't smart enough (yet) to pick a lock!


For a lid that doesn't lock in place, attach plastic hose pipe or tubing all around the edge of the lid so that it creates a seal when fitted onto the bin. Cut a piece of rubber tubing or hose pipe along one side and slip it over the rim of your trash can. This will create a tight seal for the lid and make it difficult for raccoons to pry off.Tie the lid of your trash can to the can with a rope or bungee cord secured around the handles. Wrapping the bungee cord all the way around the bin on two sides will put off the most intrepid raccoons., The only problem with this method is the heaviness of the item. If members of the household have trouble lifting it up, they're likely to stop taking out the garbage, so bear this in mind and only use this method if those who use the trash can are still able to get to the trash can easily.
 Alternatively, place ammonia-soaked cloths inside the trash can or pour ammonia in neat. Ammonia smells like urine to a raccoon, making it highly offensive to them.You can also spray other areas where raccoons seem to congregate, to discourage them from entering your yard in the first place.
 Raccoons will not like the taste of almost any type of commercial repellent product.


If you do not wish to use repellent granules, you can use hot pepper or cayenne pepper instead.
Other suitable repellents include oil of mustard and naphtha flakes.Note that the use of naphtha flakes, naphthalene mothballs, etc. may be illegal in your area as they are possible carcinogens; check local regulations.
 Raccoons prefer darkness and might be deterred by a sudden bright light. A 100 watt bulb is a good choice for the lighting level.If possible, place a radio near your trash can. Set it to an all-news or talk station. The sound of human voices might deter raccoons from coming near your trash cans.You can use a low level volume and gradually increase it if needed.
 If no animal can get in without a human opening a door, then the trash cans will be left undisturbed.

