 To achieve significant weight loss, you should commit to an exercise program four to five times a week, where you exercise 300 minutes or more a week. You can also start by doing 150 minutes of exercise a week to prevent further weight gain and improve your endurance and fitness. Focus on exercise that gets you moving, such as aerobics, pilates, jogging or interval training.You can also join a gym and work with a trainer on a fitness plan that will help you lose weight and gain strength. Weight lifting should only be done once you have a certain level of fitness.
 Look for a weight loss program in your area at your local gym or fitness center. Enroll in the program and commit to going to every class for a set number of weeks or months. You can enlist the support of a friend, spouse, or family member and do the program together.


Often weight loss fitness programs can be a good way to integrate exercise into your daily routine and improve your fitness level steadily over time. Try to find a weight loss program that does not seem too punishing or difficult, as you will need to be motivated to show up for class every week.
 It can be intimidating and challenging to be physically active when you are obese. But making simple lifestyle changes, like walking or biking to work instead of driving, can help you to get moving and be physically active.If you take the bus to work, get off a few stops early and walk to the rest of the way. Go on a walk during your lunch break and wear a pedometer to track how many steps you take over the course of the day.
If you need to drive to work, park further away from work in the parking lot so you have to walk at the beginning and the end of your day.
 It can be challenging to lose weight when you are obese and you may need support in the form of peers who understand what you are going through. You can ask your doctor about weight loss support groups in your area or contact your local hospital.There are also online support groups where you can find a community of other obese individuals. You could also try support groups through commercial weight loss programs like Weight Watchers.
 Obesity is often linked to compulsive behavior and emotional issues. You can work through your compulsive need for food with a therapist or a counselor who is trained in mental health and obesity issues. A good therapist can help you identify why you overeat and suggest ways to cope with the issues that are causing your obesity.You can do individual or group therapy, or do more intensive programs to help you move past your obesity.

