 The 80s were a time of experimentation with many different styles. Women’s styles tended to be big on top and small on the bottom. An oversized shirt was often paired with a miniskirtor tightly-fitted pants or leggings.


If you have an oversized sweatshirt, cutting the neck out of it so that it hangs off the shoulder will give it a more 80s look. Wear a tank top or sports bra underneath, preferably in a bright color.
If you do not have oversized tops or undersized bottoms, try looking in your parents’ closet (they may even have actual clothes from the 80s). Younger siblings may have tight clothes that are too small for you that you can borrow for the bottoms.;
, Shoulder pads were very popular in women’s clothing. The bigger the shoulder pads, the better. If you do not have a shirt with shoulder pads, try stuffing your shirt with some kind of padding., Many 80s fashionistas went for bold, bright color combinations. Neon colors were particularly popular.


Match your top and bottom and add a pop of contrasting color. For example, electric blue pants and top can be accented with a bright yellow or pink belt and chunky earrings.
Contrast your bright colors. If you do not have a matchy outfit, you can also put different bright colors together.Try to mix three or four different colors that are all different but all bright.
Bright tights can be worn underneath a miniskirt and topped with legwarmers of a different color.
 Another approach is to go for more of an 80s punk look, which would involve mostly black and denim.


Wear at least two different denims. Men typically wore denim pants with denim jackets.Women wore denim miniskirts with a denim jacket. Men and women typically wore a tight shirt underneath the denim jacket.
Combine denim and lace. A classic 80s look is a lace top paired with denim acid-wash jeans or a denim miniskirt. The contrast of drastically different materials is a key feature of 80s style.
 Athletic clothes were also popular in the 1980s. However, they tended to be far more matchy than modern athletic clothes.


Puffy athletic pants and a matching jacket paired with some sneakers can be a perfect 80s look. Though they may be hard to find, velvet or velour sweat sets are preferable.
Another approach to athletic wear is the iconic 80s woman workout look: a leotard, tights, and legwarmers. All in contrasting bright colors is preferable.

