 When you first start dating, it is natural to think that you need to go on 5-6 dates with someone you ask out. But if you do not feel a connection with someone then you should feel free to move on. Dating is supposed to be a fun way to get to know someone better, it is not a commitment to marriage or a relationship. If you don't want to keep dating, be polite and honest and break things off quickly.


Never lie or ignore people you don't want to see, as this often creates more problems. Simply saying, "I had a lot of fun the other night, but I think I'd like to stay friends," should be enough.
 You don't need to jump right into a relationship, but if you feel like you have a connection with someone then you should invite the person out again. If you're really into someone aim to go out for food, see a movie, go for a walk, or meet for coffee 1-2 times a week and see how things develop.


Again, remember to keep things casual to begin. Meeting your parents, for example, usually happens many months down the line in a relationship.
 The rush of love is hard to overcome, but both you and your partner will be thankful if you slow down the relationship and get to know each other naturally. Avoid making huge plans for the future together or seeing each other every single night. While intimacy is not a bad thing, rushing into a physical relationship can lead to hurt feelings and complications if both partners are not on the same page. While you might want to spend your entire life with someone after a date, take your time understand your feelings before launching head over heels.Respect their privacy and history -- you don't need to know all of their exes on the second date.
Spend nights at your own houses and avoid lots of early sleep-overs. You can always get serious later-- it is much harder to slow things down.
 If you really enjoy someone's company, you need to build a rapport that reaches beyond the latest Game of Thrones episode. Building trust requires a little vulnerability from both parties, but the reward is finding someone you can confide in and get truthful, helpful advice in return.


Building trust requires giving trust. Share a small secret, insecurity, or goal and see if they are willing to open up in the same way.
As you become more comfortable, you'll likely trust someone with more and more of your life. This is the foundation of a strong relationship.
 You cannot still be dating around if you want to solidify a relationship. While many people have no problem with going on 2-3 casual dates early on, you need to make a commitment to someone if you want them to make a commitment to you. If you find yourself going on 2-3 dates with the same person, it is time to cancel any other romantic plans and stop searching for new dates. If this doesn't sound appealing, then you should be honest with your partner about your needs., This is often a difficult conversation to start, but if you feel a connection they likely feel one too. After going on 3-5 dates, you need to sit down together and talk about where things are headed. Are you interested in a relationship, or do you want tot take things slowly and see how they develop. Talking now will prevent heartbreak later.
 No one like it when you stop hanging out with your friends the minute a new love interest comes into the fold. Keep spending time with your friends, working, and seeing your family. You shouldn't feel like you need to spend every waking moment with your new flame. Instead, set boundaries between you so that you are comfortable doing your own thing from time to time. They will appreciate this too.Don't feel bad if you have to turn down the occasional date.
Make time in your schedule for your old friends frequently -- they are the ones that will be there for you if something goes wrong.

