 Once the signs have added up and you feel like you've already found out that he's cheating, it's time to make him confess. The easiest way is just to have a conversation about it. Then you can avoid snooping through his stuff, getting hurt when you see something you don't like, and spare yourself the extra pain and humiliation. Here's how to do it:


Catch him off guard. You should still pick the right time and place to do it, but you should ask him when he's not expecting it so he'll be less likely to come up with a brilliant lie.
Tell him you'd prefer honesty over more lies. Make it sound like he's doing you a favor by confessing---which he really is doing.
Say, "I think we'll both feel better once this is out in the open." Make it sound like he would be very relieved to stop lying to you. He probably will. Living a double life is exhausting.
Make eye contact. Be really sincere. Show him that he's really hurting you.
If you're afraid to ask yourself but don't want to take the extreme route of following him or looking through his things, ask one of your friends, or even one of his friends who you really like. Chances are, if his friend knows about his shady behavior, he may not feel good about it, either.
 If you're afraid to have a conversation or feel like you don't have enough evidence, follow him to see what he's really up to. You have to be sneaky about it or he'll know, lose trust in you, and won't give you any evidence. Here's what to do:


Follow him in a friend's car. If he says he's hanging out with the boys and you really want to see what he's doing, follow him in a friend's car so he doesn't notice it's you.
"Pop in" on him when he's not expecting it. Come over at random times, like when he says he's cleaning for you or not feeling well. If he's not feeling well, bring over some soup and act like you're trying to be sweet. Whether he's with another girl or not, see how he acts. Is he happy to see you, or angry that you showed up without warning?
See if he's really working overtime. That's easy. Just drop by his work to give him coffee or a late-night snack to see if he's there. Or just drive by to see if his car is there.
 Snooping through your man's things is the quickest way to break trust and put your relationship in jeopardy, but if you're really sure he's cheating and just want to put the nail in the coffin, then go for it. Here's what you do:


Look through his phone. If he's a good cheater, he'll make it impossible for you to look through his phone, but try anyway. Go through it when he's sleeping, or see if he drops it when he's getting out of the car and pick it up.
Check his computer. If he's dumb enough to leave his computer open, check out his email and his Facebook messages. This will let you know if he's cheating pretty soon. Also notice if he meticulously deletes all of his emails. That's a little fishy too.
Look through his stuff. If he's sleeping or not home, go through his desk, his bag, or even his wallet for any signs of affection from another lady.
Check his bank statements. Do you not remember him spending $200 on you at a romantic Italian place? Then he must have been shelling out cash for another lady.

