 Start planning about 2 to 3 weeks before your birthday. Send out invitations early and through multiple media channels, such as Facebook, text and phone messages.


Create a Facebook page or website about the party. Add those you’ve invited to the page in order to create a hub of information that can keep everyone up to date on the latest information on the party. , Figure out where the party is taking place and how many people can comfortably fit into the venue. Prioritize your family and close friends to make sure your party is full of people you enjoy being around.Create a cutoff date. When inviting a large amount of people, place a cutoff date for accepting the invitation, or on the number of attendees allowed to the party, to make sure you don’t end up with far more guests than you can handle. If the cutoff date is well before the actual date of the party, you can open the invitations to additional guests to account for those who failed to RSVP.
Account for those who can’t make it. If you are planning a large party, allow for guests to invite one friend, or invite more people than you think you can actually handle. This is helpful if your party is less formal and you aren’t sending RSVPs.
If you are concerned about guests bringing friends that you aren’t comfortable with, place a caveat on the invitation regarding plus ones. For example, you might require guests to ask if they would like to bring a plus one, allowing you to screen your guests carefully.
 Your family and friends are bound to be leaving you messages about your impending birthday, with some suggesting they hold a party for you. Let them know early that you will be holding your own, so that a surprise birthday party doesn’t go to waste!

, Choose a time and place that is as convenient for the largest number of people as possible. Take into consideration whether your friends have obligations, such as kids or projects, and whether there will be plenty of alcohol.


Celebrate on a more convenient day than the actual day of your birthday if it happens to fall on a holiday or work day.
If you don’t plan on going to a restaurant or bar for your birthday, and you don’t think you have the space to hold it at your house, ask a friend if they can help with hosting duties.
 Food, drinks and decorations will need to be taken care of prior to the big day. Assign some work to friends or family to help pull everything together.Create some space. Move tables, chairs, and other furniture in order to create enough space for the expected number of guests. Avoid blocking off exits or creating dangerous obstacles when arranging the party space.
Have guests bring food and drink. You can make planning much easier if guests are required to bring food and drink to the party. Set up the music. Create a party playlist according to the ambience of the evening. Preset playlists are available on many music streaming programs, including Spotify and Apple Music. Some popular music stations also list their playlists for you to mix and match. , Have a great time! Remember to stay safe and minimize the risks for you and your guests.


Serve water and other snacks if you plan on serving alcoholic drinks. Drinking on an empty stomach increases the rate at which alcohol is absorbed into the blood stream.
If someone is getting too rowdy or a tensions get heated, take them to the side and let them know they need to either calm down or leave.
Keep your valuables secure and in other rooms, away from the party.Be mindful of your neighbors. You wouldn’t want your party to end early because you’re making too large a ruckus.

