 At the end of the day, the most important thing is to just ask a girl out. Don’t try to get around it or make it seem like something other than what it is. It’s terrifying and you’ll feel like you’re about to have a heart attack, but if you ask her straight and act confident, she’ll be much more likely to say yes.


Asking IRL, rather than through a text or email will earn you points. Unless your digital method is something really special and epic.
 Asking her out somewhere private rather than somewhere public will make both of you feel more comfortable. You won’t be so afraid of being rejected in public and she won’t feel pressured into saying yes (believe us, that’s a good thing...she should feel like she has a choice).
 Don’ ask her out and then have nothing to suggest. This is poor planning and will make you look a little silly. You don’t have to have some brilliant plan for a first date but at least have something basic, like “go to a movie” or “get dinner at this awesome place”.
 The key to asking out non-nerdy girls is to make them feel smart, worthwhile, and helpful. You don't want her to feel like you look down on her or only like her for her looks, as that is often what scares girls away from dating nerds. Don't rub it in their face if you are smarter (even if you are, pretend that you don't think or know that) and try to show her the ways that she makes you a better person.



Non-nerdy girl Example 1: "So we've been hanging out a bit lately and I know we don't always understand each other, but I would really like to get to know you more. I know that band you like is going to be in town next month; why don't we get tickets and go see them?"

Non-nerdy girl Example 2: "You know, I think you're really amazing. You're kind and smart and I really respect how hard you work to help others. I'd like the chance to see more of that side of you. What do you say? How about we drop by that animal shelter this weekend and see if they need a hand?"

Non-nerdy girl Example 3: "You're incredible, you know. Most of the time, I think you're way smarter than me. I want to spend more time with you, get to talk more about the world and how you see things. What do you think? Would you be willing to head to the library with me this weekend? We've got that big test coming up and I could use a study-buddy."

, This is a little easier, because believe us: she's already looking for a nerdy guy to date. Emphasize that you love having someone that understands you and that can keep up with you (or beat you). Come up with a date idea that you know she'll love and you're set.



Nerdy girl Example 1: "You know, I really think you're amazing and fun and I'd love to get to spend more time getting to know you. That new Art of Video Games exhibit just opened at the museum and I would really like it if you went with me. Maybe we can get some dinner afterwards? My treat."

Nerdy girl Example 2: "I've been having a lot of fun hanging out lately and I wondered if maybe you'd like to hang out more, just the two of us. The comic shop is having a sale this weekend. Do you wanna comb through the bins with me and then grab some lunch?"

Nerdy girl Example 3: "So, we've been hanging out for awhile now and I don't know about you but I think we've had some pretty great adventures. Maybe not through all of space and time, but that weekend at the con was pretty crazy. I'd like to have a few more adventures with you, if I can. So, what do you say: will you be my Companion?"

, Believe us, everybody gets rejected. It’s not just nerds. If she rejects you, don’t take it personally. It just means that she’s not the right girl for you. She wouldn’t have been able to appreciate all of the amazing things about you. This is not to say that she’s a bad person for not being interested but, just like guys, sometimes a girl just won’t feel that click. It doesn’t mean that there’s something wrong with either of you.

