 The next time you go to one of your classes, look around. Look at every one of the girls in your class, and try to think whether she is dating or not. (If you don't know, assume she isn't.) Chances are, you'll find that not everyone has a boyfriend. However, if you find that every girl you looked at for sure has a boyfriend, do not be discouraged. There are probably plenty of other girls in your school who are not dating.;
, Think about it. Your friends who are taken can't go to a party and flirt with that hot new guy. They can't go out as often. They often feel they can't go out dressed as sexy, for fear guys will "ogle" them. Meanwhile, you can go out whenever (you don't have to stay in because "Chad said he'd call me sometime between 4 and 10"), you can dress up as hot as you want, and you can flirt shamelessly.
 If you find that your old Friday night gal pals are all out with their "guy pals", please resist the urge to sit inside watching The Notebook and eating a tub of Häagen-Dazs! Go online and look up a facial mask recipe. Do your homework. Paint your nails. Watch a brand new thriller movie. Read a book. Catch up on some beauty sleep. Have fun on wikiHow. These are just some of the things you could be doing (which your taken friends will not be doing!).
 This is crucial. It's extremely awkward to be the only one not cuddled up in a booth at Boston Pizza, or trying to hear the movie over the slurpy (ew!) sounds of couples making out. If some of your friends invite you out, and you realize that you'll be the odd one out, invite another single friend (or call your crush!) or just don't go. If you choose not to go, refer to step number three.
 You're young. You're single. Don't sit around all day moping: do something about it! Scope out some new cuties, or call that summer fling. If your town has the same old guys, you're crushing on someone who is unattainable like a teacher or someone's math teacher (shocking!), or you simply haven't had any summer flings or just don't like anyone at the moment, don't worry! Maybe your friend's boyfriend's cousin would like to meet up sometime. Maybe that foreign exchange student isn't so weird after all. Maybe you've begun to find the guy next door a lot more attractive than the lifeguard at the pool. It doesn't matter. You've got your whole life ahead of you.
 Please, please, please don't run around throwing yourself at every boy you see. You don't have to dress a certain way (put down the tube top and micro-mini), do your hair or makeup a certain way, or act a certain way to get a guy. It may sound totally like something you have heard a hundred times before , but be yourself, and you will find somebody who likes you for who you are. It may not be this week, this month, this year, or even during high school. But you will find someone.
 In the end, your single friends still love you (a girls night out with the fellow single chicks is a good thing), your taken friends still love you (they can talk to you about guy woes without hearing "oh yeah? Well Brandon said this in our last fight..."), your family still loves you, and somewhere, a future partner is waiting to love you. For now, hold your head up high, smile, love (and be loved), and live.
 One of the benefits of being single is you now have more spare time to do the stuff you really want to do! Spoil yourself, donate to charity, try a new sport, flirt a little, read and write stories, spend time with your friends, call an old friend, make a website, do homework, chat online, etc.
 Promise yourself things that you'll do when you start dating such as: clear your schedule from time to time to do the things you want to do, make time for schoolwork, balance your life, etc.

