 Attach the yarn to your crochet hook and work five chain stitches from the loop. Slip stitch the first and last chains together to form a ring.


Note that the yarn should be tied to the hook using a standard slip knot.
 Chain one, then single crochet three times into the center of the foundation ring.


The chain at the beginning of the round acts as a turning chain. It sets the height of the round to accommodate the height of the single crochet stitch.
 Work a series of 16 chain stitches from the loop on your hook. Upon reaching the end of this chain, slip stitch into the last single crochet you made.


Doing so will create one of the large upper wing halves of the butterfly.
 Work three more single crochets into the center of your foundation ring.
 Work 11 chain stitches from the loop on your hook. Slip stitch the final chain of this group into the last single crochet you made.


This step will create the smaller lower half of the wing you started previously. After completing this step, one full wing is finished.
 Repeat the previous two steps to work the second small wing half of the butterfly.


Single crochet into the foundation ring three times.
Chain 11 times.
Slip stitch the last chain to the last single crochet.
 Repeat the same steps used to complete the first upper wing half to work a second upper wing half.


Single crochet into the foundation ring three times.
Chain 16 times.
Slip stitch the last of these chains to the last single crochet you created.
After completing this step, both butterfly wings should be complete.
 Single crochet once into the foundation ring, then join this single crochet to the very first single crochet you worked using another slip stitch.


At this point, the shape of the butterfly is complete.
 Cut a tail roughly 2 inches (5 cm) long. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten off the yarn.


Weave the excess tail into the stitches to hide it.
After fastening off the yarn, the butterfly is complete and ready to attach to another separately created crochet work.
 Place the butterfly applique over the work you wish to attach it to. Consider pinning it in place to prevent it from moving around as you attach it.


If you want to attach the butterfly applique using surface crochet, as these instructions will demonstrate, you must attach it to a previously created crochet work. You can attach it to other materials, as well, but you will need to do so by sewing it on or gluing it in place.
Make sure that the butterfly is perfectly positioned over the work before proceeding.
 Work a straight line of surface slip stitches onto the material beneath the butterfly, trapping the bottom and top of the butterfly's center beneath those stitches.


Work one surface slip stitch onto the first stitch of the material. This stitch should fall directly beneath the bottom center of the butterfly.
Work your next surface slip stitch over the bottom center stitch of your butterfly. This stitch should be worked onto the next stitch of your crocheted material, just to the inside of the butterfly's center.
Continue working surface slip stitches onto the bottom material and up the center of the butterfly. Make as many stitches as necessary to reach the top of the butterfly.
Your final surface slip stitch should be worked onto the stitch of the material just outside of the butterfly's center. It should also be worked over the top center stitch of the butterfly applique.
 Once you've attached the butterfly, cut the yarn, leaving tail roughly 3 inches (7.6 cm) long. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten off the butterfly and secure its place on the material beneath.


If you do not want to add antennae, make sure that the tail lies to the "wrong side" of the material. Weave the excess into your stitches to hide it, then stop at this step.
If you do want add antennae, leave the tail on the outside of the work and continue onto the next step.
 Use your thumbnail to carefully split the tail of your crochet yarn into two even halves. Unwind these halves down to the knot, then straighten them out so they point in opposite directions, forming antennae for the butterfly.


If you cannot use your thumbnail to split the yarn, consider using an embroidery needle, the blunt edge of your scissors blade, a straight pin, or a similarly thin tool.
Consider knotting the ends of the divided antennae to prevent further fraying from occurring. Alternatively, apply a small dot of seam sealant liquid to the ends of both antennae to accomplish the same purpose.
After completing this step, the butterfly is complete.

