 Libraries are known for their book collections, but many of them also own these materials:


Electronic books downloadable to your e-reader or mobile device
Free Internet access and computer usage
Toys and board games
Specialized collections such as hand tools
3D printers and other makerspace tools;
,

Whether you're interested in learning to fix a flat tire or how to create a spreadsheet, libraries offer programming on a variety of subjects for all ages.

Studies indicate that adults prefer to learn in a classroom environment to online learning.Public libraries offer a setting similar to the classroom.
Interested in a program the library doesn't offer? Feel free to make a suggestion to the staff.
Do you have a skill or interest you would like to share? Volunteer to give a presentation. Public libraries are geared to serve the community, and participation by their patrons is an effective way to assess the community's needs.
 Most libraries have an online database, although a few small libraries may still use a card catalog. The collection can be accessed through the title, author, subject, and other criteria.
Search online. Many libraries have computers available for searching, and have access to online databases not readily accessible to popular search engines.
If the library doesn't have what you're looking for, you can request it through inter-library loan.

Some inter-library loan requests may require a fee. Ask in advance if there is any cost involved.


Ask the librarians. The most frequent request librarians receive is an answer to a question, rather than looking for a resource.,


Most libraries have book discussion groups for a variety of ages and interests. Like to travel but don't have the time? Read about and discuss where you would like to go.
If your library doesn’t have a group sharing your interests, consider starting one.


Studies show that reading to children helps them to develop language and literacy skills.Have your children read to a dog.

Libraries provide a quiet, non-judgemental environment where reluctant readers can hone their skills by reading to a therapy dog. These programs have proven to be popular with children and parents alike.