 Most states allow a someone to change their name before a divorce is finalized. While the process will vary from state to state, it is typically fairly easy to request that the divorce court judge to enter a formal order changing your name back to your previous name.


You should get the necessary name change request form from the court clerk so that your request can be processed. The name of this form varies from state to state, so check with your legal representative or court clerk if you are representing yourself.
Fill out the form in its entirety to avoid processing delays. If you are filling out the form on your own, the court clerk can assist you if you have any questions or concerns. Typically, you can bring the form to your divorce hearing.
If your divorce is finalized and contains a court order changing your name, you can use the order to change your other documents.;
, You can use the court order changing your name to change your Social Security Card.


Obtain an "Application for a Social Security Card" form at your nearest Social Security office. You can also download the form from the Social Security website at http://www.socialsecurity.gov/forms/ss-5.pdf.
Gather necessary documentation that must accompany the form. You will need a certified copy of your divorce decree and an approved name change petition form, as well as a document that shows your former name (The Social Security Office will accept an expired document with your old name). You can get a certified copy of your decree from the court where your divorce was filed and finalized. You will also need “proof of identity” and “proof of age.” A copy of your birth certificate should be sent as your “proof of age,” however, a birth certificate cannot be used as proof of identity. You should send a photocopy of your drivers license or passport as your proof of identity.
Complete the "Application for a Social Security Card" completely and legibly. You will be asked for general information such as your name and address. Mail the form (using certified mail) and supporting documents to address listed on the Social Security Administration website. Expect to receive your new Social Security card in 7 to 14 days. If you don't feel like mailing these important documents, you can visit your nearest Social Security office. To find the nearest office, visit Social Security's website at https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp/ https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp and enter your zipcode.
 To change your name on your drivers license, you should go to your local DMV with your divorce decree. In most states, there is a simple form that you will fill out to get a new license.


Provide your divorce decree and your current driver's license with the form.
Keep in mind that in some states you may be required to pay a small fee to get a new license.
 To change your last name on your passport, you will need to apply for a new passport. The procedure on getting a new passport will differ based on how long you have had your current passport. If your passport was issued less than one year ago, you should complete Form DS-5504 which can be found at http://www.state.gov/documents/organization/212249.pdf and send it to the Passport Office along with your original or certified name change document, your old passport, and a current passport photo. If you would prefer, you can fill out the DS-5504 form online at https://pptform.state.gov/.
If your passport was issued more than one year ago, you should complete Form DS-82 which is available at http://www.state.gov/documents/organization/212241.pdf and send it to the passport office along with original or certified name change document, your old passport, a current passport photo, and the required $110 fee. You can also fill out the DS-82 form online at https://pptform.state.gov/.

