 It is a reeling sensation or feeling like you are out of balance. Head movements, watching TV for prolonged periods, reading books, focusing on an object for a long time, crowds, darkness and walking often aggravate dizziness. It is due to bizarre signals from the vestibular system of both ears.


The semicircular tubes of vestibule are filled with special type of fluid. Movement of this fluid stimulates nerve tissue within the tubes which provokes a sense of position and balance. Labyrinthitis alters the normal composition of this fluid, leading to abnormal signal production which is interpreted as dizziness.

Dizziness or lightheadedness may be experienced in many other conditions. In anemia, low blood pressure, low blood glucose (hypoglycemia), blood loss or dehydration the prominent symptom will be weakness. You may also faint sometimes.

;
, You may feel that your head is spinning or the world is spinning around you. This is also a symptom of vestibular system inflammation. Head injury, Ménière's disease, stroke, etc. may also cause vertigo but they will have specific patterns and other associated symptoms (which will be discussed later).


Severity of vertigo varies considerably. You may feel mild dizziness and out of balance or the attack may be so severe that you cannot remain upright anymore. It may also be associated with nausea and vomiting. Vertigo in labyrinthitis is most severe in the first week. Thereafter it starts to get better as you learn to cope with the symptoms.
 You may hear constant ringing, buzzing, whistling or humming sounds in the affected ear. It is due to involvement of the cochlea or hearing apparatus. In tinnitus, there is a formation of abnormal particles in the fluid of the internal area that stimulate hair cells (nerve endings that carry sound signal). This unusual stimulation is interpreted as tinnitus.


Conditions that cause vertigo may also cause tinnitus. Additionally, exposure to noisy environment may cause tinnitus. In that case you will usually have no other symptoms.
 It occurs when the cochlear nerve is damaged or blocked by inflammation. You may experience reduced or total loss of hearing. This is a more severe symptom of labyrinthitis that warrants urgent medical attention because the hearing loss may be permanent.


If hearing loss is accompanied by tinnitus, check your external ear for impacted wax. You will fully regain hearing function after removing the wax.
 Discharge of pus or watery fluid indicate bacterial infection of the middle ear (otitis media) that has perforated the tympanic membrane (a partition between external ear and middle ear). You should visit your doctor promptly to control the infection because it may permanently impair your hearing.


Think about if your ears feel heavy. If there is accumulation of pus or fluid in the middle ear, you may feel a heaviness or pressure in the affected ear. It is common in bacterial infections.
 These are actually symptoms of the symptoms. Here's how it works:


Pain in the ear is also a sign of an infective condition. It may be accompanied by tinnitus.
The vertigo or dizziness that accompanies labyrinthitis may lead to nausea and vomiting.
A fever that is above 38°C (100°F) is an indication that you have an infection in your body.
Blurred vision may be the result of a pinched nerve. It may be difficult to read and see things at a distance.
 A few conditions mimic labyrinthitis. In order to treat yourself effectively, it's important to be sure that you have this infection and not something similar. Here are some conditions that mimic labyrinthitis:



Ménières syndrome. It is caused by unusual accumulation of fluid in the inner ear. A typical attack starts with a feeling of fullness in the ear, increasing tinnitus and decreasing hearing followed by severe vertigo, often accompanied by nausea and vomiting. An attack usually lasts 20-30 minutes.

Migraines. It is not exactly a problem of the ear. Migraine occurs due to constriction followed by dilatation of blood vessels of the brain. One sided headache is most prominent symptom.

Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo. It occurs due to displacement of crystals from utricle and saccule into semicircular canals. The displaced particles inappropriately stimulate semicircular canals leading to vertigo and dizziness.

Transient ischemic attack (TIA) or mini stroke. If there is vascular insufficiency in hearing or balance related areas of the brain, you may experience dizziness, loss of balance or loss of hearing temporarily. You should feel better in a few minutes and the symptom will not recur.

Brain tumor. Usually you will experience very specific set of symptoms. It will depend on the location of the tumor. However, headache and convulsion are common with any brain tumor. There may be weakness in a specific site of the body.
 Symptoms may last about 1 to 3 weeks. Even though it may be short, it is still best to call your doctor when experiencing these symptoms to avoid a serious complication of permanent hearing loss. There are laboratory tests that can confirm if you have labyrinthitis.
 Viral infection usually affects people of 30-60 years of age. Viruses that cause infections of the mouth, nose, sinuses, airways and lungs are mostly responsible for this illness. In a viral infection, the organisms reach the inner ear via your bloodstream. This type of infection may go away without treatment.


You will often have a history of common cold or flu about one week before the attack. Runny nose, cough, sore throat are symptoms of common cold and flu.
Other viral infections that may cause labyrinthitis less commonly are measles, mumps, herpes and glandular fever.

In measles you will have typical skin rash. There will be swelling of face in front of the ear in mumps. In glandular fever you will have fever, sore throat and nodular swelling in different parts of the body.
 It is less common but more severe. Typically children are the sufferers. Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and Moraxella catarrhalis are the culprit organisms. This type of infection requires treatment and should be taken more seriously as it could lead to permanent hearing loss.


The infection usually spreads from middle ear or meninges (covering of brain) via the bloodstream or through a gap caused by head injury.
 In some autoimmune diseases, like Wegener’s Granulomatosis or Cogan’s Syndrome, the body’s immune system erroneously attacks self tissues. There is formation of antibodies that attack labyrinth thinking it as foreign tissue.
 Some drugs are particularly toxic for the ears such as gentamicin, ASA, diuretics, anticancer drugs etc. They are highly concentrated in the inner ear causing its damage.


Some medications such as aspirin, anti-seizure medications, diuretics, and antihypertensive can cause a side effect of inflammation and irritation to the inner ears. Some are considered to be as ototoxic (causing toxic reactions to the ears) causing dizziness and vertigo.
 This disorder usually occurs adults with the age between in 30 to 50 years. However, bacterial labyrinthitis is also common in children.


Having an existing medical condition such as mumps, respiratory infection, colds, and cough can make the inner ear and most parts of it to become inflamed brought by the infection you had. Bacterial and viral infection can irritate and spread to other sites causing inflammation and irritation.
Having allergies like hay fever, rhinitis, and cough when present will raise your risk in developing labyrinthitis. It is due to swelling and inflammation of the nasal passage that may result in this infection. Present respiratory irritation can cause infection that spreads to lungs and inner ears.
 This is to avoid dehydration. Constant vertigo can impair your daily life and provoke anxiety. You may become careless about food and fluid intake. Dehydration may concentrate the infected fluid in the inner ear making the condition worse.
 In the first few days you may feel severe dizziness and vertigo. You should take rest during this time to avoid fall and injury. After about a week you should start feeling better.


You should not drive or operate sharp machinery during this time. Sudden aggravation of vertigo may cause accident or severe injury.
You should not watch TV or read books for a long time. This may lead to eye fatigue which in turn interferes with balance.
 These can help you boost your immunity to help you fight against any viral or bacterial infections. Such vitamins are:


Vitamin A: it helps by reducing inflammation in the ear and fights off viral or bacterial infection.
Vitamin C: it is known to be an antioxidant which promotes healing and recovery. It also makes the immune system stronger.
Vitamin B6: it is believed that it prevents or reduces dizziness.
Vitamin E: it also helps the healing process to be faster and also boosts the immune system.
 If you experience vertigo or dizziness while walking or standing, go to bed to take rest. You should find a position that relieves your symptoms. Often you will feel better by lying on your side rather than facing up.


Change positions slowly. Sudden head movement shakes the inner ear fluid that inappropriately stimulates the nerves. If you need to get up from bed, do it slowly. Similarly, lie down slowly from a sitting or standing position.
If you notice symptoms while lying down, try sitting up in a chair.
 They will just make you more uncomfortable. Bright light and absolute darkness both aggravate feelings of imbalance. Use soft light in your room. Similarly, extreme noise will aggravate your tinnitus.


The aim is to give rest to the vestibular and hearing systems. You will gradually be able to cope with the altered function of these systems if there is no external interference.
 Being natural stimulants they make inner ear nerves hyper-excitable. As a result you will experience more exaggerated responses from minor stimuli such as a slight movement.


Alcohol and coffee also cause dehydration which is bad for inner ear health.
 These are a range of movements carried out under supervision of a physiotherapist. VRT retrains your brain to adapt to the abnormal signals arising for the vestibular system. Your brain learns to identify wrong signals and ignore them. It is highly effective particularly in chronic labyrinthitis.


Do the gaze stability exercise. Try moving your head side to side while looking at a stationary object. Your head will move but gaze will remain fixed.
Do habituation exercises. Their purpose is to provoke symptoms deliberately and train your brain to get used to the symptoms. One example is the Brandt-Daroff exercise. You will need to lie down promptly from a sitting position with the head turned to an angle of 45 degrees. Lie still for 30 seconds or until the vertigo goes off. Then sit up again. Repeat the procedure on the opposite side. Do the exercise 3 times a day.
 These are for relief of symptoms, not to cure the infection. Vertigo, dizziness, nausea or vomiting may be severe enough to impair quality of life. Therefore, medication may be necessary. Here are your options:



Antihistamine: this will help in relieving allergic reactions thus minimizing chances of developing into labyrinthitis. You can take diphenhydramine (Benadryl) 25g and 50mg. you can take 25mg twice a day for symptomatic relief.

Anti-emetic: you can take meclizine hydrochloride to prevent or decrease dizziness and vomiting. It is effective for vertigo. It is available in 25mg and 50mg. this can be taken with or without food. Do not exceed 2 tablets within 24 hours.

Steroids: this medication is for inflammation. It is an anti-inflammatory that helps in decreasing inflammation to the affected areas. Prednisone is the drug of choice. It is available in 20mg. You can take it 3 times a day with 6-8hours interval.

Antibiotic: this is prescribed when the cause of your labyrinthitis is bacterial infection. It should be treated right away to prevent permanent hearing loss. Your doctor will be the one to prescribe the appropriate antibiotic for your condition

Antiviral: this is used to treat variety of infections caused by a virus. Acyclovir 400mg or 800mg can be the drug of choice. However, your doctor will prescribed the right dose intended for you.

