 You may not know the exact route that will lead you to forgiveness, but, chances are, someone you love has been in a similar situation. Reach out to trusted friends and relatives to ask their opinion on how you should overcome any barriers to forgiveness. These people may have infinite words of wisdom gained from their own experiences with forgiveness.
 Some are hesitant to forgive because they think it means they will forget what happened. However, this isn’t the case. Just because you choose to forgive what someone did to you, doesn’t mean you’ll ever forget it. Rather, you’ll just accept it, put it in the past, and move on with your life.If you think it might help, you could try vowing to learn from the experience before you put it behind you. Identify how you will change and how you will make different decisions in the future.
 Forgiving someone in no way means that you are OK with their behavior. Forgiving simply means that you are releasing yourself of the anger and resentment you feel towards them, and that you are making a conscious decision to let go of the toll what they did took on you. The peace you will feel upon letting go of this burden will likely affect you both physically and emotionally.


Give yourself a pep talk when you decide to forgive. Say, “By forgiving, I am not telling this person that what they did was appropriate or even acceptable. I am helping myself by removing this stress from my life. I will learn from this experience and not let it happen again.”If you think that it would help you, then you can even let the person know that you are forgiving them for your own benefit and that it does not change how you feel about what they did. For example, you could say something like, “I am forgiving you because I think it will benefit me. However, forgiving you does not change the way that I feel about what happened.”

, Don’t fool yourself into thinking that just because you accepted an apology, you’ve forgiven that person. True forgiveness is fully removing feelings of anger, hurt, betrayal, and resentment about the one who wronged you. Even if the person doesn’t actually apologize to you, you can still forgive just the same by coming to terms with what happened and letting it go.Holding on to anger takes a major toll on the body. Being mad can negatively affect your heart, increase your chances of a stroke, can give you anxiety, and weaken your immune system.A ritual to rid yourself of anger may involve writing down your thoughts and feelings about a situation. You can then read them aloud and tear the paper to pieces or burn it. This symbolizes how you will no longer allow the anger to control you. You can even write down forgiving thoughts about the person and then read these over and over to rewire your brain for forgiveness.
 If forgiving someone or yourself seems impossible for you, you may need to see a professional for deep-seated guilt or shame. Sometimes, the hurt done to us can leave lasting marks that we are not able to heal on our own. Find a therapist in your area that deals with guilt or forgiveness to start the journey of moving on.

