 The most common way of watching movies is usually streaming them instantly on the Internet, or downloading movies temporarily for a rental fee. You can watch on a mobile device, your computer, or by hooking up a Network Media Player to your television (discussed in the next method). You can watch high-qualify video without even leaving the house, provided your computer is outfitted with the following:


1.5 megabits per second speed is usually necessary for regular viewing, while 5.0 is needed for HD viewing. If you want to upgrade the speed of your Internet connection, talk to your cable provider.
The HTML5 plug-in is also necessary to use Netflix and most other streaming services. This should come standard with the most recent update of most browsers. Update your software to the most recent version, if necessary.;
, Make sure your computer has the right system requirements for streaming high qualify video quickly, or you may end up watching slow-buffering grainy VHS-quality movies. 1080p content on most streaming services should be compatible with iPads 3rd generation or later and Apple TV 3rd generation or later. Mac and PC requirements are discussed below:


Mac Requirements

Mac OS X v10.5 or later
iTunes 10 or later
2.0 Ghz Intel Core 2 Duo or faster processor
At least 1 GB of RAM
A display that supports HDCP with a screen resolution of 1024 x 768 or higher


Windows Requirements

32 or 64-bit version of Windows 7 or Windows 8; Windows XP and Vista don't support HDCP
iTunes 10 or later
2.0 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo or faster processor
At least 1 GB of RAM
A video driver that supports HDCP (you may need to check with the manufacturer to determine if your video driver supports HDCP)
A display that supports HDCP with a screen resolution of 1024 x 768 or higher with a digital connection (DVI, DisplayPort, or HDMI)



, Renting a movie is a snap if you subscribe to a video streaming service, for a monthly fee. Many of them have a huge variety of new and old content for you to browse, and playing the video is as easy as selecting and pushing play. All you need to do to get started is navigate to the homepage of the streaming service you're interested in and open an account. Common streaming services include:


Netflix
Amazon Prime
Vudu
Hulu Plus

, If you've already got an iTunes account, you can rent a movie right now. The biggest difference between renting from iTunes or GooglePlay and a streaming service, is that you'll download the content for a limited period of time to watch it, before it will disappear. You can view the content on the computer and other mobile devices you've set up to be compatible with the service.


If you don’t have an account and want to start one, start one by navigating to the website and adding your ID and billing information. You'll have to download the software to get started, and then you'll be ready to select among the music and video available.
Since you’re downloading, this is typically a better option if you’ve got a relatively slow Internet connection. It might take you a while to download the content, but you’ll be able to watch it without having to pause while the video buffers and catches up.
 Whether you're using Netflix, iTunes, or some other streaming or online rental service, you can browse through the available options and select a video of your choice. Most services allow you to read a synopsis, user reviews, and browse recommended content based on your prior viewing choices and your own reviews. Look for something interesting and select it to play.


If you've got a particular title in mind, you can search for it in the search bar by title, names of the director or the actors, or a specific genre if you want to browse around.
If you don't have a title in mind, look at the most recent popular options for new videos you might not have seen yet. Take a few minutes to rate some of your favorite movies to give the service a chance to recommend a lost classic you may have missed.
 If you're streaming your content, it might need some time to load, depending on how fast your Internet connection is. At peak periods–in the early evening–lots of basic Internet connections will slow considerably, and streaming multiple devices at the same time can also slow the speed by a substantial amount. If you're struggling with your speed, talk to your cable provider to learn about upgrades, and take steps yourself to improve the streaming quality.


Try to only stream one device at a time. Pause any other downloads or online browsers you have open and let all the streaming capacity go straight to the video you're watching. If you're still experiencing struggles, pause the video and leave it a lone for a while to catch up.

