 This is by far the most important tip to growing long, strong, beautiful locks. Because African hair is so curly, oil from your roots takes a much longer time travelling to the ends of your hair. This means you need to spend every time managing the most damaged and dry part of your hair - the ends.


Always use conditioner every time you wash your hair. Look for conditioners which advertise dry, damaged, or brittle hair management. Apply this, and leave in for 2-3 minutes before rinsing out.
Use a deep-conditioner every 1-2 weeks. Leave in for at least 20 minutes and then rinse out.
Make your own deep-conditioner at home. Although it may sound strange, mayonnaise is a wonderful deep-conditioner. Rub it into your locks and leave in for 15 minutes. Rinse with your regular shampoo and conditioner. Repeat this every 1-2 weeks for ultra-soft curls.
Try a leave-in conditioner. This is a special kind of conditioner that can be rubbed into your hair after showering while it is still damp. It does not need to be rinsed out, but will also keep your hair from getting greasy-looking or piece-y. This can be done after every shower or between washes, as you like.;
, Because it does take such a long time for your hairs’ natural oils to travel to the ends of strands, infuse your hair with oils to supplement those your scalp already creates. AVOID petroleum and mineral oils.


Try using castor oil (or Jamaican black castor oil). This has been used for hundreds of years to increase the softness of your hair and aid in faster growth. Rub some oil between the palms of your hands, and run them through your hair to incorporate it to as much of your hair as you are able.
Lavender oil is not only made from a popular flower, but has shown to improve hair growth up to 44% when rubbed into your locks. Use the oil on wet or dry hair in addition to other natural oils to help expedite your hairs’ growth process.Moroccan oil is a new type of oil becoming very popular for its intense moisturization and de-tangling abilities. Although it can be pricy ($30 for a single bottle), reviews make it seem worth the cost. If you aren’t willing to pay that price, look for imitation versions for similar results at your local drugstore or beauty supply store., Although your goal is to grow your hair, fried hair ends can slow your natural hair growth process.Trim your hair every time your ends are split or constantly dry to keep it in tip-top condition.Only trim off the damaged hair don't trim anymore than necessary.
 There are many supplements and vitamins available for oral consumption which help your hair to grow speedy-fast. This is optional.


Biotin is considered the best vitamin to take to boost hair growth. It is available in capsule form at many health food stores, or for purchase online. It helps to renew the cells in your hair, allowing them to grow longer, faster.
Vitamin B6 is a great supplement to take to aid in hair growth, as it blocks the testosterone receptors at your hairs’ roots. Too much testosterone released into your follicles makes hair become thin and slows growth. B6 blocks some of this testosterone., The tips of your strands are the most brittle and damaged (as they receive the least amount of natural oils), and are the most prone to breakage. Leaving hair down constantly increases the likelihood of breakage, so put your hair up sometimes to help prevent this.


Keep your hair in a bun using bobby pins to help keep your hair in place. If possible, don’t use a ponytail or rubber band, as these can break your hair when you remove them.
Braid your hair. This helps keep the ends of your hair from being exposed and damaged further. You can choose to do dozens of small braids or a few large ones, but make sure you leave the ends ponytail-less so that they don’t rip out strands when you remove them.
 To help your hair soak in the oil and nutrients you have been supplying it with, cover it in a satin or silk scarf or bonnet. Although you can’t do this all the time, wear one during the night to prevent damage from the elements.


Use a satin scarf, as this material does not absorb oil like cotton and other synthetic fabrics do.
Sleep on a satin pillowcase so that the oil from your hair doesn’t get sucked out while you sleep., These are products that add protein to your hair to fill in the parts of your strands that are broken or damage. Although they benefit hair only temporarily, they can help your hair to grow long over time. Ask about it in your favorite salon or look for one in a beauty supply store.


Protein treatment has the biggest positive effect in relaxed or treated hair, but can be used on natural hair as well.
When you are looking for a protein treatment, read the bottle. If a type of protein (animal or plant based) is not listed in the first five ingredients, it probably won’t do much to help your hair.
There is no difference between animal or plant based protein hair treatments., Certain foods have proven to increase hair growth, and are great for nourishing your scalp and strands. Try to eat more of these foods to get your hair growing strong and long!


Salmon, avocados, and pumpkin seeds are full of protein and omega-3 fatty acids which help you hair follicles to stay healthy.
Spinach, eggs, greek yogurt, and lentils are all great sources of protein which enrich your strands of hair.
Blueberries are a source of vitamin C which is important for for strong hair. Too little vitamin C leads to hair breakage.