 You can make a scalloped edge on an existing greeting card, or you can use this technique to make a completely new card from scratch. If you don't have a scalloped ruler, you can download a template for free online. To make a scalloped edge card, you will need the following:


One 4.25 by 5.5 inches (10.8 cm × 14.0 cm) card blank
Colored card stock
Scissors
A ruler
A scallop template or a ruler with scallops
Glue
A pencil and eraser, Make a mark on your card blank about 2.75 inches (7.0 cm) from one of the long sides. Place your scalloped ruler on the mark so that the scallops face the edge of the card. Lightly trace the scallops with a pencil.Following the line, cut the edge of the card blank., Choose a few colors of cardstock and measure out some scallops using your template or ruler. Using the same method you used for the card blank, cut scallops into your cardstock.Cut the colored cardstock into a piece about 2.5 to 3.5 inches (6.4 to 8.9 cm) wide. Cut another strip about 1.5 by 5.5 inches (3.8 cm × 14.0 cm)

, You can find a variety of paper punches from most craft stores. They come in all shapes and sizes. Choose some shapes that fit your card making needs, and cut a few shapes out of the scalloped edge of your card blank.Save the shapes that fall from the paper punch to use in other card designs. You can also use them to decorate an envelope, or glue them to the inside of the card.Cut out a few shapes from some of the colored card stock pieces as well. It's good to have a variety of shapes and colors for your card., Take the smaller strip of colored cardstock and glue it to the inside of the card along the 5.5 inches (14.0 cm) edge. This strip will show through the holes you punched along the scalloped edge of the card blank. Be sure to choose a color with good contrast., Glue the larger piece of colored cardstock to the front of the card blank along the folded edge. Take some of the paper punches and glue them to the front of the card. You could also color the front with markers or colored pencils.