 Because it is just salt water, it’s safe, even for children.Using a dropper, squeeze a few drops into each nostril. This will help reduce mucus and dry it out.
Saline drops are available without a prescription and can be made at home.
 This will reduce throat discomfort.Dissolve up to a half teaspoon of salt in a glass of water and gargle.
Spit the water out when you are done.
Because salt water is safe, you can do it as often as you want.
 These medications should only be used for a few days. When used for longer, they can cause inflammation of the tissues in your nose, which will make your symptoms worse.Insert the dropper into the stuffy nostril and release a few drops or spray. You should get relief almost instantly.
Do not give them to children.
 This will help ease a fever, headache, sore throat, or joint pain.Common medications contain acetaminophen (Tylenol), ibuprofen or aspirin.
Follow the manufacturer’s instructions and consult a doctor before giving medications to children. Many over-the-counter medications should not be given to young children.
Children and teenagers should not take aspirin. It can cause a serious condition called Reye’s syndrome.
 Cough and cold medicines use an expectorant called guaifenesin. It helps to loosen phlegm or mucus in your lungs.Drinking lots of water will also help to loosen phlegm.
 This will only reduce coughing, it won’t actually make the infection go away. But if coughing keeps you awake, a cough syrup with the ingredient dextromethorphan might help you sleep.When you cough, that is your body trying to expel the pathogens and irritants. By suppressing the cough, you are preventing that from happening. Talk to your doctor to find out whether cough syrups are right for you.
Do not give cough syrups to children younger than four. For older children, follow the instructions on the bottle. If there are no instructions specific to your child’s age, consult a doctor.
Some cough syrups have acetaminophen or other cold or fever/pain reducers in them. This means that it is important not to take them and other medications with acetaminophen at the same time. You could accidentally overdose.
 If you are severely ill with the flu, your doctor may prescribe an antiviral.Common antivirals are oseltamivir (Tamiflu) and zanamivir (Relenza).
These drugs don’t actually shorten the duration of the infection by very long. Usually it’s only about a day or two shorter.
The side effects may be more serious than the original flu. Oseltamivir may rarely cause delirium and self-harm in teenagers. Zanamivir cannot be taken by people with respiratory conditions. They may also cause vomiting.
Some flu strains are becoming resistant.
For people with certain medical conditions such as asthma, taking antiviral medications for the flu may be more beneficial.
 If you are an adult with the following symptoms or if your symptoms are getting worse or are not getting better by 5-7 days, you should be checked:A fever that is 103°F (39.4°C) or greater
A fever with sweating and chills
Coughing up colored phlegm or phlegm with blood
Swollen glands
Bad sinus pain
Trouble breathing
Chest pain or a stiff neck
Being unable to drink enough fluids or vomiting frequently
Worsening of any chronic medical conditions such as asthma, cancer or diabetes
Are elderly

, Children have weaker immune systems and are more likely to have complications. Bring your child to be checked if they have:A fever of 100.4°F (38°C) or higher when three months old or younger
A fever of 104°F (40°C) or higher
Signs of dehydration such as being listless or very sleepy, urinating less than 3 times a day, not drinking enough fluids, or dry eyes and mouth
A fever for over 24 hours for a child younger than two
A fever for over three days in a child over two
Vomiting more than once or twice
Abdominal pain
Extreme sleepiness
Severe headaches
A stiff neck
Problems breathing
Crying for a long time. Especially in children that are too young to say what’s wrong.
Earaches
A cough that doesn’t go away

