 You may have rehearsal dinner to attend the night before the wedding, or even a bachelorette party, but it's crucial you get those eight hours in (at least!). Keep drinking to a minimum and make sure any events end early so you can get to sleep at a decent hour.
 You want to be clean and refreshed on your wedding day. Get up early enough to shower and to do your normal post-shower routine. A shower can also help you get awake and alert. You can wash your hair if you wish, but often times if you are styling it, it may be better to wash your hair the night before because fresh hair does not style as easily as less-clean hair. Try not to use any new products as you take your shower. It would be the worst to have an allergic reaction to a new product the day of your wedding!
If you normally shave, whether it be your body or your face, shave after or during your shower the day of your wedding. This ensures that you have the closest possible shave and that you won't have any unwanted stubble!

, Don't overstuff yourself the day of the wedding. This could give you a bloated look and make you not fit quite as well into your dress or suit. Instead, eat a meal with fruit and vegetables, protein, and whole grains. This will fill you up and give you the energy you need for your big day. Remember to hydrate. Drinking enough water gives you glowing skin and will help you to feel more full.
Try to stay away from dark berries, red wine and coffee in the couple days before your wedding and on your wedding day. These foods might stain your teeth or make them appear less white!, You never know what can happen. Even if applying your makeup or doing your hair only took an hour during your test run, it may take slightly longer for you or your stylist to do it on your wedding day. Make sure that you give yourself enough time to finish your hair and makeup no matter what.


Ideally, your makeup and hair appointments should be at least two hours before your wedding. This way it will not be last minute, but at the same time your hair and makeup will still look perfect.
Make sure to set your hair and makeup. Use hairspray for your hair and makeup setter if you are wearing makeup. This will ensure that nothing will shift in the hours before your wedding.
Wear a button-down shirt while you are getting your makeup done. That way your dress will not get stained or dirty, and you will eventually be able to change into your dress without affecting your hair or makeup.
 You want to make sure that you look great and it may be good to do additional touch-ups after your appointments. One important thing to bring along is a comb or brush for your hair. If you are wearing makeup, it is a good idea to take some blotting papers and powder with a powder brush to reduce shine. You also may want to bring along the lipstick you are using if you are wearing lipstick as lipstick can easily smudge and move.
A compact mirror is always a good idea too because you can check up on your appearance while you are on the go.

