 An appeal is an option when your doctor prescribes you a medicine that is not covered by your prescription drug insurance. The thing is, insurance companies may legally have to cover medically necessary drugs if you can show that you need it. There is actually very little to lose by appealing.To appeal to your insurer, you’ll need to file a request with the drug information, your personal details, your reasons for filing the appeal, supporting documents, and proof of medical necessity from your doctor.
You’ll get coverage if the appeal is successful. If not, however, you can contact your state regulator and ask for an independent review. This process is free. Check your insurer’s written decision letter for information on your regulator.
 There are lots of programs to help people – especially with low income – pay for prescription drugs. Check online through programs like Medicare/Medicaid or organizations like AARP or Needymeds and see whether you qualify.Keep in mind that your citizenship status, income, and insurance coverage may affect your eligibility.
Try the Medicare Rx Extra Help program. You are eligible for prescription drug help if you earn less than $17,655 (single) and $23,895 (married). You can apply online with your social security number and recent financial records.Contact organizations like AARP or Needymeds to ask about discount cards and programs. These generally work for multiple drugs, but you can’t use them together with other insurance or government programs.
 One last idea is to try the drug companies themselves. Many offer deep discounts or free medicines to people in need. GlaxoSmithKline offers a discount card program with cuts of between 20% to 40% off its drugs’ list price. Other companies like Merck have similar programs.Talk to your doctor about these kinds of programs. You can print out application forms on your own from the internet or call the company directly and request them.
Fill out the forms as best you can and take them to your doctor’s office for completion – you will need the doctor’s signature.

